August 30, 2020||Business||Non-BJP states unhappy with GST relief plan, may forge joint strategy||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Saturday circulated two options for states to borrow and meet the GST shortfall, which will be repaid via an extension of the compensation cess beyond the June 2022 deadline. The proposal, however, did not find the support of all states. Most states not ruled by BJP plan to meet on Monday to formulate a common strategy opposing the plan. In line with the deliberations at the GST Council meeting earlier this week, the finance ministry has proposed that states be allowed to borrow Rs 97,000 crore against an estimated shortfall of Rs 3 lakh crore between April 2020 and January 2021. The shortfall is due to implementation-related issues. Under this option, the entire principal and interest will be paid out of the compensation cess on cars, soft drinks, pan masala, tobacco and coal, which will be extended beyond the current deadline of June 2022. States that opt for this will get loans at a specially arranged rate and the debt will not be added to their balance sheet, giving them room to borrow more in the coming years. Read AlsoGST compensation dues: Centre gives full details of two borrowing options for statesThe Central government on Saturday wrote to states suggesting options of borrowing money to make up for the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in GST revenues expected in the ongoing fiscal. The finance ministry wrote to state governments saying they could borrow either via a special window it willUnder the second option, where the total borrowing has been pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore (with Rs 65,000 crore flowing from the cess this year), states will have to borrow from the market, which means the cost will be higher. More importantly, those that opt for this route will have to bear the entire interest burden as only the principal payment will be covered by the cess and they will give up on the borrowing headroom. “None of the states should have a problem, we are honouring the commitment that former finance minister Arun Jaitley had given. The first option will allow states to get the benefits of cess when the loan is repaid,” a Union government functionary told TOI. Read AlsoCovid an 'act of God', may result in contraction of economy: Nirmala SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that the economy is facing an extraordinary 'act of God' in form of the coronavirus pandemic which may result in contraction in India's growth for the current fiscal. She also revealed that the pandemic has severely impacted GST revenues whichSome of the BJP-ruled states indicated their willingness to back the first option. “We are studying the proposal, but prima-facie option one is beneficial to states. We must also bear in mind that it is not just state finances that have been hit by Covid-19, even the Centre has to bear the stress. There are also other requirements such as higher defence spending,” Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi said over phone from Patna. Opposition-ruled states want the Centre to take over the debt burden, arguing that they have much lower headroom to either borrow or service it. Besides, they argue that the Centre can raise funds at a cheaper rate. “I am not in favour of states having to borrow. The Centre is pressuring states to borrow. We will take a call on Monday,” Chattisgarh minister T S Singh Deo, who represents the state in the GST Council, told TOI. Given the differences, the issue is expected to be back in the GST Council soon for a final decision. “The Central government’s position is that any compensation to states will only come through compensation cess unless the GST Council decides otherwise. However, if states opt for the Rs 2.35 lakh crore option, only the principal will come out of compensation cess. Given this, states will perhaps decide on the option depending on their situation and revenue projection. It’s not clear as to what the GST Council will decide if a few states go for Option 1 and others for Option 2,” said Pratik Jain, who leads the indirect tax practice at consulting firm PwC. Watch Rs 3-lakh-crore shortfall in GST: Panel mulls borrowings to compensate states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/non-bjp-states-unhappy-with-gst-relief-plan-may-forge-joint-strategy/articleshow/77828328.cms||Sidhartha
August 30, 2020||India||Naga pact soon as govt believes it can bypass NSCN(IM)||The long-pending Naga framework agreement is set to be formalised soon irrespective of whether or not National Socialist Council of Nagaland leader T Muivah is part of the peace deal as the Centre feels it has adequate backing of other armed groups and the influential Nagaland Gaon Bura Federation. Muivah's insistence on Nagaland getting a "flag and constitution" has held up the formal end of the political discussions, which have not concluded despite a ceasefire agreement signed by the Centre and NSCN as far back as 1997. The current framework agreement was signed in 2015 with the NSCN agreeing to accept that Nagaland was part of the Indian union. But the aging leader runs a serious risk of being left stranded as the Centre is pressing ahead with its plan to sign a peace agreement with other groups as well as civil society. A statement directly critical of NSCN issued on Friday by Gaon Bura assumes significance in view of reports of differences between Naga groups and the Centre's interlocutor and Nagaland governor R N Ravi. "There is a perpetual tendency within NSCN(IM) leadership to brand Naga leaders, tribes, organisations, other civil societies as anti-Nagas and traitors for not toeing their political ideology. This is a mockery of Nagaland for Christ." Backing Ravi's role, the Gaon Bura said, "NGBF observes that the demand for replacement of interlocutor is unjust and untenable due to the fact that he is also the GOI interlocutor with other negotiating groups." A top source said reports of the peace process running into rough weather are part of the NSCN's "negotiating tactics" and do not represent the actual situation. "It has been made clear to Muivah that the demands for a flag and constitution will not be accepted and it is time for him to make up his mind," the source said. "Muivah's obstruction were helped because a whole set of players developed a vested interest in the conflict industry represented by the longest-running insurgency. That phase is over and we are ready to call his bluff if he does not come around," said a senior source, adding that time is running out fast for the Naga insurgent. After the 2015 framework agreement, formalisation of the peace pact dragged on as NSCN raised several issues. As progress was slow, the Centre widened the ambit of negotiations to include smaller armed groups and the NGBF, which represented tribes in Nagaland as compared to Muivah who is a Tangkhul Naga from Manipur. Resentment over NSCN leader's recalcitrance runs deep even among his ranks, claimed sources. The Centre is basing its confidence on action taken over recent months to ensure that NSCN armed commanders and cadre are largely confined to camps and do not carry on with their "parallel government." The Bura federation, which represents Nagaland tribes and hundreds of village heads, is keen to settle the issue without further delay as it wants a formal end to the militancy. The source said that NSCN armed cadre is also not so enthused over a return to a full-fledged armed struggle with a section understood to be in touch with the Centre. It is the Centre's understanding that Muivah, while seeing the lack of support for more struggle, is exploring the possibility of dragging on matters given the "de facto" influence he has enjoyed in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naga-pact-soon-as-govt-believes-it-can-bypass-nscnim/articleshow/77828393.cms||---
August 30, 2020||India||India sets grim world record with 79k fresh cases in a day||NEW DELHI: India added nearly 79,000 fresh cases to its Covid-19 tally on Saturday, the highest single-day surge recorded in any country so far, taking the national caseload past the 3.5 million (35 lakh) mark amid an unprecedented spike in the pandemic numbers over the past seven days. At 78,903 fresh cases, Saturday’s Covid-19 numbers in India went past the previous highest single-day count of 78,427 infections reported in the US on July 25, when that country was witnessing its biggest surge of the virus. The rise in cases in India over the past week has been even sharper. The country has recorded 4,96,070 cases in seven days while going from a caseload of 30 lakh to 35 lakh, at an average of 70,867 cases per day. This is the highest number recorded during a seven-day period in the world, higher than the US’s worst spikes in the latter half of July. The India numbers are collated daily by TOI from state government data while the US figures are based on ourworldindata.org. The record addition of fresh cases on Saturday was in no small measure due to a massive rise in cases in Maharashtra, which reported as many as 16,867 fresh infections. This was a huge jump from the state’s previous highest of 14,888 recorded on August 26. Other states which reported high numbers on Saturday were Andhra Pradesh (10,548, above 10,000 for the fourth day), Karnataka (8,324, above 8,000 for five days), Tamil Nadu (6,352) and Uttar Pradesh (5,684). Tamil Nadu daily count crossed 6,000 for the first time since July 29. Read AlsoAs Covid cases rise, govt plans festival-season SOPsAmid rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the government is now worried about the forthcoming festival season. The issue was discussed in the meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19 on Saturday and the health ministry is likely to issue separate advisories soon.With daily cases soaring in recent days, the pool of active cases has seen a sharp rise. Active cases have increased by nearly 49,000 in the past four days to 7,66,226. Recoveries rose by 64,681 on Saturday to 27,06,861, as per data collated from state governments. The day’s deaths from the virus were recorded at 945, the toll dropping below 1,000 for the first time in five days.  On the 174th day of the Covid-19 outbreak, Maharashtra breached the 7.5 lakh case tally by registering its highest single-day caseload of 16,867. Mumbai – once the worst hotspot in the country that has been stable for three months – too counted higher-than-usual numbers at 1,432 cases.  The highest single-day addition in the state earlier was 14,888 on August 26. The state for the third day in a row added over 300 deaths to its toll (328), taking the total deaths to 24,103. Of the total deaths reported on Saturday, 255 were from the last 48 hours, 37 from last week and the remaining 36 from the week before that, officials said. Coronavirus pandemic live updates Tamil Nadu added the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases and the lowest number of deaths, 87, in a month on Saturday. On July 29, the state had reported 6,426 fresh cases and the previous day it had reported 88 deaths. While daily caseload steadily declined, the number of deaths went up. On an average, the state reported 5,847 cases and 110 deaths a day in August. Assam’s cumulative Covid-19 count crossed the one lakh-mark on Friday, five months after the first case was reported in Silchar. However, while 80% of the patients have recovered, the number of active patients slipping into a critical condition requiring oxygen support has increased over the period.  Statistics show even as the cumulative count of cases reached 1,01,367 on Friday, the doubling time of spread of the virus has considerably slowed to 23 days.  Gujarat recorded another daily high in Covid-19 positive cases at 1,282 in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Saturday, taking the cumulative case tally to 93,883. It was the second consecutive day that the state recorded 1,200-plus daily cases. Watch Covid-19: India sets grim world record with 79k fresh cases in a day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sets-grim-world-record-with-79k-fresh-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77828692.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
August 30, 2020||India||Unlock 4.0: Metro from Sept 7, functions with cap of 100 from Sept 21||NEW DELHI: In a bid to curb restrictions like "weekend lockdowns" seen to be hurting the economy still reeling under Covid, the Unlock 4.0 guidelines released by the Centre on Saturday make it mandatory for states and UTs to consult the Centre before imposing any local lockdown in areas other than containment zones. This guideline, according to home ministry sources, was necessary to ensure that supply chains are not disrupted by "arbitrary" lockdowns imposed at the district or city level, which tend to adversely affect free inter-state and intra-state movement of goods. Traders’ associations have also been up in arms over the weekend curbs in particular, protesting that it adversely impacts business. In important relaxations, city Metro trains will operate with services resuming in a graded manner from September 7, while bars and restaurants can serve liquor to customers from September 1 itself. Starting September 21, social, religious, academic, sports, entertainment, religious and political functions with a maximum congregation of 100 people will be permitted in non-containment areas, subject to norms. Marriage functions and funerals, which at present can have maximum 50 and 20 attendees, respectively, will also have a raised ceiling of 100 attendees after September 20. Coronavirus pandemic live updatesWhile schools and colleges will remain shut till September 30, there is an easing for Class 9 to Class 12 students who can visit schools for guidance from teachers but with the written permission of parents, while 50% teaching and other staff can be called by schools from September 21. Post-graduate students and those who need to conduct research and use labs will be allowed to attend higher education institutions. However, all this will be subject to standard operating procedures to be issued by the health ministry. The norms will be effective from September 1-30. The directive on local lockdowns may not go down well with some opposition-governed states that have been following their versions of containment, which vary across cities and districts in terms of extent of curbs. Read AlsoAs Covid cases rise, govt plans festival-season SOPsAmid rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the government is now worried about the forthcoming festival season. The issue was discussed in the meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19 on Saturday and the health ministry is likely to issue separate advisories soon."The home ministry received representations from industry associations like Ficci and CII against 'local' lockdowns citing their adverse impact on supply chains and resumption of economic activity on full scale. The guidelines don't bar the state from imposing local lockdowns, they only require the Centre to be consulted before imposing them," said an official. While cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment marks and theatres will stay shut, open-air theatres can resume from September 21. With guidelines lifting the ban on public consumption of liquor, tobacco products and gutka, bars can finally open their counters and restaurants can serve liquor from September 1. Allowing up to 100 people at a public function will help physical campaigning and holding of rallies and public meetings for the upcoming Bihar polls and other bypolls, expected to be announced next month. The Election Commission has already allowed physical campaigning with due adherence to MHA guidelines and subject to social distancing of minimum six feet. The lockdown will however continue to be strictly implemented in the containment zones until September 30. Skill and entrepreneurship training institutes, including Industrial Training Institutes, will be permitted to function from September 21. International air travel will be barred, except as allowed by the MHA. Senior citizens and children below 10 years have been advised to continue staying at home except for meeting essential needs. National Covid-19 norms still make it compulsory to wear face masks, maintain "do gaj ki doori" at public places and require shops to ensure physical distancing among customers. "Work from home" practice is to be encouraged as far as possible. Watch MHA releases Unlock 4 guidelines; Metro services to resume from Sept 7, school-colleges to remain shut||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unlock-4-0-metro-from-sept-7-functions-with-cap-of-100-from-sept-21/articleshow/77828827.cms||Bharti Jain
August 30, 2020||India||Govt revives 2-year PG medical diploma courses||NEW DELHI: With an aim to address the shortage of specialists in district hospitals and in rural India, the health ministry has allowed two year postgraduate (PG) diploma courses that applicants can pursue after completing their MBBS. This will enable National Board of Examination to start eight postgraduate speciality diploma courses in obstetrics and gynaecology, anaesthesiology, paediatrics, tuberculosis and chest disease, family medicine, ophthalmology, radio diagnosis, and ENT. The health ministry issued the order after consultation with the board of governors in suppression of the Medical Council of India. Candidates can pursue these courses by clearing the NEET-PG exam after completing MBBS. Hospitals with a minimum of 100 operational beds are eligible to seek accreditation with NBE for the diploma courses. TOI had reported about this proposal being considered by the government in March. The move assumes significance in view of the pandemic which has restricted movement because of fear of infection. The dearth of specialist doctors in rural and remote areas have become more challenging for the healthcare system. The Medical Council of India had in 2019 converted its diploma courses into degree courses to overcome the shortfall of teaching faculty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-revives-2-year-pg-medical-diploma-courses/articleshow/77828916.cms||---
August 30, 2020||India||17 states say no to SC’s quota within quota poser, 5 ‘yes’; major ones mum||NEW DELHI: As the Supreme Court sets the stage to re-examine the possibility of sub-categorisation of SCs/STs, as many as 17 states have categorically rejected the Centre’s proposal for sub-division of Dalits, while only five states have responded positively. Since June 2011, the Centre has been pursuing the states to see if a way could be found around the Supreme Court’s E V Chinnaiah judgment of 2004 which ruled sub-division of Dalits as unconstitutional. Following a UPA cabinet decision, the social justice ministry had fielded the issue to states. Sources said the exercise is still on since “six major states and UTs which constitute nearly half of the SC population in the country have not yet responded.” The last reminder to these states which include Dalit strongholds of UP, Bihar, Maharashtra besides Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir, was sent in December, 2019. Interestingly, five states which have given nod to the Centre’s proposal include the ones which undertook the exercise before it was struck down following the Chinnaiah judgment — Punjab, Haryana and Tamil Nadu — besides Rajasthan. After 16 years, an SC bench on Thursday marked a major departure from the Chinnaiah judgment by ruling that sub-categorisation of SCs/STs can not only be done, but can also be undertaken by the states. The government is taking stock of the issue in the wake of SC’s Thursday order. Sub-categorisation means division of SCs into sub-groups and apportioning of reservation quota among them based on their population. The idea is devised to address the complaint that some affluent sub-castes are cornering the quota benefits. Under pressure from then united Andhra Pradesh whose sub-categorisation policy was overturned by the Chinnaiah order, the UPA government had formed Justice Usha Mehra Commission to examine the issue. The panel had in its report in 2008 concluded that sub-categorisation was not permissible under present norms but could be enabled through a Constitutional amendment to Article 341 providing for sub-categorisation and by empowering the Parliament to undertake it. While the controversial 2011 government attempt is stuck, the apex court’s Thursday order declaring sub-categorisation as legal has reopened the subject which will now be examined by a seven-judge bench.As and when it happens, the order would be watched not only for if it can be done under present circumstances but if it can be done at all. The Usha Mehra panel had said it could not be done under present norms but could be done through constitutional amendments. It was a major leap from the Chinnaiah judgement which ruled that it was a completely ‘no-go’ area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/17-states-reject-quota-in-quota/articleshow/77829036.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 30, 2020||India||Govt mulls single voters list for polls at all levels||NEW DELHI: Moving towards adoption of a single electoral roll for polls at all levels – parliamentary, assembly and local – the Narendra Modi government has begun discussions on the enabling legal changes that may be required. Sources told TOI that a recent meeting comprising senior officials of PMO and Election Commission of India (ECI) decided that the Cabinet secretary would hold talks with the state chief secretaries to persuade them to make relevant changes in their own state laws governing local body polls, to allow adoption of ECI rolls for panchayat/municipal elections. While ECI is empowered by Article 324 of the Constitution to hold polls to the Lok Sabha and state assemblies, for which a common ECI voter list is used, SECs derive their powers from Article 243K and 243ZA to prepare rolls for local body polls. However, SECs of almost 22 states are known to rely on ECI rolls for conduct of third-tier polls, thanks to an enabling provision in their relevant state laws. A senior EC officer said the single voters’ list suggestion of the poll panel dates back to the 1999 and that it would not be correct to link it to another pending proposal of the government for simultaneous polls. “As far as simultaneous polls are concerned, all bodies -- the Law Commission, parliamentary standing committee and NITI Aayog -- that have studied and made recommendations on the issue, have confined themselves to examining simultaneous polls to the Lok Sabha and state assemblies. They did not go into the simultaneous polls to the third tier – local bodies – at all,” said a government officer. Law Commission in its draft report on simultaneous polls released in August 2018, had stated: “So far as the third-tier institutions are concerned, their number is too large and conduct of election to the same is primarily a State subject. As per the Constitution, the elections to the third tier institutions are directed and controlled by their respective State Election Commissions. Therefore, it would be extremely challenging, if not impossible, to synchronise and align election schedules of third-tier with that of the House of the People and State Legislative Assemblies”. At the meeting comprising the Cabinet secretary and representatives of the PMO, law ministry, panchayati raj and EC held a few days back, two options – first, a Constitutional amendment to Article 243K and Article 243ZA to make it mandatory for SECs to adopt ECI rolls and second, getting states where ECI voters list is not in use currently, to enable the same by revising their own relevant Acts, were discussed. The consensus favoured the latter.  “The meeting agreed that the remaining states can be persuaded to make the relevant revision in their laws, though this would have to be totally voluntary. Since EC has no jurisdiction over the SECs, the Cabinet secretary has been asked to bring the states on board”. While BJP manifesto for 2019 Lok Sabha poll had promised simultaneous polls to all three tiers of government, no discussion has been held within the government or Law Commission yet on including the third tier in the scope of simultaneous polls. Even an all-party called by the Prime Minister last year on the subject had limited itself to discussing synchronized LS and assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-mulls-single-voters-list-for-polls-at-all-levels/articleshow/77828963.cms||Bharti Jain
August 30, 2020||India||Measles vaccine holding back India’s full immunisation||The poor coverage of measles vaccination and later doses of basic vaccines like those for polio, diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DPT) are pulling down the proportion of fully immunised children. This indicates a poor mechanism to track children already registered in the immunisation system despite a Mother and Child Tracking System (MCTS) being in place since 2009. A recently released NSO report on health for 2017-18 shows that from over 94% coverage for the BCG vaccine given at birth, coverage fell to just 67% for the measles vaccine, given between 9-12 months, the poorest coverage among all basic vaccines needed for a child to be counted as being fully immunised. Similarly, from 94% coverage of the oral polio vaccine’s (OPV) birth dose, the coverage went down with every subsequent dose to reach 80% by the third dose. The DPT vaccine coverage went from 91% coverage for the first shot given at six weeks to 78% by the third shot at 14 weeks. This meant that India’s proportion of fully immunised children remained at around 60% in 2017-18, not much different from the National Family Health survey of 2015-16, which found it to be around 62%. While this was a huge improvement from just 44% in 2005-06, the budget allocated for immunisation has also jumped from Rs 473 crore in 2005-06 to approximately Rs 2,000 crore allocated for the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) excluding shared costs such as staff salary, establishments etc. India’s immunisation coverage has remained low relative to its neighbours. In Sri Lanka 99% of children are fully immunised. In Bangladesh, the coverage for DPT-3 was 98% and for measles was 93% in 2018, according to the World Health Report 2020. In Nepal, the coverage for the third shot of DPT was 91% and that for measles was 69%. A child is considered to be fully immunised if she has received BCG, three doses of OPV, three shots of DPT vaccine and the measles vaccine. All these, if delivered on schedule, are within the child’s first year, with measles being the last. There are booster shots and vaccines for other diseases, but they do not count for considering a child fully immunised. The central government’s Mission Indradhanush launched in December 2014 set the goal of ensuring full immunization for children up to two years of age and pregnant women. The govt identified 201 high focus districts across 28 states that had the highest number of partially immunized and unimmunized children. The government said the increase in full immunization coverage was just one percentage point per year earlier, but had increased to 6.7 percentage points per year through the first two phases of Mission Indradhanush. A 2017 district-level study on routine immunization in Haryana led by Dr Shankar Prinja of the community medicine department in PGIMER, Chandigarh noted that the challenge of decreasing dropouts and enrolling the ones with no immunization at all had become ever more daunting as the country added a pool of 12.5 million partially immunized children each year. According to the NSO survey 3% of children received no immunisation at all. Considering that the survey was looking at children under six, even 3% would amount to millions of children. This proportion was as high as 7-8% in some states. “Initially, Mission Indradhanush went off very well with an 18% increase in coverage in 190 districts. But states insisting on doing it in all districts instead of focusing on identified laggard districts has diluted its impact over time. As fatigue sets in, the mission becomes routine and that means children who were to be covered under routine immunisation get covered under the mission instead of the mission being to mop up children missed by routine immunisation,” explained Dr Anish Sinha of the Indian Institute of Public Health in Gandhinagar adding that this was happening because the routine immunisation system had not been adequately strengthened. “The weakest link in the routine system are the health workers who are paid very poorly. A very motivated ASHA gets Rs 4,000 per month at best, including all incentives. It’s almost impossible to find anyone for that salary in urban areas where even a domestic help gets almost double that. Even in rural areas this is too little,” said Dr Sinha. The mother and child tracking system and various other tech platforms and mobile-based applications launched to track data have been unsuccessful. Public health researchers point out that any technology is only as good as the people operating it and the data entered into it and thus it all boils down to the health workers expected to enter the data. Watch Poor coverage of measles vaccination holding back India’s full immunisation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/measles-vaccine-holding-back-indias-full-immunisation/articleshow/77829123.cms||Rema Nagarajan
August 30, 2020||Business||Reliance puts Rs 25,000-crore bet on bright Future for retail||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Ten days after it bought a majority stake in online pharmacy retailer Netmeds, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Saturday said it had sealed a deal to acquire the retail business of the financially-stressed Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The transaction, which has been in the works for months, will fortify RIL’s retail play in one of the world’s largest economies where it is already the largest player by reach, scale, revenue and profitability. The contours of the deal include Future first combining its various entities across grocery retail, apparel retail, supply chain, logistics infrastructure and consumer products manufacturing with Future Enterprises, which is into manufacturing of fashion products. It will then sell the retail and wholesale businesses covering the Big Bazaar hypermarket chain, Easyday grocery stores, Central malls and the Brand Factory fashion discount outlets to RIL. Future Enterprises will also transfer the logistics and warehousing businesses to RIL. The businesses will be transferred on a slump sale basis. Slump sale means transfer of a division of a company for a lump sum without assigning any values to individual assets and liabilities of the entity. RIL has routed the proposed deal through its subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures, which reported a consolidated turnover of Rs 1.6 lakh crore and profit of Rs 5,448 crore in fiscal 2020. RIL will take over the debt and liabilities related to the retail and warehousing businesses and will invest Rs 1,600 crore for a minority stake of 13% in Future Enterprises as part of the deal. RIL, controlled by Mukesh Ambani, who is among the top five richest persons in the world, has been ramping up its retail play. In May, the company launched JioMart, an online grocery service, which competes with Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart. “This acquisition is a watershed moment for India retail. It’s the equivalent of Walmart acquiring Target in the US,” said Levi Strauss MD (South Asia, Middle East and North Africa) Sanjeev Mohanty. “It augments the retail footprint and dominance of Reliance in the most important grocery business as they go to war against Amazon and Walmart.” Future Group, owned by India’s father of modern retailing Kishore Biyani, was compelled to look for an acquirer after rising debt, falling valuation of its listed entities and declining earnings due to the pandemic started to weigh on it. Debt exceeded Rs 12,000 crore and almost the entire promoter holding was pledged with lenders. “As a result of this reorganisation and transaction, the Future Group will achieve a holistic solution to the challenges that have been caused by Covid and the macro economic environment,” said Biyani. Mohanty added that the RIL-Future deal “lays the foundation and pipeline for JioMart to build a true omni business at scale, reaching one billion consumers. Add to that the reach created by Jio Platforms and its partnership with Facebook and Google; it’s going to create a business model and ability to scale that would be a first in the world”. Technopak founder Arvind Singhal said Reliance would be able to manage the malls business of Future Group much better as it has many top brands in its portfolio to place in the malls. “In Future Consumer, the company has built a strong range of private labels that can add to Reliance’s repertoire as well.” Once the transfer of retail and warehousing businesses is completed, Future Enterprises will be left with the manufacturing of FMCG and fashion apparel products, insurance joint ventures with Generali and textile mills. Watch RIL's Rs 25,000-crore bet to acquire retail business of financially-stressed Future Group||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-puts-rs-25000-crore-bet-on-bright-future-for-retail/articleshow/77829125.cms||John Sarkar
August 30, 2020||Business||ED seizes Rs 47 cr in bank a/cs after raids on 15 premises of firms linked to Chinese betting apps||NEW DELHI: In another action against Chinese nationals and China-hosted apps, the Enforcement Directorate has seized Rs 47 crore in HSBC Bank accounts after raids on 15 premises spread across Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and Pune on Friday in a case related to illegal online betting and dating apps. Chinese nationals have been accused in the scam for using Indians to carry out illegal online betting and collecting over Rs 1,300 crore. Large-scale transactions have also been found by some Chinese dating apps, illegally operating for Indian customers. The Hyderabad police had earlier arrested three persons, including a Chinese national Yan Hao, who worked as manager of Beijing Tomorrow Power Company and a was a permanent resident of Beijing. The ED has started investigation into some Indian online wallets and payment gateways such as Paytm, Cashfree and Razorpay for their non-reporting of suspicious transactions. “There is a suspicion that, apart from indulging in banned activities like online betting, this network of companies with their reliance on online wallets and their lax regulatory systems could have been used for hawala transactions as well. The ED is in the process of obtaining information from online wallet companies, HSBC Bank, Registrar of Companies etc,” the agency said. On Friday, the ED conducted searches across four cities and seized 17 hard disks, five laptops, phones, crucial incriminating documents and has also frozen Rs 47 crore held in four HSBC Bank accounts. Dhiraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor are the Indian associates arrested in the Chinese online betting scam. “With the help of Indian chartered accountants, some Chinese nationals floated multiple Indian companies, initially kept dummy Indian directors to incorporate the companies and later replaced them with Chinese nationals who travelled to India for this purpose,” ED claimed. Some locals were hired to open accounts with HSBC Bank and open trade accounts with online wallets Paytm, Cashfree, Razorpay etc. ED has initiated investigation under PMLA based on the FIRs lodged by the Cyber Crime Station of Hyderabad Police against Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, Linkyun Technolgy Pvt Ltd and others. “Analysis of two bank accounts of Dokypay Technology revealed that, in the last year it had collected Rs 1,268 crore out of which Rs 300 crore came via Paytm payment gateway and around Rs 600 crore was transferred out via Paytm. Linkyun Technolgy made outward foreign remittances of Rs 120 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-seizes-rs-47-cr-in-bank-a/cs-after-raids-on-15-premises-of-firms-linked-to-chinese-betting-apps/articleshow/77829156.cms||---
August 30, 2020||India||PLA soldier’s grave proof of China’s Galwan losses?||NEW DELHI: The photograph of a 19-year-old Chinese soldier’s gravestone, circulating on the country’s social media, could be evidence of Chinese casualties in the Galwan Valley clash with India on the intervening night of June 14 and 15. Defence ministry sources confirmed to TOI on Saturday that the photograph has indeed surfaced on Chinese social media. The sources added that India “already had evidence” that there had been losses on the Chinese side as well in the Galwan clash. “The Indian Army never comments on enemy casualties. It’s because of discontent within PLA that such leaks are happening. As far as we are concerned, we were aware of the casualties,” a defence official said. The inscription on the gravestone, in Mandarin, says, “Tomb of martyr Chen Xiangrong, soldier of the Unit 69316 of the Southern Xinjiang Military District of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army 13th Regiment. Born in December 2001, from Pingnan county, Fujian province China. Sacrificed in the fight against India’s border defence in June 2020.” Read AlsoChina failing to silence upset families of soldiers killed in Galwan face-offWASHINGTON: Despite suffering multiple casualties in a violent faceoff with India in Galway Valley area, China has still not disclosed how many of its soldiers were killed in the incident. This decision of the Chinese Communist Party has upset Chinese families who lost their loved ones in theThe Southern Xinjiang Military District oversees the territory across the border from Ladakh, which includes Aksai Chin. Right after the clash, which took place south of the Galwan river, the Indian Army had said there had been casualties on both sides — and it had incurred the loss of 20 soldiers. China, however, had not acknowledged any death on its side. Then, some sections of the Indian media reported that a CO was among several killed on the Chinese side. So far, there has been no official statement from the Chinese government or PLA on the erection of the gravestone. When the photos surfaced, according to defence sources, the discussions on Weibo (Chinese microblogging platform) were heated — why had China not officially declared the deaths? Some others wondered if the images were morphed. Watch Viral pic of Chinese soldier's grave provides first evidence of PLA casualty in Galwan Valley clash||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pla-soldiers-grave-proof-of-chinas-galwan-losses/articleshow/77829230.cms||Rohan Dua
August 30, 2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI quizzes Rhea for second day||MUMBAI: The CBI questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for the second day on Saturday as part of its inquiry into her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide, reports Vijay V Singh. A policeman escorted Chakraborty from her home to the DRDO guest house that has been converted into a temporary CBI office. Chakraborty had asked for the police escort to avoid mediapersons. It is learned that the CBI is gathering information about Chakraborty and her brother Showik’s personal equations and business dealings with Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-quizzes-rhea-for-second-day/articleshow/77829253.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 30, 2020||India||Pay Rs 48L for undelivered Rs 8L flat, builder ordered||MUMBAI: The national consumer commission has ordered a builder to pay a compensation of Rs 47.6 lakh to a Navi Mumbai man in lieu of the Rs 8.2 lakh that he had paid for a 1000-sq-foot flat 25 years ago, but never received possession of. The commission on Friday said that the flat buyer, R K Singhal, was not only entitled to the 11% interest as awarded by the state consumer commission in 2015 (Rs 39.4 lakh) but also the principal amount of Rs 8.2 lakh. “The appellant (Singhal) would be entitled to get Rs 47.6 lakh. The opposite party (Sudradh Constructions Pvt Ltd) is directed to pay this amount within a period of 45 days, failing which this amount will attract an interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of this order till actual payment,” the commission said. Singhal moved the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission against Sudradh Constructions Pvt Ltd in 2015 after he was aggrieved with the state commission’s order. Read AlsoPay 6% interest on flat’s cost for delay: Supreme Court to buildersMaking an example of a big fish among developers, the Supreme Court on Monday said builders must pay home buyers annual interest on cost of the flat for the period of delay in its delivery, in addition to the meagre monthly per square foot penalty mentioned in the apartment buyers agreement (ABA).While the state commission had granted him the compensation, it did not accept his plea to take possession of the flat which was constructed in 2014. The national commission agreed with the state commission’s ruling that the man was not entitled to the flat as he had made that demand several years after he had filed the complaint in 2001. In the 2001 complaint made before the state commission, Singhal had only sought a refund of the amount he had paid. He amended his complaint only at the final stage in June 2015, wanting to take possession of the flat. The national commission said that when Singhal’s amendment plea was allowed, the builder should have also been given a chance to file a revised written statement. “In the present case, nothing of this sort has been ordered by the state commission. Thus, clearly the prayers in the amended complaint cannot be considered,” it observed. The national commission had also pointed out that despite the building’s completion, even in 2015 the occupation certificate was delayed due to Coastal Regulatory Zone Regulation violations. Watch Consumer commission orders builder to pay Rs 48L for undelivered Rs 8L flat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pay-rs-48l-for-undelivered-rs-8l-flat-builder-ordered/articleshow/77829263.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 30, 2020||India||As Covid cases rise, govt plans festival-season SOPs||NEW DELHI: Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the government is now worried about the forthcoming festival season. The issue was discussed in the meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19 on Saturday and the health ministry is likely to issue separate advisories soon. Health ministry will also develop SOPs for members of Parliament and legislative assembly sessions comprising Covid protocols and preventive measures. Deliberating on the coordinated efforts of the Centre, states and UTs to contain the spread of Covid-19, health minister Harsh Vardhan said the case fatality rate is at its lowest 1.8%. “In the month since the last meeting of GoM on July 31, we have made tremendous strides in containing the disease. As many as 26.4 lakh have already recovered. The country’s case fatality rate is at its lowest 1.8% and consecutively recovery rate has increased to 76.4%,” Vardhan said. He informed the GoM that with creation of sufficient health facilities, the health infrastructure has been amply strengthened. Also, only 0.3% of cases are on ventilators, 1.9% in ICU and only 2.9% of cases are on oxygen. More than 9 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours and this has led to the cumulative total number of tests crossing the four crore mark, he added. Chairman of empowered group-1, Dr Vinod K Paul, apprised the GoM of the process of Covid vaccine development in India and around the world. “Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate based on inactivated virus procured by ICMR is in Phase II trial along with Zydus Cadila’s candidate which is based on viral DNA. Oxford vaccine candidate by Serum Institute of India is already in Phase III trial,” said Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-covid-cases-rise-govt-plans-festival-season-sops/articleshow/77829267.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Patna||2,087 new Covid-19 cases take Bihar tally past 1.32 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 2,087 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,32,935. However, with 1,15,074 recoveries and 679 official deaths so far, active cases stand at 17,189. Five official deaths reported on Saturday and two of the deceased were from the state capital. In the past 24 hours, 2,629 people have recovered and as of Saturday, the state’s recovery rate stood at 86.6% which was the second-highest in the country. As per information shared by the state health department, 1,06,481 Covid-19 samples were tested in 24 hours and so far, 29,89,407 samples have been tested here. Of the five recorded deaths on Saturday, two are from Patna, taking the district toll to 156. Begusarai, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali reported one death each. In terms of new Covid-19 cases, in Patna 315 people were found positive, taking the total registered cases to 20,635. However, with 18,174 recoveries and 156 deaths, active cases stand at 2,305 here. Other districts which reported a large number of Covid-19 cases are Madhubani (112), Araria (104), Gopalganj (104), Muzaffarpur (98), Purnia (81), West Champaran (81) and Samastipur (80). AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal in charge, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, informed about two deaths at his hospital and both the deceased are from Patna. One was a 43-year-old man from Transport Nagar while the other was a 70-year-old woman from Ram Nagri. He said 10 new patients were admitted and 21 people were discharged on Saturday. However, he added that the ICUs of the hospital were full and out of 72 patients there, 30 are on ventilators. The NMCH reported two deaths on Saturday. As per information shared by the hospital’s epidemiologist Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, six patients were admitted and as of Saturday, there are 27 patients in the hospital. On the same day, eight people were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2087-new-cases-take-state-tally-past-1-32-lakh/articleshow/77826632.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: Minor girl killed, 6 of a family held||PATNA: A 14-year-old girl, Laxmi Kumari, who was allegedly thrashed by one Ram Rahesh (50) and his family members at Ainkhan village under the Dulhin Bazaar police station area in Patna district on Friday, died on Saturday. According to police, the girl was thrashed as revenge because it was on the recommendation of her mother that one of Rahesh’s daughter was married to a man who did not turn out to be a good person. Police said the girl died while being taken to a hospital in Patna from Dulhin Bazaar on Saturday. The two families were living in the same neighbourhood. SHO of Dulhin Bazaar police station Ashok Kumar said Rahesh, his wife Akali Devi (45), daughters Sushila Devi (22) and Chandrawati Devi (32) and sons Wakil Kumar (24) and Zimedar Kumar (25) were arrested on Saturday. The SHO said Laxmi’s mother Shakuntala Devi lodged an FIR on Saturday in connection with the incident against eight people, including the six who were arrested on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minor-girl-killed-6-of-a-family-held/articleshow/77826708.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Majority of the patients in home care in PCMC limits||PUNE: Nearly 42% of 33,048 active Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region are recovering at home. The district health office data shows that areas in PCMC limits have 52% of their total active cases in home isolation. Areas under the PMC are not far behind, with 47% of active cases seeking treatment while at home. But the percentage of home-quarantined patients in rural and Cantonment limits is lower — at 15%. Both civic bodies have allowed asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms to opt for home treatment and isolation. Data as of August 28 showed that PCMC limits have 6,104 patients in home isolation, while 5,644 are in hospitals. In the PMC limits, there are 7,038 patients quarantined at home, compared to 8,120 people admitted at hospitals and care units. In the PMR overall (out of the 33,048 active cases), there as many as 13,918 patients in home isolation. The rest — 19,130 — are being treated at hospitals. The PCMC officials said their Covid home isolation policy started about a month ago. Patients with access to a dedicated toilet and a separate room are allowed to stay home and recover.  Nitin Bilolikar, a medical officer with the PMC, said, “Asymptomatics and those with mild symptoms can stay home if they have a room and a toilet to themselves. This process goes on for 10 to 12 days depending on the patients’ medical condition. After this period, and recovery, the patient is shown as discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/majority-of-the-patients-in-home-care-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/77828578.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 30, 2020||Patna||Magadh University gears up to conduct exams||GAYA: Magadh University (MU) is gearing up to complete all the pending examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Recently, the chancellor’s office had asked the universities to frame special regulations for holding exams. According to MU vice-chancellor (VC) Rajendra Prasad, a meeting of the examination board will shortly be convened to frame the regulations. “Online exams can be conducted for courses with less number of students whereas programmes where the number of students is large, an OMR-based test can be taken to ensure early publication of results,” the VC told this newspaper. However, conducting an exam in the midst of a pandemic is quite challenging for MU. On the one hand, it has to regularize its academic session and on the other, it has to protect the students, invigilators, evaluators and others from Covid-19. Issues like social distancing and sanitization of the exam centres will have to be taken care of. Nodal officer Sanjay Kumar said, “The board’s meet will be held in a couple of days. Hence, we are making arrangements for conducting the pending exams.” Earlier, MU had released a schedule according to which the postgraduate and Degree Part III exams were to begin from July 6 and 16, respectively. But they were not held because of the pandemic. Election duty amid Covid: The recruitment of university teachers for election-related duty as well as acquisition of college buildings for use as strongrooms and accommodation of central forces will act as a hurdle in the session regularization exercise of MU. Sushil Kumar, president of the PG Teachers’ Association, pointed out that they should be exempted from election duty as “conducting exams is equally important”. “Moreover, teachers above 60 years of age should not be assigned election-related duty as it can jeopardize their lives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-gears-up-to-conduct-exams/articleshow/77826662.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 30, 2020||Patna||Governor’s nod to amended statute for appointment of assistant professors||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Saturday gave his nod to the amended statue for the appointment of assistant professors in the universities of Bihar. According to sources at the Raj Bhavan, amendments to the statute, earlier approved by the chancellor on August 10, were made on the request of the state government. Members of a three-member committee of vice-chancellors (VCs), which had drafted the original statute, made necessary changes which were sent to the VCs of all the universities for their comments. Some provisions of the statute had created resentment among the unemployed postgraduate degree holders of the state as they apprehended denial of jobs to them. Hence, the state government intervened in the matter and wrote to the chancellor for doing the needful to redress the genuine grievances of the local youths. Now, candidates, who have obtained a PhD degree from the universities in Bihar during the period from July 11, 2009 till the date of implementation of the UGC Regulations, 2009, shall be exempted from the requirement of NET/SLET/SET for recruitment if they have been awarded the degree in compliance with the five conditions already prescribed by the UGC. The revised statute further provides that the candidate should have published two research papers from his or her PhD work out of which one should be in a refereed journal. The provision of award of seven marks on MPhil degree has been deleted. The statute also states that the candidate will get two marks for each research paper published in peer-reviewed or UGC-listed journals. The option of publication in SCOPUS journals has been deleted. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced on Independence Day that necessary amendments would be made in the statute keeping in view the larger interest of the youths of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governors-nod-to-amended-statute-for-appointment-of-assistant-professors/articleshow/77826685.cms||B K Mishra
August 30, 2020||Patna||Ex-DGP Sunil Kumar joins JD(U)||PATNA: Former director general of police and Bihar cadre IPS officer Sunil Kumar joined the JD(U) on Saturday just 29 days after his retirement from the service. Kumar, a 1987-batch IPS officer, retired from the police service on July 31 this year. He was last posted as the director general-cum-managing director, Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation. Kumar had served as senior SP of Patna district for more than six years from 1997. Hailing from a family of politicians and bureaucrats, Kumar took the membership of JD(U) from the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh. Kumar’s father Chandrika Ram was a veteran Congress leader and also served as minister in the K B Sahay government while his elder brother Anil Kumar is Congress’s sitting MLA from Bhore seat in Gopalganj district. Sunil’s other elder brother, Ajit Kumar, was an Indian Foreign Service officer. Insiders in the JD(U) said the former DGP might contest assembly election from his family’s traditional seat Bhore, if his brother and sitting Congress MLA Anil agrees to quit from the contest. Other sources said Sunil would be sent to the legislative council from the Governor’s quota. JD(U) leader Lalan Singh, however, declined to make any clear cut comment on the former DGP’s likely role in the party. “Who will contest election and who will not will be decided by the party’s top leaders at an appropriate time,” Lalan told media persons. After joining the JD(U), Sunil told reporters that he had full faith in the policies of CM Nitish Kumar. “I am joining politics as well as the JD(U) with the sole intention of doing social service. I will do whatever task the party leaders assign to me,” Sunil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-dgp-sunil-kumar-joins-jdu/articleshow/77827277.cms||Madan Kumar
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||‘Sayajirao inspired Tilak for Ganesha utsavs’||Vadodara: It was freedom fighter Lokmanya Tilak who popularized public celebrations of Ganesha festival for unifying Indians against the British in his fight against their rule over India. But few know that Tilak got the inspiration of organising Ganesha festival in public from Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of the erstwhile Baroda state. “If Indians are celebrating Ganesha festival in the community then the credit also goes to Maharaja Sayajirao along with Tilak. The freedom fighter and the king were very good friends and Tilak used to often visit Baroda state secretly,” said Jeetendrasinh Gaekwad, great grandnephew of Sayajirao. “During one of his visits to Baroda state in 1890, Tilak saw how Ganesha festival brought the entire community together. He inquired about the community celebrations with Sayajirao and the idea of organising Ganesha festival in public struck him. Tilak then began turning the household Ganesha Chaturthi celebration into a gala public affair,” said Gaekwad. It was in 1893 that Tilak organised the public Ganesha Utsav as a social and religious function. The function was a meeting point for people of all communities and caste, along with political gatherings that were banned by the British. In the later years, devotees across the country began installing pandals and organising events during Ganesha festival. “The story of Tilak getting inspired from Baroda state’s Ganesha celebration is mentioned in ‘Ainey Rajmahal’, a book on royal families and their administration that is written by every generation. A book ‘Barot cha Bakhar’ chronicled by the Barot community also talks about this incident,” Gaekwad added. It was in the early 17th century that the royal Gaekwads began installing Lord Ganesha’s idol in their home and their havelis and palaces across the Baroda state. During the 10 days of the celebration, darshan of Lord Ganesha was open for the common public from all walks of life. “The royals used to celebrate every festival with their subjects. The Ganesha festivals used to be a gala event across the state as many programmes were organised and commoners were allowed to visit the royal abode,” Gaekwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sayajirao-inspired-tilak-for-ganesha-utsavs/articleshow/77826349.cms||Tushar Tere
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||Rs 5,000 crore toy cluster to come up in Koppal||Koppal: Karnataka has invited domestic and global toymakers in line with PM’s vision of boosting toy manufacturing in India. Koppal has been identified for the toy cluster. The government had recently convened a webinar-cum- panel discussion with leading toys manufacturers on ‘Establishing India as a Global Toy Manufacturing Hub–Global prospects and Karnataka opportunities.’ Industries minister Jagadish Shettar said that toy manufacturing will get a renewed push after Prime Minister’s Narendra Modi’s clarion call that Indian toy market has enormous potential and can bring a transformative change in the industry by promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ under Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign. The first unit may start production may begin in the next 10 months. "We hope to attract around Rs 5,000 crore investment at the toy cluster and expect over 40,000 direct and indirect jobs to be be created in Koppal district alone in the next 5 years" he added. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary to the government, commerce and industries department, said that the government has identified Koppal as the first toy manufacturing cluster in India. H M Revannagowda, managing director, Udyog Mitra, said that the Koppal toy cluster will be a one-stop-destination facilitating globally competitive and reliable manufacturing solutions with co-located facilities. "It’s an internationally competitive self-sustained ecosystem catering to all infrastructure requirements of the toy industry. With access to highway ports, airports and major cities, the cluster will provide an efficient network of connectivity. Koppal yoy cluster is on National Highway 63 and well connected to other modes of transportation. It is located close to Hubballi, a major trading hub in nothern part of the state" he claimed. BOX Koppal is first of its kind toy manufacturing cluster in India, and the state is making sure that all toys manufacturing requirements are available in this cluster. Karnataka is the third-largest market for toys in India ($ 159 million) – 9.1% of the national market. Karnataka toy industry has grown at a CAGR of 18% (2010-17), expected to reach USD 310 million by 2023. Labour-intensive manufacturing is being seen as a focus that would help the toys industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rs-5000-crore-toy-cluster-to-come-up-in-koppal/articleshow/77828474.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 30, 2020||Surat||One-day gap between two papers in VNSGU exam||Surat: Students of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) students will get one day off between two papers in the exams for post-graduate and under-graduate courses starting next month. Over 45,000 students will take the exams. The university also decided that students who are unable to appear in September, can apply for exemption and take supplementary exams scheduled som days after the regular exam. The decision was taken in a meeting of the academic council held on Saturday.“Many students come from distant locations to exam centres. A day’s gap will help them relax and prepare well for the next paper,” said Hemali Desai, in-charge vice chancellor of VNSGU. Since hostels are closed, students will have to come to exam centres from their natives in different parts of south Gujarat. Second and fourth semester exam of PG courses will start September 2 while sixth semester exam from second week. “Earlier, the UG exam was scheduled on September 9, but after one-day gap in all exams now, it can start only after PG exams are over,” said an official. “Those who want exemption need fill up the form available on the university website,” said Desai. The council also approved the proposal to enable students, who have completed ITI and hold a government equivalent certificate, admission in BA. There was no such provision till now . Commerce and science streams already have their rules for admitting ITI students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-day-gap-between-two-papers-in-vnsgu-exam/articleshow/77827015.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Students from smaller cities prefer local colleges due to Covid-19||AJMER: Students from Tier-II and Tier-III cities have decided to continue their higher studies from local colleges this year because of Covid-19 leading to high cut-offs. The first waiting list released by the state college education directorate of Samrat Prithviraj Chouhan Government College in Ajmer stands at 80% in BSc honours. Similarly, the merit list for admission to various colleges of Ajmer also remained higher compared to last year. There are more than 5,000 seats in Government College and Government Girls’ College of Ajmer. With over 35,000 applicants trying to get admission in colleges in their own city, the cut-off for BA first year in the first list went up to 80.8% for the general category in sharp comparision to 51% in 2019. Similarly, in the Government Girls’ College, the cut-off was 79.2%. “This year, the average of vacating seats after admission will be low as students are keen to get study in their city,” said an official source. Admissions to colleges are conducted by state college education directorate. In last three years, the seats in BCom pass course remained vacant and, therefore, the new lists were released to accommodate students that had not got admission anywhere else. Even the admission percentage of different colleges of Ajmer remained low in last four years. This time, students passing Class XII do not want to take the risk of moving to other cities. “My parents are not allowing me to move to Delhi for college admission because of coronavirus,” said Mahender Choudhary, who is waiting to see his name in admission list of Government College. “After the first list, the cut-off of waiting list went to 80.6% in BSc Honours (Chemistry) as I was trying to get this course, “said Nidhi Saxena of Ajmer. In BA economics, the cut-off marks in the first list for SC candidates went over 61%. “I am waiting for the second and third lists as I scored less marks,” added another student waiting for admission. For BCom, the cut-off rose to 77.4%. “Usually, the cut-off in first merit list is high in different streams but mostly students vacate the seats to get admission in big cities like Jaipur or Delhi,” said a lecturer monitoring the admission process. He added that fee submission has started which will go on till September 2. For vacant seats, another list will be released. Most parents are avoiding sending their children to other cities because of the fear of infection. “It is better to get admission here and prepare for further competitive exams,” added a parent. As private universities with different courses in science and humanities came up in Rajasthan, students from cities like Ajmer and small towns apply to those universities. “Though students are vying for private universities but their parents prefer local colleges,” added another student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/students-from-smaller-cities-prefer-local-colleges/articleshow/77829879.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Students from smaller cities prefer local colleges due to Covid-19||AJMER: Students from Tier-II and Tier-III cities have decided to continue their higher studies from local colleges this year because of Covid-19 leading to high cut-offs. The first waiting list released by the state college education directorate of Samrat Prithviraj Chouhan Government College in Ajmer stands at 80% in BSc honours. Similarly, the merit list for admission to various colleges of Ajmer also remained higher compared to last year. There are more than 5,000 seats in Government College and Government Girls’ College of Ajmer. With over 35,000 applicants trying to get admission in colleges in their own city, the cut-off for BA first year in the first list went up to 80.8% for the general category in sharp comparision to 51% in 2019. Similarly, in the Government Girls’ College, the cut-off was 79.2%. “This year, the average of vacating seats after admission will be low as students are keen to get study in their city,” said an official source. Admissions to colleges are conducted by state college education directorate. In last three years, the seats in BCom pass course remained vacant and, therefore, the new lists were released to accommodate students that had not got admission anywhere else. Even the admission percentage of different colleges of Ajmer remained low in last four years. This time, students passing Class XII do not want to take the risk of moving to other cities. “My parents are not allowing me to move to Delhi for college admission because of coronavirus,” said Mahender Choudhary, who is waiting to see his name in admission list of Government College. “After the first list, the cut-off of waiting list went to 80.6% in BSc Honours (Chemistry) as I was trying to get this course, “said Nidhi Saxena of Ajmer. In BA economics, the cut-off marks in the first list for SC candidates went over 61%. “I am waiting for the second and third lists as I scored less marks,” added another student waiting for admission. For BCom, the cut-off rose to 77.4%. “Usually, the cut-off in first merit list is high in different streams but mostly students vacate the seats to get admission in big cities like Jaipur or Delhi,” said a lecturer monitoring the admission process. He added that fee submission has started which will go on till September 2. For vacant seats, another list will be released. Most parents are avoiding sending their children to other cities because of the fear of infection. “It is better to get admission here and prepare for further competitive exams,” added a parent. As private universities with different courses in science and humanities came up in Rajasthan, students from cities like Ajmer and small towns apply to those universities. “Though students are vying for private universities but their parents prefer local colleges,” added another student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/students-from-smaller-cities-prefer-local-colleges/articleshow/77829882.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Ghugus set to become municipal council||CHANDRAPUR: The state government has accepted the over two-decades old demand of elevating Ghugus gram panchayat to the status of municipal council. Guardian minister of Chandrapur, Vijay Wadettiwar on Saturday claimed that notification to this effect will be issued in the coming days. Ghugus is the biggest gram panchayat and largest industrial township in the district. It has population of over 40,000 which is more than the number required to get status of municipal council. Despite several correspondences from local leaders, those in power earlier had given only assurances. Agitations, protests and hunger strikes too were held to press the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ghugus-set-to-become-municipal-council/articleshow/77828593.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 30, 2020||Vijayawada||In AP, opposition parties tread with caution on capital issue||VIJAYAWADa: With the high court issuing notices to political parties in the state to file affidavits ‘if they wish’ on the capital issue, all parties now have to come out with a clear stance on the issue that has been on the boil for the last one year. Though all parties, barring the ruling YSRC, have opposed the government’s proposal to trifurcate the capital, filing an affidavit in the high court may not be easy as it would be on record and cannot be changed later like any other political rhetoric. The biggest challenge for the parties is to balance regional aspirations. As the stance that they take now on the capital issue is likely to have long-standing ramifications in future, parties are brainstorming to come up with a stand which will not hurt their political future in the state. Though the high court has not made it mandatory to file the affidavit, making it clear that they can do so only if they wish to file one, fence-sitting is also not an option, says K Indraneel Babu, who is the advocate for the farmers. “It was a statutory promise that the state made to farmers of Amaravati to give developed plots in the capital city which would be developed as per the notified master plan. Scaling down the master plan is curtailing compensation, which is nothing but cheating by the state. It is the moral responsibility of all political parties to come up with a clear stand on the issue though it is not a legal obligation. They have to tell the people of the state on which side they are now,” he said. Jana Sena is the first party to announce it will file an affidavit in the high court. But there have been no such signals from the TDP, BJP, Congress and Left parties as of now. As the issue has already become an emotional and sentimental one with rising aspirations from all three regions in the state, opposition parties seem to be treading cautiously on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-ap-opposition-parties-tread-with-caution-on-capital-issue/articleshow/77826670.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||ED raids five spots over jewellery house ‘scam’||KOLKATA: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted searches at five locations in Kolkata in connection with an alleged scam involving Shree Ganesh Jewellery House and its promoters Nilesh Parekh, Umesh Parekh and Kamlesh Parekh. The central investigating agency has sought a fresh non-bailable warrant from the designated court against the accused, who, the agency claims, are absconding. On Friday, a team of ED officials conducted searches on the premises of “associate companies” of Shree Ganesh Jewellery House. The agency has reasons to believe that the company was using these associate companies to continue with transactions. During the raid, which continued till the early hours of Saturday, the officers seized several documents pertaining to transactions with Shree Ganesh Jewellery House, details of investments, cash deposits and bank account details. Earlier, in July, the agency had slapped a show-cause notice on the company for siphoning off Rs 7,220 crore — the highest ever under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) — in alleged illegal foreign exchange deals. The agency officials now feel Nilesh and his associates are absconding and hiding in Dubai. ED officials also believe the company is trying to evade the FEMA notice by taking the route of insolvency before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. Meanwhile, Nilesh received a no-coercion order from the Supreme Court after a petition was moved there. “We have challenged some provisions of the PMLA Act in connection with the case and also challenged a Calcutta High Court order. There was a non-bailable warrant issued by the lower court, which was not cancelled by the High Court. The Supreme Court directed no-coercive action against him,” said Ashish Batra, the lawyer representing Nilesh in Supreme Court. The same order was passed in an SLP filed by Nilesh’s wife and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ed-raids-five-spots-over-jewellery-house-scam/articleshow/77827566.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Candidates pray for deferred NEET, JEE||KOLKATA: With the CLAT examination being rescheduled from September 7 to September 28, thousands of examinees from Bengal are hoping the date of the NEET UG examination might also be deferred. Some students have written to Supreme Court Chief Justice S A Bobde to postpone JEE and NEET till the situation improved. Bengal higher education minister Partha Chatterjee questioned Union human resources minister R P Nishank on why the future of so many students was being jeopardized when the transport system was still not fully operational. Santanu Pal, who scored 92% in HS this year and wants to appear for both JEE and NEET, said his JEE centre is at TCS Gitabitan in New Town and his NEET centre is at Kendriya Vidyalaya in Sector V. “It is very difficult for me to travel from Ghola in North 24 Parganas to reach Sector V. I need to change buses a number of times and there are anyway very few buses from Ghola. I am still not certain if I will be able to appear for JEE (Mains) due to the transport problem,” he said. Amiya Kumar Maity, who mentors NEET UG students, said he had appealed to the PM to postpone NEET UG till normalcy was back as he said the centre in charge could bar a student from entering if the examinee was in quarantine or a Covid patient. Also, it would be difficult for examinees to reach the venues, he added.  Debajyoti Kar, who also mentors Neet UG students, felt if the exam was not postponed, the state should withdraw the lockdown on September 12 to facilitate movement of examinees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/candidates-pray-for-deferred-neet-jee/articleshow/77827532.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Surat||Nabbed 2 days ago, ‘sex racketeer’ flees||Surat: In a major embarrassment for city police, the prime accused in the case of forcing a 14-year-old Karjan girl into prostitution escaped from New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Friday, two days after he was arrested by special operations group (SOG).  Pramod Varma, a resident of Pandesara, was caught on Wednesday and handed over to Umra police station for investigation. He was taken to NCH for the mandatory pre-arrest Covid-19 test. As he complained of fever, Varma was admitted pending his Covid report. However, he disappeared from the hospital ward at around 6.30am on Friday on the ruse of going to the washroom. Varma was in the custody of a lok rakshak police constable. Since he was not a prisoner, security was not tight in that ward. Investigation revealed that before escaping, Varma had made a call from the phone of another patient. Police suspect he called someone to pick him up. He was spotted going on the road on the back side of the NCH in CCTV footage. Deputy commissioner of police Vidhi Chaudhary ordered an inquiry by assistant commissioner of police (ACP), E-division, NS Desai to ascertain if there was any negligence on part of the cops. So far 16 persons have been arrested in the case. Varma operates a few spas where he runs prostitution rackets at these massage parlours. The racket was exposed earlier this month when the girl escaped from one of the massage parlours where she was forced into flesh trade by a woman named Muskan Mohammed Dadhi Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nabbed-2-days-ago-sex-racketeer-flees/articleshow/77827057.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Surat||Delhi flight to Surat diverted due to bad weather||Surat: A Surat-bound IndiGo flight from Delhi to Surat with 170 passengers on board was diverted to Ahmedabad due to heavy rain and poor visibility at the city airport on Saturday afternoon. After 45 minutes halt at the Ahmedabad airport the flight took off again for Surat and landed safely at about 3.39 pm. The same flight took off for Delhi at about 4.31pm, said sources.Meanwhile, rains also caused heavy waterlogging in many low-lying areas across the city on Saturday. According to flood control department, the city received a total of 36mm rainfall between 6am to 4pm. About half-a-kilometre stretch of the main road at Udhna Darwaja was inundated and shut for vehicular traffic. The entire district was pounded with heavy to very heavy rains on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/delhi-flight-to-surat-diverted-due-to-bad-weather/articleshow/77827139.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Surat||21 Bharuch villages on alert after Sardar dam opens gates||BHARUCH/SURAT: About 21 villages located close to the embankment of Narmada river in Jhagadia, Bharuch and Ankleshwar talukas in Bharuch district have been put on alert following heavy discharge of water from the Sardar Sarovar dam. Four lakh cusecs have been already released following very heavy rains in the river’s catchment areas on Saturday. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) too has been put on stand-by in the district for rescue and relief work following the flood alert issued by the Bharuch district administration on Saturday. Sardar Sarovar dam authorities said continuous rainfall in the upstream catchment area in Narmada river on Saturday caused the dam to fill with fresh water. The water level at Sardar Sarovar Dam continued to rise since Wednesday and reached 131.13 metres on Saturday evening. The present level of 138.68 metres is only 7.53 metres short from the top level. Till Saturday afternoon, the dam authorities were releasing 4 lakh cusecs of water, which was increased to 5 lakh cusecs by 5pm. In the phase manner, the release of water will be increased up to 8 lakh cusecs till late Saturday night. District collector of Bharuch, Dr MD Modiya said, “Due to heavy rains in the catchment of Sardar Sarovar dam, the discharge of water has been increased up to 5 lakh cusecs to 8 lakh cusecs. People in low-lying areas in Jhagadia, Bharuch and Ankleshwar have been advised not to venture near the river and stay alert. The administration is fully prepared to meet any eventuality.” Sources said that the water level at Narmada river in Bharuch touched 17 feet and is likely to cross 30 feet mark by early morning on Sunday with the release of 8 lakh cusecs of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/21-bharuch-villages-on-alert-after-sardar-dam-opens-gates/articleshow/77827120.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Indexing of Covid patients yields results, Bengal govt keeps fingers crossed||KOLKATA: Round-the-clock assessment of Covid patients’ key health parameters and live updates on their condition online — prompting immediate measures — have resulted in a spurt in the recovery rate of critical patients in the city as well as the state, believe doctors and hospital administrators. The Critical Covid Patient Management System (CCPMS) launched by the state government, which is designed to prioritize treatment on the basis of the degree of seriousness of patients, has made a difference, they felt. Under the system, each Covid patient across private and government hospitals now has a unique index number. “We have divided all symptomatic patients (including those in private health facilities) into yellow, orange and red categories. On the basis of their key health parameters, doctors give them an index number between 1 to 20. The less the number, the less the risk. High-risk patients are numbers 12 and upwards,” said a senior health department officer. Each of the Covid doctors has been given a tab. According to the CCPMS protocol, a doctor must give an online update once for low-risk (yellow) patients, twice for medium-risk (orange) and three to four times for high-risk patients (red) through some simple steps on the tab. The updates include all the key health parameters — oxygen saturation level, pulse rate, blood sugar level, urine output, functioning of different vital organs and support system availed by a patient. “The system is immensely useful and I have the information of all my Covid patients on one tap on the tab. No patient goes unchecked. This has also helped us in rationalizing bed allocation. Only the most critical patients are getting ICU (intensive care unit), CCU (critical care unit) or HDU (high dependency unit) beds. The system is also releasing patients from the hospital when their index count goes below 2,” said Sishir Naskar, superintendent of M R Bangur Hospital, Bengal’s first Covid-designated hospital. The system has also helped patients’ kin keep track of their loved ones’ condition. Seventy-seven-year-old Arnab Malakar (name changed), who was very critical and on ventilation support, was gradually downgraded from red to orange and then to yellow much to the joy of his son Pranab. “I kept tabs on daily online updates of his health parameters. I almost lost hope at one point of time because of his age and comorbidities,” said Pranab. The periodic monitoring has also helped in identifying patients in ‘cytokine storm’ (a rapid deterioration leading to widespread tissue damage and multi-organ failure). Apparently, there might be no apparent symptoms but a closer scrutiny can help arrest a rapid deterioration of an otherwise healthy patient. In fact, many of the early deaths were due to this cytokine storm, said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/indexing-of-covid-patients-yields-results-govt-keeps-fingers-crossed/articleshow/77827516.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 30, 2020||Patna||JEE & NEET exam halls to have Covid safety, say officials||PATNA: With just a few days to go for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE Main), the Patna district administration has issued guidelines to the agency entrusted with conducting the examination, asking it to ensure social distancing norms and arrange sanitizers for examinees at the centres. The National Testing Agency (NTA) has announced that JEE Main 2020 will be held as scheduled between September 1 and 6 September. When asked about the preparation for holding this examination amid Covid-19 pandemic, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “We have already issued guidelines for social distancing, masking and use of sanitizers which examination conducting agency need to follow. District administration will provide all support as required.” He further said that transportation would not be a problem for the aspirants and their guardians as buses and auto-rickshaws are already plying. The administration has instructed that the examination hall, staircases and railings should be sanitized after each shift and a new mask provided to each candidate. In Bihar, this examination will be held in 43 centres across seven districts. Patna has a maximum of 20 centres with the majority in Pataliputra locality. However, several centres are in the outskirts of the capital in areas such as Zero Mile and Chedi Tola in Phulwarisharif. Muzaffarpur DM Chandrashekhar Singh said examination will be held across six centres in the district. “The agency involved in conducting this examination will ensure that the centre’s floors, walls, doors and gates are disinfected and sanitizer bottles are arranged at the entrance,” Singh said, adding, “Candidates and their guardians will not face any problem in reaching the centre as all modes of transportation like buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis are now running.” As per the advisory issued by the Centre, candidates will be allowed to enter the hall with exam-related documents, a simple transparent ballpoint pen, a personal hand sanitizer (50ml) and a transparent water bottle. Candidates will be provided three-ply masks at the entrance. However, many students and opposition parties have protested and demanded that this examination be postponed. Parents are worried that, if held, they will have no choice but to accompany their wards to the exam centre. “Since Covid-19 pandemic has become a new normal, everything has to continue. But in Bihar, floods are the main problem. We stay in the capital and can reach the centres easily, but what about students stuck in flood-affected areas. For them, it will be difficult to reach the centre and I think all students should be given a fair chance,” said Sanya Tiwari, whose younger brother Harsh will be taking this examination. Another Sabzibagh resident Shakeela Bano, whose son Akbar Imam, will be appearing said, “I have instructed my son not to remove his mask and maintain social distance. His centre is near Pahari which is quite far away. There is no bus route or direct auto from our locality to the centre. We will have to book a cab and pay extra.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jee-neet-exam-halls-to-have-covid-safety-say-officials/articleshow/77826645.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 30, 2020||Patna||SC sets aside bail granted by HC to Uday cinema hall owner’s killer||PATNA: The Supreme Court has rescinded the bail granted to alleged sharpshooter Amit Kumar alias Amit Singh in connection with the killing of Bihta traders’ association founder member Nirbhay Kumar Singh. Singh was shot at the entrance of his cinema hall Uday Chitra Mandir at Bihta in western Patna on September 15, 2017. Amit was one of the shooters who had opened fire on Singh, as per police. The bench of Justice L Nageshwara Rao, Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice S Ravindra Bhat while setting aside the Patna high court’s bail order, observed that it should not have released Amit on bail. The bench was hearing an appeal filed by Singh’s brother Ajay Kumar against the high court order. Counsels Smarhar Singh and Ashutosh Thakur, representing Kumar and the state government’s counsel Manish Kumar apprised the bench that Amit was involved in many criminal cases and was a habitual offender. The bench observed that the HC without considering submissions made regarding criminal antecedents of Amit granted him bail because he had been in custody since March 28, 2018, and taking into account present Covid-19 condition. Amit was granted bail by HC on June 10 this year. HC had considered factors such as period undergone in custody along with several other materials, which had come up during investigation besides no chance of conclusion of the trial soon due to the lockdown while granting him bail. Petitioner Ajay had also appealed against the bail granted to co-accused Mohammad Shabir and Shankar Chaudhary on May 1, 2019. State government counsel Manish Kumar had submitted that bail granted to Shabir was cancelled and a non-bailable warrant was issued against him while service is incomplete in Shankar’s case. SC ordered for completing service within four weeks by trial court and list matter afterwards for hearing. Singh’s brother Ajay while talking to TOI over the phone on Saturday said the matter was heard on August 26 but the order sheet came in the public domain only on Friday evening. Ajay, who is also association’s executive member, said at least government should follow up important cases across the state to take it to their logical conclusion so that society is not disheartened and faith remains on the law. “It gives a feeling of being an orphan if victim’s family like me fights alone up to Supreme court against criminal gangs,” he said. “Conviction of accused would ensure no tolerance against crime. Police reaching spot after a crime and conducting raids while criminal getting bail afterwards won’t act as a deterrent to crime,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sc-sets-aside-bail-granted-by-hc-to-uday-cinema-hall-owners-killer/articleshow/77827005.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 30, 2020||Patna||‘Patna University grew when VCs from Bihar were at its helm’||PATNA: Academics of the state continue voicing their concern over the appointment of “outsiders” as vice-chancellors (VCs) of different universities. Citing the example of the 103-year-old Patna University (PU), they claim its academic and infrastructural development took place only when people from within the state occupied the highest office. According to old-timers, out of the 52 people, who have been appointed as the VCs of PU so far, three — J G Jennings, V H Jackson and Stewart Macpherson — were Britishers. However, many positive developments — construction of magnificent university buildings, introduction of new courses, establishment of full-fledged postgraduate departments and promotion of research activities — took place when “insiders” were at the helm of PU. Former head of PU psychology department, Shamshad Hussain, says, “The buildings occupying the PU office as well as the Wheeler Senate House were constructed when Sir Sultan Ahmad was the VC from 1923 to 1930. Later, most of the PG departments — political science, psychology, geography, applied economics and commerce, sociology, labour and social welfare, physics, geology, botany, zoology, statistics and ancient Indian history and archaeology — were established in the university when Sir Sachchidanand Sinha, Sir C P N Singh and Sarangdhar Singh served as its VCs.” Hussain adds, “It was Balbhadra Prasad who created an atmosphere of research in the university during his regime from 1957 to 1960. George Jacob also did a commendable job when he was the VC of PU (1962-1965) by improving the overall academic atmosphere and creating a sense of discipline on the campus. Later, he became the chairman of the University Grants Commission.” State’s former higher education director, Nageshwar Prasad Sharma, also recalls that the contributions of most “outsiders” in PU’s development are almost insignificant. “Only K N Bahl (1952-1953) and Y C Simhadri (2006-2008) made some positive contributions during their regime. Two others, Sachin Dutt (1972-1973) and K K Jha (2001-2004), streamlined the financial system of the university. If the teachers and non-teaching staff of PU are still getting their salaries regularly, it is only because of these VCs,” he says. Appreciating the performance of local academics serving as VCs, former head of PU English department, Shiva Jatan Thakur, points out, “Outsiders fail to perform because they are unfamiliar with the university laws, statutes and circulars issued by the chancellor and the state government from time to time.” He also regrets that the academic milieu of PU deteriorated during the regime of such VCs “who preferred to administer the university at their whims instead of rules and regulations, giving rise to a series of litigations”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-grew-when-vcs-from-bihar-were-at-its-helm/articleshow/77827020.cms||B K Mishra
August 30, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav lashes out at CM Nitish Kumar over Covid, floods||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar for not forming an all-party committee to review Covid-related work despite announcing the same in the assembly. “By not forming the all-party committee which he had promised in the assembly, the CM has misled the House in a way. How can people have faith in the CM who lies even in the House? He should make it clear when the committee will be formed,” Tejashwi said while addressing a press conference at the RJD office here. He said nearly 80,000 Covid-19 cases were registered in the state in August alone. “The CM had said that the number of tests through RT-PCR method will be increased. However, most samples are still being tested through rapid antigen kit, which does not give accurate results,” Tejashwi said. He also criticised the government for “poor handling” of floods in the state. “Nearly 84 lakh people were affected by floods, but the government did nothing concrete for them. “Nitish should tell people what the government has done with the money donated to the CM’s relief fund. It is surprising that none from the Centre has so far visited the state to take stock of flood situation. The CM visited the flood-affected areas only after we exerted pressure on him,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi said if people give Mahagathbandhan an opportunity to form government, it would work for economic justice the way Lalu Prasad had worked for social justice to all. Tejashwi, however, remained tight-lipped on the issue of senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and an announcement made by former parliamentarian Rama Singh that he would join the RJD. Reacting to Tejashwi’s charges, JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad said Nitish had been serving people with dedication for the last 15 years and worked for both social and economic justice. “Who is honest and who is a liar will be decided by the people and not Tejashwi. If he has forgotten then let me remind him that his father used to make fun of flood victims by saying that they should welcome Goddess Ganga at their doorstep and enjoy free fish from the floodwaters. As far as migrant workers are concerned, many of them were provided job after their skill mapping,” Nishad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-lashes-out-at-cm-over-covid-floods/articleshow/77826717.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: Cops in a fix as ‘murdered’ girl releases video||PATNA: The Vaishali police are in a fix after a video of a ‘murdered girl’ surfaced in which she is claiming to be alive. She said she had fled home to marry a man of her choice. The girl’s father Chulhai Rai (55) had lodged an FIR with the Rajapakar police station on August 21 that his daughter, aged around 17 years, was kidnapped by Sanoj Kumar Rai (24) and four others. SHO Naushad Alam said within six hours of lodging the FIR, Chulhai and his family members informed the police that their daughter’s body has been found dumped at a roadside in a village under Bidupur police station. “On August 22 morning the body was recovered. Chulhai Rai and other family members identified it as their daughter’s body. Thereafter body was handed over to them after conducting a post mortem,” the SHO said, adding, the body was later cremated. “However, on Friday night, we came to know that the girl assumed to be murdered has released a video that she was alive and had married Sanoj. We are now trying to make the girl appear before police,” he said. The SHO said it has also come to light that she had informed her family members after the body was recovered that she was alive. “Chulhai had submitted a written complaint against Sanoj and four others of his family for killing his daughter after body recovery,” he said, adding, raids were being conducted to nab Sanoj and others for killing the girl. Alam said the girl is aged around 22 years and had fled almost three days before her father informed the police. “She had also taken away jewellery, educational certificates and clothes,” Alam said. “Police didn’t preserve DNA samples from the body for all these reasons. Chulhai Rai didn’t even provide his daughter’s photograph to police for matching,” he said adding police believes he and his family members knowingly misguided the police. Vaishali SP Maneesh said the father and other family members would be now quizzed as to why they claimed that the body was of their daughter. “The ambit of the investigation has now increased with the girl’s video surfacing claiming she is alive,” he said. The SP said police will now also ascertain the identity of the body which had been cremated by Chulhai Rai and his family claiming it to be of their daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-in-a-fix-as-murdered-girl-releases-video/articleshow/77826953.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 30, 2020||Patna||Each Bihar BJP MP to visit 60 panchayats||PATNA: The BJP top leadership on Saturday asked its all MPs from Bihar to visit 60 panchayats each in their respective Lok Sabha constituencies in next one month to establish direct contact with workers of the party and electors in a bid to apprise people of development works undertaken by the state and the central governments. The exercise will begin in the first week of September and conclude on October 2, the birth anniversary of father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi. The MPs, including those from the Rajya Sabha and other senior party functionaries, will work together at booth level in all the 243 assembly constituencies to ensure the victory of not only the BJP candidates in the upcoming assembly polls, but also of the other two NDA partners — JD(U) and LJP. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of all the party MPs from Bihar in New Delhi chaired by national president J P Nadda. Party incharge for Bihar Bhupendra Yadav, party’s election incharge for Bihar Devendra Fadnavis and five ministers from the state were also present at the meeting. Describing the monthlong exercise as ‘going from virtual to physical’, newly-elected Rajya Sabha member Vivek Thakur said everybody has been given specific tasks to accomplish within the timeframe. “Though the MPs have to attend the Parliament session during the period, they will visit the respective panchayats under their Lok Sabha constituencies on weekends,” he added. Later talking to media persons, state BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said each MP has been asked to chalk out strategy to ensure the victory of NDA candidates. “The MPs will meet the office-bearers of each ‘mandal’ and chalk out poll strategies. The idea is to win more and more seats in the assembly polls,” he added. It was also decided to observe PM Narendra Modi’s birth anniversary on September 17 as ‘Seva Diwas’ and Pandit Din Dayal Upadhyay’s death anniversary on September 25 as ‘Samarpan Diwas’. Every party worker and functionary from the state will connect with ‘PM’s Mann Ki Baat’ programme and observe Gandhi’s jayanti with special emphasis on October 2. Jaiswal said, “The NDA will go to polls with a development agenda. We will show our commitment for development of all sections of the society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/each-state-bjp-mp-to-visit-60-panchayats/articleshow/77826729.cms||Ramashankar
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Students from smaller cities prefer local colleges due to Covid-19||AJMER: Students from Tier-II and Tier-III cities have decided to continue their higher studies from local colleges this year because of Covid-19 leading to high cut-offs. The first waiting list released by the state college education directorate of Samrat Prithviraj Chouhan Government College in Ajmer stands at 80% in BSc honours. Similarly, the merit list for admission to various colleges of Ajmer also remained higher compared to last year. There are more than 5,000 seats in Government College and Government Girls’ College of Ajmer. With over 35,000 applicants trying to get admission in colleges in their own city, the cut-off for BA first year in the first list went up to 80.8% for the general category in sharp comparision to 51% in 2019. Similarly, in the Government Girls’ College, the cut-off was 79.2%. “This year, the average of vacating seats after admission will be low as students are keen to get study in their city,” said an official source. Admissions to colleges are conducted by state college education directorate. In last three years, the seats in BCom pass course remained vacant and, therefore, the new lists were released to accommodate students that had not got admission anywhere else. Even the admission percentage of different colleges of Ajmer remained low in last four years. This time, students passing Class XII do not want to take the risk of moving to other cities. “My parents are not allowing me to move to Delhi for college admission because of coronavirus,” said Mahender Choudhary, who is waiting to see his name in admission list of Government College. “After the first list, the cut-off of waiting list went to 80.6% in BSc Honours (Chemistry) as I was trying to get this course, “said Nidhi Saxena of Ajmer. In BA economics, the cut-off marks in the first list for SC candidates went over 61%. “I am waiting for the second and third lists as I scored less marks,” added another student waiting for admission. For BCom, the cut-off rose to 77.4%. “Usually, the cut-off in first merit list is high in different streams but mostly students vacate the seats to get admission in big cities like Jaipur or Delhi,” said a lecturer monitoring the admission process. He added that fee submission has started which will go on till September 2. For vacant seats, another list will be released. Most parents are avoiding sending their children to other cities because of the fear of infection. “It is better to get admission here and prepare for further competitive exams,” added a parent. As private universities with different courses in science and humanities came up in Rajasthan, students from cities like Ajmer and small towns apply to those universities. “Though students are vying for private universities but their parents prefer local colleges,” added another student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-from-smaller-cities-prefer-local-colleges/articleshow/77828569.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||7-day lockdown in Kota city after spike in Covid cases||KOTA: In the view of rising number of Corona positive patients in Kota that recorded 319 cases and six deaths in a day on Saturday, Kota collector Ujjwal Rathore has ordered a week-long lockdown from August 29 till 12am on September 6 in the periphery of Kota municipal corporation (KMC).  “In view of alarming spread of infection in Kota city and government’s commitment to curb it, we have decided with hard heart, since there is no other option, for a week-long lockdown from August 29, Saturday 8pm to September 6, Sunday 12am in the periphery of Kota municipal corporation,” said Rathore. The lockdown would certainly be inconvenient for the people but we are forced to enforce it as there was no other option. If it is not done now, the situation may turn horrible and alarming, he said, adding that the lockdown would be enforced strictly. Any laxity in compliance would be severely harmful to public health. People are appealed to follow it seriously and not invite any health risk, he added. However, emergency services and offices, medical and health facilities are exempted from lockdown, he added. Since 94% cases have been reported from municipal corporation area, the lockdown will be enforced only within the city, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-day-lockdown-in-kota-city-after-spike/articleshow/77828574.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Late monsoon surge fills Bhopal to brim||BHOPAL: Normal life in Bhopal and surrounding areas was affected due to incessant on Saturday. For the second time this monsoon season, all 11 gates of Bhadbhada dam were opened. Water released from Bhadbhada increased the water level of the Kaliasot dam, leading to opening all 13 gates of Kaliasot dam too. More than 50 slums in Kalkar’s Damkheda B sector were submerged, once again due to rising water level of Kaliasot river. The area evacuated after heavy rains on August 22. Around 180 more people people were shifted out and accommodated in three nearby schools. The administration will also arrange for food for the affected. Traffic was disrupted in most parts of the city. The road from Alpana Tirahe to the railway station, Hamidia Road, Bharat Talkies Road was under two feet of water. The petrol pump was submerged near Alpana Tiraha. Homes and shops were waterlogged in Bhopal Talkies area, Saifia Road, Sindhi Colony Tiraha, Shiv Nagar Colony of Karond, Bhanpur, Atal Ayub Nagar and other areas. Raslakheri was one of the worst hit. Collector Avinash Lavaniya inspected the lodging arrangements of the relocated shifted people in Damkheda, Kaliyasot and other places. Streets and homes in Lalita Nagar, Rahjarsha, Priyanka Nagar, Nayapura, Akbarpur, Kolar were waterlogged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sluice-gates-open-a-flood-of-woes-for-low-lying-areas/articleshow/77827553.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 30, 2020||Varanasi||Crackdown inflicts Rs 111 crorehit on Mukhtar’s gang so far||VARANASI: The past 90 days have been particularly hard and shocking for mafia don turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari lodged in Ropar jail of Punjab, his family and aides as they saw their economic empire of over Rs 111 crore in their east UP citadel turn into dust. Mukhtar gang had seen ominous signs in January when Mau police opened the file of issuance of licenses to four individuals on fake documents on the recommendation by the MLA on his official letterhead. The damage started after May 31 when Mau police stopped extortion in the name of taxi stands by his henchmen and booked them. The gang’s monopoly in meat and fish trade in Mau, Jaunpur, Varanasi was broken and then land captured by them at the site of Andhau air strip in Ghazipur, in rural belts of Mau and Ghazipur was reclaimed. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan told TOI on Saturday, “The action against illegal possession of government and private land, demolition of illegal construction like slaughterhouse on Friday has caused a loss of Rs 70 crore to them. The total loss to Mukhtar’s gang due to ongoing action is over Rs 111 crore, as illegal earning of Rs 41 crore per annum has been stopped in this zone.” “Mukhtar has many henchmen who kept running the gang’s illegal activities even though he is behind the bars. We took action against such individuals and have arrested 100 so far and 78 of them were booked under Gangster Act while 12 have been externed. Seven persons who grabbed PWD and coal contracts with Mukhtar’s backing are on police radar, investigation is on and action will follow soon,” the ADG said. Police also targeted Mukhtar gang’s armoury by starting verification of arms licences and found large scale irregularities in documents. “25 arms licenses of Mukhtar’s close aides in Mau and Ghazipur have been suspended or cancelled and the arms surrendered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/crackdown-inflicts-rs-111-crorehit-on-mukhtars-gang-so-far/articleshow/77827414.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI Rd 1 allocation list today||NAGPUR: The first round of Std XI admission list will be released on Sunday at 3pm, according to a statement issued by the education department. The actual online admission process will start from August 31 at 11am. Students have to complete the admission process by 5pm on September 3. Those who have got admission in their first preference college cannot cancel it. TOI had reported earlier that there were no takers for almost 33% seats in city’s junior colleges. On an average 18,000 seats go vacant in Nagpur every year due to excess supply. Since the admission process has been shifted completely online since 2017, the disparity between demand-supply ratio has come to the fore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-rd-1-allocation-list-today/articleshow/77828576.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Soil test complete for Chetla bridge||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has completed soil testing for reconstruction of Chetla Lockgate Bridge, which had been closed last year due to its poor structural condition. It was opened only before the Pujas after undergoing urgent, but temporary, repairs. Bridge experts had said its steel superstructure cannot withstand too much weight any more as it was heavily corroded and added that a new bridge needed to be set up after dismantling the existing structure. The authorities had conducted a survey to plan an alternative traffic route while the new bridge was being built. “The soil testing has been completed. Now, a detailed project report will be prepared,” said a KMDA official. According to plans, the new bridge will come up across Circular Canal, connecting Canal West Road and Kolkata Station Road and will help decongest RG Kar bridge. KMDA authorities are also waiting for the final decision to be taken by the committee headed by the chief secretary following recommendations by an expert committee that has been appointed to figure out whether Posta flyover will be fully or partially dismantled. Sources from the state secretariat said that a meeting was held at Nabanna on Thursday to discuss the present status of the under-construction flyover that was damaged after a steel span collapsed on March 31, 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soil-test-complete-for-chetla-bridge/articleshow/77827548.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Majerhat bearings installation awaits written ER nod||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway has cleared the design of the bearings for Majerhat ROB, but the state PWD cannot install them unless the former inspects and gives its written permission. The state public works department (PWD), implementing agency of the Majerhat ROB reconstruction project, has been waiting for the zonal railway’s permission to install the 12 bearings in the 76m girder that was launched over the railway tracks on July 10. When it started the girder launching on June 2, PWD had hoped to commission the new bridge by this October. Last Sunday, TOI reported that construction of Majerhat rail overbridge, which falls under ER’s ambit, has stopped because of the pending clearance. ER engineers told their PWD counterparts on Friday that the latter must seek an inspection of the bearings. ER can issue its permission only after this inspection. ER’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Nikhil K Chakraborty said on Friday, “ER approved the bearings’ design on Wednesday. Now, PWD must formally approach us and offer the bearings for inspection.” “The letter has been sent. ER will come for the inspection next week,” said state PWD minister Aroop Biswas on Saturday. But state officials said every passing day has become crucial since they are trying to throw open the bridge by end-October. “More than two weeks have been wasted. We don’t know if we can meet the pre-Puja deadline. After the bearings are installed, the deck slab will be cast. This involves a complex job of enforcement binding of steel to create the deck’s base on which concrete will be cast,” said an official. These should take a month. After casting, a construction gap of 28 days is needed for curing. Once the slab firms up, installations of the cables will start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bearings-installation-awaits-written-er-nod/articleshow/77827562.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi’s hopes for int’l airport yet to materialise||Belagavi: Even a year after putting forth a request to launch international air operations from Belagavi airport at Sambra, it is yet to be fulfilled. In 2019, MP and minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi had met the managing director of Air India to press for flights to Dubai. The requested route for the operations is Goa-Belagavi-Dubai. The flights can be operated twice or thrice a week, depending upon demand. The people from the Mumbai-Karnataka region either travel to Goa or Bengaluru to fly to Dubai. Belagavi airport is the second busiest in Karnataka, according to the last three months data. Setting up a cargo area to facilitate exports and imports and expanding infrastructure to match international norms could be more or less sufficient to launch the services. Krishna Giriyannavar, an active citizen from Belagavi, said flights to Dubai are the need of the hour, as a good number of people travel there for work and tourism. The elected representatives have to work to bring Belagavi under the UDAN scheme, he said. He added that an Indian Institute of Technology did not materialise in Belagavi due to lack of political will, and that politicians should show commitment to realise this. Suresh Angadi said that there was no follow up done after 2019 on international flights from Belagavi, and that a feasibility study has to be conducted before coming up with the service. Air India looks into commercial, tourism and trade feasibility before venturing into a new service. “We need demand from people, and flights can operate on the Belagavi-Goa-Dubai or Goa-Belagavi-Dubai routes. The density of people travelling to Goa from Kerala before moving to Dubai or vice-versa, traffic from the Mumbai-Karnataka region and prospects of import and exports is what matters,” he said. Belagavi Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya said the present length of runway is 2,300m, on which Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 aircraft can operate. However, there are technical calculations to see weather at certain load and certain temperature, if flights can take off. “To start international flights, the ministry of civil aviation has to send a proposal to the Airports Authority of India (AAI), after which the AAI conducts a feasibility study. So far there is no such proposal,” he said. He informed that to build inbound and outbound cargo storage facilities, a site has been identified between the Indian Air Force wall and air traffic control tower, after the first proposed site was rejected due to security reasons. He further said the airport may require more infrastructure to upgrade it to an international one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavis-hopes-for-intl-airport-yet-to-materialise/articleshow/77826669.cms||Shreyas HS
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka on alert against doorstep delivery of dangerous fake seeds||Hubballi: With packets containing fake seeds turning up in various countries and the Union ministry putting states on alert, Karnataka agriculture minister BC Patil has asked farmers to remain vigilant and report any such unsolicited delivery to the neighbourhood Raitha Samparka Kendra. Alerting districts to the seed packet scam that has been reported in the US, New Zealand and Australia among other countries, the agriculture department has asked authorities to warn farmers against sowing these, as they may contain plant pathogens or chemicals harmful to humans. The US agriculture department said it has traced the seeds to China and these could be part of an online scam. The department identified at least 14 species, including mustard, cabbage, herbs, hibiscus and roses. Rajashekhar Bijapur and Rudreshappa, joint directors of agriculture for Dharwad and Gadag respectively, told TOI that they had received a letter from the Union ministry of agriculture & farmers’ welfare on August 6, asking authorities to keep an eye on delivery of packets containing fake seeds. “These unsolicited seed parcels may contain seeds of an alien invasive species or pathogens of disease that pose a serious threat to the environment, agricultural ecosystem and national security,” the letter from deputy commissioner in the Union ministry Dilip Kumar Srivastava said. “Unsolicited parcels can be a threat to biodiversity of our country.” Joint director of agriculture in Haveri Manjunath B said both the postal department and courier companies have been asked to stay vigilant so as to prevent delivery of these packages to unsuspecting farmers. “However, we have not had complaints of such packages being delivered thus far in Dharwad, Gadag and Haveri districts,” he said. A meeting of farmers has been called in Dharwad and Gadag make them aware of the threat and ensure they do not fall prey to it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-on-alert-against-doorstep-delivery-of-dangerous-fake-seeds/articleshow/77827254.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 30, 2020||Mysuru||RGUHS interns will examine students returning to school||Mysuru: When the schools reopen after the Covid -19 crisis in the state, interns at Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) will examine and prepare health reports of the students in classes I to X. The university, as part of its mandatory two-month internship training in community medicine for final year medical students, decided to prepare health reports of all returning students by visiting the schools. The reports will be maintained as a registry in the schools, which can be utilised for healthcare purposes, including comparing students’ vital health parameters, improvements etc. “We have carried out this exercise in Chikkaballapur district for the last three years. From this academic year, we are expanding the initiative to the schools across all districts. It will be the supplementary initiative to other healthcare initiatives carried out in the schools,” said S Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of the university. “We are planning to develop a software to carry out this exercise,” he added. As per the plan, students in state-run, private and government aided private schools will come under the initiative. “We are getting a good response in Chikkaballapura. Young doctors will get hands-on experience in the rural healthcare system. As these interns are available year-round, we will not face any issues in implementing the programme in collaboration with the education department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rguhs-interns-will-examine-students-returning-to-school/articleshow/77826049.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 30, 2020||Surat||British oppressed this tazia for 50 yrs||Bohrajiwala tazia had faced oppression by the then British government in the erstwhile port city of Surat for over 50 years up to 1885. Ghulam Mustafa Hakimji said, “For 50 years, my great grandfather carried out the tazia by going against the orders of British government. Many times they were beaten up by the cops for not following the orders. Finally, the Britishers officially granted permission for carrying out the Subedar tazia in 1885. This is how, the tazia procession on the 10th day of Muharram started in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/british-oppressed-this-tazia-for-50-yrs/articleshow/77826997.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region 24-hour tally tops 4,000, toll exceeds 4,000-mark too||PUNE: The single-day case tally exceeded 4,000-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, with 4,070 people testing positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the caseload in the region has increased to more than 1.64 lakh. The development comes on a day when the region’s death toll also breached the 4,000-mark and rose to 4,010 with 73 more fatalities in the last 24 hours. Among the new cases, the PMC areas recorded 1,968 cases, the PCMC limits reported 1,144 cases and rural as well as cantonment areas reported 958 cases. The PMC areas’ case burden increased to 92,839 on Saturday. The active caseload in the region reached 33,688, a rise of nearly 600 from the Friday’s figure of 33,048. The region saw 3,354 recoveries on Saturday, including 1,657 from the PMC limits and 1,196 from the PCMC limits. The Saturday recoveries recorded a rise of over 1,000 patients compared to Friday, when about 2,193 patients were discharged. The region’s total sample testing touched 7.11 lakh on Saturday, with over 14,979 tests done in the last 24 hours. Health officials said they had been doing extensive testing. According to a PMC report, as many as 834 patients were at critical stage on Saturday, of whom 506 patients were on ventilator support and 2,901 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-24-hour-tally-tops-4k-toll-exceeds-4000-mark-too/articleshow/77828573.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Students from smaller cities prefer local colleges due to Covid-19||AJMER: Students from Tier-II and Tier-III cities have decided to continue their higher studies from local colleges this year because of Covid-19 leading to high cut-offs. The first waiting list released by the state college education directorate of Samrat Prithviraj Chouhan Government College in Ajmer stands at 80% in BSc honours. Similarly, the merit list for admission to various colleges of Ajmer also remained higher compared to last year. There are more than 5,000 seats in Government College and Government Girls’ College of Ajmer. With over 35,000 applicants trying to get admission in colleges in their own city, the cut-off for BA first year in the first list went up to 80.8% for the general category in sharp comparision to 51% in 2019. Similarly, in the Government Girls’ College, the cut-off was 79.2%. “This year, the average of vacating seats after admission will be low as students are keen to get study in their city,” said an official source. Admissions to colleges are conducted by state college education directorate. In last three years, the seats in BCom pass course remained vacant and, therefore, the new lists were released to accommodate students that had not got admission anywhere else. Even the admission percentage of different colleges of Ajmer remained low in last four years. This time, students passing Class XII do not want to take the risk of moving to other cities. “My parents are not allowing me to move to Delhi for college admission because of coronavirus,” said Mahender Choudhary, who is waiting to see his name in admission list of Government College. “After the first list, the cut-off of waiting list went to 80.6% in BSc Honours (Chemistry) as I was trying to get this course, “said Nidhi Saxena of Ajmer. In BA economics, the cut-off marks in the first list for SC candidates went over 61%. “I am waiting for the second and third lists as I scored less marks,” added another student waiting for admission. For BCom, the cut-off rose to 77.4%. “Usually, the cut-off in first merit list is high in different streams but mostly students vacate the seats to get admission in big cities like Jaipur or Delhi,” said a lecturer monitoring the admission process. He added that fee submission has started which will go on till September 2. For vacant seats, another list will be released. Most parents are avoiding sending their children to other cities because of the fear of infection. “It is better to get admission here and prepare for further competitive exams,” added a parent. As private universities with different courses in science and humanities came up in Rajasthan, students from cities like Ajmer and small towns apply to those universities. “Though students are vying for private universities but their parents prefer local colleges,” added another student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/students-from-smaller-cities-prefer-local-colleges/articleshow/77829880.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Patna||4 minor girls drown in Madhepura water body||PATNA: Four minor girls drowned while plucking flowers from a water body and one somehow managed to survive at Laxmipur Lalchand village under the Bihariganj police station area in Madhepura district around 6am on Saturday. SHO of Bihariganj police station Akhilesh Kumar said the four victims – Libha Kumari (14), Preeti Kumari (10), Mausam Kumari (12) and Kalyani Kumari (12) – were from different families. The SHO said while Libha was a resident of Laxmipur Lalchand village, the other three victims hailed from the neighbouring Biwi Ranpal village. “The girls went deep into the water body looking for flowers and got drowned,” the SHO said, adding the fifth girl was rushed to a local hospital in semi-conscious condition as she had also gulped water. “The bodies of the girls were sent to sadar hospital for post-mortem. A case of unnatural death was registered on the basis of a written complaint submitted by Libha’s father Niranjan Mistry,” he added. Bihariganj circle officer Nagesh Kumar Mehta said the process to provide Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to the kin of each of the deceased had been initiated. “Aggrieved families have been asked to provide their identity cards and bank details so that the ex gratia amount could be provided to them,” the CO said, adding Libha’s kin will get ex gratia from Bihariganj circle office and the rest three families from Udakishunganj circle office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-minor-girls-drown-in-madhepura-water-body/articleshow/77826979.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Return of migrants to workplaces set to become poll issue for opposition||PATNA: Migration of workers, especially from the north Bihar region, is all set to become a poll issue for the opposition in the state if the statement of the leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is any indication. Tejashwi on Saturday slammed CM Nitish Kumar for his alleged failure to create more jobs for migrant workers who returned during the Covid-19 lockdown. “Workers who walked thousands of km to reach their homes during nation-wide lockdown are again heading back to megacities outside the state for jobs,” Tejashwi said. His remarks came a day after former Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav criticized the state government on the same issue. Earlier, former union minister and United Democratic Alliance (UDA) chief Yashwant Sinha had raised the issue of exodus of migrant workers from the state due to lack of job opportunities. Several air-conditioned buses from states such as Tamil Nadu, Punjab, New Delhi, Gujarat, Kerala and Maharashtra can be seen in several remote villages of Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Purnia, Katihar, Madhepura, Kishanganj and Supaul districts. They have been sent by owners of private firms to ferry workers, who had earlier returned during the lockdown. A 28-year-old migrant worker, Roop Chandra Ram, a resident of Mohiuddin Nagar in Samastipur district, said he would leave for Ahmedabad on September 1 where he earlier worked in the cotton industry. He will be accompanied by 12 others from his village. Train tickets have been booked by the employer. Recently Pappan Singh, a mushroom grower from New Delhi, sent air tickets for 20 migrant workers from Bihar who had been working for him for the past 15-20 years but were forced to return home in May. Some of them flew for the first time and had cars waiting to the Delhi airport to take them to Singh’s farm. Trains to places like Ahmedabad, Amritsar and Bengaluru are running full. Chief public relations officer of East Central Railway Rajesh Kumar said, “There is more than 100% occupancy in about 40 pairs of trains originating from Bihar these days. In some trains, the occupancy is above than 150%.” According to an estimate, around 40 lakh migrant workers returned to Bihar from different states during the lockdown. And nearly 20 lakh of them were provided financial aid by the state government while staying at their places of work. The government had promised job opportunities for those who returned to the state. According to official data, a total of 193.63 lakh job cards have been issued so far. The state has also created 259.6 lakh man-days under the rural job guarantee scheme—MNREGA. The skill training of returning migrant workers was conducted and instructions were also issued to provide jobs for them in big infrastructure projects, employment schemes, “Jal-Jivan-Hariyali’ mission and other work. IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar said, “Apart from employment (jobs) for poor migrant workers, the state government also arranged for free ration for them and their families for their sustenance. The government has helped them financially as well and efforts were on to make them economically reliant through different welfare schemes.” Former director of AN Sinha Institute of social study Professor DM Diwakar said, “Lack of employment opportunities are pushing the returnees on a reverse journey to their workplaces. Though both the central and the state governments launched several schemes to provide them with employment (work), they are not sufficient in comparison to the number of returnees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/return-of-migrants-to-workplaces-set-to-become-poll-issue-for-opposition/articleshow/77826917.cms||Ramashankar
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Pregnancies on the rise, but virus fear a worry for would-be-moms||KOLKATA: City doctors are being flooded with queries from young couples anxious to know if it would be safe to go the family way amid the pandemic. Top among the worries are logistical concerns about reaching hospitals and contacting doctors, possibility of the virus affecting the foetus and whether diagnostic tests during pregnancy could enhance the risk of Covid exposure. Many have also been asking the doctors if the virus could get transmitted to the foetus from the mother. A young working couple from New Town called up a gynaecologist asking if it was safe for the wife to conceive during this pandemic and if they should go for an emergency abortion. Another couple from Salt Lake made a frantic call to their gynaecologist fearing his wife has already conceived and in that case would it be safe for the would-be-mother and the unborn child. “With couples now spending more time together, many are getting pregnant. I am getting numerous calls from couples asking if pregnancy during this pandemic will be safe for both the mother and the child,” said Samir Kumar Ray, obstetrician and gynaecologist at CMRI Hospital. Couples want to know if Covid-19 could affect the foetus, added gynaecologist Basab Mukherjee, vice-president of FOGSI (Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India). “These concerns are obvious but we haven’t come across any evidence of risk to suggest that couples should postpone pregnancy,” he said. The logistical barriers posed a bigger problem than clinical issues, he felt. “Hospital visits, exposure to crowd during such visits could indeed be risky. We have been pointing that out to couples,” Mukherjee added. Doctors said there was yet no evidence of mother-to-foetus transmission during pregnancy or birth. But if a pregnant woman gets severe symptoms like high-grade fever, it may increase the risk of birth defects, they said. Fertility experts said a good number of couples who had failed to conceive naturally and were planning to go for ART (assisted reproductive technology) have conceived naturally during the lockdown. “Natural conception rate among the so-called infertile couples has gone up during this pandemic. They are happy but are anxious at the same time as to how the virus will impact the pregnancy,” said fertility consultant Kausiki Ray Sarkar, in charge of the fertility unit at AMRI. On the other hand, the lockdown has resulted in many unwanted pregnancies due to lack of access to contraception, pointed out Mukherjee. “Most couples have opted out of abortion since they feel visiting hospitals is unsafe. So, we won’t be surprised if we see a baby boom in about six-seven months from now,” said Mukherjee. Doctors, however, said that like any other ailment, pregnancy issues can also be handled taking all precautionary measure and hospitals are gearing up for that. But any viral pathogen, Ray Sarkar added, during pregnancy makes the foetus vulnerable during the organogenesis stage (organ development). “We are asking couples not to get worked up as we have to live with the virus for now. Hospitals are gearing up facilities for safer deliveries and better monitoring options,” said Samir Kumar Ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pregnancies-on-the-rise-but-virus-fear-a-worry-for-would-be-moms/articleshow/77827530.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana NSUI president Balmoori Venkat moved to private hospital||HYDERABAD: National Students Union of India’s (NSUI) state president Balmoori Venkat, who was on an indefinite hunger strike for the past 48 hours seeking postponement of JEE and NEET exams, has been shifted to a private hospital after his health deteriorated on Saturday. Members of the NSUI and the Congress party have been demanding postponement of JEE and NEET entrance exams, and also all the state level examinations in Telangana in view of the alarming increase of the coronavirus cases. The police foiled an attempt by NSUI and Congress to conduct a ‘chalo Raj Bhavan’ rally in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nsui-prez-moved-to-private-hosp/articleshow/77828632.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s Covid mortality rate is twice the state average||JAIPUR: The city, which crossed 10,000 Covid-19 cases on Friday, not only has a higher number of active cases but also a higher mortality rate compared with the rest of the state. As per the data available with the medical and health department, the city’s mortality rate of 2.64 per cent is worrisome since the state capital has the best hospitals and doctors. The city has recorded two to three deaths daily in this month so far. “The state’s mortality rate is around 1.30 per cent while Jaipur’s is 2.60. This is mainly because of higher number of cases since March. Many districts had not seen even a single case till mid-May,” said a senior officer of health department. Doctors and officials of the health department said efforts were on to bring down the fatalities. Even health minister Raghu Sharma claimed that the government was working to bring down the fatalities with the use of plasma therapy among other line of treatment. “Jaipur has higher deaths mainly because many people whose native village is in some other district preferred to bring the patients here. In many cases, we had observed that patients reached the hospital in a very critical condition. Out of the total deaths reported in Jaipur, there were patients who came from neighboring states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Since they died in Jaipur, it added to the mortality rate,” said a senior officer of health department . Out of the total fatalities in the state, Jaipur’s contribution was 26.31 per cent. “Out of 1,030 deaths reported till Saturday evening, 271 were reported from Jaipur,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-covid-mortality-rate-is-twice-the-state-average/articleshow/77828608.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 30, 2020||Pune||International tennis referee rides on hope to beat coronavirus & dengue||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: International tennis referee Sheetal Iyer, 50, tested positive for dengue and then Covid-19, but she did not despair. Instead, she clung to hope to emerge stronger and healthier. After she developed fever, she went to Ratna Hospital for a Covid-19 test, which came out negative. But she tested positive for dengue. After a few days, her 22-year-old son complained of sore throat and fever. He tested positive for Covid-19, which resulted in his parents being tested again. This time, Sheetal tested positive, while her husband tested negative. Meanwhile, her parents and sister in Mumbai also tested positive for Covid-19. “My father, 84, has no co-morbidities and is serious about fitness. His daily fitness routine entails doing pranayam and playing two hours of tennis. He was told to be home quarantined, while my sister and mother were hospitalised. My brother took care of them. In Pune, my son and I were home quarantined and my husband looked after us both,” she said. Sheetal said that apart from battling fatigue and weakness, she underwent emotional stress as her parents and sister,too, contracted the virus in Mumbai. But instead of worrying too much about the disease, the Iyers decided to focus on their physical wellbeing. “We started walking ten minutes a day, and then increased the duration gradually. Now, we do pranayam and walk for an hour a day. We stopped consuming fried food or outside food. After a week of home quarantine, I showed no further symptoms. You need to keep a positive attitude throughout,” she said. She is impressed with the initiative taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune Police. “The system is well organised. We had people from the corporation coming home and telling us what we should do. . The local police, too, enquired about our health,” Sheetal said. The Erandwane resident said that her friends, family and neighbours showed sensitivity towards her condition and offered help in whatever way they could. “Going through this difficult time made us realise the importance of human life and the value of relationships,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/international-tennis-referee-rides-on-hope-to-beat-coronavirus-dengue/articleshow/77828611.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Varanasi||3 held in Ballia scribe murder case||VARANASI: In a major breakthrough, the joint team of Phephana police, SOG and surveillance team on Saturday nabbed three more accused in the journalist murder case in Ballia district. All the three have old criminal history and a reward of Rs. 25,000 was announced on each after the murder. Reports said acting on a tip-off, the police team nabbed three absconding accused — Uday Narayan Singh, Anil Singh and Tejbahadur Singh alias Kumkum — near Bandhaita gate in the morning. A reporter of a TV channel Ratan Singh (42) was shot dead near his house in Phephana area on August 24 night. According to Ballia SP Devendra Nath, 10 persons were booked in the case. Six accused were arrested on the same day. The main accused Hira Singh was held on Thursday late night. Inspector of Phephana Shashimauli Pandey had been suspended in the case. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh for Ratan’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-held-in-ballia-scribe-murder-case/articleshow/77827447.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Scare down, ‘mild’ patients stay at home, skip test||KOLKATA: Several people with mild Covid symptoms are circumventing the test but isolating themselves for the mandatory two-week period and following other protocols, like measuring their oxygen saturation level, said doctors treating such patients. According to healthcare experts, this signals that the fear factor surrounding the virus till a few weeks ago has made way for better understanding and grasp over the diagnosis and treatment. With a lot many people already getting infected and recovering from Covid-19, those who are getting infected now have a reference point that is preventing them from panicking. This may also be one of the many reasons behind the decline in the number of fresh cases. “More and more patients, particularly those who are young and mildly symptomatic, are skipping the test. They are getting in touch with their doctors for advice and medicines while isolating themselves at home,” said a senior doctor. When Avinash Agarwal and his family realized they had lost their sense of smell and taste on August 14, they did not panic. Instead, they isolated themselves and got in touch with their doctor. “We were not feeling any physical discomfort, so we asked our doctor if it was really necessary to get ourselves tested. We are regularly walking in our room briskly and checking the saturation level along with having all the vitamin supplements,” said Avinash, 38. While doctors believe this is the right approach, they suggest constant monitoring for elderly patients and those with co-morbidities. “For them, condition can worsen in a matter of a few hours, so the basic parameters must be screened,” said AMRI Hospitals consultant Debashish Saha. Many people TOI spoke to said the gap between the onset of symptoms, getting the test done and receiving the report was almost one week or more, making the results irrelevant in the case of mildly symptomatic patients. “Several people in our family received their reports almost four days after the test and almost seven to eight days after the onset of symptoms. The mild fever and cough they had were already cured, making the result irrelevant. So, when I experienced Covid-like symptoms, I decided not to go through the tiring process of co-ordinating with home collection agencies to collect the swabs. I just isolated myself and followed what my doctor said,” said Hamza Patel, 26, a resident of Chandni. “Earlier, we thought that if one gets infected, it is mandatory to get checked and hospitalised. But now with so many people among our family and friends getting infected and recovering, the mystery and the fear factor has ebbed,” Manabendra Ghosh, a resident of Dum Dum Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/scare-down-mild-patients-stay-at-home-skip-test/articleshow/77827527.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TSCHE set to conduct engineering common entrance test||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) is all set to conduct engineering common entrance test (ECET) on Monday, the first common entrance test after the outbreak of the pandemic. In all 28,040 students are set to appear for the examination at 56 centres in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. According to a press release, ECET will be held in two sessions - 9am to 12pm in morning and 3pm to 6pm in afternoon. “Candidates are required to report at the test centre by 8.30 am for the morning session and 1.30 pm for the evening session...,” read the instructions. “Students have to wear a quality mask at the examination centre and frequently sanitise their hands,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsche-set-to-conduct-cet/articleshow/77828609.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Overflowing Bhopal's Upper Lake floods Chirayu Covid centre||Bhopal: Incessant rain in Bhopal, Sehore and nearby areas that led to a sudden rise in water level in Upper Lake, resulted in inundation of catchment areas and waterlogging of state capital’s largest Covid-19 care hospital — Chirayu medical college. Movement of vehicles and people on the hospital campus was affected till Saturday afternoon. Patients admitted for Covid-care in the hospital were not affected, claimed hospital administration. Social networking sites went viral with images of waterlogging at the hospital. Almost knee-deep water filled the lower decks of the hospital which subsided only after eight sluice gates of Upper Lake were opened. “Covid-care centre where patients are admitted is on the third floor and patients were not impacted in anyway. Movement of private vehicles was hit,” said Chirayu medical college, director, Dr Ajay Goenka. One of the patients, among about 650 admitted for Covid-19 treatment, is MP health minister, Prabhuram Choudhary. “We will continue to provide Covid-19 treatment,” said Dr Goenka. When contacted, health department officials did not comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/overflowing-upper-lake-floods-chirayu-covid-centre/articleshow/77827563.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Body of man found hanging with hands tied||JAIPUR: A man was found hanging from the roof of his house with his hands tied together in Sawai Madhopur district on Saturday. His family has registered a murder case. The deceased has been identified as 40-year-old Hemraj Gurjar who hailed from Badpur village under Khandar police station area in Sawai Madhopur. Rakesh Rajora, circle officer, Sawai Madhopur rural police area, said, “When the body was found, Hemraj’s hands were tied, while he was hanging from the fan in his room. We found no suicide note. According to officials, the deceased had gone to sleep the night before and was found by his wife when she woke up in the morning. “At present, we do not know the reason behind the suicide or murder though it does appear that there was something suspicious about the death as when a person commits suicide, it is impossible to tie up hands. There was some kind of manipulation here and we are going to get to the bottom of it,” said the official. Cops are also questioning the victim’s family though they have not found motive behind the death. Elaborating further, the official said, “The family has been unable to give us too many details yet though they have named members of the same community as accused in the FIR. The exact reason behind the supposed murder or suicide is yet to be determined.” The deceased’s body was kept in the mortuary and handed over to the family on Saturday after the post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-man-found-hanging-with-hands-tied/articleshow/77828588.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Narmada in spate, floodgates of Bargi, other dams opened||BHOPAL: Narmada is swelling all over as the floodgates of all the dams over the river have been opened after heavy rainfall in the river catchment. From Bargi, the huge reservoir in the upstream in Jabalpur to Omkareshwer power project, these dams are releasing millions of cusec water in the past 24 hours. Narmada was flowing several feet over the danger mark in Hoshangabad as Bargi, Tawa and Barna dams were continuously releasing water, leading to floods in the river. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall is predicted in the catchment of Narmada in the downstream in the next 24 hours. Following heavy rainfall in Mandla and Dindori, 17 sluice gates of Bargi dam were opened and 6800 cusecs water was released . The water flowing into the dam from its catchment in the upstream was 7600 cusecs. The sluice gates are likely to remain open till Sunday morning. At 4pm on Saturday, Bargi was brimming with 422.45 metres against its capacity of 422.76 metres. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Couhan after aerial survey of the Narmada, said, “The river was flowing over the danger mark in Hoshanabad as all the dam gates were opened”. At 5pm, the river was flowing at 982 feet. In fact, Hoshangabad was marooned after the three dams continued to release water. The city was cut off from all the four directions on Saturday. Similar conditions prevailed in Harda, the neighbouring district of Hoshangabad in the downstream. As large volumes of water continue to be released, the ISP reservoir was filled to the brim, leading to the opening of all the floodgates on the dam. This is for the second time that the dam water was released in the morning on Saturday. On Saturday morning, the flood cell of the ISP informed that “The outflow from all 20 gates will be increased from existing 18720 cumecs to 21700 cumecs in addition to 1870 cumecs from power house.” All the 21 sluiced gates of Omkareshwer power project were also opened. This would fill the mighty Sardar Sarovar dam, leading to floods in Narmada valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/narmada-in-spate-floodgates-of-bargi-other-dams-opened/articleshow/77827565.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Woman 'used husband's passport' to take lover on Australia tour||PILIBHIT: A 36-year-old woman from Pilibhit allegedly took her paramour on a tour to Australia on her husband’s passport on January 6. The duo was supposed to return in March but since all international passenger flights to Indian were suspended in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic breakout, they got stranded and returned home on August 24. Upon their return, the woman's husband, 46, a resident of Damgarhi village, who works in Mumbai, approached police accusing his wife of having “illicit” relationship with the accused, Sandeep Singh, 36, also a Pilibhit resident, and charging the accused with forging documents to obtain a passport in his name. One of the couple's children studies in Australia. Taking serious note of the allegations, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav ordered an investigation into the matter by a local intelligence unit (LIU) inspector and registration of an FIR based on the husband's complaint. According to the complainant, he has been working in Mumbai for the past 20 years and occasionally visits his wife, who lives in a farmhouse and looks after his ancestral land. “When I returned to Pilibhit on May 18, my wife was not at home. I came to know from Sandeep’s family that both had gone to Australia. To find out whether Sandeep forged documents to obtain a passport in my name to visit Australia, I purposely applied for a passport on August 24 at the Bareilly-based passport office. My suspicion was ascertained by the passport authorities, who told me that a passport in my name was already issued on February 2, 2019,” he said. The SP said Gajraula police and LIU inspector Kanchan Rawat would focus their probe on how a passport in the name of the complainant was issued despite identity-checking at multiple levels. Earlier, one of the main accused of the Nabha jailbreak case Gurjeet Singh Ladda had also succeeded in obtaining a fake passport in the name of one Surjeet Singh, a resident of Sherpur Makrandpur village under Puranpur kotwali in Pilibhit, four years ago. The matter came to light after Nadda was arrested by the Punjab ATS (Anti-Terrorist Squad) on September 19, 2017, when he was about to fly to Canada on the fake passport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-man-alleges-wife-used-his-passport-to-take-boyfriend-on-oz-tour-probe-on/articleshow/77825909.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||New oxygen plant to come up at Pune's Chakan as demand surges 200%||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said two new oxygen plants — one in Pune (in Chakan) and another at Jalna — will ease a supply shortage in the state within the next few weeks. Hospitals in the state are consuming about 450 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily. The minister said the two plants, with a capacity of over 100 metric tonnes in total, will help boost supply. “The Pune plant will feed the entire division and nearby areas,” Tope told TOI. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said officials are coordinating with the Pune plant authorities to start from September 15. Through June and July, medical oxygen usage in the district was about 35 metric tonnes. Since then, that number has risen to 105 metric tonnes — a whopping 200% rise. This surge is expected to increase by another 100% when all jumbo facilities and additional Covid care units — with a total of 2,100 beds — go live. Existing plants in the region are currently generating 175 metric tonnes of oxygen, from which Pune division (the five districts Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur) has been using about 140 metric tonnes. The rest is for industrial use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-oxygen-plant-to-come-up-at-chakan-as-demand-surges-200/articleshow/77828625.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 30, 2020||Varanasi||Boundary of godown owned by Mukhtar Ansari’s kin, aides razed||VARANASI: Continuing the crackdown on the encroachment of land and violation of rules by jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s family members and aides, the government demolished the boundary wall of the premises given on rent to Food Corporation of India (FCI) in Mau for running its godown amid tight security arrangements on Saturday. District magistrate Mau, Gyan Prakash Tripathi told TOI, “Mukhtar’s wife had bought 330 sqmt land of people of Scheduled Caste without taking the mandatory permission from DM in such cases. The land was bought in violation of rules to meet the norms of the required area for FCI godown. The accused are being issued a notice to pay Rs 26.43 lakh to compensate losses caused to government property.” Earlier, a joint team of district administration and land revenue department officials reached Rajdepur area of Raini gram sabha in Dakshintola police station area with a heavy contingent of police force. The official demolished the boundary wall of the godown premises owned by Mukhtar’s wife and reclaimed the land, said police officials. The case in this connection had been lodged at Dakshintola police station on July 9 under Sections 419, 420, 433, 434, 447, 467, 468, 471 of IPC and 3/4 of Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act, the DM said. “The godown is registered in the name of Vikas Constructions owned by Atif Raja, Mukhtar’s wife Afsha Ansari, Anwar Shehjaz, Ravindra Narain Singh, and Jakir Hussain of Ghazipur. This land belonged to gram sabha and had been allotted to SC people,” Tripathi added. The land of the accused was insufficient to fulfil the criteria for FCI godown, so they bought adjacent land of some SCs without taking due permission from DM, took possession and constructed boundary wall to include it in the godown, said officials. An illegal slaughter house was demolished in Mau on Friday while two buildings of Ansari’s sons had been razed in Lucknow on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/boundary-of-godown-ownedby-ansaris-kin-aides-razed/articleshow/77827491.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Deserted handloom street awaits last-minute shoppers||Thiruvananthapuram: There is wry humour in the way K Manikandan, owner of one of the oldest handloom stores at Balaramapuram speaks about having lunch during Onam season. “We seldom ate during days preceding Onam. We all would be busy packing items for transport and there would be so much people milling around the shop. These days we eat our lunch at leisure,” he says, trying to smile. His words reflect the uneasy calm at Ottatheruvu where handloom stores carrying decades of legacy dot the recently interlocked street. The famed handloom street at Balaramapuram has been quiet for the past five months. No festive occasions — Vishu, Easter, Ramzan and even Onam — have broken the silence here. “We year’s experience is unprecedented. Even during 2018 floods, we managed to pull through. But this Onam has shattered all our expectations,” says Manikandan. To add to the woes, some export orders have fallen through. Some orders from the Gulf and Australia had given a glimmer of hope. None of it materialized, he added. The age-old wooden shelves in these stores which have carried on this business for generations are now filled with unsold stock. “During Onam, we would demand more stock from our weavers because such used to be the kind of sales. This year, we are left with shelves full with no sale,” says P Kumaraswami, owner of another handloom store. With stock piling up and sales drying up, master weavers who act as the link between sellers and labourers find themselves in a deep mess. “We are taking debts, pawning what we have to pay bonus to our labourers. They depend on us and their whole lives have been reliant on handloom. We can’t let them down, but we are not sure if we would be able to survive this,” said Krishnakumar, a master weaver. A master weaver will have 25-60 looms under him. Since March, production has been at full throttle because labourers couldn’t find any other work due to lockdown. “I haven’t paid back my loan of Rs 15 lakh for the past five months. I am not sure when I would be able to pay it. All I do is stretch myself to keep my labourers afloat,” said Krishnakumar. The weavers who hoped for last-minute sales ahead of Onam were in for a shock when the street was closed three weeks ago after being assigned as containment zone. Onam shoppers who ventured to their favourite places had returned seeing police barricades. Last Sunday, restrictions were lifted and the street is back to life. But, business hasn’t picked up. Though all weavers are hopeful, they are not confident that there will be a last-minute rush, an uthrada pachil for purchasing Onakodi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/deserted-handloom-street-awaits-last-minute-shoppers/articleshow/77827570.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 30, 2020||Pune||More than 400 donors register on Pune police web portal, 67 benefit||PUNE: More than 400 recovered Covid-19 patients have registered as plasma donors on a portal launched by the Pune police, benefiting 67 people. The portal, https://puneplasma.in, a joint initiative by Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham and the then divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, was launched on July 30 to connect plasma donors and recipients amid a sharp rise in the number of cases in Pune. “I appeal to citizens to come forward and further the plasma donation initiative,” Venkatesham said. “A Hyderabad-based firm helped us set up the platform. We hope that it makes it easier for [recovered] Covid-19 patients to come forward and donate plasma. Anyone who wants to avail themselves of these services of the portal can log on to it,” deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Mitesh Gatte told TOI. “Donating plasma isn’t painful; it has no side effects. It can save a person’s life. Plasma demand is likely to increase in the future, keeping in mind that the tally has already crossed the 1 lakh mark in Pune,” Gatte said. Venkatesham on Saturday felicitated 17 plasma donors at a function organized at the Pune police commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-400-donors-register-on-police-web-portal-67-benefit/articleshow/77828644.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Watch out for virus on specs, say doctors||HYDERABAD: Did you ever wash your eyeglasses after visiting a hospital or a pharmacy during the pandemic? Eye experts are recommending a thorough sanitisation of spectacles to get rid of any traces of the novel coronavirus every time one goes out of home as the rogue germ can stay on the eyeglasses for as long as nine days. “One important safety measure one should follow is to cover the mouth and the nose by wearing a mask while moving out. But, equally important is to protect the eyes by wearing eyeglasses, which should be sanitised on returning home,” says Dr Akshay Badakere, ophthalmologist at the LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad. He said eyeglasses could be disinfected by using light dishwasher soap under running water and wipe them out with a microfibre cloth. “When going out, carry hydrogen peroxide solution to disinfect eyeglasses. Do not sanitise eyeglasses with alcohol-based sanitisers meant for hands as they can damage the lenses,” Dr Akshay said. Stating that sanitisation of eyeglasses is important to keep Covid-19 at bay, Dr Akshay said the glasses include prescription ones for refractive errors, plain eyeglasses or specially-designed protective goggles and sunglasses. All these types of eyeglasses prevent aerosols from entering eyes. “Unlike eyewear, most of the face masks are disposable or reusable, and hence they are a lesser source of infection. But, as there is no such option for daily wear glasses, we generally continue to wear them again and again. It is important to take necessary precautions to ensure that they don’t become carriers of infection. Any lapse can put one at risk of infection as the virus can enter the body through the eyes,” he said, emphasising the need for disinfection of eyeglasses. Dr Akshay said research studies have revealed that the novel coronavirus stays on the eyeglasses for up to nine days. “We should clean our eyeglasses as frequently as possible, just like the way we keep our hands clean,” he added. He suggested that one should always wear eyeglasses before stepping out of home, and not frequently touch the glasses. “Ensure that eyeglasses are perfectly adjusted to your face before wearing to avoid unnecessary adjustments by hand. When taking off the glasses, use both hands to remove them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/watch-out-for-virus-on-specs-say-doctors/articleshow/77828674.cms||Syed Akbar
August 30, 2020||India||DRI seizes in Delhi gold worth 43cr smuggled from Myanmar||NEW DELHI: The directorate of revenue intelligence has seized 83.6kg gold bars at New Delhi railway station. The bars were allegedly being smuggled from Myanmar through the Moreh border in Manipur. The market value of the gold recovered by DRI’s Delhi zonal unit is estimated at close to Rs 43 crore, an official statement said. The seizure followed the interception of eight passengers on Friday, who reached the Capital by Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express and allegedly had 504 gold bars of 99.9% purity of foreign origin in their possession. The gold bars were concealed in specially tailored cloth vests worn by the passengers. The accused were found to be travelling with fake Aadhaar cards. Sources said DRI inputs suggested the gold was smuggled into India as a smuggling syndicate operating from Guwahati was trying to dispose of the bars in Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai. The eight have been arrested under Customs Act, 1962 and remanded to judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dri-seizes-in-delhi-gold-worth-43cr-smuggled-from-myanmar/articleshow/77829289.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ajmer||Plasma therapy & Remdesivir jabs effective in Covid treatment: Experts||JAIPUR: Plasma therapy and Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections have emerged as effective components in treating critical Covid-19 patients. Doctors on Saturday said plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results, especially when given to critically ill patients. “Till now, 335 patients have been given plasma therapy, while 3,877 have been administered Remdesivir injections. Likewise, we have also given Tocilizumab injections to 232 patients so far,” said a senior officer of the medical and health department. Hospitals now have 33 more plasma units, while people who were treated for Covid are also coming to donate their plasma everyday at various blood banks. SMS Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, who also heads the core team treating Covid patients, said, “If a patient needed anti-inflammatory, anti-viral drugs and even steroids at times, some of them were given plasma therapy and the two injections. Let me tell you that plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results on the patients on ventilator support. The therapy has helped us bring down fatalities.” Experts stated that the success rate in plasma therapy or the injections or both in Covid patients is more than 70 per cent. “If a patient was brought on time and has been given timely plasma therapy and injections, he has shown very good results. In some of the cases, we had seen that private hospitals had referred very critical patients,” said a senior doctor treating Covid patients on condition of anonymity. It may be recalled that the health department had already launched a campaign to boost plasma therapy to prevent fatalities due to Covid. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) too had praised the state government for successfully using plasma therapy on Covid patients. SMS Medical College and its core team involved in the treatment of Covid have successfully used the Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections on critical patients so far. Also, the government has designated six medical colleges in the state which would only supply these injections. Moreover, district hospitals and their doctors will have to seek recommendations from medical colleges to decide if the injections could be administered to some patient or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/plasma-therapy-remdesivir-jabs-effective-experts/articleshow/77829937.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 667 new cases||Kolhapur: Satara district has reported 667 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths due to the infection since Friday night, taking the total number of cases to 12,888 and death toll rose to 371. A total of 6787 patients have recovered so far. Though patients are being traced in small villages and hamlets, Karad and Satara tehsil continue to be hotspots. One-third of the fresh cases are from Karad. Karad has reported 205 fresh cases.. Satara tehsil reported 100 cases. Of the fresh cases, Koregaon reported 66 cases, Phaltan has 35 cases and Khandala has 27cases among others. Of the deceased, Satara recorded six deaths, Khatav had four deaths, two from Karad and one each from Phaltan and Khandala tehsil.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-667-new-cases/articleshow/77826719.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Appeal against demolition of Anjuna structure dismissed||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed an appeal filed by owners of a guesthouse in Anjuna against demolition orders of their structure issued by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). The tribunal has noted that the GCZMA order is in accordance with the law and that there is no merit in the plea filed by the guesthouse owners stating that the state government had not carried out the exercise of demarcating the High Tide Line (HTL). “The fact remains that the structure directed to be demolished by the authority was found to be unauthorised within a meaning of Sub Clause 1 and required to be demolished. Therefore, the finding recorded by GCZMA and the consequential direction given on their behalf is unassailable,” NGT said. The tribunal has said that it is therefore not necessary to dilate on the argument as to whether CRZ policy was actually executed in Goa. “But since it was found that the construction as aforesaid was found unauthorised and illegal thus, the order is passed accordingly. We see no irregularity and illegality in the order under challenge. No substantial question of law of great public importance arises for further consideration. Hence, this appeal must fail and the same therefore is dismissed with no order as to cost,” NGT stated. The tribunal noted that directions were issued to state authorities in a Goa Foundation case to take action against unauthorised structures and constructions put up on the land falling within CRZ 3 in Goa after February 19, 1991. The directions to the state by the court stated that permission can be granted only for repair and renovation of existing dwelling units in such areas. Following this, the tribunal action according to rules should be taken against structures other than the original structure as on February 19, 1991, which are not in compliance and are in violation of the CRZ notification. “In light of the above order, we see that the order passed by GCZMA is in accordance with the law and showcause notice was issued in accordance with the provisions and after giving an opportunity of hearing the said order was passed. The state has demarcated the High Tide Line and the CRZ notification 2011 is executed. Accordingly, we don’t find any merit in the case,” NGT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/appeal-against-demolition-of-anjuna-structure-dismissed/articleshow/77828676.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Address dust pollution in Margao, shadow council warns PWD||Panaji: The Shadow Council for Margao has demanded that the PWD immediately relieve the public and shop owners from severe dust pollution due to the washed out roads. The shadow council, while raising the issue of the poor state of Margao town roads, has pointed out that while potholes have been recently filled up, loose material hasn’t been cleared from the roads. “This creates granite dust which is a very serious health hazard,” convenor Savio Coutinho said. The patchwork done on potholed roads will not last for long, Coutinho said, adding that loose gravel on the roads further damages its surface when vehicles ply over it.  The shadow council warned authorities to address the issue, failing which, it will be compelled to take to the streets. The council last month had presented the PWD engineers with a certificate for excellence last month when they carried out repairs of the road junction near Navelim Church to highlight the negligence and repeated damage to the same area. Coutinho pointed out that there existed three drains at this spot where one was buried at the time of road widening eight years back and the other two drains haven’t been desilted for the last several years. “As there is no proper drainage system for the storm water to drain off, and with the movement of heavy vehicles the asphalt gets dismantled during the very first showers,” Coutinho added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/address-dust-pollution-in-margao-shadow-council-warns-pwd/articleshow/77828656.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Congress unit to set up database to help recipients’ relatives||PUNE: The Pune city unit of the Congress has initiated steps to set up a database of plasma donors to reduce the hardships being faced by relatives of Covid-19 patients in getting plasma donors. The party workers have also demanded a dashboard with list of plasma donors to enable relatives of patients to contact them. They have appealed to people to come forward for plasma donation. Ramesh Iyer, the party’s city unit spokesperson, said, “Relatives of Covid-19 patients have been facing hardships in finding donors. Even the hospitals are not being able to identify donors at the eleventh hour. To avoid last-minute rush, we have decided to compile a database and set up a system for better coordination. We will circulate the contacts of donors through social media to enable needy patients to get plasma without any delay.” Avinash Gotarane. a Congress worker who recovered from Covid-19 recently, donated plasma at a private hospital. Abhay Chhajed, party’s senior leader and former corporator, said that more recovered people need to come forward for donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/congress-unit-to-set-up-database-to-help-recipients-relatives/articleshow/77828664.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Plasma therapy & Remdesivir jabs effective in Covid treatment: Experts||JAIPUR: Plasma therapy and Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections have emerged as effective components in treating critical Covid-19 patients. Doctors on Saturday said plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results, especially when given to critically ill patients. “Till now, 335 patients have been given plasma therapy, while 3,877 have been administered Remdesivir injections. Likewise, we have also given Tocilizumab injections to 232 patients so far,” said a senior officer of the medical and health department. Hospitals now have 33 more plasma units, while people who were treated for Covid are also coming to donate their plasma everyday at various blood banks. SMS Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, who also heads the core team treating Covid patients, said, “If a patient needed anti-inflammatory, anti-viral drugs and even steroids at times, some of them were given plasma therapy and the two injections. Let me tell you that plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results on the patients on ventilator support. The therapy has helped us bring down fatalities.” Experts stated that the success rate in plasma therapy or the injections or both in Covid patients is more than 70 per cent. “If a patient was brought on time and has been given timely plasma therapy and injections, he has shown very good results. In some of the cases, we had seen that private hospitals had referred very critical patients,” said a senior doctor treating Covid patients on condition of anonymity. It may be recalled that the health department had already launched a campaign to boost plasma therapy to prevent fatalities due to Covid. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) too had praised the state government for successfully using plasma therapy on Covid patients. SMS Medical College and its core team involved in the treatment of Covid have successfully used the Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections on critical patients so far. Also, the government has designated six medical colleges in the state which would only supply these injections. Moreover, district hospitals and their doctors will have to seek recommendations from medical colleges to decide if the injections could be administered to some patient or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/plasma-therapy-remdesivir-jabs-effective-experts/articleshow/77829936.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 30, 2020||Udaipur||Plasma therapy & Remdesivir jabs effective in Covid treatment: Experts||JAIPUR: Plasma therapy and Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections have emerged as effective components in treating critical Covid-19 patients. Doctors on Saturday said plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results, especially when given to critically ill patients. “Till now, 335 patients have been given plasma therapy, while 3,877 have been administered Remdesivir injections. Likewise, we have also given Tocilizumab injections to 232 patients so far,” said a senior officer of the medical and health department. Hospitals now have 33 more plasma units, while people who were treated for Covid are also coming to donate their plasma everyday at various blood banks. SMS Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, who also heads the core team treating Covid patients, said, “If a patient needed anti-inflammatory, anti-viral drugs and even steroids at times, some of them were given plasma therapy and the two injections. Let me tell you that plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results on the patients on ventilator support. The therapy has helped us bring down fatalities.” Experts stated that the success rate in plasma therapy or the injections or both in Covid patients is more than 70 per cent. “If a patient was brought on time and has been given timely plasma therapy and injections, he has shown very good results. In some of the cases, we had seen that private hospitals had referred very critical patients,” said a senior doctor treating Covid patients on condition of anonymity. It may be recalled that the health department had already launched a campaign to boost plasma therapy to prevent fatalities due to Covid. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) too had praised the state government for successfully using plasma therapy on Covid patients. SMS Medical College and its core team involved in the treatment of Covid have successfully used the Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections on critical patients so far. Also, the government has designated six medical colleges in the state which would only supply these injections. Moreover, district hospitals and their doctors will have to seek recommendations from medical colleges to decide if the injections could be administered to some patient or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/plasma-therapy-remdesivir-jabs-effective-experts/articleshow/77829934.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man gets a ‘marathon’ birthday gift from son||Thiruvananthapuram: When Vishnu J Raju decided to celebrate his father’s birthday, he chose to present him a gift he would cherish. On Saturday, Vishnu, an MBA graduate, ran 53km for his father Raju Raghavan, who is also a fitness enthusiast and runner, as birthday gift. A native of Kadappakada, Kollam, Vishnu (25) covered the route Kollam Musaliar Park- Kadappakada- Chinnakada- Kollam Beach- Chinnakada- KSRTC Bus stand- Ashramam Maidanam, six times to cover the distance of 53km. He started the run at 1am and completed it by 7am. He is a member of Soles of Kollam, a runners’ group which supported his run. “I got motivated into running after watching my father, who used to participate in such activities. I have participated in half marathons in the past and have also completed an unofficial marathon distance run from Ashramam Maidanam to Punalur hanging bridge. I had registered for the Tuffman solo run challenge of 50 km and decided to cover 3km more as it was my father’s 53rd birthday. All my family members are active runners and participates in running activities,” said Vishnu. Vishnu, a student at Kerala State Civil Service Academy, is now busy pursuing his dream for civil service. The run was conducted following Covid-19 protocol and distance covered was recorded virtually. “It was a wonderful experience. I chose the route for the run as it was comfortable for me. The idea behind the run was to motivate youngsters to take part in running which is good for fitness and increases lung capacity, especially in times of Covid. The run is called ultramarathon, which is more than 42-km marathon. There are people in the state who actively participate in half-marathons and marathons, but there are not many who participate in ultramarathons,” added Vishnu.  Vishnu lives with his father Raju Raghavan, a businessman, mother Jayanthi K, a KSEB employee and brother Vignesh J Raju, who is studying mechanical engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-gets-a-marathon-birthday-gift-from-son/articleshow/77827582.cms||Anasooya.S
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||Plasma therapy & Remdesivir jabs effective in Covid treatment: Experts||JAIPUR: Plasma therapy and Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections have emerged as effective components in treating critical Covid-19 patients. Doctors on Saturday said plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results, especially when given to critically ill patients. “Till now, 335 patients have been given plasma therapy, while 3,877 have been administered Remdesivir injections. Likewise, we have also given Tocilizumab injections to 232 patients so far,” said a senior officer of the medical and health department. Hospitals now have 33 more plasma units, while people who were treated for Covid are also coming to donate their plasma everyday at various blood banks. SMS Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, who also heads the core team treating Covid patients, said, “If a patient needed anti-inflammatory, anti-viral drugs and even steroids at times, some of them were given plasma therapy and the two injections. Let me tell you that plasma therapy and the injections are showing good results on the patients on ventilator support. The therapy has helped us bring down fatalities.” Experts stated that the success rate in plasma therapy or the injections or both in Covid patients is more than 70 per cent. “If a patient was brought on time and has been given timely plasma therapy and injections, he has shown very good results. In some of the cases, we had seen that private hospitals had referred very critical patients,” said a senior doctor treating Covid patients on condition of anonymity. It may be recalled that the health department had already launched a campaign to boost plasma therapy to prevent fatalities due to Covid. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) too had praised the state government for successfully using plasma therapy on Covid patients. SMS Medical College and its core team involved in the treatment of Covid have successfully used the Tocilizumab and Remdesivir injections on critical patients so far. Also, the government has designated six medical colleges in the state which would only supply these injections. Moreover, district hospitals and their doctors will have to seek recommendations from medical colleges to decide if the injections could be administered to some patient or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plasma-therapy-remdesivir-jabs-effective-experts/articleshow/77828671.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra plans to cap Covid-19 test cost at Rs 1,200||PUNE: The state government is planning to cap the cost of RT-PCR test to detect Covid-19 cases in private laboratories at Rs1,200 as the Indian Council of Medical Research has given permission to several indigenous firms to manufacture its kits. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said, “We are planning to bring the cost down of the RT-PCR test to a maximum of Rs1,200, but finally it may be between Rs1,200 and Rs1,500. The central government is keen on all states reducing the charges as testing has increased exponentially in the country.” He said the state government had earlier brought down the cost of the RT-PCR test to Rs1,900 from Rs2,200. A fresh notification on the further reduction of cost would be issued soon, said Tope. Maharashtra, having maximum Covid-19 caseload in the country, conducts the highest number of tests every day among all the states. The state has been conducting 29,043 tests per million population as against the country’s average of 27,553 per million. The Pune district administration has been conducting around 68,163 tests per million population. Tope said the state would persist with its strategy to increase the testing. He said a Mumbai-based and a Thane-based company jointly developed an RT-PCR testing kit recently. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) have approved their product. “We shall push for kits from more such indigenous companies,” said the minister. The local manufacturers awaiting approval to their test kits claimed that the indigenous companies’ products would help ramp up the country’s testing capability further. The ICMR and NIV are giving approval to the kits of indigenous firms following stringent guidelines, which rule out the possibility of false positive or false negative results. “These kits are on a par with global kits in terms of quality and adaptability,” said a manufacturer. Watch Maharashtra: Govt plans to cap Covid-19 test cost at Rs 1,200||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-plans-to-cap-covid-19-test-cost-at-rs-1200/articleshow/77828678.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 30, 2020||Kanpur||Arms, ammunition recovered from four Vikas Dubey aides||KANPUR: The police claimed to have recovered a DBBL gun and three country-made pistols of 315 bore, besides live and empty cartridges of 315 and 12 bores from four aides of slain gangster Vikas Dubey on Saturday. The four aides identified as Shivam Dubey, Zileydar Singh, Dharmendra alias Dheeru and Govind Saini were booked under Sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307, 394, 120 b, 7 CLA Act and 3/25 Arms Act with regard to Bikru shootout on July 2 & 3 night. The police since then were on lookout for them and others, but the four managed to surrender at the Special Court in Mati in Kanpur Dehat in the past few days. SSP Preetinder Singh stated that after their surrender the police had sought their remand in an effort to interrogate them further to unravel more clues, besides recovery of firearms from them. “Intense questioning of these accused led to recovery of a good number of arms and ammunition. We have recovered three 315 bore pistols from Shivam, Govind and Zileydar, while a DBBL gun from Dharmendra. We have also recovered empty and live shells of 315 and 12 bores from them. A case under Arms act has also been lodged against the four,” the SSP added. The said more arrests are likely to follow in the case. “The int errogation of the four has led us towards definite clues and a few more aides of Vikas who are on run will be arrested soon. The police has also conducted a few raids in the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/arms-ammunition-recoveredfrom-four-vikas-dubey-aides/articleshow/77827588.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 30, 2020||Goa||SIT gets nod to reopen case against Bagadiya Brothers||Panaji: The district and sessions court, Panaji, has granted permission to the special investigation team (SIT) probing the mining scam to reopen the case against Bagadiya Brothers Pvt Ltd. It is alleged that the company hatched a criminal conspiracy with officials from the directorate of mines and geology and exported 40,765 tonnes of iron ore to China on alleged forged documents. On March 31, 2014, the SIT had registered an FIR against Bagadiya Brothers Pvt Ltd under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, the Goa (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage of Minerals) Rules, 2014, and the Prevention of Corruption Act. After completing investigation, on April 8, 2015, the final report was submitted before the district and sessions courtmentioning that the case is neither true nor false and it is the mistake of facts on the part of the complainant. Earlier, the investigation was conducted by inspector Rahul Parab. Then mines director Deepak Bandekar had lodged a complaint before the SIT against Bagadiya Brothers Pvt Ltd and officials of the mines department for forging documents and exporting iron ore from Goa port, between February and October 2011. SIT PI Dattaguru Sawant filed an application before the special judge stating that new facts had come to light and hence thorough investigation was necessary. “It is prayed before the court that permission may be accorded to reopen the case and conduct further investigation,” Sawant had stated. “A question also arose whether delay in filing the application for reopening can be considered. Accordingly, to me, as far as investigation is concerned there could not be any delay as such. The further facts and developments which have come to the notice of the investigation officer are recent in point of time and therefore, the application for reopening will have to be considered as being filed within time. Accordingly, to me this is a fit case for according permission to reopen the case and in view of above, permission is hereby accorded to reopen the case and conduct further investigation,” sessions judge Irshad Agha observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sit-gets-nod-to-reopen-case-against-bagadiya-brothers/articleshow/77828714.cms||Murari Shetye
August 30, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Fight against Covid, not Modi’||Kolhapur: Former chief minister and opposition leader in the state legislature Devendra Fadnavis said the fight is against the pandemic, not Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This comment came after CM Uddhav Thackeray said, in a video meet with CMs from opposition parties, that the time has come to decide whether to fight or fear the Centre. The meeting was anchored by Congress president Sonia Gandhi over issues of non-payment of GST dues to states and holding NEET and JEE. Speaking in Kolhapur on Saturday, Fadnavis said, “Every minister in the state government is criticising Modi to hide personal failures. They should know that Maharashtra is the biggest beneficiary of PM Cares funds.” He said he has no issue with Thackeray not moving out to check the situation but added that people in authority must regularly interact with officers to get things done. On the Almatti dam height increase issue, Fadnavis said, “The Almatti dam should have been opposed when it was being built. The state government should intervene in the matter at the earliest.” He said the party in the state was against increasing ALmatti’s height. Speaking on political mudslinging over actor Sushant Singh’s death, he said: “We have no connection with the case. Mudslinging is done from those sitting in the government to hide their incompetence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fight-against-covid-not-modi/articleshow/77826725.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Illicit liquor manufacturing racket busted, three held||BAREILLY: Sambhal police claimed to have arrested three people and seized 2,250 litres of illicit liquor — worth around Rs 25 lakh — from their possession. Police identified the accused as Mahendra of Sambhal, Bittu of Moradabad and another Mahendra from Nakhasa in Sambhal, while their two accomplices — Nitu Chauhan (Bunty) and Anil Chanda, both from Moradabad — fled. According to police, the accused were running an illicit liquor manufacturing unit in a desolated area along the Moradabad road under Kotwali jurisdiction. Sambhal superintendent of police (city) Yamuna Prasad said, “An operation against illicit liquor manufacturing in the region is underway. Acting on a tip-off, police conducted a raid and seized around 45 containers of spirit, which was being used for manufacturing illicit liquor, worth around Rs 25 lakh.” “Urea and other material used in the manufacturing were also seized. Besides, two four-wheelers were impounded and three people were arrested. The accused told police that they used to manufacture illicit liquor to sell in Moradabad and Sambhal regions,” added the SP. Police said combing was underway to nab other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/illicit-liquor-manufacturing-racket-busted-three-held-with-illicit-liquor-worth-rs-25-lakh/articleshow/77825934.cms||Maria Khan
August 30, 2020||Goa||NSUI members detained for hunger strike||Panaji: Goa Police detained the Congress party’s student wing members who were sitting on an indefinite hunger strike at Azad Maidan in Panaji on Saturday. National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) had launched an indefinite hunger strike in order to exert pressure on the state government to waive off college fees and as part of a nationwide protest against the Centre’s decision go ahead with the NEET and JEE exams. Police detained NSUI state president Ahraz Mulla, and NSUI office bearers Prasenjeet Dhage and Naushad Chawdhary. Police officials said that the protestors had no permission to be at Azad Maidan in the night. “We came here with a basic demand that exams should not be held during Covid times. In such a scenario, when online classes are being held, how can students be charged Rs 60,000-Rs 70,000 as fees,” said Mulla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nsui-members-detained-for-hunger-strike/articleshow/77828690.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan sees record 1-day spike of 1.4k+ cases on Saturday||JAIPUR: The state on Saturday crossed over 1,400 cases for the first time when 1,407 new Covid infections were detected. With these cases, the state tally mounted to 78,777. Also, 13 deaths were reported on Saturday taking the toll to 1,030 in the state. For the past 13 days the state has been witnessing over 1,300 cases per day, however, on Saturday the continued spike saw cases crossing 1,400. Besides, the state capital saw 240 positive cases taking its total to 10,260. Attributing the rise in the cases to the intensified random sampling in the rural interiors across the state, health officials stated that recovery rate is also increasing. However, the officials also added that people are still not serious enough in Jaipur and many are very casual about the idea of social distancing, sanitisation using masks. “I think the police and law enforcement agencies across the state should be strict against the violators as many people are still not following the SOPs. Also, asymptomatic patients need to be identified as they are working as virus carriers to senior citizens and children,” said a senior officer of the health department on the condition of anonymity. “Random sampling has also been initiated and intensified across the state. This is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 30 days. Earlier, we had witnessed more than 1,200 cases, then over 1,300 cases for few days and now we are above 1,400 cases. Also, we have a testing facility of taking over 50,000 samples per day which will further facilitate us in detection of cases. Timely detection will help us bring down the fatality rate,” said a senior officer of health department. With 240 fresh cases, Jaipur’s total count now stands at 10,260. “With two deaths in the city, the total number Covid deaths in Jaipur stands at 271,” said an officer. In Jaipur, cases were reported from colonies like Bani Park, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Sodala, Tilak Nagar and other areas. “The areas including Sodala and Jhotwara witnessed 27 and 20 cases, respectively,” as per the data. As per the data released by the medical and health department, of the 13 deaths in the state on Saturday, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, while one death each was reported from Sirohi, Udaipur, Ajmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Churu and Dausa. Meanwhile, 938 patients got discharged from various hospitals across the state. “Of the total 78,777 cases, we now only have 14,776 active infections,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-record-1-day-spike-of-1-4k-cases/articleshow/77828715.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||From ‘JM Road to Laxmi Road’, a long walk within 4 walls||Chirping birds flew by wide windows. The sun baked balconies. Showers soaked terraces. Seasons changed, but several Puneites remained at home for over five months from end-spring to late monsoon. The tech-friendly played games on iPads or smartphones. Many watched vagaries of nature sitting by windows or on balconies. Some strolled miles on “make-belief roads” at home. Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) and his wife Meghna would walk from “JM Road to Laxmi Road” – their rechristened bedrooms – to cover 3km each day in the summer gone by. Gokhale stepped out just twice in these five months. “We got the essentials delivered at home. It has become a norm now,” he said. Ditto with Parveen Kazi, the president of Rajgriha ‘B’ Housing Society, tucked off Salunke Vihar Road. “Once I stepped out towards the beginning of the lockdown to get a vendor to sell vegetables on the society premises. The second time I had to buy some essentials that my helps were unable to get.” N Vedaballi (85) of the same society went out on March 23, the day before the nationwide lockdown started, till she went to see a doctor on August 25. The octogenarian gave her favourite strolls in the society a miss all this while. “She missed soaking in the sun as she walked on the terrace only these five months. Pending bank work another worry of hers,” said Vedaballi’s daughter-in-law. Ninety-year-old Keshav Patwardhan and his better-half Sunita Patwardhan (81) have gone outside their Alankar Society home in Karvenagar just once since March 24 to seek medical attention. The lockdown was a puzzle for Keshav. “A sort of mental agony crept in after my father’s morning walks with friends at Sarasbaug stopped. He missed interactions with mates terribly,” said UGC vice-chairperson Bhushan Patwardhan, the son of Keshav and Sunita. “My mother missed evening visits to temples. To dodge the monotony, she started walking on the terrace with my father as the dusk dawned each day,” he told TOI over the phone from Delhi. Son away in the US, a slice or two of anguish pained 60-plus Jayashree Chavan of Anand Vihar Phase-I in Vadgaon Hingne. Home alone, Chavan’s prime support all these months has been her tenants. The only time she went to buy essentials to a neighbourhood shop since the nationwide lockdown, she was hurt. “A rope separated me and the shopkeeper, the same woman with whom I interacted regularly. Our hair turned grey together,” said Chavan. A member of a bhajan group, she misses her music team. “I don’t feel like playing harmonium and practising at home any more. Those short interactions from the balcony with people strolling after supper have also stopped,” said Chavan. Techie Swaraj Roy (41) of Pimple Saudagar didn’t step out from mid-March. During the peak of lockdown, he got the essentials delivered at home from a nearby store. Then, e-tail became his mainstay. “Now, my father, in his 70s, goes out to get essentials. I still don’t go out,” Roy said, adding that he gave his parents a haircut. Bhushan Gokhale cooked to give his wife, Meghna, a break when the cook was off. “My two sons – one in Capetown and the other in the US – just did not believe me,” he said. Bird-watching from their balcony overlooking the Kamala Nehru Park was another enriching experience for the couple. “Colourful bulbuls unforeseen hitherto flew by,” said Gokhales. Countdown begins to see bubbly Pune back at its best with some enduring moments of life in solitude. (With inputs from Abir Bhaduri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-jm-rd-to-laxmi-rd-a-long-walk-within-4-walls/articleshow/77828712.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Ballari hospital sees Covid moms deliver 101 babies||BALLARI: The Ballari District Hospital, which is seeing a surge in Covid cases, has successfully performed 101 deliveries of Covid-positive women in the last two months. The district achieved this milestone on Friday. This has instilled confidence among many pregnant women, who have tested positive for novel coronavirus in the district. Dr Basareddi, district surgeon and nodal officer of the district Covid hospital, told TOI that when a pregnant woman with a positive report was admitted to their hospital in June, it was a big challenge for the doctors to ensure a safe delivery. “On June 25, we conducted the first delivery of a woman who had tested positive for Covid-19. Both the mother and the newborn were healthy and safe. This boosted our confidence,” he said. “Of the 101 deliveries, 72 were performed through C-section and 29 were normal deliveries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ballari-hospital-delivers-101-babies-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77826734.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Local bodies, residents’ assns to play a part in Covid control||Thiruvananthapuram: The district administration is engaging residents’ associations and local bodies proactively in its action plan to prevent formation of Covid-19 clusters. Separate set of instructions has been issued to local bodies and residents’ associations for this. The people in the grassroots level were included in mitigation efforts as Covid-19 is spreading across the district despite introduction of containment strategies. While associations have been asked to form public health volunteer force, local bodies will form ward-level Covid-19 control teams. Surveillance check and break the chain will have to be implemented by residents’ associations. Residents’ associations and local bodies have been directed to purchase pulse oximeter and clinical thermometer for monitoring health of patients under home isolation. Virtual platform is advised to promote cultural programmes. For funerals and marriages, social distancing has been mandated for residents’ associations. The members of associations have also been asked to co-ordinate with police to prevent formation of gatherings and conduct of events with huge public participation. As for local bodies, ward-level control teams will meet daily and assess the situation. Local bodies will give support in terms of supply of essential materials and medicine to those under home isolation. The district administration and health department has launched a new action plan for the district. The new action plan will be implemented with three objectives: to prevent spread of Covid-19 and limit daily active cases within the surge capacity of the district, prevent community transmission in unaffected areas and to reduce morbidity and mortality. Zone-specific interventions, community participation, telephonic monitoring by volunteers in beneficiary households, awareness generation, ward-level intervention to maintain social distancing and to avoid gathering at market places, shops, religious and social and family functions are crucial components of the action plan. “The new move is an indirect admission on the failure of police-controlled system. Police were asked to be in charge for containing the disease. But, the numbers began to shoot up even after the role change. Only through engaging people proactively, such contagious diseases can be tamed,” said an official on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/local-bodies-residents-assns-to-play-a-part-in-covid-control/articleshow/77827590.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Allegations baseless, says Arya’s counsel||Panaji: Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya’s counsel Manu Sharma on Saturday refuted all allegations against his client and said Arya will cooperate with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. Speaking to mediapersons, Sharma termed allegations baseless. “We will cooperate with the probe agencies. They will come to know that the allegations were baseless,” he said. When questioned about the allegations, he declined to comment saying, “all questions raised by the agency will be answered”. ED on Friday issued summons to Arya to appear before it on Monday at 11am in connection with its probe in the Sushant Singh death case. A copy of the summons was pasted at Arya’s hotel, The Tamarind, in Anjuna. Assistant director Rajiv Kumar had said the directorate is probing the cases under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. “I consider the attendance of Gaurav Arya necessary in connection with the said investigation,” he had said in the summons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allegations-baseless-says-aryas-counsel/articleshow/77828725.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||Row over emptying renovated Sursagar||Vadodara: From raising a stink and controversy over it being emptied to facilitate work, a controversy has now emerged over the unexpectedly high quantity of water filled in the renovated Sursagar. The water had submerged the walkway along the periphery of the pond and is being emptied to ensure there is sufficient space for any more inflow of water. But officials of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that a major issue was that an outlet of the pond that used to carry excess water towards a storm water drain in the Lakdipul area was not functioning. Sources said that attempts were being made to fix this system so that water could be drained out of the pond whenever needed. In the meantime, a pump is being used to empty the pond. Located in the heart of the city, Sursagar has been mired in a controversy ever since work began on the historical water body. Environment activists had expressed concern over inlets of water into the pond and feared that these may not be functioning properly. Also, emptying the pond and then refilling it to some extent for its inauguration in February had raised eyebrows. But quite contrary to the fears, it has come to light that Sursagar got filled faster this year despite the claims of an increased capacity. It was claimed that after desilting, the pond’s capacity had increased despite its surface area reducing. But even this did not prove sufficient this monsoon, despite the city still not having reached its average rainfall figure. Sources said that a major reason for the pond overflowing was that it was receiving a large amount of water from the M G Road and Laheripura Gate side as compared to previous years. It is believed that some blockage in the storm water drain that used to carry water towards Mangalbazaar may have been the reason for this water flowing towards the pond. “Also, new storm water drains were laid around the pond. This ensured all water flowed into the pond unlike previous years when a lot of water flowed away from it on the road towards Dandiabazaar,” said a VMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/row-over-emptying-renovated-sursagar/articleshow/77826401.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Non-functional streetlights in Valpoi fixed, locals relieved||Valpoi: Taking cognisance of a TOI report ‘With streetlights not working, Valpoi motorists face big risk’ published on Friday, personnel from Valpoi electricity department on Saturday rushed to repair the non-functional streetlights. Using a vehicle fitted with a lift, from morning to evening, the workers checked streetlights on a number of electricity poles. The electricity poles had been erected on both the sides of the main road during the beautification project some years ago. Residents of Valpoi, especially motorists and pedestrians, heaved sigh of relief as the electricity department finally repaired the streetlights after repeated requests. Several accidents were also reported due to the absence of illumination. Health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane said that the problem of all other non-functioning streetlights in Valpoi town and other areas of Valpoi constituency will be resolved soon. “I will take up this issue on top priority with power minister Nilesh Cabral, and soon a joint meeting will be conducted with all the councillors and sarpanchs,” Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/non-functional-streetlights-in-valpoi-fixed-locals-relieved/articleshow/77828729.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Mopa airport will pave way for Pernem’s devpt: Mauvin||Panaji: Pernem will witness inclusive development in future, after completion of the Mopa airport, transport minister Mauvin Godinho said. “This project will pave the way for development and create avenues of employment. It will help achieve socio-economic development of Pernem taluka,” he said. He was speaking at the inauguration of the new premises of the assistant director of transport (ADT) sub-office, on the first floor of the KTC bus stand at Pernem, on Saturday. Godinho further said that while every attempt had been made to inaugurate this office at an early date, it was held back as some formalities were incomplete. Speaking at the inaugural, deputy chief minister and Pernem MLA Manohar Ajgaonkar said, “The ADT sub-office, which used to be housed in a rented premises, was not conducive for functioning due to space constraints and lack of parking facilities. The new premises is spacious and with adequate amenities to cater to the needs of the people and the staff.” He also emphasised on the need for proper maintenance of the premises and for cleanliness and hygiene. Mandrem MLA and GTDC chairman Dayanand Sopte expressed happiness over the dedicated premises for the ADT office at Pernem. He also advised people, the youth in particular, to adhere to traffic rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mopa-airport-will-pave-way-for-pernems-devpt-mauvin/articleshow/77828762.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Allahabad||AU final year exams from September 2nd week||PRAYAGRAJ: Following the Supreme Court order that educational institutions cannot promote students without exams, Allahabad University (AU) has started preparations for conducting examination for final year students of undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses. The exams are expected to start from September second week. The university would finalise the exam schedule during a crucial meeting slated for Monday. “We have prepared the exam schedule and the exams would be held from September second week. The process of conducting final year exams would be completed within 22 days,” said AU’s controller of examinations RK Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-final-year-exams-from-sept-2nd-week/articleshow/77827638.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 1,474 +ve, Punjab tally crosses 50,000||CHANDIGARH: Punjab attained yet another grim milestone as the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 50,000 mark. With 1,474 new cases and 41 deaths, the total number of cases reached 50,848 and the casualty count 1,348. In all, 18,613 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate was recorded at 7.91%. On Friday, the positivity rate was 7.88%. Among the deaths, 17 were reported from Ludhiana, 10 from Patiala, three from Jalandhar, two each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death toll is expected to rise as 69 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support when this report was filed, with 22 of them being added during the day. Also, another 475 people were on oxygen support. Of the fresh cases, the highest number were reported in Ludhiana, 272. It was followed by Patiala district, which added 145 cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali, 137 people tested positive, 119 in Ferozepur, and 114 in Amritsar. Test reports of as many as 81 people came positive in Pathankot, 69 in Jalandhar, 67 in Hoshiarpur, 59 in Muktsar, 51 in Sangrur, 47 in Ropar, 40 in Fazilka, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 35 in Bathinda, 30 in Gurdaspur, 27 in Nawanshahr, 26 in Tarn Taran, 24 in Mansa, 22 in Moga, 17 in Kapurthala, and five in Faridkot. So far, Ludhiana has reported 10,509 cases. It is followed by Jalandhar, where 6,094 people have been tested positive. Patiala and Amritsar have recorded 5,864 and 3808 cases, respectively. A total of 1,083 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 34,091. While the state bulletin showed that there were 145 new cases in Patiala, district civil surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1474-ve-pb-tally-crosses-50k/articleshow/77828775.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Common blood thinner drug proves lifesaver during Covid||PUNE: A common blood-thinning drug — Low Molecular Weight Heparin (LMWH) — has emerged as a potential therapeutic treatment for Covid-19 patients. Doctors said the drug — as a subcutaneous injection — has helped reduce hospitalisation periods, improved recovery rate and has significantly cut the rate of sudden deaths by over 90%. Encouraged by the outcomes, specialists TOI spoke to said doctors nationwide were now using the drug as a prophylactic (preventive) therapy to counter blood inflammation and clotting — two main complications SARS-CoV-2 has been causing in the human body. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe doctors’ logic is simple: It is easier to prevent new blood clots/inflammation from forming, compared to treating existing blood clots or inflammation. Pune-based critical care expert Subhal Dixit said, “Post-mortem reports from Italy showed that Covid-19 causes small blood clots (micro-thrombus) in blood vessels, along with inflammation.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Dixit said, “Doctors in India have been using blood thinners, mainly LMWH, since the start of the pandemic. But their use has now increased manifold. Evidence of their efficacy is also growing.” Dixit is a former national president of the Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine (ISCCM), a pan-India body of intensivists. Read AlsoIndia will have 'approved' Covid vaccine by 2021 Q1: ReportIndia is on course to have an "approved" vaccine within the first quarter of calendar year 2021 and Pune- based Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, is well placed to deliver the first vaccine, according to a report out on Thursday from Bernstein Research, aThe formation of clots in the lung vessels leads to respiratory complications. “Similarly, small blood clots in vessels in the heart, brain and the kidneys can trigger heart attacks, brain strokes and acute kidney injury in moderate to critically ill Covid-19 patients. The LMWH has proven to be extremely beneficial in averting such complications,” Dixit said. A blood test called D-dimer is first carried out to rule out blood clots in patients. In Covid-19 cases, the D-dimer is often elevated. “The elevation of D-dimer is indicative of a risk of blood vessel inflammation and blood clotting. The LMWH, along with antiplatelet drugs, has countered both complications and has significantly cut Covid-linked mortality,” Rohtak-based critical care expert, Dhruv Chaudhary, the national president of the ISCCM told TOI. These evolving treatment strategies, including the use of LMWH, have helped doctors ensure maximum Covid-19 recoveries. Read AlsoCovid-19: Oxford vaccine may be the first shot for IndiaIndia is eyeing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate as the likely first shot against Covid-19 to be available for Indians by end of 2020, while locally developed candidates are also being watched closely as it is felt that they may also enter the market with a gap of few weeks if cleared inMumbai-based Nanavati hospital’s intensivist, Ujwala Mhatre said, “In the marathon that is Covid treatment, anticoagulation drugs such as LMWH are valuable tools to prevent multiple mechanisms involved in Covid-associated thrombosis.” Delhi-based critical care expert Yatin Mehta head of the ICU at Medanta hospital said, "Small preventive dose of LMWH to admitted patients with increased D-dimer has given remarkable results. A few critical patients need a larger dose though." Critical care expert Kapil Borawake, said, “The LMWH has emerged as the drug of choice — a sort of pre-requisite prophylactic during the treatment of hospitalised Covid patients. Its administration should not be delayed during the early phase of the illness. Recovered patients with pre-existing conditions are also advised to continue the drug in oral form even after discharge.” Watch Common blood-thinning drug emerges as potential therapeutic treatment during Covid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/common-blood-thinner-drug-proves-lifesaver-during-covid/articleshow/77828768.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mini-clusters in residential colonies shape up in city||Thiruvananthapuram: While lesser tests mean lesser Covid-19 positives in coastal clusters, mini-community clusters are forming within the city wards. The corporation wards which have reported over 100 cases daily for the past few weeks are now recording small clusters centred on residential colonies. Around 15 positive cases, including a ten-month-old baby, have been cumulatively reported from a retail chain and two housing colonies based in Kesavadasapuram in the past one week. Some of the contacts of a person who tested positive were traced to a marriage function held at a hotel in Ulloor. The health officials say that restrictions on number of participants and longer time period for holding reception would mean little because silent carriers within close family circles could lead to a spread. Over 250 contacts have so far been tested after cases were confirmed at Kesavadasapuram. The officials said that contact tracing helped them in early isolation of contacts and containment of the area, and possibility of a huge spread has been negated for the time being. There was also an instance where a person who had reportedly undergone testing for Covid-19 later attended the wedding function. Lack of knowledge about isolation measures to be complied following testing often leads to such seemingly harmless acts, the officials pointed out. The contacts were also traced to a retail chain, and so far there have been three positives. The early identification of contacts, followed by their isolation, prevented further spread in the shopping establishment. Many of the positive cases are asymptomatic and nine persons have opted for home quarantine as per new SoP issued by district administration. Source of infection in two persons in the area remains unknown. Rajaji Nagar, where the first bout of cases was reported in July, has reported new cases. A staff at General Hospital, an employee of a cooperative institution and a contingent worker of city corporation have tested positive, followed by their contacts. With living conditions posing enough challenges for isolation of contacts, the health team and ward councillors had worked together to house contacts in a separate facility. This ploy doesn’t seem to work anymore as cases rise and primary contacts are testing positive. There is also no need for secondary contacts to remain under home isolation. However, officials point out that the nature of conditions in a densely inhabited slum could warrant different set of methods to check spread of infection. At Karamana, 31 cases were reported from one cluster and effective containment has so far been fruitful. One positive emerged out of 50 samples recently, indicative of a dip in infection. Colonies along the streets of Manacaud are also reporting new cases, especially among those who aged above 50 or 70. The source of infection in some of these cases is unknown as their family members have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mini-clusters-in-residential-colonies-shape-up-in-city/articleshow/77827626.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 30, 2020||Goa||Navelim temple ruins with archaeology dept||Panaji: The archaeology department has taken custody of the temple remains found near Navelim in Salcete in June. Officials said that the department has taken charge of the remains “with the aim of salvaging them from the threat of theft or damage”. During the process of excavation for the highway expansion of Navelim in Salcete, workers stumbled upon the ruins of an old temple. Experts estimate that the remains belong to the 13-14th century. The archaeology department was alerted about the remains by some locals. Later, the department took permissions from PWD to supervise the digging and salvage the remains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navelim-temple-ruins-with-archaeology-dept/articleshow/77828760.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: 1,474 +ve, Punjab tally crosses 50,000||CHANDIGARH: Punjab attained yet another grim milestone as the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 50,000 mark. With 1,474 new cases and 41 deaths, the total number of cases reached 50,848 and the casualty count 1,348. In all, 18,613 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate was recorded at 7.91%. On Friday, the positivity rate was 7.88%. Among the deaths, 17 were reported from Ludhiana, 10 from Patiala, three from Jalandhar, two each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death toll is expected to rise as 69 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support when this report was filed, with 22 of them being added during the day. Also, another 475 people were on oxygen support. Of the fresh cases, the highest number were reported in Ludhiana, 272. It was followed by Patiala district, which added 145 cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali, 137 people tested positive, 119 in Ferozepur, and 114 in Amritsar. Test reports of as many as 81 people came positive in Pathankot, 69 in Jalandhar, 67 in Hoshiarpur, 59 in Muktsar, 51 in Sangrur, 47 in Ropar, 40 in Fazilka, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 35 in Bathinda, 30 in Gurdaspur, 27 in Nawanshahr, 26 in Tarn Taran, 24 in Mansa, 22 in Moga, 17 in Kapurthala, and five in Faridkot. So far, Ludhiana has reported 10,509 cases. It is followed by Jalandhar, where 6,094 people have been tested positive. Patiala and Amritsar have recorded 5,864 and 3808 cases, respectively. A total of 1,083 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 34,091. While the state bulletin showed that there were 145 new cases in Patiala, district civil surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/1474-ve-pb-tally-crosses-50k/articleshow/77832609.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kanpur||Cabinet minister Satish Mahana tests Covid positive, isolates self||KANPUR: UP cabinet minister Satish Mahana informed through a tweet on Saturday that he has tested positive for the novel coronavirus and isolated himself at his official residence in Lucknow. Mahana requested those who have come in contact with him in the past few days to get their coronavirus tests done. After initial symptoms of Covid, he said that he got himself tested on Friday and the report came positive, the infrastructure and industrial development minister tweeted. He further stated that he has isolated himself at home on the advice of the doctors. After getting the initial symptoms of coronavirus on Friday, Mahana along with 13 members of his staff got the tests done in Lucknow but all tested tested negative. Later, he and his staff gave sample for the second test. On late Friday night, the second test report tested Mahana and his three staff members positive. Thereafter, Mahana stated through a tweet, “On getting the initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I have isolated myself at home on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done.” Till date, 14 ministers including Mahana, have tested positive. Earlier, two ministers of state cabinet including Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan had passed away due to coronavirus. Kamal Rani had held the technical education portfolio while Chetan Chauhan held some important ministries in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet like sports, military welfare, home guards, PRD and civil defence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cabinet-minister-mahanatests-positive-isolates-self/articleshow/77827623.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 30, 2020||Kanpur||Panel seek property details of Vikas Dubey aides||KANPUR: A three-member inquiry commission, headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice (retd) B S Chauhan, set up by the apex court to probe Vikas Dubey encounter and the circumstances that led to it, asked the district police to provide a list of movable and immovable assets of persons associated with the slain gangster. Police sources told TOI that the Commission had asked Chaubeypur and Shivli police both to furnish the details of the movable and non-movable assets of 53 persons close to slain gangster Vikas Dubey. The move comes close on the heels of the visit by the Commission of the encounter sites including Kanshiram Newada, where gangsters aides Prem Prakash and Atul Dubey, Sachendi where slain gangster Vikas and Panki where Prabhat Mishra, were gunned down by the police. “The Commission has given a list of 53 people associated directly and indirectly to gangster to district and police officials and asked them to ensure compliance,” said a senior official, who added, “The copies of the list of 53 persons have also been issued to Chaubeypur and Shivli police.” Inspector Shivli Veerpal Singh Tomar confirmed reporters that they have been asked to furnish details of the movable and immovable assets soon. “We have been also asked to provide details about the mode/source of acquisition as well as value of the movable and immovable property at the time of acquisition or its present value,” he said. It is to be noted that Jaikant Bajpai, one of the close associates of slain gangster Dubey, and who is presently in jail, allegedly took care of Dubey’s blackmoney and helped him use it in his various businesses, including real estate. The police found out that he used to arrange a huge amount of cash for Dubey on short notice and also used to provide him with luxury cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/panel-seek-property-details-of-vikas-aides/articleshow/77827611.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 1,474 +ve, Punjab tally crosses 50,000||CHANDIGARH: Punjab attained yet another grim milestone as the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 50,000 mark. With 1,474 new cases and 41 deaths, the total number of cases reached 50,848 and the casualty count 1,348. In all, 18,613 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate was recorded at 7.91%. On Friday, the positivity rate was 7.88%. Among the deaths, 17 were reported from Ludhiana, 10 from Patiala, three from Jalandhar, two each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death toll is expected to rise as 69 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support when this report was filed, with 22 of them being added during the day. Also, another 475 people were on oxygen support. Of the fresh cases, the highest number were reported in Ludhiana, 272. It was followed by Patiala district, which added 145 cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali, 137 people tested positive, 119 in Ferozepur, and 114 in Amritsar. Test reports of as many as 81 people came positive in Pathankot, 69 in Jalandhar, 67 in Hoshiarpur, 59 in Muktsar, 51 in Sangrur, 47 in Ropar, 40 in Fazilka, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 35 in Bathinda, 30 in Gurdaspur, 27 in Nawanshahr, 26 in Tarn Taran, 24 in Mansa, 22 in Moga, 17 in Kapurthala, and five in Faridkot. So far, Ludhiana has reported 10,509 cases. It is followed by Jalandhar, where 6,094 people have been tested positive. Patiala and Amritsar have recorded 5,864 and 3808 cases, respectively. A total of 1,083 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 34,091. While the state bulletin showed that there were 145 new cases in Patiala, district civil surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/1474-ve-pb-tally-crosses-50k/articleshow/77832608.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Unique ‘butterfly month’ will look for Goan contributions||Panaji: A first-of-its-kind event to underscore the importance of butterflies in our ecology will be held in India along with a series of events as part of the butterfly month in September. Over 30 organisations working for butterflies and ecological diversity will be working jointly to host this event, through which enthusiasts from Goa will be able contribute to the national citizen science efforts. In Goa, the initiative is being coordinated by the Foundation for Environment Research and Conservation (FERC). The national event will have activities like butterfly count, photography and workshops across the country through September 20, to celebrate the winged creatures. A series of competitions, quizzes, etc, will be held at the national and regional level. “Studying butterflies is imperative to understand our surroundings. The aim of the Big Butterfly Month: India 2020 is to bring the citizens of the country together under one umbrella,” said FERC president Parag Rangnekar. An all-India highlight event, ‘big butterfly count’ will be held from September 14 to 20, and participants can send submissions by logging in to butterflies of India website or by downloading the iNaturalist or India biodiversity portal group and becoming a member of big butterfly month project. “Butterflies play a vital role in the ecosystem. They act as a food source for various other organisms such as spiders, wasps, dragonflies, birds and lizards. They also help in plant pollination and, importantly for us, act as very good indicators of the health of the environment and ecosystems,” Rangnekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unique-butterfly-month-will-look-for-goan-contributions/articleshow/77828735.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Family goes missing after testing Covid+||Chennai: A 49-year-old man and two other family members disappeared after they tested positive for Covid-19 at Saligramam on Friday.Corporation officials informed had informed the man, residing on Gandhi Street, that his entire family had tested positive and asked him if he was going to get admitted to a private hospital or a government hospital. As the man preferred a government facility, revenue officials informed him that he and his family would be picked up from their house and taken to a government hospital for corona treatment. But when officials reached his house, they found the house door locked and his mobile phone turned off.Police said, health officials had collected swab samples from the the man and his family members tested for coronavirus at a corporation testing centre on Wednesday. The RT-PCR test results came on Friday that confirmed that the 49-year-old man and two other family members had the coronavirus infection.Officials inquired about the family with the neighbours but could not trace them. Corporation officials put up the corona alert poster and sticker at their door. A case was lodged against them based on a complaint by the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/family-goes-missing-after-testing-covid/articleshow/77827618.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Villager helps avert train accident in UP after he spots a crack on rail track||BAREILLY: A timely intervention by a villager in UP helped avert a major train accident in Moradabad on Saturday. Chandrasen Saini, a plumber by profession, was on his way to relieve himself when he spotted a crack on the railway track. An Amritsar-Howrah parcel train with two military compartments attached was scheduled to cross the track. "I started waving a red cloth and the loco pilot managed to apply the brakes on time," the villager from Katghar said. The military compartments had a few Army personnel on board. The tracks are now being repaired. The parcel train with 24 coaches was moving from Amritsar to Howrah and was crossing Bhaisiya village under Katghar in UP on the Delhi-Lucknow down railway line when the villager raised the alarm. The incident occurred around 6 am. “There was some kind of sparkle near the railway track when a train was passing through it. As the train passed, I went to take a closer look and found that there was a crack. Thereafter, another train was approaching the track and I sensed that an accident was possible due to the wide gap. I waved a red cloth at the loco pilot who also sensed some trouble and immediately applied the brakes,” Saini said. Soon, senior officials and the maintenance team rushed to the spot. Divisional railway manager of Moradabad, Tarun Prakash told TOI, “After learning about the incident, train movement on the concerned railway track was suspended for around three hours. Maintenance work was carried out. A few soldiers were onboard the two coaches next to the engine. No one was hurt. The train left Moradabad around 9 am. A departmental probe has been ordered. Action will be taken accordingly.” Moreover, similar incidents have taken place here in the past. Last month, two carriages of Rajpura-bound goods train had a breakdown which led to derailment of coaches at Chandausi railway station. In December, two coaches of Moradabad-Kathgodam passenger train had derailed while shunting on the outer yard of the Moradabad railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villager-helps-avert-train-accident-in-up-after-he-spots-a-crack-on-rail-track/articleshow/77825967.cms||Maria Khan
August 30, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 1,391 new cases, 9 deaths in Haryana; recoveries at 50,000||CHANDIGARH: With four districts reporting more than 100 new patients each, Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Friday reached 61,987 cases with 670 deaths. The state got 1,391 new cases and nine deaths. In all, 1,001 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recoveries to 50,711. The recovery rate fell to 81.81%. There are total 10,606 active patients in the state, of which 214 are said to be critical. They are either on oxygen or ventilator support. Faridabad topped the tally with 158 new patients and its total rose to 12,462 cases and 168 deaths. With 11,550 patients recovering, the district is left with 744 active patients. Karnal recorded 140 new cases and two deaths. Its total rose to 2,612 cases with 30 deaths. Gurugram reported 124 new cases with one death, taking the district’s total to 11,693 cases with 133 deaths. The district’s recoveries reached 10634, leaving 926 active patients. Rewari reported a spike of 110 new patients and the total rose to 3,441. Ambala reported 98 new cases andd its total rose to 3,608. It was followed by 96 new cases and two deaths in Panchkula, where the total reached 2,075 patients and 19 deaths. In Yamunanagar, there were 87 new patients and two deaths. The district’s total to 1,486 patients with 19 deaths. Hisar reported 78 new patients and the total rose to 2,170. Kurukshetra and Sonipat reported 75 patients each. Sonipat’s total reached 4,251 cases with 41 deaths. In Kurukshetra, the total is 1,647 with 30 deaths. In Kaithal, 73 patients tested positive, taking the district’s total to 1,006. Panipat got 65 new cases and its total rose to 3,397. Bhiwani reported 61 new cases with two deaths. Its total rose to 1,335 cases with 12 deaths. There were 42 new cases in Sirsa, 36 in Rohtak, 23 in Fatehabad, 19 in Mahendergarh, 11 in Palwal, and 10 each in Nuh and Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/1391-new-cases-9-deaths-in-hry-recoveries-at-50k/articleshow/77832636.cms||Manvir Saini
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 1,391 new cases, 9 deaths in Haryana; recoveries at 50,000||CHANDIGARH: With four districts reporting more than 100 new patients each, Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Friday reached 61,987 cases with 670 deaths. The state got 1,391 new cases and nine deaths. In all, 1,001 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recoveries to 50,711. The recovery rate fell to 81.81%. There are total 10,606 active patients in the state, of which 214 are said to be critical. They are either on oxygen or ventilator support. Faridabad topped the tally with 158 new patients and its total rose to 12,462 cases and 168 deaths. With 11,550 patients recovering, the district is left with 744 active patients. Karnal recorded 140 new cases and two deaths. Its total rose to 2,612 cases with 30 deaths. Gurugram reported 124 new cases with one death, taking the district’s total to 11,693 cases with 133 deaths. The district’s recoveries reached 10634, leaving 926 active patients. Rewari reported a spike of 110 new patients and the total rose to 3,441. Ambala reported 98 new cases andd its total rose to 3,608. It was followed by 96 new cases and two deaths in Panchkula, where the total reached 2,075 patients and 19 deaths. In Yamunanagar, there were 87 new patients and two deaths. The district’s total to 1,486 patients with 19 deaths. Hisar reported 78 new patients and the total rose to 2,170. Kurukshetra and Sonipat reported 75 patients each. Sonipat’s total reached 4,251 cases with 41 deaths. In Kurukshetra, the total is 1,647 with 30 deaths. In Kaithal, 73 patients tested positive, taking the district’s total to 1,006. Panipat got 65 new cases and its total rose to 3,397. Bhiwani reported 61 new cases with two deaths. Its total rose to 1,335 cases with 12 deaths. There were 42 new cases in Sirsa, 36 in Rohtak, 23 in Fatehabad, 19 in Mahendergarh, 11 in Palwal, and 10 each in Nuh and Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1391-new-cases-9-deaths-in-hry-recoveries-at-50k/articleshow/77828788.cms||Manvir Saini
August 30, 2020||Goa||Cavelossim village panel cleans up beach waste, says govt agency ‘failed’ to deliver||Colva: The Cavelossim biodiversity management committee along with college students collected large quantities of garbage from the village beach on Friday. Chairman of the Cavelossim biodiversity management committee Dixon Vaz said that the beach cleaning agency, Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), “has failed in totality in keeping the coastline clean”. When TOI contacted tourism director Menino D’Souza on Saturday, he later sent pictures and stated that the beach cleaning personnel were in the process of clearing the waste at Benaulim beach. However, when TOI visited the beach at 6pm, the waste was still lying on the beach. When this was brought to D’Souza’s notice, he said he will see the pictures and would take necessary action. While criticising KCIC, Vaz said that as a seafarer president, he had submitted a proposal to tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar to hand over the beach cleaning project to the seafarer’s association, stating they would get the work done for half the amount being paid to the current contractor. “I told the tourism minister that we would engage retired seafarers, their spouses and locals to clean the beach, but our proposal was rejected, and the result of engaging an outstation agency is for all to see.” TOI had recently highlighted that large quatities of waste was strewn along the entire Salcete beach stretch, from Betalbatim to Cavelossim. Plastics, cement bags used for sand bagging shacks get entangled in nets, and ropes discarded in the sea get washed ashore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cavelossim-village-panel-cleans-up-beach-waste-says-govt-agency-failed-to-deliver/articleshow/77828786.cms||Nisser Dias
August 30, 2020||Goa||Six arrested for poaching monitor lizards at Agapur||Ponda: A group of six persons, including a 15-year-old boy, were on Saturday afternoon held for poaching three monitor lizards at Agapur in Ponda taluka. All are residents of Uddo Kelshi in Cavelossim, Salcete taluka. Those arrested are Pedru Roque Xavier, 52, Martin Josemary Silveira, 62, Nazareth Roque Xavier, 42, Agnelo Caitano Gama, 30 and Francisco Salvador Colaco, 32. The minor boy has been detained. An official from the forest department said that those arrested could be habitual offenders and were involved in hunting the wildlife species which is presently on the verge of extinction. “They even have a trained a dog to chase and trap the monitor lizards. It is suspected that they kill them for their meat and skin,” Ponda sub-divisional forest officer (SDFO) Anand Jadhav said. After being tipped off by villagers, a team from the Ponda range forest office, under the guidance of SDFO Jadhav, laid a trap at Agapur and nabbed the poachers red-handed with three monitor lizards and weapons used in the crime. The officials have also seized a canoe which the accused had used to cross the Zuari river and reach Agapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-arrested-for-poaching-monitor-lizards-at-agapur/articleshow/77828792.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Soon-to-be married, man at quarantine ward falls to death in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A man at a quarantine ward in a college campus died after he slipped and fell into a 12-feet deep under-construction elevator on the premises at Sriperumbudur early on Friday. Police suspect it to be an accident. Police identified the man as Balaji, 32, a resident Karaikal, who had returned from Kuwait through a ‘Vande Bharat’ flight to attend his marriage that was scheduled in September. Police said Balaji reached Chennai on August 25. As per routine, corporation and the revenue officials examined all air passengers at the airport and conducted Covid tests. The officials advised all passengers to stay in quarantine though they didn’t have any symptoms of the coronavirus infection. As Balaji opted to stay at the government allotted quarantine facility, officials took him to a private college at Thandalam near Sriperumbudur, which has been modified as a quarantine ward. Balaji was asked to stay along with four others on the first floor of the building. On Friday, around 2.30am, Balaji stepped out of his room and ran towards the staircase at the end of the corridor. Police personnel and the revenue officials at the college premises heard a noise and they rushed to find him lying unconscious in the pool of blood inside the under-construction lift shaft. Police and the fire and rescue services personnel pulled out the man and took him to the government hospital at Sriperumbudur, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police personnel browsed through the CCTV camera footage at the college and found that Balaji was running out of the room holding his mobile phone in one hand while talking to someone, when he mistakenly ran into the open lift shaft and fell. The Sriperumbudur police have registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) of CrPC and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/soon-to-be-married-man-at-quarantine-ward-falls-to-death/articleshow/77827627.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 1,391 new cases, 9 deaths in Haryana; recoveries at 50,000||CHANDIGARH: With four districts reporting more than 100 new patients each, Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Friday reached 61,987 cases with 670 deaths. The state got 1,391 new cases and nine deaths. In all, 1,001 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recoveries to 50,711. The recovery rate fell to 81.81%. There are total 10,606 active patients in the state, of which 214 are said to be critical. They are either on oxygen or ventilator support. Faridabad topped the tally with 158 new patients and its total rose to 12,462 cases and 168 deaths. With 11,550 patients recovering, the district is left with 744 active patients. Karnal recorded 140 new cases and two deaths. Its total rose to 2,612 cases with 30 deaths. Gurugram reported 124 new cases with one death, taking the district’s total to 11,693 cases with 133 deaths. The district’s recoveries reached 10634, leaving 926 active patients. Rewari reported a spike of 110 new patients and the total rose to 3,441. Ambala reported 98 new cases andd its total rose to 3,608. It was followed by 96 new cases and two deaths in Panchkula, where the total reached 2,075 patients and 19 deaths. In Yamunanagar, there were 87 new patients and two deaths. The district’s total to 1,486 patients with 19 deaths. Hisar reported 78 new patients and the total rose to 2,170. Kurukshetra and Sonipat reported 75 patients each. Sonipat’s total reached 4,251 cases with 41 deaths. In Kurukshetra, the total is 1,647 with 30 deaths. In Kaithal, 73 patients tested positive, taking the district’s total to 1,006. Panipat got 65 new cases and its total rose to 3,397. Bhiwani reported 61 new cases with two deaths. Its total rose to 1,335 cases with 12 deaths. There were 42 new cases in Sirsa, 36 in Rohtak, 23 in Fatehabad, 19 in Mahendergarh, 11 in Palwal, and 10 each in Nuh and Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/1391-new-cases-9-deaths-in-hry-recoveries-at-50k/articleshow/77832635.cms||Manvir Saini
August 30, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur-Ahemdabad flights now on all 7 days of week||KANPUR: People of Kanpur can now fly to Ahmedabad all seven days of the week while for Mumbai they will get flight four days of the week. The flights, which are rescheduled have been confirmed by the aviation authorities. According to B K Jha, Chakeri airport director directorate of aviation has given green signal for Mumbai and Ahmedabad flights. Ahmedabad flight will be a daily affair. Earlier it was scheduled to be six days a week. Jha informed that Mumbai flight will land at Chakeri airport on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Friday. There is no change in fly backtime schedule. Ahemdabad flight will reach Chakeri at 10 am and will again fly back after 20 minutes. Similarly, Mumbai flight will land in Kanpur at 3.30 pm and after a 50 minutes will fly back at 4.20 pm. Airport director informed that flights for Bangalore and Kolkata would also resume. Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had sought information for those two flights. Airport authority had provided the required information to DGCA. Jha informed that DGCA was exploring possibilities for air connectivity of Kanpur with other cities. Flights for two cities had taken place but the operator had closed the services when passengers’ response was lukewarm.DGCA had once again started exercise to restore those routes and for that it had asked the suggestions from the airport director. Jha informed that route had been fixed for last two years.If any flight operator was interested then it should contact DGCA and seek permission for flight operation. Jha stated that at present chakeri airport had just one runway, which is short and part of air force runway. Therefore small planes had been permitted to land in Kanpur. Construction of second runway had begun and it was likely to be ready in around four months.Once second runway would be ready then big planes too could land here, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-ahemdabad-flights-now-on-all-7-days-of-week/articleshow/77827635.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mysuru||Covid warrior dies of heart attack||Mysuru: Chandrasekar, a 32-year-old Covid warrior who was part of the district Covid-19 technical team, died on Friday night. He collapsed at his home in T Narasipura after day’s work at the district control room office set up in the new DC’s office in Siddarthanagar. “His swab samples have been sent for testing. DHO R Venkatesh said that he died due to a heart attack. According to health department officials, Chandrasekhar was serving as a health service provider in T Narasipura taluk, and was deputed to the Covid technical team. He was travelling between Mysuru and T Narasipura every day. “On Friday he collapsed at his house. He was rushed to a city hospital but was declared brought dead,” said the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-warrior-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/77826778.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Jana Sena to file counter on Amaravati||Vijayawada: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan has said that his party will file its counter in the AP High Court on the Amaravati issue and the state government’s decentralisation of administration plans. Kalyan, who held a virtual meeting with senior party leaders on Saturday, said his party is clear on the capital issue. “Some 29,000 farmers parted with their fertile lands after the government promised to develop a mega city. The previous government spent public money to lay roads and build buildings, most of which are in different stages of completion. It’s not proper on the part of this government to revert capital plans,” he said. He added that Jana Sena is closely watching the government’s moves and is committed to the development of Amaravati as promised. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jana-sena-to-file-counter-on-amaravati/articleshow/77826780.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Four sent to one-day police custody||Ahmedabad: A magisterial court at the Mirzapur rural court campus on Saturday granted one-day custodial interrogation of the owners of Popular Builders in a case of domestic violence, attempt to murder, kidnapping and illegal detention.Vastrapur police sought remand for seven days of Monang Patel, Raman Patel, Dashrath Patel and Virendra Patel, who were arrested on a complaint filed by Monang’s wife Fizu. The cops wanted a week’s custody to extract documents and videography of a meeting when Fizu had sat with her in-laws and inked settlement documents.The police asked for remand to recover from the accused the affidavit that was affirmed as part of alleged settlement bid made under undue pressure. Defence lawyer I H Syed submitted that the affidavit has been placed before the Gujarat high court and the investigator may get a copy from the court records.The police wanted the videography of the meeting claiming that there were some unknown persons present in the meeting, and there is a need for investigation to find out who else was involved in pressurizing the complainant.On part of the accused, it was submitted that it was a domestic dispute which the complainant and her mother are trying to give a colour of serious criminal offence. He opposed the remand plea.After hearing the arguments, the court granted remand of all four persons till 11.30am on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-four-sent-to-one-day-police-custody/articleshow/77827619.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||17% excess rain in Maharashtra this monsoon, shortfall in 2 districts||PUNE: Maharashtra received 17% excess rainfall this monsoon so far but two districts in drought-prone Vidarbha — Akola and Yavatmal — are still rain deficient. The two districts have recorded a rain deficiency of (-)25% this season from June 1-August 29, while 14 other districts, including Pune, have recorded excess to large excess monsoon rainfall so far. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast only scattered rain for Vidarbha till September 1. Amravati, which had over (-)20% rain deficiency till August 28, got good showers on August 29. This helped the district’s seasonal rainfall to come within the normal range. Still, it currently has a rain shortfall of (-)19%. Rainfall departure of 19% on the either side is considered normal as per the IMD. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “Vidarbha may record only scattered rainfall during the next three days, but the 25% deficiency in two of its districts is nevertheless likely to be compensated. However, there are chances of the two districts again slipping into the deficient zone thereafter.” Kashyapi said Akola, Yavatmal and Amravati had been rain-deficient from the beginning of the monsoon. “Vidarbha and Marathwada are known for less rainfall, but the two regions received good rain this monsoon barring some parts, including these districts. The systems over the Bay of Bengal skirted these districts, located in the northeast of Vidarbha. The systems either moved from their north or south, which impeded the rain here,” he added. Amit Naphade, the chief executive officer of Krushi Vikas Va Gramin Prashikshan Sanstha, said, “As the rainfall was more or less normal in most parts of Vidarbha, it might not affect kharif crops but could have an impact on the rabi season.” A total of 14 districts in the state, including three in Marathwada, had excess to large excess rainfall so far this monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17-excess-rain-in-maha-this-monsoon-shortfall-in-2-dists/articleshow/77827639.cms||Neha Madaan
August 30, 2020||Allahabad||HC turns down plea for ‘tazia’ processions in view of pandemic||PRAYAGRAJ: Expressing grave concern over the spread of corona pandemic, the Allahabad high court on Saturday dismissed a PIL seeking permission to take out ‘tazia’ processions during Muharram. In the PILs, the petitioners Roshan Khan and others had also challenged two state government orders (GOs) dated August 10 and August 23, 2020, insofar as they prohibit members of their community from taking out Muharram processions. They had sought to issue a direction to the state authorities to perform religious mourning rituals/practice connected with Muharram, during the period of 10 days, i.e., up to August 30, 2020, amid the pandemic restrictions in Uttar Pradesh. Dismissing the PILs filed by Khan and many others, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed observed, “The pandemic is spreading like wild fire, despite harsh lockdowns. We are standing naked at the shore and don’t know when the huge wave of corona may sweep us into the deep sea. We really don’t know what tomorrow holds. Adoption of safe practices is needed to win over the health crisis. We need to understand the art of living with the coronavirus.” Elaborating the constitutional aspect, the court observed, “Although the complete prohibition of practices which are essential to our religions is an extraordinary measure, it is very much in proportion to the unprecedented situation we are faced with, owing to the pandemic. The right to practise and propagate religion has been made subject to public order, morality and health, even under the Constitution of India.” Rejecting the plea of the petitioners that the restrictions imposed by the UP government are discriminatory in nature and only one community has been targeted in the aforesaid GOs, the court observed, “A bare perusal of the notifications dated August 10, 2020, and August 23, 2020, issued by the state government, clearly indicates that the same yardstick has been adopted for all religious communities and they have been restricted from carrying on any processions or jhankis or activities that have a danger of large congregations that may lead to a spread of the pandemic- Covid-19.” Further, “It indicates that no processions or jhankis have been permitted during the Janmastami festival. Similarly, it further indicates that during the festival for Ganesh Chaturthi too, the Hindu community has been prohibited from erecting any pooja pandals and from installing any statues/idols. Likewise, the Muslim community has been prohibited from taking out processions/tazias during Muharram.” The petitioners also took the plea that the apex court had allowed the devotees access to the places of worship and permitted the annual chariot procession at the Jagannath Temple, Puri besides, recently permitting the offer of Paryushan prayers in three Jain temples in Mumbai, hence the prohibition is arbitrary especially when the proposed rituals can be regulated by prescribing reasonable restrictions, like limiting the number of people to carry out the tazias till Karbala for burial. Rejecting their pleas, the court observed, “In this regard it may be noted that the apex court had not passed any general directions, but the permission to carry out the annual chariot procession (Rath Yatra), pertained to a specific place, Puri, and only from one point to another. However, the present case is clearly distinguishable from the aforesaid cases since it pertains to the entire Uttar Pradesh state and is not confined to one or a few districts.” Lastly, the court observed, “Therefore, it is with a heavy heart that we hold that in these testing times, it is not possible to lift the prohibition by providing any guidelines for regulating the mourning rituals/practice connected with the 10th day of Muharram. We must hope and trust that God would perceive our restraint in our customary practices, not as a slight, but as an act of compassion for our brothers and sisters and give us the opportunity to celebrate all festivals with greater faith and fervour in future. It is only together with cooperation, understanding and support, we as ‘One Nation’, can emerge stronger from these treacherous times and overcome this season of darkness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-turns-down-plea-for-tazia-processions-in-view-of-pandemic/articleshow/77827657.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Trash output down 20% in Pune, 30% in PCMC areas||PUNE: The quantity of waste generated in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad has reduced by 20% and 30%, respectively, following the lockdown imposed to curb coronavirus spread. A health official from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation said the closure of food joints helped bring down trash generation. “PCMC limits used to generate 1,100 tonnes per day before the lockdown. It has now come down to 750 tonnes,” PCMC chief health officer Anil Roy said. Roy further said the reduced waste generation was a “blessing in disguise”, as many of its frontline staffers were infected by nCoV and still recovering. “Moreover, the administration’s decision last year to privatize garbage collection has also proved beneficial, as our staffers have a relatively lesser workload and are available for sanitization and fumigation activities,” he said. Pune Municipal Corporation offered a similar explanation — its solid waste management department claimed garbage generation dropped by around 20% since the shutdown orders. PMC data show that on an average, the city generates around 2,000 to 2,200 tonnes of garbage daily. It has since come down to 1,700 tonnes per day. Further, PMC officials said waste generation, which often sees a roughly 10% rise in the festive season, was on the downward trend this year, “Waste generation goes up by at least 200 tonnes during the festive season. This time, the rise has been minimal due to curbs on public celebrations,” a PMC solid waste management department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trash-output-down-20-in-pune-30-in-pcmc-areas/articleshow/77827649.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 30, 2020||Shimla||Cancer patient Himachal’s 32nd casualty, 144 infected||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported one more Covid death on Saturday as a 56-year-old woman with cancer of the gallbladder succumbed to the virus at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College in Tanda, Kangra district, taking the state’s casualty count to 32. The state also reported 144 positive cases of Covid-19, while 117 patients recovered. In the state, the number of positive cases has now reached 5,781, of which 1,439 are active, 4,266 have recovered, 32 have died and 42 have migrated out of state. Of the total deaths in the state, Kangra and Mandi have seven each, Solan has six, Chamba and Hamirpur have four each, Shimla has two, and Sirmaur and Una have one each. So far, 2,11,028 persons have been tested for Covid-19. Of them, 2,04,435 persons have tested negative and results of 812 samples are awaited. Of all the cases, four are from Bilaspur district, three from Chamba, 12 from Hamirpur, 14 from Kangra, two from Mandi, 12 from Shimla, 51 from Sirmaur, 27 from Solan, and 19 from Una. Patients who have recovered include 10 from Bilaspur, 29 from Chamba, five from Kangra, two from Kullu, 13 from Mandi, five from Shimla, 21 from Sirmaur, 27 from Solan, and five from Una. Bilaspur has got a total of 300 cases, of which 119 are active. Chamba has recorded 403 cases, of which 79 are active. In Hamirpur, of the total 505 cases, 84 are active. Of the total 797 cases in Kangra, 178 are active. Kinnaur has reported 81 cases, of which 23 are active. Kullu has got 271 cases, of which 39 are active. Lahaul-Spiti has got eight cases, of which three are active. In Mandi, of the total 397 cases, 37 are active. Shimla has recorded 320 cases, of which 84 are active. In Sirmaur, of the total 840 cases, 278 are active. Solan has got 1,409 cases, of which 392 are active. Una has recorded 450 cases, of which 123 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cancer-patient-himachals-32nd-casualty-144-infected/articleshow/77828803.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala wants Centre to take loan and compensate states||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A virtual meeting of finance ministers from various states to find a common ground for their reaction to the Centre’s proposals for mobilization of resources to meet the GST revenue gap will be held on Monday. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said on Saturday that the virtual meet was a coordinated attempt by several state governments that were worried about propositions Centre had made recently while discussing the disbursal of GST revenue gap that were due to governments. “It’s unlikely that there could be a common charter of demands among states. We are exploring whether we can find a common ground in our reaction to the propositions. Individual states would be stating their reactions to the GST council in different ways,” Isaac said. Isaac added that state government would put on record that none of the two proposals, suggested in the GST council, were acceptable to Kerala. “Centre should borrow the Rs 2.3L crore due to the states as GST compensation and distribute it among states. Centre, if worried about the ill-effects of market borrowing of such a huge amount, should borrow the same from RBI,” he said. Centre had suggested at Thursday’s meeting that states may source the dues through market borrowings and Centre was willing to increase the borrowing limits by 0.5%. Else, states may take loan to meet the reve. nue short fall due to GST implementation, which was calculated at Rs 97,000 cr. The GST council has given a week’s time for states to intimate their choice. Isaac said NDA government at the Centre was unnecessarily irritating the government by making impossible propositions. The interest rate could go up from 1-2% when state government tries to borrow. Also, the 0.5% increase in borrowing limits won’t be enough for Kerala and states like Karnataka to source loans that can match the compensation figures. Isaac said the pandemic alone can’t be blamed for the current economic slump. In September 2019, finance commission chairman had asked all states not to stick to the demand that Centre should continue to give its promised compensation at 14% annual growth rate till 2023. “The slump had started much earlier, with demonetisation. Compensation was promised to lure states to the GST regime. Centre can’t simply go back from that promise,” Isaac said. As per rough estimates, GST compensation due to Kerala was around Rs 6,000 crore till July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-wants-centre-to-take-loan-compensate-states/articleshow/77829887.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Open garbage dumping in Chakan a health hazard: FCI||PUNE: The Federation of Chakan Industries (FCI) on Saturday claimed that employees in Chakan MIDC area were at risk due to daily garbage dumping by 15 gram panchayats in and around the industrial hub. FCI office-bearers further claimed neither the gram panchayats nor the MIDC has taken cognisance of the matter. “The condition of internal roads here is pathetic. To make matters worse, household waste is strewn on these roads. Many employees and companies executives have to wade through this garbage,” FCI secretary Dilip Batwal said. A senior MIDC official said these gram panchayats do not have their own dumping yards. “As a result, they dump their garbage mostly on MIDC land and forest areas in their vicinity at night. We will issue notices to them in the coming days,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/open-garbage-dumping-in-chakan-a-health-hazard-fci/articleshow/77827654.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Cop’s heroic act draws plaudits from DGP, SP||TIRUPATI: The sub-inspector from Pulivendula police station in Kadapa district, who risked his life while trying to stop a speeding car which was smuggling liquor on Friday night, was appreciated and felicitated for his efforts by DGP Gautam Sawang and Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan. A team of cops led by Pulivendula SI C Gopinath Reddy was checking vehicles near Raghavendra theatre circle on Friday night when they signalled a car to stop. But the car driver, after initially slowing down, tried to speed away. The SI immediately jumped in front of the vehicle to stop it, and managed to hold on to the front window and front wind shield as the car kept speeding. After about two kilometres, with the brave cop continuing to cling on to the car’s bonnet and wind shield, the driver stopped the car and fled. Cops soon reached the spot but by then the two inmates of the car had escaped. Fortunately, Reddy did not suffer any injuries. Police said the two persons who managed to escape are part of a gang who are wanted in connection with various offences at several police stations in the district. Police said they would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-heroic-act-draws-plaudits-from-dgp-sp/articleshow/77826791.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||Parents accused of scuffle with school staff acquitted||Vadodara: Three women, whose wards study in Navrachana School in Sama, were acquitted by a local court on Saturday in a case of allegedly assaulting the school staff lodged in March 2018.Kinnari Kharadi, Purnima Patel and Darshana Joglekar were accused of getting into a scuffle with the staff and behaving improperly over the results of their wards. The school had mentioned ‘passed and eligible for promotion’ in their results. The school had told police that they had made such notes in the results of students whose parents had not paid fees. “The school has no right to make a note that the students are eligible for promotion,” said the parents’ advocate Kishore Pillai. In other students’ results, the school had mentioned ‘passed and promoted’, he added.A day after the incident on March 28, 2018, an offence was registered against these parents at Sama police station.During the trial, the complainant and other witnesses who were staff members of the school gave their testimonies before the court. “There were nine witnesses, but of them around four to five witnesses’ testimonies were contradictory. The prosecution mentioned about CCTV cameras’ footage, but they could never produce any such evidence before the court,” said Pillai. It was also argued that despite the presence of over 500 people at the gate of the school, these three women were targeted as were leaders of the parents’ association.The court of additional senior civil judge and additional chief judicial magistrate, D J Parmar, upheld Pillai’s arguments for acquitting them. The court also observed that if the school had discussed the issue with the parents peacefully the conflict could have been resolved. “Any institution including the court should give an opportunity to any person to present themselves,” the court stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/parents-accused-of-scuffle-with-school-staff-acquitted/articleshow/77826418.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||7 of Haryana principal secy camp office infected||Chandigarh: Seven staffers from the camp of principal secretary (PS) to chief minister have tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Panchkula’s civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur has confirmed the report of seven staffers deployed at the residence of PS Rajesh Khullar. Khullar too is learned to have undergone test and his reports are awaited. Meanwhile, Panchkula health authorities have shifted all the seven staffers to the Covid centre in a private institute. “All those found infected are asymptomatic and are fine. They have been isolated as a precaution,” said the officials of the district health department. In all, 64 persons, including chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and speaker Gian Chand Gupta, in chief minister’s office, Haryana civil secretariat and assembly secretariat have tested positive in the last one week. This is in addition to Union minister Krihan Lal Gujjar, MPs Nayav Singh Saini and Sanjay Bhatia, ministers Jai Parkash Dalal, Mool Chand Sharma and MLAs Ram Kumar Kashyap and Harvinder Kalyan. MLAs Subhash Sudha and Mahipal Dhanda and MP Brijender Singh were tested positive last month and have recovered. CM Khattar’s IT advisor Dhruv Mazumdar was first to get infected last week. It was followed by infection in 12 out of 45 security guards who were yet to join CM’s security from Haryana Armed police.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-of-haryana-principal-secy-camp-office-infected/articleshow/77828811.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Watchman held on charge of harassing six-year-old girl||Pune: The Market Yard police on Friday arrested a security guard of a housing society on the charge of sexually abusing a six-year-old girl in the playground of the society on Thursday evening. Police said the incident came to light when the girl’s mother saw her daughter being “uncomfortable” and examined her. The mother then approached the police. “According to the complaint, the security guard found the girl alone, took her to an isolated spot and sexually abused her,” an officer from the Market Yard police said.In another incident, the Wanowrie police on Friday arrested a 40-year-old man on the charge of sexually abusing his 10-year-old neighbour at his residence on Thursday afternoon. Police said that the arrest was made following a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother (age 31) on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/watchman-held-on-charge-of-harassing-six-year-old-girl/articleshow/77827660.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala wants Centre to take loan and compensate states||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A virtual meeting of finance ministers from various states to find a common ground for their reaction to the Centre’s proposals for mobilization of resources to meet the GST revenue gap will be held on Monday. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said on Saturday that the virtual meet was a coordinated attempt by several state governments that were worried about propositions Centre had made recently while discussing the disbursal of GST revenue gap that were due to governments. “It’s unlikely that there could be a common charter of demands among states. We are exploring whether we can find a common ground in our reaction to the propositions. Individual states would be stating their reactions to the GST council in different ways,” Isaac said. Isaac added that state government would put on record that none of the two proposals, suggested in the GST council, were acceptable to Kerala. “Centre should borrow the Rs 2.3L crore due to the states as GST compensation and distribute it among states. Centre, if worried about the ill-effects of market borrowing of such a huge amount, should borrow the same from RBI,” he said. Centre had suggested at Thursday’s meeting that states may source the dues through market borrowings and Centre was willing to increase the borrowing limits by 0.5%. Else, states may take loan to meet the reve. nue short fall due to GST implementation, which was calculated at Rs 97,000 cr. The GST council has given a week’s time for states to intimate their choice. Isaac said NDA government at the Centre was unnecessarily irritating the government by making impossible propositions. The interest rate could go up from 1-2% when state government tries to borrow. Also, the 0.5% increase in borrowing limits won’t be enough for Kerala and states like Karnataka to source loans that can match the compensation figures. Isaac said the pandemic alone can’t be blamed for the current economic slump. In September 2019, finance commission chairman had asked all states not to stick to the demand that Centre should continue to give its promised compensation at 14% annual growth rate till 2023. “The slump had started much earlier, with demonetisation. Compensation was promised to lure states to the GST regime. Centre can’t simply go back from that promise,” Isaac said. As per rough estimates, GST compensation due to Kerala was around Rs 6,000 crore till July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-wants-centre-to-take-loan-compensate-states/articleshow/77826810.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Housing society staffer arrested under POCSO||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Friday arrested a 40-year-old man on the charge of sexually harassing two minor girls at his residence on Thursday. The mother of one of the girls lodged a complaint with the police. The police have arrested the suspect under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police said the man works in the office of a gated housing society and was acquainted with the two girls, who live in the same society. “The suspect first lured a 10-year-old girl to his home, where he showed her an obscene video clip and molested her. Later, he did the same thing with the other nine-year-old girl,” sub-inspector Abhijit Joagdand said. The nine-year-old girl reported the incident to her mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-society-staffer-arrested-under-pocso/articleshow/77827658.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mangaluru||After record high, Covid-19 cases dip on coast||Mangaluru/Udupi: The coastal districts saw fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday dip by 182, in 24 hours, after Dakshina Kannada(DK) and Udupi registered a record combined single day spike of 626 cases. Out of the 444 new cases reported in the two districts, DK’s tally was 272 and that of Udupi 172. Seven new Covid-19 related fatalities in DK meant that the death toll in the district touched 350, while it remained at 95 in Udupi. DK deputy commissioner K V Rajendra said the source of infection in 110 or 40.4% of the total reported cases in the district was being investigated, 101 had influenza like illness (ILI), 43 were primary contacts, 15 were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and three were international travellers. A little more than 53% of the cases were reported as asymptomatic, and included 85 men and 60 women patients, Dr Rajendra said. On the testing front, DK as on Saturday, has tested 93,505 samples out of which 12,109 samples tested positive. The district that discharged 236 patients on the day, including 137 from home isolation, and presently has 2,550 active cases against 9,209 discharged thus far. Four of the seven deaths were reported from Puttur taluk, two were patients from outside DK and one from Mangaluru, which incidentally reported 163 out of 272 cases. Primary contacts at 90 accounted for 52.3% of the new cases reported in Udupi, 45 were diagnosed as suffering from ILI, source of infection in 24 cases are being investigated, two cases were reported to be international travellers, and one had SARI. There were 108 asymptomatic cases and 64 symptomatic ones. Udupi taluk accounted for 107 fresh cases, Kundapur-19, Karkala-37 and nine were reported from outside Udupi, said DC G Jagadeesha. Discharge of 219 patients on the day, took the total number of those discharged to 8,603, which meant that the active cases in Udupi are now at 2,561. Udupi that tested 70,091 samples as on date saw 58,632 of them being declared negative, and 11,259 tested positive, and the reports of 200 samples are yet to come in. The health authorities in the meanwhile continued their crackdown on people not wearing masks in public and levied fines, Jagadeesha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/after-record-high-covid-19-cases-dip-on-coast/articleshow/77826798.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Smoke break costs Ahmedabad man Rs 5 lakh||AHMEDABAD: A 31-year-old man from Saraspur, Rahul Parikh, has lodged a complaint at Ellisbridge police station on Friday stating that when he stopped at a paan shop near Gujarat College after collecting Rs 5 lakh from an angadia office on CG Road, two men came on a motorcycle, broke the lock of his scooter glove box and stole the bag containing Rs 5 lakh. Inspector A S Patel of Ellisbridge police station said that they have got CCTV footage of the incident which shows the incident. “We are investigating all angles open and are hunting for the two men,” added Patel. According to the complaint lodged by Parikh, his friend Tarun Sadhu had sent him to get the money from the angadia office and had given him the keys of his scooter. “We suspect the crooks were following him from the angadia office and as they got a chance near the paan shop, they stole the money and fled,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smoke-break-costs-man-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/77827636.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid-affected lungs turn sample study for doctors||CHENNAI: One of the most precious possessions surgeons at the MGH Healthcare are now holding is a damaged pair of lungs harvested from a patient who suffered severe respiratory failure following Covid-19. On Friday, a team of transplant surgeons removed the affected lungs of a 48-year-old businessman from Ghaziabad, and gave him a fresh pair, harvested from a brain dead patient at another hospital in the city. This is the first known lung transplant in the country for Covid-19, doctors say. “Until now, we have seen the effect on the virus through X-ray and CT scans. When we saw the lung, we realised how much the novel virus can invade it,” said hospital’s transplant pulmonologist Dr Apar Jindal. “A lung is spongy. The one we removed was as hard as a liver. It was badly inflamed and was plastered to the chest wall,” he said. “We are examining the diseased organ under an electron microscope. We will be doing a pathological study to learn the extent of lung damage,” he said. The eight-hour transplant that ended at 7am on Friday was the only chance of survival for the patient. On Saturday, the patient was stable, on low ventilator support and doctors were planning to wean him of life support in a day or two. Minutes after they replaced his lung, doctors removed the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) he was connected to for more than a month. The recovery, however, may take a long time. “His new lungs are healthy. He is awake and met his family members,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, institute of heart and lung transplant and mechanical circulatory support. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on June 8. He was admitted to a hospital in Delhi when his condition was critical. On June 20, doctors there put him on a ventilator. A month later, he was airlifted and brought to the city hospital. On July 25, a day after he was put on the waitlist for lung transplant, doctors connected him on to a veno-venous ECMO to support lung function. “He remained critical but stable,” Dr Rao said. On Thursday, the hospital received a call from the state transplant authority about donor, a 34-year-old man, declared brain dead by doctors at the Gleneagles Global Hospital, following intracerebral haemorrhage on Wednesday. “Transplant post Covid was not an easy decision. But the patient was healthy and young. If we could reverse the lung damage, we knew he had a good chance,” said senior transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-affected-lungs-turn-sample-study-for-docs/articleshow/77827673.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Minister’s export claim fails to enthuse artisans||Kolhapur: Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal’s statement about the export potential of the Kolhapuri chappal and its promotion through sales in the international market have been taken with a pinch of salt by the manufactures in the city. Goyal had said during a virtual meeting with state industries minister on Friday that the iconic leather chappal has an export potential of around Rs 7,500 crore and that its sales can be promoted through five-star hotels across the world. According to government data, Kolhapuri chappals and similar footwear worth Rs 7.31 crore were exported in 2013-14 while the exports dropped to Rs 1.74 crore in 2019-20, although it was Rs 16.76 crore in 2018-2019. Anurag Kokitkar, a young entrepreneur from the city who started the ‘Paytaan’ brand and exports the footwear abroad, said, “The artisans have not upgraded themselves to make their product export worthy. There are no organised efforts to produce export quality footwear. The standards in each country for importing leather goods is different.” Kokitkar said the artisans are trying to adopt standard practices to ensure that the product is of better quality. Abhijeet Satpute, who along with his family is involved in making Kolhapur chappals for generations, said the industry is battling various issues, including shortage of leather. “We have a local market for the footwear and do not export it. Tourists are our main customers. However, the Covid related lockdown has hit the tourist inflow our businesses have been shut,” he said Satputpe, who makes the footwear at home, added that the manufacturers are facing a shortage of leather, forcing them to get it from Chennai-based suppliers, but the quality is poor. Last year, the Kolhapuri chappal received the GI tag. However, the move did not go down well with the local artisans as the GI taf is for footwear produced in eight districts, including Kolhapur. The artisans in Kolhapur have sent a petition to the central authorities seeking the GI tag exclusively for Kolhapur city to preserve its quality and avoid duplication. A decade-and-a-half ago, the leather was tanned locally but due to environmental concerns, the artisans were forced to shut the tanneries. The ban on cattle slaughter has made it more difficult for the local artisans to get good quality leather. A number of artisans in Kolhapur city regret the mistake of shunning old practices like using vegetable reagents for tanning to save costs. The use of chemicals has been a major concern for environmental hazard, mainly the pollution of the Panchganga river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ministers-export-claim-fails-to-enthuse-artisans/articleshow/77826858.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane likely to take to the skies by October||Ahmedabad: If all works out well, India’s first ever seaplane service, between the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad and the Statue of Unity at Kevadia, will be operational by October. During a review meeting chaired by state chief secretary Anil Mukim in Gandhinagar on Saturday, in the presence of Union civil aviation secretary, Pradeep Kharola, it emerged that the project is on track and is expected to be operational by the end of October. The inaugural flight will likely happen on October 31, according to a release issued by the state government. Kharola visited the proposed site of the waterdrome at the Sabarmati Riverfront on Saturday, along with Captain Ajay Chauhan, director, civil aviation, government of Gujarat. Two locations on the western bank of the Sabarmati Riverfront, near Vallabh Sadan and near Ambedkar Bridge, have been identified. According to state government officials, the seaplane services will provide affordable air connectivity from the Sabarmati riverfront to the Statue of Unity. The project will be executed under an agreement between the state government, Union ministry of civil aviation and the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The service will be operated by low-cost carrier, SpiceJet, with four flights a day. The ticket price will be around Rs 4,800 per person. The waterdrome to successfully operate, a water level of at least 7 feet is a pre-requisite. So far, the water level at the Sabarmati riverfront was being monitored by the state irrigation department along with Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Once the waterdromes are built and operational, the AAI will also be monitoring the water level. Sources confirmed that the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNL) has agreed that the supply of Narmada water will be ensured to maintain the required depth for the waterdromes to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-likely-to-take-to-the-skies-by-october/articleshow/77827648.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Engineering and pharmacy seat allotment to be done online this year||Panaji: After accepting application forms for the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) and for admissions online, the directorate of technical education (DTE) has said that it will also carry out the admission rounds for engineering and pharmacy degree programme seats online this year. This is a measure being taken to avoid any crowding at the DTE office during the admission process. Officials said that once students are allotted seats based on the merit list, this year they will have to directly report to the respective colleges to complete the rest of the admission formalities. Until last year, the admission rounds took place physically at the DTE office in Porvorim. “The list of eligible students for engineering and pharmacy degree courses will be displayed on the DTE website by August 31. The students will have to go through it and check the ‘remarks’ column. They will have to complete any deficiencies in their applications based on the remarks, by submitting the certificates or details they may have not provided earlier, but are required to. They will have to comply with this by September 5,” an official said. The DTE will display the merit list of students by September 10 on its website. “Students will have to submit their course preference in the ‘form for choice of courses’ on the website www.goa-degree-admission.in. They will have to submit this form online by September 5,” the official said. The DTE has drawn a new admission schedule as per which the first round of online allotment of seats will be completed by September 20. “Students should log in to the website www.goa-degree-admissions.in and read the instructions carefully and exercise due care while filling their options on the forms. This is because students will be considered for allotment of seats only to courses which they have indicated and included in the ‘form for choice of courses’,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/engineering-and-pharmacy-seat-allotment-to-be-done-online-this-year/articleshow/77828819.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Cook injured in fire, police book eatery’s owner & wife||Pune: A cook at a restaurant in Sangvi suffered serious burn injuries in a fire inside the eatery’s kitchen on Friday evening. The police have booked the owner of the restaurant and his wife. “The cook, Abhijit Chandu Phule (34), has sustained severe burn injuries on his legs, hands and lower body parts,” sub-inspector Vinod Shendkar of the Sangvi police station said. The restaurant owner and his wife have ben booked under the charges of neglecting safety at the workplace and causing injuries to worker. “A few days ago, Phule spotted a leak in the pipe joining LPG cylinder to the gas stove. He alerted his employers and asked them to replace it avert accidents. However, the restaurant owner did not replace the pipe,” Shendkar said. On Friday evening, Phule attempted to light the stove with a matchstick, when the fire broke out. “He was taken out of the kitchen by local residents and rushed to a private hospital nearby,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cook-injured-in-fire-police-book-eaterys-owner-wife/articleshow/77827671.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Criminal cuffed for 3 burglaries||Pune: The Samarth police said they solved three cases of burglary with the August 20 arrest of a criminal — Jaywant Gaikwad — from Shirgaon in Maval taluka. The police have also arrested Gaikwad’s brother-in-law, Vishal Admane, for helping him sell the stolen valuables. Police said Gaikwad would target older properties as he felt he had a higher chance of finding cash and valuables. “These buildings also had no security,” sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure said. “We have recovered valuables worth Rs2.6 lakh,” Kapure said. Gaikwad has 87 cases registered against him in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-cuffed-for-3-burglaries/articleshow/77827674.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, coronavirus test on all with influenza-like illness||SHIMLA: After it was discovered that some districts and hospitals were not sampling influenza-like illness (ILI) patients, additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman has directed them to test such patients for Covid-19 through RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNAT. A decision has also been taken to conduct antibody test on all the health care workers of the state before September 10. Block medical officers under supervision of chief medical officers (CMOs) will be responsible for such testing while at peripheral health institutions such testing will be undertaken at institutions having ELISA Reader. A circular has been issued for testing symptomatic health workers and SARI (severe respiratory illness) patients admitted in private and public hospitals of state. To augment the testing for SARS-CoV-2 in Himachal Pradesh, the state has issued advisories for antigen-based assays according to the recommendations of the ICMR for the industrial establishments, private hospitals and laboratories. ICMR has recommended the use of rapid antigen test for detection of Covid-19 and IgG ELISA test for sero-surveillance in various settings. Dhiman said that Himachal Pradesh is soon providing the antigen-based Assays kit and IgG ELISA kits for use across state in various public health facilities and for containment of Covid-19. According to the guidelines for antigen test, it will be conducted on asymptomatic cases or in containment zones; institutional quarantine facilities where the inter-state travellers from high-load cities have completed 6-7 days quarantine; asymptomatic patients who are hospitalized or seeking hospitalization in the high risk groups of chemotherapy, HIV positive, malignant disease, transplant. Beside test will also be conducted on elderly patients with co-morbidities like lung disease, heart disease, liver disease, kidney disease, diabetes, neurological disorders, blood disorders; asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol generating surgical and non surgical interventions. New guidelines says that elderly patients above 65 years and patients with co-morbidities coming with ILI symptoms; the ILI patients and individuals with moderate to severe symptoms coming to health institutions will invariably be referred to higher centres for molecular-based diagnosis and further management. According to the circular, "Deployment of IgG ELISA can also give an insight into the presence of antibodies in frontline workers including health care workers and the results can be used as guide for the deployment of these personnel in various health care institutions of state."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-hp-coronavirus-test-on-all-with-influenza-like-illness/articleshow/77828817.cms||Anand Bodh
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Heavy blasting led to Gap Road landslides, says NIT||Idukki: Heavy rock blasting triggered the massive landslides on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway in Munnar, according to a report prepared by the National Institute of Technology, Kozhikode. “The area is generally unstable due to the geological setting of saprolitic sheet joints dipping towards the valley. Extensive power blasting has broken the rocks and opened the sheet joints further sloping towards the valley. During rainy season excess rainwater percolated through the sheet joints triggering massive plane failures. The remnants of overhanging bodies slid down due to rock blasting,” the report, submitted to the Idukki district collector, stated. It recommended that “all the remaining overhanging rocks above the road level and displaced huge blocks below the road, towards the valley should be removed with caution. The large place bedrock that was cut off from the hill and slid down to the road surface edge has to be removed carefully. The portion overhanging the valley has to be removed in small places first through minor blasting or chemical blasting. The RC retaining wall on the hillside has to be founded firmly on the 15m thick grouting. There should be sufficient opening for the surface water to join the concrete drain.” It was on June 17 that a major landslide occurred on the stretch that swept away nearly 200m of road. Another major landslide on August 7 . Within a year nearly 20 landslides were reported on the stretch. Prakash, a resident of Bisonvalley, said, “ The area is under serious landslide threat and farmers have informed officials that they don’t need compensation. They want the government to buy the land from them as it has been rendered uncultivable.” “We will resume road-widening work on the Gap Road stretch only after a meeting of farmers of the region,” Idukki collector H Dineshan told TOI. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said, “The future of Gap Road has been called into question. The road-widening work is a risk which was unnecessary and is best avoided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heavy-blasting-led-to-gap-road-landslides-says-nit/articleshow/77826832.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Concern raised over lapses in contact tracing at private hospitals||KOCHI: Concerns have been raised over the lapses in contact tracing at several hospitals in the city, especially private ones, after their employees test positive for Covid-19. Sources said the failure of the hospitals to quarantine primary contacts of staff who test positive for the virus has resulted in a spike in the number of cases reported from such hospitals. "On Friday, we conducted a virtual meeting with representatives of private hospitals after lapses in contact tracing and other Covid-19 control measures were brought to our notice. We have asked them to give data on the number of cases and also to take measures to prevent disease spread among their staff and other patients," Dr N K Kuttappan, DMO, said. As many as 24 cases were reported from a private hospital in Kochi on Friday, according to health department. In the month of August alone, nearly 150 cases were reported from the private hospitals in the district. Still, during several instances, authorities have not been keen to send the primary contacts of these patients to quarantine, said sources. "In our hospital, several employees tested positive for Covid-19 in the past one month. But those who came into contact with them were rarely quarantined," said a doctor with a private hospital. "Of the 24 cases reported the other day from the private hospital, most are canteen staff. Still, the canteen remains operational. It was not closed for even a single day for disinfection. They brought staff from their charity organization in Kollam and replaced those who tested positive for Covid-19," says one of the hospital staff. No efforts were taken to trace those who came into contact with the canteen staff, including doctors, nurses, other patients and visitors, the employee added. At the same time, in another hospital, a group of nursing staff were sent to quarantine after a patient with whom they came into contact turned positive. "The patient had undergone a surgical procedure. But none of the doctors who had also come into contact with the patient were told to go into quarantine. These doctors end up as disease carriers," a nursing staff of the hospital said. Officials with the health department in the district said they have given instructions to private hospitals managements on the need for conducting contact tracing. "We provide the details of the primary contacts to the health department. We also quarantine all the persons identified by the department," said Dr Thomas Paul, district president, Kerala Private Hospitals Managements Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/concern-raised-over-lapses-in-contact-tracing-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77827676.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jain group moves SC to open religious places||Ahmedabad: A city-based Jain sect has approached the Supreme Court by filing a PIL seeking opening of places of worship of all religions, claiming that free access to religious places would give positive energy to people, who are in distress in this Covid-19 pandemic situation. The PIL was filed on Friday by Gitarth Ganga Trust at the behest of Jain monk Yugbhushansuriji Maharaj Saheb. The apex court is likely to hear the plea next week. “The main objective of this petition is for the well-being and spiritual happiness of each and every resident of India. Unemployment, financial stress, and other problems caused by the pandemic have affected the mental health of many followers and worshippers which can be majorly resolved by allowing religious places to re-open and helping them attain spiritual peace and happiness,” reads a statement issued by the trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jain-group-moves-sc-to-open-religious-places/articleshow/77827656.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Libraries get ready to reopen for bibliophiles in Chennai||CHENNAI: Scholars, book lovers and those preparing for competitive exams are excited about the prospect of reopening libraries in the city from Monday. Staff at the Connemara public library in Egmore and the Anna Centenary library in Kotturpuram, two of the premier libraries in the city have been preparing for the new normal. “Those below 15 years and above 65 years will not be allowed to use the library. The reference, own book reading and lending sections will be accessible to public. However, we will be functioning in a closed access service mode, wherein public will not be allowed to look for the books they want and our staff will help them,” said M Ganesha, library in-charge at Connemara. During the lockdown several aspirants of competitive exams used to come and return disappointed, recalled M Ganesha, who is now relieved that his phone will stop ringing, for hundreds of regulars used to call him every day to enquire about the reopening of the library. “The Anna library is where a lot of like-minded people preparing for civil service examinations meet and we used to have productive discussions after our reading hours,” said P Vimal Sankar, a UPSC aspirant and a Anna centenary library regular. Ganesha said they will be requesting visitors not to bring along bags and food like they usually do to minimise chances of containation of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/libraries-get-ready-to-reopen-for-bibliophiles/articleshow/77827680.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Kalinga cricket frog found in W Ghats||Karwar: A new research has shown the presence of Kalinga cricket frogs (KCF or Fejervarya kalinga) in the Western Ghats, indicating Morphological Phenotypic Plasticity (MPP). The research is a joint effort of researchers Amit Hegde of Sirsi, prof Girish Kadadevaru of Breeding Behaviour and Bioacoustics Lab of the zoology department of Karnatak University, and K P Dinesh of Zoological Survey of India (Pune). Their research findings have been published in the recent edition of ‘Zootaxa’, a journal of international repute. MPP is the ability of an organism to show drastic morphological variations in response to natural environmental variations or stimuli, according to the team of researchers. In 2018, KCF was described and reported from the Eastern Ghats and also thought to be endemic to the hill ranges there. The team has reported KCF from the central Western Ghats with considerable evidence of MPP. Hegde said: “During my field expeditions in the Western Ghats, I have encountered this species several times — it looks completely different from Fejervaraya/ Minervarya specie known in the Western Ghats. In the era of climate change, we are still discovering new species and we don’t know a lot about the species and within how they behave or adapt themselves to different biogeography ranges,” he said. Kadadevaru said though there is a decline in the amphibian population globally, researchers in India are successfully able to explore new species and trace the geographic ranges of some rare amphibians. “In the present study too, there is a report of the frog species, that was thought to be endemic to a few parts in the Eastern Ghats, being located in the central Eastern Ghats. However, the frog from the Eastern Ghats is phenotypically showing certain differences when compared with the population that was observed in the Eastern Ghats,” he said. Dinesh said that only morphological character utility in the identification of the species and addressing the taxonomic uncertainties is tricky. “But the utility of genetic data and DNA bar-coding tools are handy in resolving complex taxonomic problems,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kalinga-cricket-frog-found-in-w-ghats/articleshow/77826839.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
August 30, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 forces Rambo Circus to fold its tent, but online shows may rescue it||PUNE: The Pune-based Rambo circus was on the verge of an upgrade. It had consulted with top Russian firms to create and deploy immersive, dreamy situations in live shows to enthrall new audiences using lighting and imagine techniques. And then came the Covid-19 pandemic. “We had planned to do shows that would significantly upgrade the very experience of a circus for families and children. The equipment, the plans, and all the techniques were ready, including new forms of lighting, 3D projection, and others, while keeping the circus acts that are well-known. But then the pandemic came about, and we had to cancel a lot of shows,” Sujith Dilip, proprietor of Rambo Circus, told TOI. But, to bring circuses back to life, and for the welfare of the performers who have been significantly damaged financially, Sujith has partnered with a ticket aggregator and its corporate social responsibility (CSR) arm, an entertainment studio, and a non governmental organisation (NGO). The circus is going online from September 25 to October 6, titled Life Is A Circus, but the content, according to Sujith, is more than just circus acts and accompanying music and lights. A narrator will lead the show which will be livestreamed, taking viewers through the history of Rambo Circus, and all that it has achieved through the years, including some of its most famous acts, some of which have been choreographed and recorded at a circus tent adjusted as a studio. All through, the circus performers- 60 of them- will take the audiences through the struggles of the performers through the years, and the finale, consisting of live acts like the trapeze, stilt walking, clown shows with unicycles, will be a tribute to people on the frontline against the pandemic. “We were stuck at our base in Airoli when the pandemic happened, and no performances could happen. The entertainment studio approached us about taking the circus online, as something new and interesting. We recreated our circus tent in the form of a studio with cameras and lights, and there has been extensive practice and recording of choreographed sequences. This has been going on for more than a month. And we named the show thus to reflect the people who are involved in the circus, including our performers, who have been with us for many years now,” Sujith said. The tickets for the livestreamed event has been placed in three brackets, with the highest bracket guaranteeing the viewer an exclusive interaction with the performers themselves. People will also be able to donate to the welfare of the performers, even if they are not ticketed viewers, through the NGO partner of the event. Sujith is almost of circus royalty- his father, PT Dilip, founded the circus in 1992, merging three smaller circuses. He has certainly seen better days in the circus industry, when children and animals were allowed to perform, and audiences would be teeming in the tent. He added that though he was lucky to receive funds from the government for the welfare of his circus performers, others have not had the rub of the green. But he disagrees that the pandemic may turn out to be the coup de grace for circuses itself. “There are smaller circuses in small towns and cities who could not sustain themselves in this situation. Rambo Circus even pooled some funds from various sources to help out some of the performers of these circuses. The government should be allowing theatres and shows to resume at probably half the capacity by the end of the year. But I think that many of the circuses would be forced to pack up for good by the time it happens. Then again, I also don’t think that people like circuses any more. We would still want to launch our upgrade of the circus once public events can resume,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-forces-rambo-circus-to-fold-its-tent-but-online-shows-may-rescue-it/articleshow/77827681.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Bridegroom walks out of wedding, counselled||TIRUPATI: A bridegroom who walked away from his wedding minutes after the ceremony was over on Friday, was later brought to the police station and counselled by local police in Kadiri mandal of Anantapur district. According to Kadiri police, Chinna, a resident of Obulareddipalli in Talupula mandal, married his sister’s daughter, reportedly a minor, at a local temple in Muthyalacheruvu panchayat in Kadiri mandal on Friday morning. Within minutes after the ceremony was over, the bridegroom went missing, as the girl’s family did not offer him a dowry as promised, it was learnt. Learning about the development, local police summoned both the bridegroom and the bride’s family to the police station and counselled them. Police meanwhile are trying to verify the bride’s age to confirm whether she is a minor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bridegroom-walks-out-of-wedding-counselled/articleshow/77826812.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Sadhya delight for those in quarantine||Kochi: The paid quarantine facility has come as a relief to the city’s hospitality sector which took a beating following the outbreak of Covid-19. With a good number of non-resident Keralities, who returned from other states and countries opting for paid quarantine, hotels started housing these guests adhering to protocols set by the Centre and state governments. This Onam, hotels are serving packed sadhya to their guests in quarantine. According to data released by the district administration, more than 2,000 people in Ernakulam district have opted for paid quarantine. A luxury hotel at Willindon Island stated that they would provide quarantine facility as well as serve sadhya to their guests. “However, this will be packed and delivered at their rooms. The guest opting for quarantine will have to remain at the hotel for a minimum of seven nights,” said an employee with the hotel. Jose Pradeep, state executive committee member of Federation of Kerala Hotels Association said that during the initial stages, “paid quarantine did bring good business to the hotels. However, its success will depend on the availability of staff. It is not possible for all hotels to retain too many employees during the crisis”. Riaz Ahmad of Abad Hotels and Resorts said that two-three months ago paid quarantine helped in sustaining business. As government has allowed people to opt for home quarantine the business is slowly losing its sheen. “However, customers are returning to restaurants. Both hotels and resorts are using disposable utensils and bed linen and follow all Covid protocols,” he said. He also said this year not many hotels are interested in hosting Onam celebrations. Pradeep, who runs hotel Yuvarani said there are no special plans for Onam. “It is mainly due to uncertainty of customer patronage and heavy maintenance cost. Unless the bar starts functioning, there will be no profit,” he said. Meanwhile, luxury hotels in the city are offering ‘Onasadhya’ as takeaway and dine-in. Grand Hyatt provides takeaway for small and large groups. Moreover, they are also offering eight varieties of payasam, delivered at the customers’ doorstep by online food delivery service providers. On Thiruvonam day, sadhya will be served at the hotel.  “We are also offering non-vegetarian delicacies. Both are offered at the same rate. We are hopeful that customers will drop in,” said Thomas Rulin, director of sales, Taj Malabar Resort and Spa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sadhya-delight-for-those-in-quarantine/articleshow/77827683.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: CMRL to construct 12-storey office and retail space||CHENNAI: In less than two years, city residents could get to their workplace or shop and grab a bite before they hop onto a metro train as the Chennai Metro Rail (CMRL) will soon commence construction of a 12-storey office complex at Ekkatuthangal. Metro rail has floated tenders to begin construction of the complex which, upon completion, is expected to generate additional revenue. According to the tender invite, the office building or complex will have 11 floors with ground floor and two basement levels and the construction, which will also include mechanical, electrical and plumbing work, is expected to be completed in 18 months. CMRL officials had r said the building at Ekkatuthangal would come up in a 40,558sqft area. They would be ready-to-occupy warm shells, with space for office and retail outlets. The building would be linked to the nearest metro station through pathways. A metro official had said, “The lower levels will be for retail and the upper levels will be office space.” The official said similar buildings were planned in a 17,868sqft space in Arumbakkam and a few other stations like Nehru Park and Ashok Nagar. In 2019, much before start of the construction of the building, CMRL floated a tender to licence out the space in the office building planned at Ekattuthangal and Nehru Park. This, they said, was done to gauge market interest and response in using such spaces on rental basis before CMRL could invest in the construction. The effort to study market response by floating the tender was done as many such spaces available in the metro stations still have no takers. “The tender is for prospective occupants and concessionaires, who would use these proposed buildings or take over the entire development and operate it,” an official had said. The plan was to licence the space out for a period of 12 years. Almost all 32 stations have space to be rented out for retail outlets. But except for a few stalls in the street level of stations like Nehru Park and Koyambedu, many of them built inside bigger stations like Shenoy Nagar, which has been operational for more than three years, are lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmrl-to-construct-12-storey-office-and-retail-space/articleshow/77827682.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: TikTok torment of ex-friend drives woman to suicide||AHMEDABAD: A complaint was filed in Ahmedabad on Friday over the suicide of a married Khanpur woman, apparently triggered by the cyber onslaught of a former friend who was incensed that she had married another man. The victim is Rachnakumari Ronaksinh, the wife of an inspector in the office of the deputy commissioner of the GST department in the city. Rachnakumari killed herself at her rented house in Khanpur on June 29. The complaint was lodged at Shahpur police station on Friday by her father Arunkumar Rajput of Patna. According to Rajput’s complaint, Rachnakumari’s tormentor was Kanhaiyakumar Rajput of Fatehpur. The filing of the complaint was delayed because Arunkumar Rajput was unable to travel due to the lockdown. According to the complaint, after Rachnakumari married, Kanhaiyakumar started phoning her husband, identified only as Ronaksinh. Kanhaiyakumar kept up the harassment by also sending voice messages to Ronaksinh. On June 28, Kanhaiyakumar sent a TikTok video featuring him and Rachnakumari to Ronaksinh. That pushed her over the edge, the complaint said. “When Rachnakumari learnt of the video, she was distraught and said Kanhaiyakumar had ruined her life,” said a police official. “On June 29, she killed herself.” The complaint said that before her marriage, Rachnakumari and Kanhaiyakumar were residents of the same Bihar village and had become friends. The complaint said her marriage to Ronaksinh enraged Kanhaiyakumar. Soon, Kanhaiyakumar started the harassment over the phone. The complaint said that Kanhaiyakumar responded with abuses to the couple’s pleas to see reason. “According to the complaint, one day Kanhaiyakumar called Rachnakumari and told her that if she let him film one TikTok video with him, he would never contact her again,” the police official said. “In the hope that the torture would end, Rachnakumari agreed. Kanhaiyakumar came to her house in Khanpur, shot the video, and went away.” Then came the betrayal. Inspector R K Amin of the Shahpur police station said: “We sent a team to Bihar after the she killed herself. Her father said he wanted to lodge an FIR against Kanhaiyakumar after the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tiktok-torment-of-ex-friend-drives-woman-to-suicide/articleshow/77827670.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman accused of extorting Rs 1 lakh||Ahmedabad: A 29-year-old man from Lapkaman village in the outskirts of the city lodged a complaint with Bopal police on Friday against a 25-year-old woman that she allegedly extorted Rs 1 lakh from him after their consensual physical relationship. He was preparing for his UPSC exams in Delhi when he was allegedly trapped by the woman, originally from Akola in Maharashtra. The man stated in the complaint that she threatened him that if he didn’t pay him money she would lodge a complaint of rape against him. The man alleged that the woman has lodged complaints of rape and molestation in Akola against several people. Bopal police have lodged a complaint under sections 420, 384, 389, and 506(2) and have informed their counterparts in Delhi and Maharashtra to search for the woman. The complainant’s family belongs to Jharkhand and for the past 20 years they have been living in Ahmedabad. “In 2016, he went to Delhi and joined an institute in Karol Bagh for the UPSC exams preparation. In June-July 2019, while he was staying as paying guest in Delhi he got a call from the woman,” said a police official. According to the FIR, when the woman learnt that the complainant was staying alone as a paying guest and preparing for the UPSC exams, she requested the complainant to find a rented house for her as she also wanted to prepare for the UPSC exams. The girl and her mother came to stay in Delhi near his house as he arranged one for them. “They became friends and later physical intimacy developed between the two,” said the police official. According to the complainant, the woman later started blackmailing him and extorted Rs 1 lakh between March 2020 and May 2020. “As the woman continued to threaten him to lodge a complaint of rape, the youth left his UPSC studies and came back to Ahmedabad. But the accused kept on calling him and his family members and threatened to fix the youth in a false case of rape,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-accused-of-extorting-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77827677.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||100-odd candidates take architecture aptitude test||PANAJI: On Saturday, at least 100 students from across Goa appeared for the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA), held for admissions to degree programme architecture seats. While 47 students appeared for the exam at the centre at MICE, Margao, 52 answered at the Don Bosco College of Engineering, Fatorda. Besides these, some students chose to take the test from their home. This is the first time that the entire test was held in the online mode. There were some minor glitches , but everyone was able to complete the test, members of the Council of Architecture said. “The exam has two parts, the Part 1 is of 45 minutes for General Aptitude and Logical Reasoning and Part 2 is of 72 minutes for cognitive skill test,” said architect Chandan Parab, member of the Council of architecture. He said that the part 2 includes questions with high resolution images which were supposed to be analysed by students. “There was a broadband speed issue at MICE academy and 12 students complained of the images being displayed slowly and questions being skipped due to connectivity issue. Five students could not log in on the first attempt, but managed to do so after 45 minutes. They answered part 2 first and part 1 later,” said Parab. An option has been provided for students to reappear for the test on September 12. “Students, who could not answer this test or who had software issues during the first test and want to answer again, can register themselves for another test to be held on September 12 on www.nata.in before September 4,” said Parab. On Saturday, for students who answered the test at the two centres, thermal screening was carried out and no student was found to have an unusual temperature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/100-odd-candidates-take-architecture-aptitude-test/articleshow/77828826.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Florists’ hopes wilt this Onam season||KOCHI: The unorganized flower business sector is reeling under crisis for the third consecutive year with business taking a huge hit due to the pandemic. Wholesalers and retailers whose business is centred around Ernakulam say that the government warning against buying of flowers fearing Covid spread has dealt a major blow to the sector. Though the state lifted the ban on flowers from neighbouring states, especially Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, florists have no reason to heave a sigh of relief. Florists in the city say that with the government banning pookkalam (floral carpet) in government offices, even the little business that could have come by is gone. “As it is, none of the offices are having Onam celebrations. Colleges and schools are closed, residents associations or communities are also not putting any pookkalam in front of their buildings. Everybody is managing with the flowers available at home,” said Rajesh M R, Flower Palace, Tripunithura. He said that though they expected poor business and planned orders accordingly, it has been even poor. “People used to buy 2-3 kg of flowers for their homes every couple of days from Atham onwards and as we near Uthradam, the quantity increase. Also, offices generally have their Onam celebrations closer to holidays. So around these days, people would buy flowers for Rs 2,000-3,000. Now people buy a Rs 50 packet which has around five types of flowers, including marigold in 3 colours, arali (Neriam oleander), jemanthi (chrysanthemum) and vadamalli (globe amaranth). It’s not just the sale of Onam flowers that has been affected. Even temple flowers are not having takers. Shops have cut-down on their part-time workers because of poor business. “But we have to take care of them because they have been associated with us for several years. The government managed this whole business very poorly. Instead of just announcing that flowers could carry coronavirus, state should have given us instructions to follow and ensured that business is conducted following Covid protocol,” said, Regi George, Pushpavady Flowers and Decorations. “People come to our shop and enquire whether the flowers are from Tamil Nadu. Customers are reluctant to buy flowers from other states. Government offices were told not to use flowers from other states. The announcement of relaxation came late. There are a lot of uncertainties. We don’t know if there would be business. In the past 3-4 years, some hurdle or the other has turned up. People are stopping floriculture business. Being an unorganized sector, lots of people are unemployed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/florists-hopes-wilt-this-onam-season/articleshow/77827690.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||80k from Gujarat to take NEET UG||Ahmedabad: This year, 80,129 candidates from Gujarat are expected to take the NEET (UG) exams that are to be held on September 13. This is higher than last year when 79,872 students had participated. Keeping in view the Covid-19 situation, there will be 214 exam centres this year as compare to 142 last year. On the request of the students, the JEE (Main) and NEET (UG), which were earlier scheduled to be held in July, were postponed to be held in September. The National Testing Agency said it will soon release admit cards of NEET (UG) and assured that more than 99% candidates get their first choice of centre cities in both of these exams. In all, 15.97 lakh candidates have been registered for NEET (UG) 2020. In order to meet the social distancing requirements, there has been a substantial increase in the number of centres, according to NTA. To ensure proper social distancing inside the examination halls, the candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE (Main). In case of NEET (UG), the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12, now, it said. For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80k-from-gujarat-to-take-neet-ug/articleshow/77827684.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||8 benches of HC to have limited physical hearing from Sept 7||Chennai: After a break of more than five months, Madras high court has decided to resume limited physical hearing of cases on September 7. To begin with eight benches of the court – six in Chennai and two in Madurai – will hold physical hearings for two weeks.The decision to extend and increase the number of benches and open up all the courts would be taken after two weeks by the administrative committee of the court comprising top seven judges of the court headed by Chief Justice AP Sahi.“In order to meet the growing demand of physical court hearing and also keeping in view the precautions that are required to be observed for avoiding any untoward happening the decision has been made,” the notification issued by the committee said.Of the six benches, three would conduct physical hearing in the morning and the other three benches post lunch. The morning benches would conduct virtual hearing in the afternoon. Similarly, the afternoon benches would conduct virtual hearing in the morning. Except advocates, court staff and judges, others including litigants would not be permitted to enter the high court campus. Separate waiting halls would be provided to lawyers to avoid crowding in the court halls. As to the number of cases to be taken up for hearing each day, the committee has left it to the bench concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/8-benches-of-hc-to-have-limited-physical-hearing-from-sept-7/articleshow/77827696.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||SH club offers online classes for over 100 elderly people||Kochi: It has been four years since the launch of ‘Age-Friendly Club’ at Sacred Heart (SH) College, Thevara, that was started with the aim of providing senior citizens an opportunity to get access to free education. The programme has been a great success by teaching hundreds of elderly people information technology, spoken English, Communicative French, Hindi, etc. with the help of undergraduate students. But as the pandemic has derailed the club’s activities by putting restrictions on elderly people and the college, the organizers are now relying on online platforms to resume the classes. Online classes for 2020-21 were officially inaugurated by M G Rajamanickam, director of fisheries and incident director of Covid containment zones, through an online conference on Sunday. Just like the offline classes, a one-to-one learning system is taking place in every online classroom as there will be an age-friendly volunteer to teach every student with the help of a main teacher mentoring them throughout the course. There are 109 elderly students, including retired government employees. “Due to the current pandemic scenario, classes could not be taken in an offline mode. Hence, classes have been shifted to the online medium. Being entirely new to this platform, the first few classes were to make the students familiarize with the new platform of learning. Recorded classes on how to operate Google Meet and other related online applications were made accessible to students,” said Abin Ambily, faculty coordinator of the club. The club is aimed at giving them exposure to the real college atmosphere and providing them with all the activities of the college. Moreover, it aims at an inter-generational interaction in the present days where most students come from a nuclear family with no grandparents. Also, it will help the elderly to be engaged. In addition, various other activities and programmes of the club have also been transformed to the new platform. On August 15, ‘Tiranga’, the Independence Day celebration by the elderly people was conducted through the Google Meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sh-club-offers-online-classes-for-over-100-elderly-people/articleshow/77827698.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Onam a low key affair at apartment complexes||Kochi: For residents of apartment complexes in the city, this year Onam remains a gloomy affair. Celebrations are low-key, and all activities are confined to individual flats. Apartment associations point out that with employees being given the opportunity to work from home, many residents have left for their native places and there are others who plan to leave as holidays begin. The All Kerala Apartment Owners Association president V K Shankarankutty said that there will not be any gathering at apartment complexes. “All apartments have been asked to adhere to Covid-19 protocols. We are not hosting any events. This year residents are confined to their individual apartments.” Usually apartment owners’ associations host programmes like Onam feast and cultural events. “This year there is no such activity. In previous years, many associations conducted cooking competitions, floral carpet competitions and the like,” he said. Representatives of apartment associations say that residents are not keen on celebrating the festival. The increasing number of Covid positive cases and people being quarantined in flats have taken away the sheen of the festival. “Generally, apartment associations host celebrations either before the festival season or afterwards to ensure maximum participation. It is because people go to their ancestral homes or opt to spend their vacation at some other place. This year, since people are given the option to work from home many have already left the city. Those who remain here due to work commitments will leave as holidays begin,” said Rajeena Yusaf, a resident of an apartment complex at Jawahar Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/onam-a-low-key-affair-at-apartment-complexes/articleshow/77827715.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||Huge turnout in Amul Dairy election||Vadodara/ Anand: Elections for the new board of the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited popularly known as Amul Dairy witnessed 99.71% voter turnout on Saturday even as social distancing norms went for a complete toss. The day witnessed some anxious moments when a 74-year-old voter registered in the Petlad block reached in an ambulance. Sources said that the elderly changed the schedule of his planned operation to come for voting. A total of 1,046 out of 1,049 representatives of village level milk societies situated Anand, Kheda and Mahisagar districts voted for 11 seats of directors representing as many blocks. The dairy’s incumbent chairman Ramsinh Parmar and Ranjit Patel had got elected uncontested as no other candidate had filed nomination against them. Both Anand and Matar blocks witnessed a keen contest. Anand block witnessed a direct poll battle between Anand’s Congress MLA Kanti Sodha Parmar and BJP’s Umreth MLA Govind Parmar. For Matar block, BJP MLA Kesrisinh Solanki and Sanjay Patel, who as Congress candidate had contested assembly polls against him were in fray. Dhiru Chavda, chairman of the Kheda District Co-operative Bank, who is currently representing this block, is also in fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/huge-turnout-in-amul-dairy-election/articleshow/77826434.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyber cell arrests trio of cheats||Ahmedabad: Cybercrime cell of the city police arrested three accused, Varun Khurana, 28, Jayesh Himmatlal Vaghela, 43, and Chirag Gamit, 27, all from Surat. They were held earlier in the week and arrested after their Covid-19 tests came negative. The trio used to dupe people by promising people to double their investments in the share market in a month. ACP, cybercrime, Jeetendra Yadav said they had received a complaint from a 34-year-old woman of Naroda early this month who alleged that the accused had sent her a message on her phone stating “New concept, one-time deposit and earn monthly up to Rs 3 to 4 lakh with the help of a software. Call now for live demo. The accused had also given a contact number with the message,” said Yadav. Once the woman called them, the accused took her into confidence and made her deposit Rs 4 lakh in a bank and returned Rs 65 thousand to lead her to thinking all was well and thus delay legal action. Then the accused stopped receiving her calls. Sources in the cybercrime cell said their team traced the accused to Surat from phone numbers and bank account details. Yadav said the accused used to send the link of a software which used to show the profit in dollars to the victims, to gain their confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyber-cell-arrests-trio-of-cheats/articleshow/77827694.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Over 500 test positive for second day in row||PANAJI: For the second consecutive day this week, the state recorded more than 500 positive cases. A total of 547 fresh cases were reported on Saturday with 341 reports awaited. Three more deaths were reported on Saturday taking the Covid death toll to 178. Several younger persons have also been succumbing to Covid, with a 30-year-old with comorbidities from Old Goa dying at Goa Medical College (GMC) on Saturday. A 70-year-old from Bicholim also died at GMC and a 68-year-old from Fatorda died at the ESI Covid hospital in Margao. After the health director, two senior health services doctors also tested positive. After Mangor Hill/Vasco, the epicentre has moved to Margao with the town’s urban health centre reporting close to 500 positive cases. Vasco now has half of Margao’s active positive cases. Active positive cases are also on the rise in Ponda with 266 cases. New cases in Porvorim are approaching the 200 mark with cases in Panaji and Mapusa also inching towards the double century mark. Chief officer of Mapusa Municipal Council Kabir Shirgaonkar said that seven members of a municipal worker’s family tested positive after Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. “There has been a spike in cases possibly due to festivities,” he said. After more than a dozen fish vendors tested positive, the Mapusa municipal market continues to remain closed. Authorities are yet to take a call on when to open it. “A decision will be taken after holding a meeting,” Shirgaonkar added. Several other health centres have reported more than 100 active positive cases — Sankhali, Pernem, Valpoi, Corlim, Chimbel, Cansaulim and Quepem. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday said that the health department would be encouraging plasma donation. “Taking inspiration from the Gujarat government to encourage recovered Covid patients to donate plasma, the health department will be felicitating plasma donors with an appreciation certificate along with that we shall be ensuring special health incentives for the family members of the donor,” he said. “Leading by example, Goa will set a new trend in encouraging patients to donate plasma,” Rane said. Health workers are cautioning people to stay safe during this period of spike and have advised keeping outdoor activities to the minimum. “Don’t have interactions for more than 15 minutes. Ensure that social distancing is maintained and that the space is well ventilated, all this while wearing masks. There shouldn’t be crowding,” a health worker said. He also advised against people sharing the same vehicle to work where several cases have been reported of persons testing positive. “One of them turns positive and the rest get all stressed out. They then have to wait for five days to get tested because if they get tested on the first day there’s no point as it will be a false negative,” the health worker said. “Celebrating festivals during this time are not recommended but cannot be avoided. There will be consequences of not maintaining social distancing,” the health worker added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-500-test-positive-for-2nd-day-in-row/articleshow/77828840.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Patna||‘Maoists’ gun down two in Gaya village, three arrested||GAYA: Suspected Maoists gunned down two people at Harni Khajura village under the Magra police station area in Gaya district late on Friday night. One villager was injured in the attack. The victims were identified as Mahindra Yadav and Ram Dayal Rajak. The Maoists left a handwritten note in the village, alleging that Mahindra was a police informer and land broker. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said the Maoists were armed with sophisticated weapons, including AK-47 rifle. According to the SSP, preliminary investigations revealed that as the Maoist base weakened in the region on account of increased police mobility and execution of development projects, several land owners, whose land was earlier grabbed by the Maoists, were reclaiming the land for cultivation and sale purposes. “Mahindra was helping the villagers in their effort to reclaim lost land. This infuriated the Maoists,” he added. The SSP said the Maoists targeted only Mahindra and the other person got killed accidentally. “Ten people were named in the FIR registered in connection with the incident and three of them have been arrested. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining accused,” the SSP added. Meanwhile, irate villagers blocked road traffic in the area to register protest against the killing of the villagers. The roadblock was lifted after Sherghati SDO Upendra Pandit assured the villagers of providing financial assistance to the dependants of the murdered villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoists-gun-down-two-in-gaya-village-three-arrested/articleshow/77826788.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 30, 2020||Patna||Gaya, Rajgir may get Ganga water by June next: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Saturday visited the bank of the Ganga near Hathidah in Patna district and inspected the ongoing construction work in the first phase of the Ganga Water Lift Scheme (GWLS) of the water resources department (WRD). The scheme is aimed at supplying clean drinking water to Gaya, Bodh Gaya and Rajgir towns. The scheme is part of the CM’s ‘Jal-Jivan-Hariyali’ campaign to minimise the bad effects of climate change. The first phase of the GWLS is estimated to cost around Rs 2,836 crore and it is targeted to be completed by June next year. During the inspection, the CM asked the WRD officials and site engineers to ensure completion of the first phase within the deadline. “In the first phase of the GWLS, pipelines will be laid. Dedicated reservoirs and water treatment plants will also be constructed for supplying 43 million cubic meter (MCM) and 7 MCM clean drinking water to Gaya and Rajgir towns, respectively,” a WRD official told TOI on Saturday. In the second phase of the project, clean drinking water will be supplied to Nawada town. Accompanied by the water resources department (WRD) minister Sanjay Kumar Jha and information and public relations department (IPRD) minister Neeraj Kumar, the CM first visited the construction site of the Ganga river intake source at Hathidah and enquired about technical specialties of the project and progress of the works from the site engineers. The CM also visited the site of the scheme’s intake pump house being constructed on the bank of the Ganga and enquired about the progress of work. WRD secretary Sanjiv Hans gave detailed information about the first phase of the GWLS to the CM on the basis of the scheme’s schematic diagram. The CM also enquired about the route of pipeline up to Rajgir and from Rajgir to Gaya and issued necessary instructions to the engineers for completing the scheme at the stipulated time. After spot inspection at Hathidah, the CM undertook an aerial survey of the scheme’s pipeline route up to Rajgir and Gaya. He also undertook an aerial survey of the project’s two main reservoirs at Rajgir and Manpur (Gaya) where lifted waters from the Ganga will be stored for supply to the nearest townships. The CM also enquired about the progress of work in the six-lane road bridge over the Ganga river, which is being built parallel to the existing two-lane Rajendra Setu over the same river near Mokama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-rajgir-may-get-ganga-water-by-june-next-nitish/articleshow/77826776.cms||Madan Kumar
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown back in Chanda, Wardha as Vidarbha reports over 2,000 cases for 3rd day||NAGPUR: A surge in Covid-19 cases as well as deaths have made officials of Chandrapur and Wardha districts impose the lockdown again. Seven days of complete lockdown from August 30 was announced in Chandrapur while the weekend lockdown was imposed in Wardha, Arvi and Selu Tehsils of Wardha district from Saturday itself. Parts of Vidarbha are going under lockdown the very same day when the Central government has announced a complete unlock policy. This is due to the sudden surge in cases, especially in Wardha and Chandrapur districts. Vidarbha region reported 2074 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. These include Nagpur (1348), Chandrapur (178), Amravati (106), Bhandara (89), Buldhana (72), Akola (71), Gondia (56), Washim (45), Yavatmal (44), Wardha (36) and Gadchiroli (29). The total number of cases reached 54557. This was the third day in a row when Vidarbha region reported more than 2000 cases. Covid-19 deaths came down under 50 for the first time in the last 4 days. Vidarbha reported 43 deaths. Nagpur had the highest (33) followed by 4 in Yavatmal, 3 in Akola, 2 in Chandrapur and 1 in Bhandara. The death toll reached 1498, with 1111 in August alone. Vidarbha’s death rate is 2.7% which is way higher than the national average of 1.83%. The recovery rate of Vidarbha touched 62% on Saturday with 1510 patients being discharged. With Nagpur (1112), Amravati (108), Gondia (74), Chandrapur (59), Buldhana (55), Washim (42), Bhandara (27), Akola (26), Yavatmal (4) and Gadchiroli (3), Vidarbha reported 1510 recoveries on Saturday which means 33794 patients have recovered. More than 19,000 patients are still under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district recorded four more deaths on Saturday due to Covid-19. The four deceased are all men — a 36-year from Arni, a 55-year-old, also from Arni, a 45-year-old from Mahagaon and a 63-year-old from Pandharkawda. In all, 43 new positive patients were reported on Saturday, 27 men and 16 women. Yavatmal city recorded 23 patients (10 men and 13 women). As per the official data, there are 713 active positive patients in hospital while 150 are in home isolation. Total 60 swabs were sent to the lab for testing while 4 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Saturday. AKOLA: Three deaths of Covid-19 patients took the Akola toll to 151. A 70-year-old woman from Akot who was admitted since August 25 died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. A 65-year-old man from Balapur who was under treatment since August 20 and a 76-year-old man from Ramdas Peth in Akola also died. Total 71 cases were reported in Akola on Saturday. More than 600 tests were conducted in a day. Now, Akola has 3836 cases, including 3144 recovered, 151 deaths and 541 patients under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: The district registered the highest single-day jump of 172 patients, catapulting the Covid-19 total beyond the 2000 mark. Two deaths were also recorded in the district in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 25. The Covid-19 total now stands at 2074 in the district. Chandrapur also registered a discharge of 59 patients taking the number of cured patients to 1176. Presently, 873 patients are undergoing treatment at Covid Care Centres and Covid Hospitals. A 70-year-old woman from Netaji Chowk in Bhadravathi died of Covid-19 at Chandrapur GMCH on Friday night. She was admitted to the hospital the same evening. The 49-year-old second victim was from Shedmake chowk in Durgapur village in the suburbs of the city. He was admitted to the GMCH on Friday morning, but succumbed in the wee hours of Saturday. Both the deceased had pneumonia and breathing issues. The new detection during the day include 76 from Chandrapur city, Rajura 10, Mul 16, Bramhapuri 4, Warora 8, Pombhurna 4, Korpana 5, Gondpipri 5, Saoli 33, Bhadrawati 44, Chimur 2, Ballarpur 8, Sindewahi 2 and Nagbhid 1. BHANDARA: For the 9th day in-a-row, Bhandara district reported death of a Covid-19 patient. This took the total death toll to 21. A record surge of 89 patients was also reported on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 1135. Recoveries also continued with 27 patients discharged. Now, 610 patients have recovered and 504 patients are under treatment. AMRAVATI: With a spike of 106 cases, the district took its Covid count to 5440 on Saturday. The seventh successive 100-plus single-day spike was the 17th recorded this month and the 19th overall. With 108 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered patients went past 4000 to 4024. This left 1289 active cases, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 287 in home isolation. The rural belt reported 34 cases, taking its count to 1564. The highest eight cases came from Paratwada that took its count to 82 while four cases each came from Anjangaon Surji and Achalpur that took their score to 130 and 128 respectively. Daryapur and Chandur Railway reported two cases each to take their count to 128 and 32 respectively. Shirala Kasba also reported two cases. In city, Namuna Lane and Atul Mangal Karyalay premises in Rukmininagar reported three cases each while two cases each came from Jaiswalnagar, Amba Gate, Krishnarpan colony, Sainagar, Walcot compound, Dasturnagar, Camp, Arjunnagar and Gadgenagar. The remaining cases came from different l9 localities of the city. WASHIM: While 42 patients were discharged, 45 new suspects were detected as infected with the novel coronavirus on Saturday. No death was reported in Washim on Saturday. Washim now has 1668 total positive patients with 1224 discharged. Washim’s recovery rate is more than 73%. With 30 deaths reported, including a suicide, 414 patients are under treatment in Washim. GADCHIROLI: Once again, 21 people from Chamorshi containment zone tested positive out of 289 suspects who were tested on August 28. The other 8 positives include 2 construction labourers from Chhattisgarh and travellers coming from Yavatmal and Nagpur. Three patients recovered in a day. Now, Gadchiroli has 1087 cases, including 854 recovered and 1 death. Total 289 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: Total 36 new positive cases were detected, including Wardha (17), Ashti (7), 4 each in Karanja and Selu and 2 apiece in Samudrapur and Arvi on Saturday. The number of coronavirus cases in the district has reached 915. Out of them, 591 are coronavirus free and 303 patients are undergoing treatment. Test reports of 409 people were received on Saturday. Of these, 36 were positive and the other 395 were discharged. New 637 patients were admitted in isolation wards. The total number of coronavirus cases in the district has reached 915. Of these, 591 have defeated coronavirus and 21 died. At present, 303 infected persons are undergoing treatment. GONDIA: Total 56 new cases were added to the Corona positive tally of Gondia district while 74 patients defeated the virus on Saturday, taking the total of recovered to 875. Of the 475 active cases, 62 patients are under home isolation. Reports of 174 samples are awaited. No death was reported in Gondia on August 29. BULDHANA: Total 72 patients were reported and 55 recovered from Buldhana district on Saturday. With 2983 positive, the tally is heading towards the 3,000 mark. Recoveries reached 2106. With 45 deaths reported till date, Buldhana has 832 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-back-in-chanda-wardha-as-vid-reports-over-2k-cases-for-3rd-day/articleshow/77828850.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Youth arrested for sexually harassing Dalit girl||MANGALURU: A youth was arrested for allegedly sexual harassing a Dalit girl while she was grazing her goats near Ujire in Belthangady taluk on Saturday. The arrested accused is Iqbal Sadiq,27, a construction worker and resident of Koyyur village. According to police, while the victim was grazing goats and was alone, the accused who was passing by in a bike, stopped it and tried to sexually harass her. The victim immediately shouted for help and several locals, including the girl’s brother, rushed to help her. Police added that locals thrashed the accused before handing him over to them. A case has been registered at the Belthangady police station. 40 people booked for violating quarantine The Puttur Town police have booked as many as 40 people for violating quarantine orders. Police said that based on the complaint of Puttur tahsildar Ramesh Babu, they have registered a complaint. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-dalit-girl/articleshow/77826886.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Truck jumps signal, mows down youth, injures 6 others||Kochi: In a freak accident, a truck jumping a signal led to the death of a youth at Cheranellore Signal Junction along Container Road after the truck rammed into vehicles crossing the signal on Saturday afternoon. Six others sustained injuries and one of them was rushed to a nearby hospital in critical condition. The deceased has been identified as Amal K M, 26, a resident of North Paravoor. He was riding a motorcycle and crossing the signal when the truck rammed into him at around 2:30pm. According to police, the truck was going towards the city centre from Kalamassery while the other vehicles were headed towards Edapally from Varapuzha. The two-wheeler and a car had reached the middle of the junction when the speeding truck mowed down the two-wheeler rider. It then hit the car and pushed it forward and hit other vehicles before coming to a stop. All the injured were rushed to a private hospital at Cheranellore. Though the doctors tried to revive Amal, his life couldn’t be saved. The car driver, Manikandan is in the ICU of the hospital. Hospital sources said that he was on ventilator support. Cheranalloor police registered a case invoking Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC against the truck driver. “The truck was speeding and came to a stop after hitting the car and pushing it forward for a few meters. Other vehicles on the lane too were hit, leaving people injured,” said a police officer. Police said that the truck driver too sustained injuries in the collision. Traffic was disrupted for a brief while due to the accident. Road safety expert P D Sunil Babu said that the primary fault in all accidents caused by signal jumping should be attributed to human error. “It seems the truck driver was in a hurry to unload his goods ahead of the festival season. Such haste at signals is asking for trouble, as the lights are set up there mainly to alert the commuters of the need for being cautious,” said Babu. On highways, one needs to be extra cautious while gauging traffic, he added. “There are many lanes converging at a signal junction and a vehicle can come speeding from any direction. Commuters have to slow down, understand the signal and then proceed,” said Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/truck-jumps-signal-mows-down-youth-injures-6-others/articleshow/77827759.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Bull run on Friday night keeps Jamnagar road on weekend high||Rajkot: This wasn’t surely a copy of ‘Pamplona Running of Bulls’, but Jamnagar’s own bizarre version of the traditional Spanish summer festival, when a huge herd of mean-looking bulls came charging down the town’s street at around 8:30pm on Friday.While in the centuries-old tradition, six to 10 cattle are let loose on a subset of a town’s streets for fun, the mayhem on Dadiya and neighbouring villages’ narrow roads as a result of nearly 250 adult bulls on the loose was anything but a nightmare. The rampaging animals were from a pen on the outskirts of the Jamnagar city on Samana highway.According to the police, some miscreants broke into the animal hostel of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC) and deliberately released the stray animals captured by its teams from city streets. The security guard of the pen registered an FIR with Panchkoshi B division police station on Saturday. In his plaint, security guard Bhikhu Tambolia said that around six persons arrived there in a car at around 8pm on Friday and demanded him to open the gate. When he refused, the accused hurled abuses at him and also beat him up. Tambolia called one Ramesh Kaneja who lives nearby and works in the same hostel, but by the time he arrived, the accused already broke into the hostel and released all the animals. Tambolia further alleged that one of the accused told him, “You don’t give the animals fodder and send them to the slaughterhouse. So we want to release these animals. My name is Ravirajsinh Jadeja and do whatever you can do”, before leaving the place. The guard, however, managed to get the number of the car.Jamnagar municipal commissioner, Satish Patel told TOI, “We have registered an FIR and hope they get arrested soon. They weren’t cattle breeders but anti-social elements. This hostel was exclusively for bulls and nobody has ownership over bulls.” Patel also said that teams have already been dispatched to nearby villages to recapture the animals. Fortunately, it happened at night and there were very few people on the roads and so no major mishap took place from the incident, he added. The accused are booked under various sections of IPC and prevention of damage to public property Act 1984.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bull-run-on-friday-night-keeps-jamnagar-road-on-weekend-high/articleshow/77826907.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis cycling like never before||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad-based ophthalmologist, Dr Manish Raval, took to cycling very keenly during the pandemic as there was no other way to keep himself fit. “Jogging and cycling were the only options for outdoor workouts and thus, I was looking to upgrade my bicycle to a high-end one. Despite having placed the order since a month and a half, the cycle hasn’t yet arrived yet,” he said. There are many like Dr Raval, who have pre-booked their bicycles with dealers and are awaiting deliveries. With gyms and outdoor sports complexes closed during the lockdown following the Covid-19 pandemic and workspaces shifting to homes, many are embracing cycling as a means to keep themselves fit. While the city already had a cycling culture with actively operational cycling clubs in addition to independent government and privately-organized initiatives to encourage cycling, the demand for bicycles never saw such a surge as during the pandemic. Dealers of bicycles revealed that the demand for cycles has gone up at least two-folds as compared to last year in July and August. However, the inventories of most dealers have dried up. Sachin Wadhwani, owner, Laxmi Cycles – an Ahmedabad-based dealer of cycles — said, “From June to August, our sales are 2.5 times against the same period last year. With gyms, fitness centres, and playing arenas remaining closed for a long time, even after the lockdown was lifted, there was hardly any alternative for workout and as it turns out, cycling is a preferred alternative for people.” “Amid increased demand, we are out of stock for cycles. After the pandemic, manufacturers cancelled past orders while fresh orders will take two-three months to arrive. If a customer approaches us, we ask them to wait for at least a month,” Wadhwani added. Echoing a similar view, Kirpalsinh Chauhan, owner, The Cycle Shop – another city-based dealership, said, “We used to sell an average of 60 cycles in a month during this time last year. However, the same has now grown to an average of 150 per month in July-August this year. The demand is good but supply-side constraints are also triggered at manufacturer-level due to labourer shortage.” Dealers revealed that cycles priced from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 are in maximum demand and are currently unavailable in the market. While imported cycles take time to arrive, many of those by Indian companies too are contract manufactured outside India and thus are taking time to be delivered, revealed industry players. In fact, the demand for bicycles is so good that online platforms offering bicycles on rentals too are facing an inventory shortage, struggling to meet the growing demand. “The increase in demand is overwhelming. We had placed an order for some 2,000 bicycles in July and we are yet to receive the delivery from our suppliers. They could commit to a supply of a maximum of 150 units in a week,” said Arjit Soni, founder, MyByk. “People hire cycles mainly for fitness and leisure purposes. We are yet to see demand growing from commuters but a proper infrastructure with dedicated lanes for cyclists is imperative to fuel this,” Soni further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-cycling-like-never-before/articleshow/77827708.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||36 fresh Covid cases in Wardha district||WARDHA: The district registered 36 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking its caseload to 915. Test reports of 409 persons were received on Saturday. The positive cases came from Wardha (17), Ashti (7), four each from Karanja and Selu while two each from Samudrapur and Arvi. Of the total patients registered so far, 591 have recovered, 21 have died while 303 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/36-fresh-covid-cases-in-wardha-district/articleshow/77828852.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: RBDCK likely to begin rail overbridge work in six months||KOCHI: Work on the construction of the rail overbridge (ROB) at Atlantis is expected to begin within six months. Roads and Bridges Development Corporation (RBDCK) managing director Rahul R Pillai said that a work order has been issued for installing boundary stone for the project. Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (KIIFB) has sanctioned Rs 89.774 crore for executing the project. The overbridge has a length of 523.92m, including the approach roads. “People whose land would be acquired need to be rehabilitated. It was expected that the land acquisition and rehabilitation process would be completed without much delay,” said Pillai. The RBDCK is entrusted with the execution of the project. Ernakulam MLA T J Vinod said land acquisition process was progressing and the revenue department has to issue a notification for land acquisition and take over. Councillor David Parambithara said approximately four hectares of land need to be acquired. While some buildings need to be demolished fully, others would be partially demolished. “The aim was to build the ROB by keeping the disruption at minimum. There were also some encroachments along the alignment of the ROB. It seems these people were also included in the rehabilitation package, which would be provided as part of the land acquisition process,” he said. The construction of the Atlantis ROB will open a new connectivity between MG Road and Panampilly Nagar. It will help to decongest the stretch between Atlantis Junction and Pallimukku on MG Road and between Pallimukku and Manorama Junction, the councillor added. However, it was pointed out that the lockdown and severe financial crisis faced by the state government could have an adverse impact on the land acquisition process. “The upcoming local body polls and financial crisis could further delay the project execution. The rehabilitation package would have to be announced and handed over to those who give up their land. As the ROB passes through one of the prime locations in the city, the land value would be high. The revenue department was focused on tackling the pandemic. All these could have an impact on the speed of the project execution,” said an official with the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rbdck-likely-to-begin-rob-work-in-six-months/articleshow/77827783.cms||---
August 30, 2020||India||Sonia: They want to silence the voice of people||RAIPUR: Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a stromg remark against “attempts to divide and derail the nation”, said on Saturday that divisive forces are spreading hatred across the country. “Freedom of expression is under threat. They want people of India — farmers, tribals, women, youth and businessmen — to keep their mouth shut. They want to silence the voice of people,” she said during a video-conference for the Bhoomi Pujan of a new assembly complex in Chhattisgarh’s Naya Raipur. “Autocracy is gaining ground over democracy,” the AICC chief said. “None of our forefathers would have foreseen that the country would face such a difficult situation 75 years after independence,” Sonia said, adding: “Attempts are being made to derail the nation and it’s a new challenge before our Constitution. Attempts are being made to divide the nation by pitting people against each other in a ‘divide and rule’ policy, and wrong feelings and sentiments are over-shadowing everything else.” She has launched repeated attacks on the BJP-led Union government in the past few days for holding back states’ GST dues and insisting on holding NEET and JEE during the Covid pandemic. “During the last seven decades, we have come a long way, faced many challenges successfully and found solutions to many problems. However, we are still away from fulfilling many dreams,” Sonia said. People are India’s hope, she said. “Parliament and legislative assemblies are the pillars and temples of our democracy. But we have to remember that our Constitution is preserved and protected not just by such buildings and infrastructure but by the sentiments of people,” the Congress chief remarked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-they-want-to-silence-the-voice-of-people/articleshow/77829403.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Skip bike ride, use bullet-proof car, Hyderabad cops advise BJP MLA Raja Singh||HYDERABAD: Considering the threat faced by Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh, the Hyderabad police on Friday told him to give up travelling on a two-wheeler and requested him to use the allotted bullet proof (BP) four-wheeler. Raja Singh, BJP’s lone MLA in Telangana who is known for his controversial statements, occasionally rides a two-wheeler while moving in his constituency. Received a letter from @hydcitypolice commissioner @CPHydCity stating I can't move in city on my bike citing threat… https://t.co/vzr71qnWA1— Raja Singh (@TigerRajaSingh) 1598689733000Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar, in a letter to the legislator, said: “Due to threat perception, enhanced security has been provided to you and security personnel are also being alerted and checked from time to time. Special training has been organised to all your personal security policemen periodically’’. The commissioner also cautioned Raja Singh that moving on a motorcycle might pose a security threat to him. “Your kind cooperation is solicited to ensure proper security, that you may kindly completely avoid moving on motorcycle and travel by the bullet proof car allotted,’’ the CP said. Reacting to the letter, Raja Singh said police have not clarified the basis on which they concluded that threat to him increased. “I am told by police that the situation is hostile I have a threat. But, police have not clarified to me whether I have a threat from terrorists or any organization or is the threat due to some personal enmity? So, I am writingto Union home minister Amit Shah and Telangana home minister on the issue,’’ Raja Singh said. When TOI contacted a senior officer of Hyderabad police, he clarified that there was no increase in threat perception to Raja Singh and it remained what it was three months ago. “Every three months, threat perception of all public representatives is reviewed. In Raja Singh’s case he was cautioned as he uses two-wheeler in public places,’’ an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/skip-bike-ride-use-bp-car-cops-advise-mla/articleshow/77827800.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||533 missing kids found in police drive||Ahmedabad: During the drive conducted from August 6 to August 27 by the state police to find 2,617 missing children, the cops managed to trace 533 kids. The children were in the age group of 0 to 18. The drive was directed by DGP Ashish Bhatia. During the drive, police also solved the murder of a 14-year-old girl who was abducted from Amreli in 2016. The accused have been caught. In another case, a minor girl had been reported missing from Bhabhar in Banaskantha about a year-and-a-half ago. Police had monitored the social media account which bore the girl’s name and eventually traced her. “The drive to find the missing children will go on relentlessly,” said DGP Bhatia. From 2007 to 2020, about 46,400 minors had gone missing of whom 43,783 were found. An analysis made by Bhatia revealed that most of the children had gone missing from Ahmedabad, Surat, Bharuch, Mehsana, Dahod and Godra. After the analysis, the DGP had directed a state-wide drive to find the 2,617 missing children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/533-missing-kids-found-in-police-drive/articleshow/77827757.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pivot and win: New mantra for entrepreneurs, startups||AHMEDABAD: Rahul Panch, a solar power engineer and adventure aficionado, decided to make his passion his profession when he launched Chal Kabira, a startup that offered ‘graduation trip’ experience to students of IIMs and IITs across the country. Over 2,000 students and professionals became part of trips organized by him in a few years. “In 2020, due to Covid-19 we have not been able to organize a single trip,” says Panch, whose venture is incubated with Gujarat University Startup and Entrepreneurship Council (GUSEC). Panch is now offering ‘working vacations’ in the shadow of Covid-19 for executives. Rahul Bhagchandani, group CEO of GUSEC, said when a startup changes its product or strategy without losing its core tech, it can be identified as pivoting. “We observe about 15-20% of our startups pivoting in post-Covid-19 scenario,” he said. UrbanKhet, another startup incubated at GUSEC, was earlier focused on exotic vegetables grown at their own hydroponics-based farm on outskirts of Ahmedabad. “Post Covid-19, we expanded our base to vegetables delivery at doorstep. We collaborated with farmers and stuck to our basic idea of delivering fresh greens,” said Priyam Sameer, founder of the venture. Satya Ranjan Acharya, director of Cradle, a startup incubator at Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), said about 30% of their ventures have pivoted to face post Covid scenario. “We have initiatives like ShiUV that could launch UV technology-based GermiWand soon after the epidemic,” he said. Iota Design & Innovation Lab incubated at Cradle, is currently working on biomedical applications. Kaushik Choudhury, co-founder of the venture, said Covid-19 has taught entrepreneurs to plan better and convert crisis to opportunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pivot-and-win-new-mantra-for-entrepreneurs-startups/articleshow/77827835.cms||Parth Shastri
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Theft case accused held after 7 years||Kochi: Ernakulam Rural police on Saturday arrested a man who was on the run for seven years in a theft case. The arrested person has been identified as Vipin Chacko (39) of Puthenpurackal House, Kummanod. The accused was arrested by Kunnathunaadu police. The case pertains to the theft reported in 2013 at a house at Erumely in Pallikara, Ernakulam. Police said that the accused, who was convicted in a narcotics case, was out after completing jail term on August 6. The accused landed in police net during a special drive held as per the directives of rural SP K Karthick to prevent incidents of thefts in the district. The accused has cases against him at Kothamangalam, Puthencruz, Perumbavoor and Kambhammettu police stations. The accused was arrested by a team of Perumbavoor DSP K Bijumon, Kunnathunadu CI V T Shajan and SI K T Shaijan. ASI Venugopal, SCPOs Manaf, Ajith and Rafeek were also part of the probe team. Ernakulam rural police meanwhile registered 22 cases on Saturday for violations of Covid protocol. Rural police recorded the arrest of two persons relating to the same. Actions were initiated against 1,586 persons for not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/theft-case-accused-held-after-7-years/articleshow/77827791.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Builders hope stamp duty cut will boost sales||Nagpur: City builders are elated over the 3% stamp duty cut affected by the state government and are hoping it will boost sale of properties that are complete or nearing completion. Mahesh Sadhwani, Credai Nagpur president, said that it was a big boost for the realty sector,which was down since the last three to four years. “People have realized the importance of having a big home due to work from home policy. Those having one BHK are going for two BHK, two BHK people are going for three BHK. They are converting one room as office. This is the best time to buy. Rates are stable and stamp duty has been reduced,” he told TOI. Ashok Chandak of Credai said that about three months ago, Credai had held a webinar with revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and principal secretary (revenue) Nitin Kareer and demonstrated that cut in stamp duty would lead to more revenue for the state government. “Thorat had promised to cut stamp duty and he has fulfilled his promise. The biggest thing is that it is a blanket cut and there is no cut or classification,” he said. Chandak further said that cut in stamp duty in London had doubled the revenue of the local body. “Same will happen in the state,” he added. Builder Shravan Kukreja described it as a very big boost for the economy of the state. “The stamp duty is lowest in 20 years. The next three months will be best for buyers in 20 years. However, I feel that the stamp duty of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) houses should have been 1%,” he said. Realtor TS Renu said that stamp duty was an indirect tax which is mostly to be paid initially, thereby causing an instant burden on home buyers. “With this reduction, home buyers will certainly save considerable amount as an average flat in Nagpur suburbs costs around ₹50 lakh. So with 3% reduction in stamp duty, the buyer will save ₹1.5 lakh which is a huge benifit and saving for the buyers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/builders-hope-stamp-duty-cut-will-boost-sales/articleshow/77834814.cms||Ashish Roy
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Four drowning accidents in Kutch in one day||Rajkot: In four instances of drowning on Saturday, four people lost their lives in three different ponds in Kutch. In Bhadreshwer pond of Mundra, 40-year-old Bhimaji Pariya drowned after he slipped into the pond while washing clothes. Pariya was a widower and used to live alone. In Bada village pond of Mandvi taluka, 65-year-old Jentilal Gada and his 22-year-old son Harsh Gada drowned while they stepped into the water to take a bath. “First Harsh started to drown, and while trying to rescue his son, father Jentilal, too, drowned. Both father-son duo did not know how to swim,” said an official from Mandvi police station. The last incident was reported from Nagalpar village of Mandvi taluka, where 14-year-old Yash Maheshweri drowned in the village pond while bathing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-drowning-accidents-in-kutch-in-one-day/articleshow/77826924.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||120 new cases in Vadodara, total reaches to 7,818||Vadodara: With 120 fresh cases of Covid-19 being reported in the city and district, the total number of positive cases since the pandemic hit the city went up to 7,818. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more Covid-19 deaths taking the total number of deaths to 139. As many as 2,358 tests were conducted in the city since Friday evening out of which 120 samples were found positive. Out of the positive cases, 84 were from the city, 35 from the areas of the district outside VMC limits and a person from Mehsana who tested positive in the city. Within VMC limits, the north zone of the city was the worst affected as 26 positive cases were reported there followed by the south zone with 22 new cases. In the west zone of the city, 19 samples were found positive even as 17 fresh cases came to light in the east zone. In the areas outside VMC limits, fresh cases were reported from Savli, Karjan, Bhayli, Dabhoi, Padra, Waghodiya, Karodiya, Desar, Ranoli, Koyali and Por. The number of discharged Covid-19 cases in the city reached 6,054 with 101 persons being discharged from various hospitals as well as home quarantine. This left 1,625 persons under treatment. The condition of 65 persons who are admitted in hospitals is said to be serious and they were on ventilators or BIPAP machines. As many as 161 others were breathing with the help of oxygen even as the condition of 1,399 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/120-new-cases-in-vadodara-total-reaches-to-7818/articleshow/77826445.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Govt approves healthcare facility for Ribandar locals||Panaji: The directorate of health services (DHS) has given its nod to start a primary health centre for Ribandar at the old GMC complex that formerly housed the Goa Institute of Management. The non-bedded PHC will be set up using funds from the Smart City Mission and will be renovated by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd, mayor Uday Madkaikar said. Health officer at the urban health centre, Dr Neeta Kakodkar, in a letter said that since the complex has not been used for a long time, major repairs are required, including floor tiling and fixing of plumbing and electrical connections. DHS has also written a letter granting approval for a “day care medical dispensary” where a doctor, a nurse, a pharmacist and an attendant will be stationed. “For 25 years now, the people of Ribandar have had nothing and their demand for a PHC has long been pending. (Panaji MLA) Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate has decided to take up renovation of the place and give the work to Smart City. By February, we think it should get it ready,” Madkaikar said. Incidentally, the Panaji civic polls, which were last conducted in March 2016, are likely to be held in February or March, 2021. “I have spoken to chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane, and they have allotted space for the health centre,” Monserrate said. The PHC will benefit locals who currently rely on the Panaji urban health centre or the Chimbel PHC for treatment of small ailments. The proposed facility will also have a waiting room for patients, room for staff members and a pharmacy. “We are also planning to set up a market for Ribandar where the municipality satellite office will come up. That way people won’t have to come all the way to the city,” Madkaikar said. For 25 years now, the people of Ribandar have had nothing and their demand for a PHC has long been pending. Monserrate has decided to take up renovation of the place and give the work to Smart City||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-approves-healthcare-facility-for-ribandar-locals/articleshow/77828868.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Three enter farm to steal peanuts, one found dead||Rajkot: Three friends in their early twenties tried to steal peanuts in a farm but ended up losing one of their partners who allegedly drowned in a river in Kotada Sangani of Rajkot district on Friday. Police said family of deceased Jitu Charolia (20) claims that he, along with his friends Abhel Charolia and Ranjeet Vaghela, had left home in Mafatiyapara of Kotada Sangani in the morning. However, Abhel and Ranjeet returned home but Jitu didn’t return till late and his family started searching for him. When he was nowhere to be found, they approached the police. The police started searching for Jitu and discovered his body on the banks of the river. His family members have alleged murder. During interrogation, the duo told police that they had entered into a farm to steal groundnut. “When the farm owner flashed a torch light on them, the trio fled the spot and got separated. Abhel and Vaghela were under the impression that Jitu too may have reached home. So, they too went to their homes and slept,” an official from Kotada Sangani police station said. “We have sent the body for forensic post-mortem to find out whether he got drowned or if somebody had killed him. The picture will be clearer once the report comes in,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-enter-farm-to-steal-peanuts-one-found-dead/articleshow/77826951.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL in HC to defer GCCI polls||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought the cancellation and postponement of elections to the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The petitioner contends that if elections are held in the trade and industry body, it would result in unnecessary movement of members and aggravate the Covid situation. The petitioner urged the HC to cancel the permission for elections granted by the collector. The HC is likely to hear the PIL on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-in-hc-to-defer-gcci-polls/articleshow/77827777.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Monk held on rape charges in Idar||Palanpur: A monk was arrested on Saturday on the charges of raping and threatening a Sundrendra-based woman in Idar on August 22.The 49-year-old mother of a girl in her police complaint dated August 25 has alleged that the monk, Raja Saheb Rajtilak Sagarji of Pavapuri jalmandir temple in Idar, had raped her in the worship room known as Uppashra during noon hours. On August 22, the survivor had gone to the monk to seek his blessings. In the room the monk allegedly asked her to marry him, saying that he wanted to keep her as his wife and also take care of her daughter. Later, the accused allegedly raped her. He also threatened to kill her daughter if she disclosed the incident to anyone.“On Friday, on the basis of her compliant registered under sections 376(1) 295 and 506 (2) of Indian Penal Code, we arrested the monk. On Saturday, the monk was produced before a court. The monk was sent to a sub-jail after the request for his remand was turned down by the judicial court,” said M D Zala, inspector with Idar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/monk-held-on-rape-charges-in-idar/articleshow/77826972.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Difficult to run operations with just tuition fees, say private schools||NEW DELHI: After Delhi high court upheld the April order of Delhi government on private schools charging only tuition fees “during the pendency of the lockdown”, many private schools have expressed unhappiness at not being able to collect development and other annual charges. They say it is difficult to run operations or pay salaries with just the tuition fees. The court confirmed the government decision after the parents’ association of KR Mangalam World School took the Greater Kailash II institution to court for charging annual and development fees on pro rata basis from July. Prima facie, the court saw no reason to change the government order and on August 25, Justice Jayant Nath restrained the school from collecting such charges till further orders. Parents of several other schools have also complained of having been billed for extra charges. One in south Delhi revealed, “The school asked us to pay operation fees, activity fees, newsletter charges, etc, along with the tuition fees for August.” The case at DPS, RK Puram, is different. Parents have written to Delhi government complaining the school wasn’t charging development or annual charges, but had increased the tuition fees from Rs 9,100 till July to Rs 13,414 from August. However, the school’s public relations officer claimed to TOI to be unaware of any fee hike. It was on April 18 that Delhi high court upheld the state government order that “no fee, except tuition fee, will be charged from parents during the lockdown period”. The order had also said the tuition fees were to be collected on monthly basis, not in quarterly or annual tranches. On August 21, deputy CM Manish Sisodia reiterated the government directive, disclosing that he was aware some private schools were increasing fees and transport and other charges. The schools argue tuition fees alone aren’t enough to cover institutional expenses. Ameeta Wattal, principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “A third of our staff is coming to school; we have electricity, water and sanitation bills to pay. Schools are shut for children, but still open for normal work.” She explained that many teachers did not have internet facilities at home to conduct online classes and came to the school for these classes. “So, as you can see, the school’s stationery, gadgets, electricity, all are being used. Schools also have to carry out maintenance work,” said Wattal. Another private school principal insisted that the tuition fees alone “could not meet the salary bill of teachers”. Saying that many parents weren’t even paying tuition fees, the principal reiterated, “While there are no physical classes, we still have to pay staff salaries, maintain the campus and pay electricity and other charges. For these we need development fees. While the court directed us not to charge other fees, it hasn’t commented on parents who don’t pay fees on time.” Kamal Gupta, advocate for an umbrella body of private schools, said that “the schools had started to charge beyond the tuition fees in compliance with the order.” Gupta contended that the court’s observation was opposite Delhi government’s April 18 order. “The latest court order makes a distinction between the Covid lockdown and the physical reopening of schools. On the relaxation of the lockdown, we were open to charge not only the tuition fees but also the annual and development charges,” Gupta said. The counsel claimed that Sisodia had agreed in an interview to a business daily that schools could not pay salaries with tuition fee collections. “The government has been changing its stance,” Gupta claimed. Despite several attempts to contact them, government officials did not offer a comment on the court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/difficult-to-run-ops-with-just-tuition-fees-say-pvt-schools/articleshow/77827865.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||114 in August, Ahmedabad’s plasma donations reach 330||AHMEDABAD: Anal Vaghela, a Krishnanagar resident, donated his blood plasma for the third time at Civil Hospital earlier this month. Vaghela, who has recovered from Covid-19, said it’s his way of giving back to the Covid warriors who treated him and gave him a new lease of life. “I’ve donated blood plasma every fortnight after recovery and reports my antibody level is satisfactory,” he said. “But I would appeal to more Amdavadis to come forward – even today, I get more calls asking ways to get plasma than addresses to donate,” he added. Vaghela is among just five Amdavadis who have donated blood plasma three times after recovery from Covid-19. The records of blood banks at Civil Hospital and Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) indicate that about 32 persons have donated plasma twice. The city’s plasma donation nears 350 as IRCS has so far received 233 donations and Civil Hospital 97 – out of 330, only in August 114 plasma donations were made. Dr Vishwas Amin, director of IRCS blood bank, said that there’s a definite rise in awareness. “Out of 233, 94 or 40% of the donations have been received in 28 days of August. Of the total, 24 were doctors who recovered from Covid-19. The other donors include police officers and personnel, senior civic body officers, a chartered accountant and several businessmen,” he said. At Civil Hospital, 92 patients have been administered blood plasma as convalescent therapy which has yielded encouraging results, said Dr Maitreya Gajjar, head of the department of IHBT at Civil Hospital. Dr Gajjar, who was infected in course of duty, has also donated plasma twice. “We create awareness among the present and former patients about donation of plasma and criteria for donations,” he said. Experts said that men between 18 to 60 years of age and women who don’t have children can donate plasma. The process lasts for 45 minutes after which the blood is returned to the donor. The body makes new plasma within 48 hours. One donation can save two patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/114-in-aug-citys-plasma-donations-reach-330/articleshow/77827905.cms||Parth Shastri
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||10-member UP gang held for burglary bids||HYDERABAD: Ten persons from Uttar Pradesh, who made bids to burgle two jewellery shops in Patancheru, have been arrested by Cyberabad police. In one of the failed attempts, they even opened fire on a local, who saw the gang members drilling hole to enter the store. Special Operation Team (SOT) of Cyberabad police and local cops arrested the accused, identified as Sakhi Ahmed, 38, Bijender Singh, 40, Irfan Ali Khan, 49, Haseen Mohammad, 51, along with six other associates, all from Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh, from Mallampet near Dundigal on Friday. They seized two country-made firearms, 15 live rounds along with other equipment from their possession. The gang had attempted two burglaries in a span of five days in Patancheru of Sangareddy district. On August 18, the gang went to a jewellery shop in Gokulnagar, Patancheru, and started drilling a hole to gain entry into the shop. The building owner, initially, screamed at the gang noticing their activity. Later, he called up the police after they started threatening him. However, the gang fled from the spot by the time a police team arrived. On August 23 night, the gang again attempted burglary at a different jewellery shop in the same locality. A local, staying near the shop, saw the gang and shouted at them. “To threaten the local, the gang started breaking his house door using their equipment. Scared, the victim alerted us. Meanwhile, one of the gang members opened fire at his house but he escaped,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said. As both the incidents occurred in less than a week, the SOT swung in action to nab the gang. During the investigation, the team traced the movement of the gang to Ambedkar Nagar, Jagadgirigutta, and started following them. On Friday, when they were attempting to target another jewellery shop at Mallampet of Dundigal limit, the offenders were caught. They were arrested and booked for housebreaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-member-up-gang-held-for-burglary-bids/articleshow/77827867.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||20 non-dalits resign from BJP demanding removal of party Tirunelveli district president||CHENNAI: For the BJP, trying to do social reengineering in the Dravidian heartland, caste divisions are giving hiccups. If L Murugan was appointed party state president to make inroads into the dalit community, appointment of another dalit, A Maharajan, as the party Tirunelveli district unit president is threatening to erode some existing base of the party. More than 20 Nadar and Thevar district level functionaries have submitted resignations enmasse to party state vice-president Nainar Nagendran, resenting the appointment of A Maharajan. They have demanded the removal of Maharajan, citing lack of political decency and “behavioural problems”. Maharajan joined the BJP in 2015 and held various posts, including that of the district general secretary. He contested from Tirunelveli assembly constituency on BJP ticket in the 2016 elections. Another reason for the internal revolt is appointment of advocate R C Karthick, who joined BJP after quitting Thol Thirumavalavan’s VCK, as party’s district legal wing president. “Caste intolerance is the main problem in Tirunelveli,” said a state-level leader on condition of anonymity. Those who have put in their papers have stopped participating in the party activities. “We will hold talks with the dissidents to sort out the problems,” said Nainar Nagendran, who is in charge of the southern districts. Murugan’s appointment was considered by many as an attempt by the party to shed the image that the BJP is a party of the upper castes. “Non-dalit BJP functionaries in Tirunelveli are not in a mood to take instructions from Maharajan. It is a botheration for the party,” said another state-level leader, preferring anonymity. However, a functionary from the Thevar community said, “The revolt has nothing to do with Maharajan’s caste. It is all about his attitude and lack of political decency.” He alleged that Maharajan attempted to assault BJP district secretary M Babu in the party office. Maharajan denied the charges and said the issue was due to “personal dislikes” and refused to speak any further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/29-08-ch-20-non-dalits-resign-from-bjp-demanding-removal-of-party-tirunelveli-district-president/articleshow/77827852.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Karwar youth protest at Polem over Goa entry fee||Poinguinim: Over 100 youth from Karwar staged a dharna near Goa-Karnataka border at Polem in Canacona, on Saturday. The youth threatened to stop vehicular traffic and supply of essentials from Karwar if the state borders are not opened from September 1. They further threatened to hold a bigger protest from September 5 if “free traffic movement was not allowed”. Representing the protesters gathered on the Karwar side of the border, Raghu Naik spoke to Canacona deputy collector Satish Prabhu and mamlatdar Vimod Dalal, who were also present at the spot, accusing the Goa government of harassing people from Karwar wanting to cross into Goa from Polem. Naik further told Prabhu and Dalal that Goa government is modifying the Centre’s SOP for inter-state travel “as per their whims and fancies”. “When Karnataka is supplying essential goods like milk, fish and vegetables, we find no reason as to why the Goa government is restricting free entry to the Karnatakis,” Naik said, accusing the state government of charging Rs 2,000 per person for entry into the state. “In most cases, no receipts are issued nor are Covid tests done and when people demand receipts for the entry fee of Rs 2,000, people are being harassed and threatened with compulsory 14 days home quarantine,” Naik said, claiming that this allegation had gone viral on social media. Naik also told the state authorities that Karwar MLA Rupali Naik had spoken to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday, and conveyed the concerns of people from Karwar. Meanwhile, former Karwar MLA Satish Sail has threatened to agitate on the Goa on Sunday. The Canacona deputy collector told TOI that the Polem gates are open, and there are no restrictions provided those crossing have to undergo either health screening protocol, by paying Rs 2,000 or provide an ICMR approved certificate as per the government’s SOP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karwar-youth-protest-at-polem-over-goa-entry-fee/articleshow/77828872.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Rise in no. of chit fund schemes in dist||Kochi: One business which seems to be thriving even in Covid times is the Chit fund scheme. Though the pandemic lockdowns brought about job and pay losses, the number of chit fund schemes registered at the registration department has increased post lockdown in the district. From as many as five chit schemes in June, their number has risen to 27 in July alone. But officials of the registration department have raised doubts whether the chit companies are getting monthly instalments. “Companies are registering various schemes with us after paying fixed amounts. But we don’t know how many remit the premium,” said an official. Association members of chit fund companies said there has been only a 25% drop in remitting the premium after the lockdowns set in. Still they have cautioned people to ensure that a scheme is registered with the department and that it has a registration number, before joining a scheme. The public can check these details at sub-registrar offices their areas. “New chit fund schemes are being registered. Even I am going to register two new schemes. Most of our customers are traders and many have been hit hard by Covid-19. Many are unable to pay their instalments. But government employees and others who have a regular income continue to join in the schemes,” said K P Geevarghese Babu, state president of All Kerala Association of Chit Fund. There are around 150 chit fund companies in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rise-in-no-of-chit-fund-schemes-in-dist/articleshow/77827907.cms||T C Sreemol
August 30, 2020||Salem||Aavin milk distribution not hit in Salem: GM||Salem: Aavin on Saturday said milk distribution was not affected in the district because of its 26 employees testing positive for the novel coronavirus. R Narmada Devi, general manager, Aavin-Salem, said they were following all the guidelines prescribed by both the central and state governments while delivering milk packets to customers. After its employees contracted the virus, the Aavin administration had completely disinfected the milk producing points, vehicles and offices. But the drive hadn’t affected milk production. Narmada Devi said they had set up an automated disinfection tunnel at the entrance long time ago. “The vehicles coming inside the plant will be completely sprayed with disinfectants. Similarly, employees are also thoroughly checked with pulse oximeters while entering the premises.” She said they were delivering nearly 1.70 lakh litres milk across the district and another 60,000 litres to Namakkal district daily. “We are also sending milk packets to Singapore, Hong Kong and Qatar as usual.” Narmada Devi also appealed the public not to panic over rumours and said Aavin milk packets would be sold with utmost care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/aavin-milk-distribution-not-hit-in-salem-gm/articleshow/77827910.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Varanasi||ISKCON to develop a grand Radha Gopal temple in city||Varanasi: The Bhelupur centre of International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) is going to develop a grand Radha Gopal Mandir Vedic India Cultural Centre, which will be UP’s second grand ISKCON temple after Kanpur. According to the ISKCON authorities, the project will be completed by mid-2023. “It will be an effort to present the traditional values and culture of Vedic India through modern means and help holistic development of the society,” said Achyut Mohan Das, chairman ISKCON Varanasi, adding that the temple will be named Sri Sri Radha Gopal Mandir Vedic India Cultural Centre. The temple will have yoga and other facilities along with accommodation of international standards for tourists coming from across the world. A Vedic ashram will also be built in the temple for dedicated spiritual students and social activists. Das said, ISKCON Bhagavat Vidyapitha will also be established in the cultural centre. Both basic and advanced courses related to Srimad Bhagwad Gita, Srimad Bhagavatam, Puranas, Upanishads, Chaitanya Charitamrita will be conducted at the centre. It will also have an auditorium and three seminar halls with a capacity of 125 people. Tourists will be given a glimpse into the Vedic culture through video shows, dance, music, theatrics here. The temple hall will be made on the theme of royal Jaipur Palace. More than 250 devotees will be able to participate in the darshan, katha and kirtan in the temple. Rooms will also be made for the residence of the guests coming from outside. Two banquet halls have also been conceptualized in the temple for cultural, corporate and family events. It will also have Govindas restaurants to provide satvik food to devotees. Under Food for Life, free prasad will be distributed among visitors and poor people. Under the social responsibility of ISKCON Varanasi, a ‘Youth Welfare Centre’ will also be established near Hyderabad Gate of Banaras Hindu University. In this centre, workshops will be conducted to make the youth intellectually competent, technically skilled and most importantly pure in character. The centre will be operated in a four-storey building with seminar halls, kitchen for free meals, multi-purpose halls for cultural events, counselling facilities, recording studio for online courses, conference rooms for value education classes and mental and physical health, and meditation room. “We wish to facilitate the potential of youth in a culture of care and positivity to empower them and make sustainable contributions to the society at large. Our effort is to equip the youths with all necessary support, association and positive value system to help them bridge the gap between their dreams and accomplishments,” said Sandeep, an alumnus of IIT-BHU and director of ISKCON’s cultural branch UMEED Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iskcon-to-develop-a-grand-radha-gopal-temple-in-city/articleshow/77811350.cms||Binay Singh
August 30, 2020||Chennai||100 trained tribal youth to return as teachers to their communities||CHENNAI: The state tribal welfare department has decided to train, appoint educated youth from the community as teachers in tribal schools in remote and hilly areas. Lack of teachers is a perennial issue in tribal schools. The department has launched a programme to identify candidates who have completed Class XII to enroll them in teacher training institutes. They will be absorbed as regular teachers in tribal department-run schools once they complete the training. “We have been receiving applications from eligible candidates. Once they get a diploma in teacher education (DTEd), which the department will pay for, they will be coached in private centres to clear the Tamil Nadu Teachers Eligibility Test (TET),” said a senior official in the department. A 100 vacancies are expected to be filled with the candidates who clear TET. “This move will help solve multiple issues in the schooling system in tribal areas,” said the official. The programme is a move to improve the literacy rate of the tribal community, which is 54.34% (state average is 80%). Around 30,000 students are enrolled in 310 government tribal residential (GTR) schools in the state. Welcoming the move, state vice president of Tamil Nadu Tribals’ Association P Shanmugam said it was their long pending demand. He, however, added it won’t address the immediate crisis as more than 50% of teachers’ postings were vacant in GTR schools. “We want the government to fill vacancies immediately,” he said and pointed out that there are nearly 20 vacancies in Karumandurai GTR school in Kalrayan hills, Salem, and 15 in the school in Semmedu in Kolli Hills for the past couple of years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/100-trained-tribal-youth-to-return-as-teachers-to-their-communities/articleshow/77827912.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Starting early: North corporation tries to reboot primary education||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has chalked out an education plan for approximately three lakh students studying in its 700 schools. The plan, which seeks to transform the conventional study system, will introduce social skill-oriented classes from the nursery level. The project, which is drafted by the education department and is in the primary stage of implementation, seeks advance preparation of daily lesson plans, teachers’ training by experts and promotion of inclusive education at the primary level. Instead of the same teacher handling a class till Class V, subjects will be distributed among them as per their interests, capabilities, background and school requirements. The plan comes at a point when New Education Policy 2020 is going to add a year of schooling at the nursery level, said an official. “We have been following a particular teaching pattern for decades. We need to bring in reforms to build a strong foundation of our students who will now spend one more year in nursery,” said Ira Singhal, education director at the corporation. The project includes holistic learning, work distribution among teachers, implementing class teaching plans, and defining week-wise activities. “For years, the teaching process focused on technical skills like reading and writing. But to make children confident and capable, we need to impart social skills and make them aware about road rules, elections, gender sensitisation, how to reach out to police and fire department in case of an emergency, waste segregation and ethical behaviour. We have proposed to hold one period every week on these subjects,” said Singhal. Teachers will also be sensitised about various types of disabilities and meeting their needs in classrooms. “There is a plan to conduct regular workshops with the help of subject experts to teach all children in the same classroom,” said the official. In the current system of a fixed teacher every year, learning becomes extremely teacher-dependent, said Singhal. “If the teacher is dedicated and sincere, the students benefit immensely; otherwise it would affect the whole primary foundation of students,” she pointed out. The syllabus for each subject will be divided into 30 weeks. “A minute-to-minute teaching plan for each week and subject will be set as per NCERT guidelines and the same will be communicated to teachers,” said Singhal. The corporation will soon ask teachers to apply online for transfer and once the process is over, they will be trained to handle the new process, the official said. While monitoring will be done periodically, the success of the project will largely depend on the dedication of teachers, Singhal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/starting-early-north-corpn-tries-to-reboot-primary-edu/articleshow/77827934.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Worker nabbed for wife’s murder||HYDERABAD: A week after he killed his wife in their Suraram home on August 23, a 26-year-old labourer was apprehended at Jubilee Bus Stand in Secunderabad on Saturday by Dundigal police. Police said the accused, Madhav Laxman Suryavanshi, killed his wife Kashibai suspecting her fidelity. On the day, Laxman went out with his brother-in-law to consume liquor. “When he came back, he found his wife talking on the phone and picked up an argument with her. In a fit of rage, he slit her throat with a kitchen knife and fled from the spot locking the door from outside,” police said. Ever since the couple shifted to Hyderabad from Pune, Laxman started suspecting her whenever she spoke over phone. “This led to frequent tiffs between the couple. He used to harass her,” cops said. The accused fled to Devulavada village in Latur district in Maharashtra. On Saturday, when he returned to the city, he was nabbed by cops. Laxman was booked under murder charges and sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-nabbed-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/77827911.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Water relief! Alibaug trippers make roll on-roll off ferry a roaring success||MUMBAI: A coastal city that has long suffered the absence of reliable water transport just received a world class intervention. Starting last week, Mumbaikars desperate to get out of the city celebrated the launch of the roll on-roll off (RoRo) ship that goes from Mumbai’s Ferry Wharf to Mandwa jetty. The brand new bright crimson vessel from Greece, which takes just under an hour to cross the harbour, accommodates 500 passengers (at Rs 300 per head) and 140 vehicles (price varies depending on size). The service started as a Ganpati special with two trips a day, but has gone up to four trips on some days to accommodate excess demand. “Over the next few months, we hope to have even more daily trips and the prices are also likely to change,” says Aashim Mongia, director of M2M Ferries that runs the boat. A 12-member crew is headed by Captain Rajeev Yadav who operates RoRos all over the world. “After this, ideally, they will open up water transportation on both sides of the island city.” Unlike other island cities like Hong Kong and New York, Mumbai’s reliance on ground transport remains a question mark that no one seems to be able to answer. Many concerned commuters question why the hovercraft project which did a guest appearance in the late eighties, from Navi Mumbai to Nariman Point, disappeared into thin air. Even proposals for water transport to mainland India from the city have been hovering for years, but remained bogged in the bureaucracy of three government bodies—the Maharashtra Maritime Board, the Bombay Port Trust, and the Navy—which are not always in the same boat. The main hiccup was a breakwater at Mandwa, which would enable the vessel to travel even during the monsoon. Thus far, people travelling between Alibaug from Mumbai have had to make do with horrifyingly poor safety while boarding and alighting the boats on either side, sometimes even being forced to jump from one boat onto another due to an absence of basic boardwalks and jetties. “We are very happy that the RoRo has started functioning,” says Sanjay Bhatia who, as chairman of the Bombay Port Trust, reimagined and initiated several big changes along the eastern waterfront. People can now hop onto cruise liners which would take them to Goa and also international destinations. While welcoming these maritime proposals, city planners are concerned that the port trust’s non-marine land development plan, which could open up more than 1,000 acres, are not being shared adequately with the public. Meanwhile, folk of all ages are delighted to avail of the high seas, which currently seem to be a shade bluer because of the absence of polluting ships. Last weekend, 10-year-old Bheeni Vig from Goregaon accompanied her father and his Ducati Diavel superbike on the RoRo for a day trip to ride along the lush green Alibaug roads. “The ferry soared through the triumphant blue waters, giving me just enough time to relish my aesthetic surroundings,” says the young student, clad in her jacket and knee-pads. “I hope I can do this again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-relief-alibaug-trippers-make-roll-on-roll-off-ferry-a-roaring-success/articleshow/77829225.cms||Namita Devidayal
August 30, 2020||India||As another article alleges BJP bias in Facebook, Cong writes to Zuckerberg seeking details of probe||NEW DELHI: With a report in Time magazine alleging Facebook-BJP nexus, following a similar article by Wall Street Journal, Congress Saturday demanded a JPC investigation into the allegations that the social media giant was favouring the BJP government and lenient on hate speech for favours with its top India executives playing a liason role. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal shot off a letter to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg asking for details on steps being taken to investigate the revelations made in the American publications. This is the second letter by Congress in less than a fortnight. “We urge you to let us know what steps your company is planning to take to investigate these matters... we will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for pursuit of private profits," the letter said, alleging WhatsApp has willingly allowed itself to be appropriated for hate speech and tearing of India’s social harmony. Speaking at a virtual function, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi accused Modi government of throwing India off track by giving primacy to “dictatorship over democracy” and of following the divide and rule strategy to spread hatred in society. Congress said consecutive reports in US publications revealed Facebook had helped the ruling BJP manipulate public opinion. It said Time magazine has disclosed that WhatsApp was planning to launch its “digital payment operations” to exploit its base of 40 crore users in India and was dependent on Modi government for approvals and licence for the venture. It named a WhatsApp executive in its report. Tagging the Time article, Rahul Gandhi tweeted to allege that proposed payment operations was the reason behind WhatsApp-BJP nexus. AICC spokespersons Pawan Khera and Pravin Chakravarty said the JPC probe sought must go into how Facebook manipulated voter opinion and allowed hate speech, and demanded that the government should not give approvals to WhatsApp for its payment channel till the probe is complete and action taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-another-article-alleges-bjp-bias-in-facebook-cong-writes-to-zuckerberg-seeking-details-of-probe/articleshow/77829409.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||3 VHP men among 4 held for burglary||Coimbatore: Three Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) members have been arrested for robbing a 46-year-old woman of gold ornaments weighing 9.25 sovereigns at her house near Karamadai on June 25. Police have recovered the gold ornaments and a stolen bike from the trio. The woman’s 80-year-old brother-in-law has also been arrested in the case for giving quotation to the trio to assault his brother. The Karamadai police identified the accused as M Saravanan alias Saravanakumar, 40, of Mettupalayam, his accomplices V Arumugam, 54, of Karamadai and K Ravi alias Ravindran, 25, of Vadamangalakarai near Karamadai, and the woman’s brother-in-law Nataraj, of Kembanur. Saravanakumar is the north district secretary of VHP. An investigation officer said Saravanakumar, who used to hold kangaroo court, had handpicked a few VHP cadres to indulge in assault and theft cases. “On the night of June 25, the trio entered the house of C Anitha, wife of Chandrasekaran, 50, of Kembanur, and took away her gold ornaments after assaulting her with a sickle. She couldn’t identify the robbers as they had covered their faces with mask.” A schoolteacher with the elementary school at Pungampalayam, Anitha lodged a complaint with the Karamadai police, who registered a case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Police arrested Saravanakumar and his accomplices on Friday. During investigation, they told police that Anitha’s husband had a land dispute with his elder brother Nataraj and a civil case was pending before court for many years. “Nataraj approached Saravanakumar and told him to assault his brother. He also tipped him that his brother’s house was under the surveillance of three CCTV cameras. But when they entered the house, Anitha was alone there,” the officer said. Based on the trio’s confessional statement, the Karamadai police arrested Nataraj on Saturday. All the four are lodged in Pollachi sub-jail under judicial custody. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said, “We will move the court seeking custody of Saravanakumar and his accomplices for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-vhp-men-among-4-held-for-burglary/articleshow/77827920.cms||A Subburaj
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Cusat faculty gets patent for composting apparatus||Kochi: An assistant professor with the School of Environmental Studies, Cochin University of Science and Technology, has been granted a patent for the invention which could be installed in the backyards of houses to easily convert kitchen waste into compost. M Anand, who received the patent, has named the device ‘Twin Chambered In-Vessel Composting Apparatus’. The present invention is a novel and unique fully automatic composting machine to process biodegradable waste from kitchen into compost on-site in a relatively short time. The concept of in-vessel composting has a great scope in India because it is simple to use and install at the backyard. It saves lot of space, is easy to operate and also ideal for all weather conditions. According to Anand, the whole process is clean and economical, when compared to conventional methods of composting. It is a completely enclosed aerobic composting system that suits the processing of biodegradable wastes hygienically and in an environment friendly manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-faculty-gets-patent-for-composting-apparatus/articleshow/77827922.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||11 Gujarat ATS personnel test positive||Ahmedabad: Eleven officials and personnel of Gujarat ATS have tested Covid-19 positive. Senior ATS officials said these are some of those officials who had raided Vinus Hotel on Relief Road to catch, Irfan Shaikh alias Kalia, accused in the plot to kill Gordhan Zadafia. Some were in the operation to arrest Abdul Razak Gazi from North 24 Parganas district in West Bengal, last Wednesday. Both Kalia and Gazi have tested positive for Covid and are currently under treatment. ATS officials said Kalia and his accomplice Salman, who is yet to be caught, had come to the city to kill state BJP vice-president and former MoS home, Gordhan Zadafia, and some other political leaders as part of a conspiracy hatched in Pakistan. Close aide of Dawood Ibrahim, Chota Shakeel, and two others, Haji Shabbir and Munna Zingada were running the conspiracy from Pakistan. In another operation, ATS had held Gazi from near the border of Bangladesh in West Bengal. Gazi is an accused in the railway station blast case of 2006 in Ahmedabad and had been on the run for nearly 14 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-gujarat-ats-personnel-test-positive/articleshow/77827926.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Chided by mother, girl hangs self||HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old class 10 student hanged herself at her home in Malkajgiri limits allegedly after her mother scolded her. Kamalla Pavani was staying in a rented house in Prem Vijay Nagar colony with her family. According to her mother, she had been talking to a boy for a few weeks. Her mother scolded her for coming home late For the last 15 days.  On Friday the victim’s mother found her hanging in her room. Police said that no suicide note was found and a suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chided-by-mom-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/77827923.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Marriage leads to man’s murder||Rajkot: A 30-year-old man, who was allegedly attacked with pipe and sticks at his Chandreshnagar residence in Rajkot on Saturday morning, succumbed to his injuries in the evening.According to the police, deceased Rahul Solanki was allegedly attacked because he married a woman going against the wishes of her family. According to complaint registered with Malaviya Nagar police station by the mother of victim, Anju Solanki, Rahul got married to Divya Bohakiya, daughter of Dinesh, six months ago. She accused Divya’s mother, her siblings and others of inflicting injuries on Rahul in the attack. The victim was taken to a hospital where he died during treatment, said the cops. According to the family, there was tension between the two families since the marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/marriage-leads-to-mans-murder/articleshow/77827003.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||UP man caught for killing truck driver||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand police arrested a man from Uttar Pradesh (UP) who had allegedly murdered a truck driver and later attempted to pass it off as a road accident five years ago. The accused has been identified as Ramsinh Yadav, a resident of Ghospur village of Jasrana taluka in Firozabad district. The container truck driver Amit Pal’s body with severe injury marks was found on a footpath in Umreth town in December 2015. The post-mortem confirmed that he had died as his head was hammered. His identity was established from a diesel-filling receipt of a Mumbai-based firm. Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian said a team from Umreth police reached Firozabad to nab the accused. Pal was travelling on the Delhi-Pune route. CCTV footage from the route showed an unclaimed container near Rasolpura Patiya in Sabarkantha district. FSL team also collected some finger prints and blood stains from the container. Later, CCTV footage of Kisnagar toll plaza located nearby was checked while the cops carried out call data analysis which revealed presence of Yadav along with Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/up-man-caught-for-killing-truck-driver/articleshow/77826454.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Proposed primary health centre at Saligao still in limbo||Saligao: The residents of Saligao have raised strong concerns over the lack of doctors and proper medical equipment at the sub-health centre in their village. They have demanded that the centre be upgraded to a primary health centre (PHC) at the earliest as it is the need of the hour during serious health emergencies. Stating that the Saligao sub health centre functions with only one nurse and one doctor, residents complained that they have to travel almost five kilometres to the Candolim PHC during emergencies. It may be recalled that two years ago Saligao MLA and then minister for housing, Jayesh Salgaonkar, had announced that the village would get a 20-bed PHC and that land for it has been allocated by health minister Vishwajit Rane. Salgaonkar had also said that PHC get the latest equipment, testing lab and a 108 ambulance service. Local Mario Cordeiro said that a doctor visits the health centre only once a week. “The communidade had also agreed to give land for the construction of the PHC, but till today nothing has materialised,” Cordeiro said Speaking to TOI, the Saligao MLA said that the PHC is already sanctioned and the government is waiting for land acquisition. “The comunidade has resolved to give us the land and we are waiting for their nod. Once the land is acquired the work on the PHC will commence,” said Salgaonkar. “Tentatively we are trying to start a PHC next to the Saligao panchayat building till the acquisition process is complete,” he added. When contacted, health officer of Candolim PHC, Dr Roshan Nazareth, said that an allopathy and a homeopathy OPD are conducted once every week at the sub-health centre. “I am fully for starting a primary health centre in Saligao as proposed by the government, but the people of Saligao will have to support this cause,” Nazareth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/proposed-primary-health-centre-at-saligao-still-in-limbo/articleshow/77828882.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Patient goes missing from Covid care centre in Krishnanagar||Ahmedabad: A 24-year-old Covid patient from Banswada in Rajasthan escaped from the Covid care centre at Sports Authority of Gujarat on Friday. According to the complaint, the patient tested positive for Covid at the checkpoint set up on the road going towards Indore near Odhav Crossroads and was brought to the centre on August 26. “He was quarantined in base room number 308. When patients were brought downstairs for check-up on Friday evening, he was found missing. Some of his belongings were found in the room. We are searching for the patient,” said an official of Krishnanagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patient-goes-missing-from-covid-care-centre-in-krishnanagar/articleshow/77827968.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem division’s first parcel cargo express train chugs out||Coimbatore: The Salem railway division’s first exclusive parcel cargo express train service was flagged off from the city north railway station on Saturday morning.The 15-coach train left for Patel Nagar in West Delhi, where it would reach on Monday night. It would stop in Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Renigunta and Nagpur on the way. The train would operate on every Saturday.From Patel Nagar, it would commence the return journey on Wednesday early morning and reach the city on Friday night.Parcel cargo express trains are designed to carry finished goods, have more width and length compared to goods trains and travel at a higher speed. An official said they won’t be ferrying materials like cement, rice and other items in gunny bags in the train.The train was flagged off by Salem divisional railway manager Subba Rao and senior divisional commercial manager E Harikrishnan.The train is leased to a private company for six years. The rain could carry 353 tonnes cargo. Each coach has a capacity to carry 23 tonnes. The guard’s coach could accommodate another eight tonnes. Every trip would fetch the railways Rs 26.8 lakh.The Salem railway division had earlier floated tenders for parcel cargo express trains, which will be operated on a fixed schedule, from Coimbatore to Patel Nagar, Rajkot and Jaipur, and from Vanjipalayam to Guwahati.Harikrishnan said, “A single company has taken the tender to operate it to Patel Nagar and Rajkot. The service to Rajkot will begin in another two weeks.” He said the parcel cargo service has more than tripled this year, compared to last year. “We have sent 194 parcel cargo coaches from the division between April and July, as against 59 last year.”Officials also unveiled the plans to promote the city north railway station as the primary freight station. “We want textile units and makers of pumps, grinders, automotives and machineries to make use of the new service we offer. We can even run these trains to any destination daily, if we have business. We are speaking to industrial associations in the city to promote the new service,” another railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-divisions-first-parcel-cargo-express-train-chugs-out/articleshow/77827931.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Abdasa pounded by 208mm rainfall||Rajkot: Kutch district continued to reel under heavy wet spell with Nakhatrana, Abdasa, Bhuj and Mundra talukas being lashed by significant rainfall on Saturday. Abdasa was pounded by 208 mm of which 118 mm fell just in two hours in the afternoon. Mundra taluka also received 94mm rainfall. According to sources, water gushed into houses in Abdasa and Naliya which caused heavy damage to the properties. Around 10 cows and buffaloes were also swept away in turbulent waters near Bhimpar village of Abdasa. Khambhaliya taluka of Devbhumi Dwarka district too witnessed downpours while villages of Veraval and talaka talukas of Gir-Somnath were also pounded. Khambhaliya taluka has received 200% of its average annual rainfall. Sources said a camel passing from a heavily flooded causeway in Beraja village of Khambhalia got swept away. In Gir-Somnath, several farms got inundated as Malan river started overflowing due to incessant rainfall on Saturday. The significant rainfall was also reported in Sihor taluka of Bhavnagar district where Sihor-Mehgvadar road was temporarily closed because of water logging on causeway. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ahmedabad has predicted more wet weather up to September 1. Heavy to very heavy rains are very likely at isolated places with extremely heavy falls in Kutch on August 30. “Heavy to very heavy rains very likely at isolated places Surat, Navsari, Valsad, Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli and Dwarka,” an IMD bulletin stated. Wet spell is also forecast in Anand, Dahod, Mahisagar, Vadodara, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Bharuch, Dang and Tapi, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi and Botad and Banaskantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/abdasa-pounded-by-208mm-rainfall/articleshow/77827123.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Out of cash, 4 prisoners who fled Hyderabad hospital will call kin: Cops||HYDERABAD: The four prisoners who had escaped from Gandhi hospital while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 on Thursday, are still at large. With none of them having any money, police are expecting that the fugitives may seek the assistance of their family and friends or may be forced to commit an offence to secure some cash. As all the four are Covid-19 patients, police teams searching for them are taking all necessary precautions. The task force sleuths as well as the local police are following different leads to track the prisoners. “Since they are not under trial, they are not in possession of mobile phones. That’s why we are finding it difficult to track them. However, our teams are doing their best to nab them. As they escaped in the wee hours, the cameras at the Gandhi Hospital were unable to capture their movement,’’ said deputy commissioner of police (task force) Radha Kishan Rao. Mohammed Javed, Mohammed Abdul Arbaz, P Narasimha and Soma Sundar escaped from the prisoners’ ward that is located on the second floor of the eight-storied hospital building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/out-of-cash-4-prisoners-who-fled-hosp-will-call-kin-cops/articleshow/77827943.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Man arrested for murder of 54-year-old||KOCHI: Chengamand police on Saturday recorded an arrest in the alleged murder of a 54-year-old man, found dead at his house in Chengamanaad late on Friday. The arrested person is Vinesh Palliyaakal (39) alias Kannan of Kurumassery. The deceased was identified as Makkoli Jayaprakashan (54) alias JP. Police said that the deceased person, a gang leader, was found with injuries inflicted upon by a blunt weapon. Police said that the accused was arrested after rural SP K Karthick received a tip-off that the accused was planning to leave for Mysuru after the murder. A team of DSP G Venu, Chengamanad CI TK Josy and SI R Rageesh Kumar made the arrest. According to police, the accused used the handle of an axe on Thursday night. “The victim supposedly along with friends humiliated the accused on the fateful day. He dumped the object used for killing near a chicken stall at Kurumassery,” said police. The man’s body remained in the house for over 24 hours before a relative found it. Palliyaakal will be produced before the magistrate after Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-arrested-for-murder-of-54-year-old/articleshow/77827936.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||Fish vendors sell outside Mapusa market, create chaos||Saligao: Even though the Mapusa fish market was thrown open on August 25, many vendors were selling fish outside the market area on Saturday, leading to traffic congestion and crowding. On Saturday, only a handful of fish sellers were operating from inside the market, while many local fisherfolk and some from outside the state were hawking along the road from the Mapusa urban cooperative bank to old Asilo hospital. Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) were forced to close the fish market from August 7 for nearly 18 days after a Nerul fish vendor selling fish at the Mapusa market had tested positive for Ciovid. MMC chairperson Ryan Brangaza said that he would hold a meeting with the councillors and, “try to evict the fish vendors selling fish in that area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-vendors-sell-outside-mapusa-market-create-chaos/articleshow/77828910.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Many teachers write to PM for holding NEET||NEW DELHI: Several hundred teachers from across the country have written a letter to the Prime Minister, claiming it is necessary to conduct the NEET/JEE tests or else students will face problems in their career. The teachers insisted that the exams should take place, claiming that the opposition against the exams are from people “trying to play with the future of students to propel their own political agenda and oppose the government”. The letter to the PM said that there have been several setbacks due to Covid-19 and clouds of uncertainty have gathered over the careers of students in the wake of the pandemic. “There are a lot of applications regarding admissions and classes that need to be resolved at the earliest. Like every year, millions of students who passes CLass XII exams this year are waiting to take the next step in their education,” it said, adding that the dreams and future of our youth and students cannot be compromised at any cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-teachers-write-to-pm-for-holding-neet/articleshow/77827985.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||2 men booked for raping women||Coimbatore: Two men were booked in Tirupur on Saturday for sexually abusing a minor and a woman in as many separate incidents. In both the incidents, the accused were aged above 50 years and neighbours of the victims, one of who had learning difficulties, while the other was disabled. In one of the cases, a 53-year-old man, identified as P Palanisamy, was detained for raping a 22-year-old woman with learning difficulties on several occasions. A police officer, said, “He used to rape her when her parents were away at work. The victim informed her parents on Thursday about the incident and they lodged a complaint the Dharapuram all-woman police on Saturday.”  Police have secured Palanisamy and further investigation is on. In another incident, a 60-year-old man was booked for sexually assaulting a disabled 13-year-old minor girl near Kangeyam. An investigation officer said the girl was a Class IX student. “Her parents are daily wage labourers. The incident took place on Wednesday when the girl was alone at home. The man picked up the girl from her house and took her to his house, where he sexually assaulted her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-booked-for-raping-women/articleshow/77827974.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Editor of ‘Adike Patrike’ passes away||Mangaluru: Eminent agriculture journalist Manchi Srinivasa Achar passed away on Saturday. He was the editor and publisher of ‘Adike Patrike,’ a well-known Kannada farm monthly. Achar, 74, is survived by his wife and two children, including a daughter. Achar hailed from Manchi in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district. He passed away at a private hospital in Deralakatte on the outskirts of the city, family sources said. The immediate past president of Puttur based All India Areca Growers’ Association, Achar also served as the president of Farmer First Trust which published ‘Adike Patrike’ at Puttur for more than three decades. Achar was one of the trustees of Arecanut Research and Development Foundation, Mangaluru. S R Satishchandra, president, The Campco Ltd, condoled the death, and said that Achar was a prominent voice for the cause of arecanut growers at the highest level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/editor-of-adike-patrike-passes-away/articleshow/77827042.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||District logs 1,000 cases in 2 days||Coimbatore: The district added another 1,000 Covid-19 cases in two days as it crossed the 14,000-mark on Saturday when 491 people tested positive for the virus. The tally now stands at 14,393, of which 3,522 cases are active. The district also recorded nine deaths, taking the toll to 289. With the number of active cases increasing daily, the city corporation is busy setting up more Covid care centres. After taking over hostels and halls in Anna University and Bharathiar University, reports have it that the civic body is planning to convert a hall in PSG College of Arts and Science into Covid care centre. Commercial establishments on Cross Cut Road have, meanwhile, decided to remain closed for a week to help curb local transmission of the virus. They downed the shutters in the evening. Recently, commercial establishments on the stretch, especially on 100-feet Road, had become transmission points of Covid-19. A shop alone had reported 58 positive cases. Subsequently, the city corporation had asked all the shops to pool test all their employees every 10 days. S Jothimani, secretary, Merchants’ Association, Cross Cut Road, said, “With employees of many shops testing positive for the virus and people believing that the outlets have become transmission points of Covid-19, we have decided to remain closed. We will bear the loss.” There are more than 300 shops on the stretch. The new cases were reported from Peelamedu (34) Gandhipuram (13), Puliyakulam (6), Sowripalayam (10), Selvapuram (7), Saibaba Colony (5) and Thondamuthur (6), among other areas. Of the 34 cases from Peelamedu, six were from Sengaliappan Nagar and 15 from Ganapathy. The district administration is, meanwhile, planning to set up another 200-bed facility to provide siddha treatment for Covid-19 patients. The district already has one such facility at Codissia trade fair complex, where 72 beds are set aside for the purpose. The facility has treated 393 patients so far with 20 doctors. At least 321 of them have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-logs-1000-cases-in-2-days/articleshow/77827948.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat records a daily high at 1,282||AHMEDABAD: The state recorded another daily high in Covid-19 positive cases at 1,282 in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Saturday, taking the cumulative case tally to 93,883. It was second consecutive day for the state to record 1,200-plus daily cases. The new cases included 273 from Surat, 164 from Ahmedabad, 124 from Vadodara, and 115 from Rajkot. With the update, the cumulative cases in Surat crossed 20,000 to reach 20,069 whereas Ahmedabad district’s tally reached 31,262. The two districts account for 55% of the state’s total cases so far. The state also recorded deaths of 13 Covid patients – the lowest daily death toll in five days – taking the cumulative toll to 2,991. The deaths included three from Ahmedabad, two each from Rajkot and Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Jamnagar, Morbi, Amreli, Gir Somnath and Mehsana. It was the lowest daily death toll for Surat in 63 days, as the district had recorded two deaths on June 27. A total of 1,111 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 75,662. The discharges include 225 from Surat, 160 from Ahmedabad, 101 from Vadodara and 99 from Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-a-daily-high-at-1282/articleshow/77827970.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||Sita Rasoi ruins cleared to pave way for temple||AYODHYA: The crumbling structures of centuries-old Ram Janamsthan temple, Sita Rasoi and Ram Chabutra are being cleared to pave way for a magnificent Ram temple on 67acre Janmabhoomi premises. The idol of Ram Lalla was worshipped on the Chabutra, adjacent to the walls of Babri mosque, before its demolition in 1992. The ancient idols in these shrines have been shifted and will be reinstalled when the temple comes up, said a member of the Ram temple trust. The Ram Janamsthan temple complex was called Sita Rasoi in legal documents and by residents, particularly seers of the Gudar Ramchandra ascetic order. These shrines were acquired by the Union government in 1993 along with 67acre of then disputed site and formed the fulcrum of the court battle by Hindu litigants. In his 2010 verdict, Justice SU Khan of Allahabad High Court acknowledged Sita Rasoi and Ram Chabutra were in existence before the Babri mosque. And this formed the basis for giving possession of land to three parties — Ram Lalla Virajaman, Nirmohi Akhara and Sunni Waqf Board. The bench had agreed the three structures, including ‘Bhandar Grah’ existed in the outer courtyard of the disputed site. Faizabad officiating commissioner and settlement officer P Karnegi, had documented in 1866-67 that Ram Janamsthan temple was 166 years old, but as per belief the temple predates three thousand years. Talking to TOI, Acharya Satyendra Das, chief priest of Ramjanmabhoomi temple, said, “Lord Ram was worshipped at the Ram Janam Sthan temple for centuries. Now, it will no longer exist.” However, Ram Mandir Trust clarified the idols have been kept away safely and will re-established after the completion of Ram temple. On Saturday, the trust submitted blueprint and documents of Ram temple to the Ayodhya Development Authority for approval. Talking to TOI, trustee Anil Mishra said, “The plan has been given to the secretary of development authority, Niraj Shukla.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sita-rasoi-ruins-cleared-to-pave-way-for-temple/articleshow/77828898.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Kovai Inc flays mandatory Covid-19 test for workers||Coimbatore: After the city corporation ordered commercial establishments to test employees once a fortnight in private labs, industrialists said that the move would cause financial strain as most of the businesses have taken a hit due to pandemic situation.Instead, the government should enforce a complete lockdown in the district for a few weeks to control the spread of Covid-19, they said.“Most of our employees who left for their native places haven’t returned yet. Due to low business orders, most of the companies are functioning only four days a week with minimal workforce. We are struggling to pay salaries. In this situation, how can an employer afford to spend thousands of rupees every month to test employees?” asked president of the Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association (Kopma) K Maniraj. “Our employees would not agree if we decide to deduct a percentage of testing fee from their salaries. In the absence of government support, some companies have borrowed and pledged properties to run business,” he added.While a similar practise is not followed in other part of the state, why is the corporation insisting on it, asked J James, district president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises (Tact). “If we had sufficient money, we would have increased the workers’ salary and even called them back from their native places. Instead of targeting us, the government should take steps to test all people,” he said.President of the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association B Muthuvenkatraman agreed. “Why is the government segregating our employees from the rest of the public? Even if I follow all the guidelines, including testing my employees every fortnight, they might catch the infection from customers or their family members. To control the spread of the virus, the government should impose complete lockdown and take steps to identify and treat the infected people.”On Friday, members of the Joint Council of Associations of Coimbatore submitted a petition to collector K Rajamani, requesting him not to insist on testing workers in private labs once in 15 days and to test only those with symptoms at government centres. Meanwhile, corporation sources said that the employees can also undergo testing at its medical camps that are conducted daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kovai-inc-flays-mandatory-covid-19-test-for-workers/articleshow/77827996.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC rejects bail plea of JNU student||NEW DELHI: Observing that there are enough grounds to believe allegations against her are “prima facie true”, a Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail plea of Pinjra Tod activist and Jawaharlal Nehru University student Devangana Kalita. Kalita has been booked in several cases, including one under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA, in connection to her alleged role in the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said that the statements of protected witnesses, in the case before him where Kalita has sought bail, reflected her and other accused’s role in planning the activities at the protest sites against Citizenship Amendment Act as part of a “conspiracy”, which led to the riots. ASJ Rawat, in observations that will come as a boost to the prosecution, noted that “the accused had planned and carried out a chakka-jam resulting in riots as part of the plan. The statements clearly point out the role of Kalita as also the other co-accused people and various actions taken by them in pursuance of the conspiracy.” While dismissing the bail plea, the court relied on statements of witnesses on role of Kalita and other accused people, adding, “I have no hesitation to hold that there are reasonable grounds for believing that accusation against accused are prima facie true.” The court found merit in the arguments of special public prosecutor Amit Prasad that the case file and case diaries reveal material to point towards the role of Kalita in the conspiracy and the riots. ASJ Rawat noted that Kalita’s location was also found at protest sites in Jafrabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-jnu-student/articleshow/77828009.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK failed to protect people: MLA||Coimbatore: The AIADMK government has failed to protect the public from Covid-19 pandemic, DMK MLA N Karthik said here on Saturday. The number of people infected by the virus and deaths have been increasing rapidly in the district, he told reporters. “Close to 500 cases are being reported for the last few days. Experts have also predicted an increase in the number of affected people. It shows how the ruling party has failed to protect people from the pandemic and how it lacks proper planning.” Citing a Twitter post of state municipal administration minister S P Velumani, Karthik said the city corporation had directed commercial establishments to test employees once in 15 days. “In the present situation, when the businesses are affected due to the pandemic, how can they afford to do the tests? What kind of support the government is extending to them?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-failed-to-protect-people-mla/articleshow/77828004.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn commissioner Jatavath shunted out||Coimbatore: While the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths has been increasing, the state government on Saturday transferred city corporation commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath and posted him as deputy secretary to the agriculture department. Jatavath will be replaced by P Kumaravel Pandian, who is working as deputy commissioner (works) of the Greater Chennai Corporation. The transfer comes just days after the corporation mandated commercial and industrial establishments to test employees once a fortnight in private laboratories. A few weeks ago, a corporation school sparked a controversy when its application form asked students if they wanted to learn Hindi as third language. Jatavath, who was the 24th commissioner of the Coimbatore city corporation, took charge in February 2019. The 2014 batch IAS officer is an engineering graduate from IIT-Bombay. He worked as assistant collector in Trichy and assistant secretary to cabinet minister of information and broadcasting before assuming charge as sub-collector of Tirupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-commissioner-jatavath-shunted-out/articleshow/77828012.cms||---
August 30, 2020||India||NCB nabs 2, their supplier is said to have Bollywood links||MUMBAI\NEW DELHI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested two persons, including a college student, from Pali Hill in Bandra and Chandivli in Powai and recovered 59 grams of marijuana from them. While the remand application submitted to the court did not mention their connection with the drug-related allegations in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, an NCB official said their supplier was connected to some people in Bollywood. Both were released on bail by the court, though when first produced before the holiday court they were sent to judicial custody. Advocate Zehra Charania and advocate Gorakh Liman, who appeared for the two accused, said their clients were innocent. Those arrested were Abbas Ramzan Ali Lakhani (21), a resident of Pali Naka in Bandra, and Karn Arora (21), a student. The two came under the scanner when the NCB team was scrutinising the peddlers under watch for frequenting celebrity parties, said a source. The NCB team laid a trap and arrested Lakhani and found him in possession of 46 grams of marijuna, locally known as ganja. “During questioning Lakhani told us that he had purchased it from Karn Arora. Based on his mobile tower location, Arora was arrested by the officials, who recovered another 13 grams of ganja from him,” an official said. The NCB said they were believed to be involved in providing improvised and high-cost versions of cannabis buds like banana skittles, watermelon gelato, jungle boys and wifi cake, but such a mention was absent from the remand application. During interrogation, one of them said to the NCB that to buy the stuff he had entered the supply chain and soon became a part of it. The other youth who was arrested along with him was a peddler who sourced drugs and sold it to various users. NCB seized the mobile phones of the two youths. The two youths admitted to be in touch with a few film personalities. “The modus operandi of procurement is that the main peddlers import these contrabands from foreign countries through darknet or through other available sources and the same comes in concealed packages through courier and international post,” deputy director, NCB, KPS Malhotra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncb-nabs-2-their-supplier-is-said-to-have-bollywood-links/articleshow/77829412.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lingerie, wine, bridal shoes- The long list of 'lost & not found' items at airports||LUCKNOW: From lacy lingerie and handcuffs, to designer wedding shoes, wine bottles and sundry other items worth crores lie with the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Some 4,689 such items worth crores have been found at airport terminals or in aircraft across the country since January 1. For instance, on Friday, airport staff in Jaipur found women innerwear from a Norwegian international brand, while a few days ago the Kolkata airport staff found exotic leather jackets, traditional kurtas and cosmetics. A few weeks ago in Bhubaneswar, staff found groom’s wedding shoes and Chennai airport even found a guitar, apart from liquor crates, cigarettes, handcuffs and a laser light. Airport of Guwahati found an Army uniform, a compass and surgical gown. Lucknow’s Amausi airport has recently added a pair of binoculars in its lost and found catalogue. However, the most found items were mobile phones, powerbanks, laptops, earphones, wristwatches, data cable, Wi-Fi dongle, trimmer, thermometer, trolley bag, purse, anklet, ring, umbrella, bat, badminton, pressure cooker, insulin, lunch box, shampoo, sleeping bag and car keys. Talking to TOI, assistant general manager (operation) of Amausi airport, Nitin Kadiyan said, “For perishable items we wait for 48 hours and then dispose it, but for others we wait for 90 days after the item is found. If the owner of the item fails to appear to claim his/her belongings in the given period, we auction it as per government guidelines.” According to AAI guidelines, to claim lost property, the owner should have a copy of boarding pass/proof of journey and details of items being claimed. Watch The long list of 'lost & not found' items at airports||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lingerie-wine-among-4k-items-dumped-by-flyers/articleshow/77828915.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Book LPG cylinder through WhatsApp||Coimbatore: The Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) has launched booking of LPG cylinders and making payment via WhatsApp to ensure contactless payment during the Covid-19 crisis. “Consumers can send a message to toll-free number 1800-224-344 from their registered mobile number to access as many as nine options including cylinder booking, emergency contact number and complaint number. Upon sending the corresponding number, cylinder will be booked and a link sent to pay the bill amount,” said BPCL manager P Sasidharan. “Customers can also book cylinders just by giving a missed call from their registered number to 77109-55555. The link to pay the bill amount will be sent as message.” Over 5% of BPCL customers in Coimbatore have started using WhatsApp to book cylinders. As much as 15% of them have started using digital payment methods, the official said. “We have over three lakh customers in Coimbatore and 19 lakh customers in nine districts, including Salem, Nilgiris and Nammakal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/book-lpg-cylinder-through-whatsapp/articleshow/77828015.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price up slightly, at Rs 53,400||Ahmedabad: Gold price marginally increased on Saturday to touch Rs 53,400 per 10 gram against Friday’s Rs 53,350 per 10 gram in the Ahmedabad market. After gold price touched a peak of Rs 58,000 earlier this month, prices have remained volatile. The prices in Ahmedabad have gone as low as Rs 52,500 per 10 gram after touching the peak. With increased volatility in gold prices, investors are in the wait-and-watch mode for the right time to invest, say analysts. When prices were high last month, gold drew investments in the form of bullion and exchange traded funds (ETFs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-up-slightly-at-rs-53400/articleshow/77828079.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid -19 norms restrict ‘matam’ to Ashoorkhanas||HYDERABAD: The city will miss this Muharrum the historic Bibi-ka-Alam procession, which has become synonymous with the ‘matam’ or mourning the martyrs of Karbala about 14 centuries ago. Yaum-e-Ashura or the 10th day of Muharrum, the first month of the Islamic calendar, falls this year on Sunday. Thanks to Covid-19 restrictions, the centralised mourning procession in the Old City will not be held this time. The tradition of taking out processions on the first 10 days of Muharrum was introduced by the Qutb Shahi kings about 500 years ago. And for the first time in five centuries, Hyderabad will not witness the grand procession of Bibi-ka-Alam on a caparisoned elephant winding through the lanes and bylanes of the historic localities of the city.  In normal times, the Bibi-ka-Alam procession would begin from the historic Bibi-ka-Alawa at Dabeerpura and culminate near Chaderghat. Bibi-ka-Alam has a piece of wood used by Fatima Zehra, daughter of Prophet Mohammad. The plank was brought to Hyderabad during the period of Abdullah Qutb Shah VII. According to senior Islamic scholar Allama Ejaz Farruq, the wooden plank was framed to a standard (Alam) by Hayat Baksh Begum, mother of Abdullah Qutb Shah. She had also got beautiful Arabic calligraphy engraved on the Alam, covered with gold. Mourning sessions were also held with limited number of people at Ashoorkhanas in view of Covid-19 norms. There were no open sessions.  At Badashahi Ashoorkhana, one of the first five buildings of Hyderabad when the city was founded in 1591, Bibi-ka-Alawa, Bargah Hazrat Abbas at Diwan Deodhi, Naal-e-Mubarak at Pathergatti and Alawa Sartauq and Azakhana Zehra at Darusshifa, mourning sessions were held. Muharrum observance has been a continuous affair in Hyderabad since the times of the Qutb Shahis even during the devastating Musi deluge of 1908, Spanish flu pandemic of 1918 and several bouts of plague and cholera during the 19th and early 20th centuries. But the Covid restrictions and the refusal to grant permission by SC has limited the observance to Ashoorkhanas in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-norms-restrict-matam-to-ashoorkhanas/articleshow/77828025.cms||Syed Akbar
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for duping Chennai couple of Rs 4L||Coimbatore: A 43-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for cheating a Chennai-based couple of Rs 4 lakh by promising them a loan of Rs 1 crore. The Avinashi police in Tirupur district identified the accused as Sureshkumar, of Maniyakarampalayam in Coimbatore city. A police officer said the couple - Alwin Rai and his wife Jennifer, of Perumalpuram extension at Tambaram in Chennai - had approached Sureshkumar, who introduced himself as Acharya, for a loan of Rs 1 crore to expand their truck transport business. “Jennifer’s friend Kiruba told them about an advertisement in a newspaper that promised financial assistance for business purposes. Jennifer contacted the mobile phone number in the advertisement and the one who attended the call gave her another contact number of a person named Acharya,” the officer said. She subsequently contacted the person, who agreed to arrange the loan and demanded Rs 4 lakh as document charges, which needed to be paid upfront. He also asked her to meet him at Avinashi on August 26. “The couple met him on the agreed date and paid him Rs 4 lakh. He gave them a briefcase, which he said had the initial payment of Rs 55 lakh, and left the place. When the couple opened the briefcase, they found the currency notes were fake,” Jennifer lodged a complaint with Avinashi police inspector Prema, who registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 489 B (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes) of the Indian Penal Code the same day. The Avinashi police arrested Sureshkumar on Saturday. Preliminary inquiry revealed Sureshkumar was involved in similar cases in Madurai district and Puliyampatti in Erode district. “He was also involved in stealing nine tonnes red sanders from a container depot at Irugur in Coimbatore in 2015,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-duping-chennai-couple-of-rs-4l/articleshow/77828017.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Cyber crooks dupe Delhi's AIIMS doctor of Rs 3 lakh in name of donation||NEW DELHI: A cardiologist at AIIMS was in for a shock when she realised that she had been duped of her hard-earned money by cyber crooks on the pretext of contribution for Covid-hit people. In an email allegedly from the head of department’s account, which was spoofed by the crooks, she was asked to donate by buying Amazon gift cards and lost around Rs 3 lakh. A case was registered in May after the Cyber Cell was approached and two people were arrested from Kolkata in mid-August. The accused have been identified as Saif Ahmad (21), a BBA student in supply chain management, and Saif Akhtar (26), an employee in a footwear firm. They created a fake website to offer Amazon gift cards by sending spoofed emails. The money was then used for e-shopping and paying utility bills. The Amazon account that was used to redeem the gift cards belonged to Ahmad. Anvyesh Roy, DCP of Cyber Cell, confirmed the arrests. The spoofed email also showed some other colleagues as marked, said an officer. “The mail had instructions to donate for the noble cause. Without wasting any time, she bought 54 gift card coupons online worth Rs 2.7 lakh. She even shared her contribution in an email,” he added. The doctor realised the fraud only after speaking to a few colleagues, the officer said. She immediately reported the matter to the Cyber Cell and a case of cheating, impersonation and under the Information Technology Act was registered. Investigating officials approached Amazon, which provided the digital trail of the use of the gift cards. The cell found that several websites also provided a platform for buying or selling stolen gift cards at heavy discounts in exchange of cryptocurrencies. These cards were traded in an almost real-time manner. “People should always personally cross-check if they receive any mail for donation or transfer of money,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cyber-crooks-dupe-aiims-doc-of-rs-3l-in-name-of-donation/articleshow/77828023.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nashik||Principals asked to serve as admins at 25 gram panchayats||Aurangabad: Principals of zilla parishad-run schools have been appointed as administrators of 25 gram panchayats in Aurangabad district, evoking sharp reactions from the education sector.The terms of the gram panchayats are about to expire and holding fresh polls have been withheld given the Covid-19 pandemic. While 14 of the panchayats concerned are in the Kannad taluka, another 11 local self-governing bodies are in the Vaijapur taluka. As the tenures of the 25 gram panchayats are scheduled to end between August 30 and September 1, the school principals have been asked to take charge as an administrators accordingly.The chief executive officers (CEO) of the ZP have been given power to appoint the administrators on the advice of the guardian minister of every district. The appointment would continue till the first meeting of a newly-elected gram panchayat body takes place. The CEO is also empowered to remove the administrator on ground of misconduct. Kailas Gaikwad, the Aurangabad district secretary of association of primary ZP teachers, said school principals should not have been made administrator for multiple reasons. “The school principals do not hold any experience in heading local self-governing bodies. The principals may yield to pressure from locals while discharging their duties. They may also have to work in a school in these villages in the future,” he said.One principal, preferring anonymity, said, “The government must have considered other options, including roping in Class II revenue officers, for the role of administrator.” ZP school officials have also spelt out the list of non-academic work they have perform, including work related to election and census and the current pandemic-related duties. When contacted, ZP authorities said school principals have been appointed as administrators as per the instructions from the government. “ZP school principals and teachers are among the trusted workforce available to the government. The principals appointed as administrators can work effectively with cooperation from other administrative authorities at the ZP,” a senior ZP official from the education department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/principals-asked-to-serve-as-admins-at-25-gram-panchayats/articleshow/77828904.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||Amul gets legal protection from fraudulent websites||VADODARA: In a big relief to home-grown dairy giant Amul, whose brand name is being exploited by online fraudsters, Delhi High Court (HC) has issued a blanket injunction restraining all registrars of domain names from selling domain name ‘Amul’ as a prefix or suffix in any combination. For more than a year, the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul – has been receiving complaints from victims who fall prey to online frauds through which fake websites impersonate ‘Amul’ and offer jobs, franchise and/or dealerships. In its interim order, the court restrained domain registrars like GoDaddy, Name Cheap, Freenom, Big Rock among others from selling or offering for sale domain names with ‘Amul’ as suffix or prefix, in any combination. “The court observed that being a well-known trademark – Amul – deserved such protection. The order to a large extent prevents further creation of fake websites,” said advocate Abhishek Singh, who made the submissions on behalf of Amul. “The court has outrightly rejected the contention of GoDaddy that it is not aware as to whether there is any technology by virtue of which GoDaddy can ensure that the websites with name Amul therein will not be made available for sale,” he said. between January and August alone, Amul had received complaints from 30-odd people from across the country that they were deceived by fake websites which illegally offered ‘Amul’ dealership, distributorships and jobs for which they deposited money in the range of Rs 25,000 to Rs ten lakh. The victims were asked to deposit money in bank accounts with names like ‘Amul Brand Pvt Limited’, ‘Amul Union Limited’, ‘Amul Board Pvt Limited or ‘Amul India Ltd’ in branches of nationalized banks in Anand or in New Delhi. The order passed by justice Mukta Gupta of Delhi HC on Friday also directed the Department of Telecommunications, the Ministry of Information Technology and the National Internet Exchange of India to block access to such websites. Also, the court has further directed nationalized banks including the State Bank of India, Canara Bank, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Bandhan Bank, IndusInd Bank and Dena Bank to furnish all the details of the account holders, their address, contact details and bank statements of sixteen bank accounts in which victims of fraud were asked to deposit money. Amul has already filed complaints with cybercrime cell. Last year, it had also issued notices to the registrars who sell such domain names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-gets-legal-protection-from-fraudulent-websites/articleshow/77826470.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||1.3 lakh structures in Hyderabad caught in BRS fix||HYDERABAD: As per the new memo issued on August 25, 1.30 lakh properties in the city that are yet to be regularised under the Building Regularisation Scheme (BRS) scheme can neither be sold nor purchased officially. “Until the properties are regularised, the properties whose application is pending will not be registered,” said T Chiranjeevulu, commissioner, registration and stamps (R&S) department. As on date, BRS applications are being scrutinised and a verification report of all applications is being prepared. “In the report we are preparing, we have categorised the applications into two categories- shortfall of documents and rejected. But the final decision to mark the building as legal or illegal depends on the court,” said a GHMC official. Only after court’s decision, of the total 1.30 lakh property applications, the ones which are declared as eligible/ approved can be sold or purchased. As per GHMC records, in all circles, scrutiny of 70% BRS applications has been completed. Further, the government is contemplating speeding up regularisation of plots under layout regularisation scheme (LRS) across the state. “Depending on number of applications received for regularisation, special counters at government offices will be set up. If needed counters will also be set up in district collectorates,” said an official from the municipal administration and urban development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-3-lakh-structures-in-city-caught-in-brs-fix/articleshow/77828074.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Owners opt for TDR over cash for govt-acquired land||HYDERABAD: Property owners, whose land had been acquired by government for construction of slip/link roads, have preferred to take transferable development rights (TDR) worth Rs 500 crore — selling price of land acquired — over monetary compensation. “A total 200 properties were acquired for construction of 37 slip roads. Though the count of properties is low, land acquired to lay these roads is higher compared to road widening,” said a GHMC official. TDR allows for additional built-up area in lieu of area acquired for execution of government projects. As per Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited (HRDCL) records, of the 37 link roads, construction of 10 roads has been completed. The preference for TDR has given the government the impetus to push ahead with work on other projects without having to shell out for cash compensations. TDR has been beneficial for land owners as some have gotten benefits close to 400% over the value of their property. In case of cash compensations, they are entitled to 200% compensation based on government rate. An official said that apart from additional property value, the provision to sell or purchase TDR has also been an attractive factor. “Under TDR, the extra built-up area could either be utilised by the property owner or sold to others which is a reason builders and realtors come forward to opt for TDR,” said a GHMC official. On Saturday, the proposed link road from Nallgandla main road near Ratnadeep supermarket to Old Mumbai Highway was inspected by GHMC officials and public representatives. Post-inspection, Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan said the Nallagandla lake will be developed into a picnic spot. “Mayor directed the officials to put up estimates for development of Nallagandla lake which include facilities like walking track, lung space and construction of boundary wall,” the GHMC said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owners-opt-for-tdr-over-cash-for-govt-acquired-land/articleshow/77827932.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man held for H-1B visa fraud||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old MBA graduate and managing director of an online consulting start-up was held for cheating a person under the guise of providing H-1B visa to the US. The accused, Narender Gitta from Nizamabad, had started Arrow2sky.com, an E-learning and IT consulting company, in May 2018. He also started taking up H-1B visa processing as a part-time work online. According to police, when the US visa seekers approached him, he collected the relevant documents through email. He would then insist them to make complete payment to start the process. After a case was registered, police traced the accused to Nizamabad and nabbed him. They suspect the accused has cheated other victims and an ivestigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-h-1b-visa-fraud/articleshow/77828016.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books Hyderabad company for Rs 95 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has issued an FIR against Hyderabad-based Servomax India and its director for loan fraud of Rs 95 crore from Indian Overseas Bank. The agency, in its FIR, booked the company’s current director Avasarala Venkateswara Rao and former director P Chandrashekar Reddy, both residents of AS Rao Nagar, on charges under criminal conspiracy, forgery, cheating and Prevention of Corruption Act. This is the second CBI case booked against Servomax India, housed in Cherlapally Industrial Area, for loan fraud. In February 2018, a case had been booked following a complaint by State Bank of India (SBI). The CBI, in its FIR back then, had alleged that the company had an outstanding balance of Rs 299 crore towards SBI and another Rs 104 crore towards Indian Overseas Bank. In its latest FIR, registered on Friday, CBI claimed that forensic audit had revealed the company had diverted the funds through fictitious company debtors and routed the money through current accounts of other banks. The SBI has red-flagged the company account. Between 2011 and 2014, the accused directors floated numerous companies — Neutrino Power Systems, Murali Krishna Power Controls, Akhila Electronics Products, Spillezer Electronics — in the name of employees and shareholders. Letters of credit worth around Rs 30 crore and Rs 15 crore had allegedly been given to Murali Krishna Power and Spillezer Electronics respectively. Payments were reportedly made to a foreign bank in Bahrain and transactions were made with related entities. Along with this, inconsistencies were found in the balance sheet. Some of the companies with which transactions were made are not found in MCA records. The CBI’s Banking Securities and Fraud Cell in Bengaluru is investigating the two cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-hyd-co-for-rs-95-crore-loan-fraud/articleshow/77827846.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Onam feast is a platter of gratitude to frontline heroes||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Kerala Samaj (AKS) has decided to call off Onam celebrations this year amid the Coronavirus pandemic. Instead AKS members will treat frontline warriors and health workers stationed at the Covid-19 hospitals with sumptuous Kerala Sadhyam. After all, we are safe and celebrating because of their relentless efforts, unconditional dedication and commitment in ensuring our well-being,” said KM Ramachandran, President, Ahmedabad Kerala Samajam. As a token of our appreciation for their mammoth efforts in battling the Covid-19 crisis, AKS has decided to distribute traditional Kerala delicacies in the COVID hospitals located in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, said CV Narayanan, General Secretary, AKS. Onam festival, celebrated with a lot of fanfare, fervour and feasting by Malayalis in Kerala and other parts of the world, will be a low-key affair this year because of the Covid-19. Established in 1945, AKS is a socio-cultural organization representing the Malayalee community in Ahmedabad. Their main objective is to harness their tradition and culture amongst the Malayalee population living in this city and foster a strong bonding with the local populace through various cross-cultural initiatives. These items have been specially prepared and packed for the Covid warriors by a reputed manufacturer, maintaining the highest level of hygiene, according to a press release. Additionally, to extend their support to humanity in these times of crisis, AKS has been undertaking various initiatives like setting up of a 24 x 7 taskforce to address and guide on Covid-19 mitigation and physical and mental well-being, distribution of food kits to the economically challenged families, end-to-end facilitation of stranded persons to Kerala through trains and other modes of transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/onam-feast-is-a-platter-of-gratitude-to-frontline-heroes/articleshow/77828062.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangan: Missing woman’s body found in Nalgonda||HYDERABAD: A woman who went missing on August 19, was found dead on a hillock at Valigonda in Nalgonda district. The deceased, Srivani, who owns a grocery store, left her residence on August 19 along with her male friend. On the same day, her friend committed suicide in Bhongir. According to cops, there were no external injuries. Post mortem examination report is awaited. Police registered a suspicious case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-womans-body-found-in-nalgonda/articleshow/77828212.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Most cabbies lack health insurance: Study||HYDERABAD: A new study, Protecting Workers in the Digital Platform Economy, reveals that most app-based transport workers do not have adequate access to health insurance or medical claim measures. This, considering the fact that they face health issues due to long and unusual working hours leading to insufficient rest. The survey took responses from around over 2,000 respondents from six cities including Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Jaipur, and Lucknow. Conducted by the Indian Federation of App-based Transport workers (IFAT), in collaboration with the International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF), the survey showed that an alarming 73.5% respondents did not have any form of health insurance or mediclaim policy either for them or for their families. The data collected through interviews, polls and questionnaires further revealed that majority of taxi drivers suffer from backache, constipation, liver issues, waist pain and neck pain. A significant number of respondents, nearly 60%, identified backache as a major health issue. The survey also focused on harassment faced by drivers from customers, traffic officials, and aggregators which significantly affected their mental health. “Irrespective of age and income group, most drivers are unable to contribute even a single month’s earnings to their annual expenditure on health. We recently submitted a representation to the prime minister as well as the transport minister to ensure that aggregators provide health insurance,” said IFAT national general secretary, Shaik Salauddin. Earlier this week, transport workers across the country, had urged the government to provide insurance coverage to drivers and workers who had been risking their lives to transport people, essentials amid a pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-cabbies-lack-health-insurance-study/articleshow/77827972.cms||Moulika.KV
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Huzurabad doctor attack: Three panels write to DGP, seek action||HYDERABAD: The Telangana branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Telangana Public Health Doctors Association and the Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA) shot off individual complaints to Telangana DGP M Mahendar Reddy, seeking action against the accused in the attack on the superintendent of Huzurabad Government Area Hospital. While the IMA condemned the attack on superintendent Dr Praveen and asked for proper action to be taken under the Epidemic Act, the HRDA also demanded implementation of the government order issued in December 2019, which proposed to create 164 posts under Special Protect Force for deployment in Government teaching hospitals and medical and health district units, in addition to demanding action against the accused. Area hospital superintendent Dr R Praveen Reddy had been verbally attacked and intimidated on August 27 by a local leader during a hospital visit. “Assault on health staff amid the pandemic is inhuman. Doctors and paramedical staff across the world have been at the frontline of battling Covid-19. We request DGP sir to punish concerned. Doing that in quick succession will give confidence to frontline warriors to do their duties without fear in controlling the pandemic,” read the letter by Telangana Public Health Doctors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/huzurabad-doctor-attack-3-panels-write-to-dgp-seek-action/articleshow/77828000.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire mishap at Karimnagar power yard||HYDERABAD: As many as 20 new transformers caught fire in a yard at the Telangana State Northern Power Distribution Company Limited in Karimnagar.  Karimnagar district officials said that the incident took place at around 9.30 am when the employees had not reached the yard.  All the 20 new transformers were kept there recently. Although no injuries were reported, officials estimated a loss of Rs 25 lakhs.Oficials suspect a short circuit could have led to it. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-mishap-at-karimnagar-power-yard/articleshow/77828176.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Infant operated on for neonatal liver cyst||Ahmedabad: A team of experts at civil hospital operated upon a three-day old child for the removal of a liver cyst, identified as mesenteric cyst, to save his life. Dr Rakesh Joshi, head of paediatric department at the civil hospital, said that the child had normal delivery on August 15. “But the antenatal scan had shown that the child had a big cyst in the abdomen. It caused several complications and thus it was decided to surgically remove it,” he said. “Congenital simple liver cyst is unusual and it can compress nearby internal organs,” said Dr Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infant-operated-on-for-neonatal-liver-cyst/articleshow/77828080.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: With no gadgets, students all at sea||HYDERABAD: Nearly 7,000 school students in Mahabubabad district have no access to any gadgets and hence cannot attend the online classes, which are beginning on September 1. Students in Telangana have been asked to attend the online classes which will be telecast on DD Yadagiri, Saptagiri and T-SAT network. However, the grim reality for many students, not just in Mahabubabad, is that they do not have either a TV set at home, a computer or a mobile phone with Internet facility, sources said. As the new academic year 2020-21 rolls out amid the pandemic after a long delay, officials are asking the gram panchayats to provide TV sets for the benefit of students. Mahabubabad district collector VP Gautam asked the panchayats to seek cooperation of the pubic representatives in this endeavour. Cable operators have also been asked by collectors to see that there is no interruption in the telecast. There are 27,073 students in Mahabubabad. Authorities have identified that 8,000 students have mobile phones with Internet facility and another 10,000 students have mobile phones but no Internet facility. Since it is not a face-to-face interaction, students can call up their teachers to clear any doubts . Their numbers will be displayed at all panchayat offices. Kamareddy district collector A Sharath asked that arrangements be made in the panchayat offices and also government offices wherever necessary for students to attend the online classes by watching the telecast. Transco authorities have been requested to ensure that power supply does not snap during the telecast hours. Nagarkurnool district collector L Sharman held a meeting with cable operators on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-gadgetsstudents-all-at-sea/articleshow/77828057.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 30, 2020||Delhi||MLA steps in to make south Delhi forest safer for women||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj was shocked to hear a woman complaining that while walking in the Jahanpanah City Forest in south Delhi, some men had harassed her while she was taking a walk through the densely wooded area and flashed their private parts at her. Bharadwaj informed Delhi Police who visited the area and met other women there. None of the woman joggers, however, disclosed the need to lodge any official complaint. On August 16, Bharadwaj, member of the legislative assembly from the Greater Kailash constituency, received a call from a woman who said she went to the forest for morning walks. The woman revealed that some miscreants in the park always tried to disturb women and at times even made obscene remarks at them. “I spoke to the area DCP, and the following day the assistant commissioner of police reached the forest with two inspectors,” said Bharadwaj. “We collectively patrolled the forest area and spoke to many women. At least six of them did admit to uncomfortable moments during their morning and evening walks. But in front of the police, none of them wanted to file a complaint. The police officers have been supportive and are regularly present in the forest area.” Two siblings who are regulars at the park informed the MLA of the time they were walking on the jungle trail and a man followed them. “The man then exhibited his private parts to the girls,” Bharadwaj claimed. “Some boys apparently come and sit and play loud music in the park. The forest area is frequented by joggers and walkers, men, women or children. The security staff has been briefed and we have told people to click pictures in case they notice anything inappropriate.” The MLA has also deployed a team of women volunteers in the park so that they can keep any eye out for anti-social elements and are approachable for women joggers. He felt the women he met might have desisted from police complaints out of embarrassment or under social pressure. Atul Thakur, DCP (South) maintained that police had not received any official complaint about harassment. “We carry out patrolling in the park on motorcycles and even bicycles. Police officers in plainclothes are also on rounds regularly,” said Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mla-steps-in-to-make-south-delhi-forest-safer-for-women/articleshow/77828084.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Poor left in a fix as authorities drag feet over ration card applications||HYDERABAD: Pending ration card applications, some for over a year, with civil supplies department was a major hurdle for thousands from the marginalised sections of society who could not get access to food supplies during the nation-wide lockdown. “When my fingerprint was not recognised by the machine at our local ration shop, I was told that the ration card was not operational,” B Raj Kumari, a 33-year-old physically challenged resident of Secunderabad told STOI. She is struggling to avail government aid as her ration card application is pending for over a year. Despite re-applying twice last year, Kumari said that her application is yet to be cleared by the authorities. “I can’t walk properly, and it is very difficult for me to go the ration shop every now and then to check if my application has been approved. I also need the ration card so that I can get the Aarogyasri services and get my knee surgery done,” said Kumari. As per official records, nearly 78,000 ration card applications are pending with the authorities. In 2019, only around 7,400 applications out of nearly 59,000 applications were approved while 2,610 were rejected. “Since 2016, the department has received around 1,50,000 applications of which over 60,000 are pending and close to 29,000 were rejected. Despite several requests from applicants, there has been no progress in resolving the issue,” said RTI activist Mohammad Shafi. Another applicant waiting for his ration card application’s approval is Syed Mihraj of Shaheen Nagar in Old City. Mihraj said that there are over 40 families in his locality who are in a similar position. “I applied for a ration card for myself and my family members before the state elections in December 2018. It has been two years and still there is no progress,” he said. When contacted, district civil supplies official C Padma said, “There is no time specification on how long it might take to process the applications but as of now, we are not doing it. We are waiting for government order for approval of these applications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-left-in-a-fix-as-authorities-drag-feet-over-ration-card-applications/articleshow/77828091.cms||Moulika.KV
August 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Harsul Savangi likely to overflow, warning issued||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation issued a warning on Saturday that the mini-dam constructed on Harsul Savangi may soon overflow and water may enter surrounding farms and residential areas. As per the official records, last time this dam overflowed was in 2010. Authorities said the water level at the Harsul Savangi is just 5 feet below its brim. Once it overflows, there could be temporary flooding in low-lying areas as well as the places in the path of the flowing water. The overflowing water will pass through Naregaon, Gadenagar, Chikalthana to reach the Garkheda-based pond. Over the years, Maniknagar and Gadenagar, situated along the banks of the tributary carrying water to Garkheda, have become densely populated. As per the estimation of the civic body authorities, especially those associated with the water supplies department, Harsul Savangi may start overflowing any time now. “Considering the amount of rainfall we have already received and the expected showers, one good spell is enough to fill up the waterbody completely and make it overflow,” they said. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey has issued an official statement appealing residents of these areas to take precautions. He went on to state that the civic body will not be responsible in case the residents suffer any losses from the overflowing of the water. Meanwhile, the historic Harsul water tank has already been overflowing and disrupting lives in low-lying areas of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/harsul-savangi-likely-to-overflow-warning-issued/articleshow/77828913.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Principals asked to serve as admins at 25 gram panchayats||Aurangabad: Principals of zilla parishad-run schools have been appointed as administrators of 25 gram panchayats in Aurangabad district, evoking sharp reactions from the education sector.The terms of the gram panchayats are about to expire and holding fresh polls have been withheld given the Covid-19 pandemic. While 14 of the panchayats concerned are in the Kannad taluka, another 11 local self-governing bodies are in the Vaijapur taluka. As the tenures of the 25 gram panchayats are scheduled to end between August 30 and September 1, the school principals have been asked to take charge as an administrators accordingly.The chief executive officers (CEO) of the ZP have been given power to appoint the administrators on the advice of the guardian minister of every district. The appointment would continue till the first meeting of a newly-elected gram panchayat body takes place. The CEO is also empowered to remove the administrator on ground of misconduct. Kailas Gaikwad, the Aurangabad district secretary of association of primary ZP teachers, said school principals should not have been made administrator for multiple reasons. “The school principals do not hold any experience in heading local self-governing bodies. The principals may yield to pressure from locals while discharging their duties. They may also have to work in a school in these villages in the future,” he said.One principal, preferring anonymity, said, “The government must have considered other options, including roping in Class II revenue officers, for the role of administrator.” ZP school officials have also spelt out the list of non-academic work they have perform, including work related to election and census and the current pandemic-related duties. When contacted, ZP authorities said school principals have been appointed as administrators as per the instructions from the government. “ZP school principals and teachers are among the trusted workforce available to the government. The principals appointed as administrators can work effectively with cooperation from other administrative authorities at the ZP,” a senior ZP official from the education department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/principals-asked-to-serve-as-admins-at-25-gram-panchayats/articleshow/77828924.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Meerut||BJP MLA sits on night-long dharna to protest poor condition of cow shelter||Meerut: Sanjay Sharma, BJP MLA from Anoopshahr in Bulandshahr district, along with his supporters sat on a night-long dharna outside a cow shelter in Aurangabad area on Friday night to protest against alleged irregularities, including unavailability of fodder and poor condition of cattle there.Senior officials, including district magistrate Ravindra Kumar and senior superintendent of police Santosh visited the protest spot and held talks with the agitating MLA. "This is not about one cow shelter here, it is about 154 cow shelters in the district. How can directions of CM Yogi Adiyanath be implemented? We should come up with a standard operating procedure. The DM has sent me a roadmap regarding this. If there will be uniformity, no body will escape accountability," MLA Sharma said. Meanwhile, reacting to allegations of irregularities at the cow shelter, DM Kumar said. "There would have been shortcomings and that is being taken care of. A probe has been ordered. We have registered a case against the veterinary officer, village pradhan and agricultural development officer, panchayat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-mla-sits-on-night-long-dharna-to-protest-poor-condition-of-cow-shelter/articleshow/77826293.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad police arrest two for ATM thefts||HYDERABAD: Two offenders were arrested on Saturday by Hyderabad police for fraudulently withdrawing money from three ATM kiosks recently. They came all the way from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to carry out the fraud in the city. The arrested offenders were identified as Pramod Kumar, 28 from Khanpur Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, and Santosh Kumar, 41, from Kota, Rajasthan. Three of their associates — Ajay Shankar, Kamalkanth and Pawan— were absconding. On August 10, 11 and 12, the offenders withdrew Rs 1.1 lakh from ATMs at SR Nagar, Nampally and Narayaguda. Later, the gang used to reach out to banks, complaining even though money was debited from the account, cash was not dispensed. Based on their complaints, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) re-credited the amount into their accounts. Police identified the offenders and nabbed two of the five members on Saturday when they came to Hyderabad again to commit a similar offence at Nampally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-atm-thefts/articleshow/77828093.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Meerut||Delhi-Doon highway: Elevated stretch gets NHAI nod after WII report shows wildlife movement on route||Meerut: The proposed elevated road -- part of the Rs 10,000 crore Delhi-Dehradun highway -- that would pass through the reserved forest of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to connect Saharanpur to Dehradun has been accepted by the National HIghways Authority of India in “letter and spirit”.This was done after the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) on the basis of its rapid assessment of the wildlife movement using camera trap technique found that the stretch is intensively used by a wide variety of wild animals including leopards, elephants, sambhar, etc.As a result, 80% of the 19.6 km stretch will be developed as an elevated road.Pankaj Maurya, project director, NHAI for Dehradun and under whose jurisdiction this stretch falls, said, "We are complying 100% with the mitigation measures suggested by the WII. Besides, the alignment of the elevated corridor will be in such a way that it minimizes the felling of trees. The aim is to build the road, but not disturb the prevailing environment."According to the NHAI, the stretch that would come up at an estimated cost of Rs 2060 crore will take around three years to complete.According to the WII report, the stretch of NH72 between Ganeshpur and Dehradun passes through an extraordinarily rich wildlife area. Proximity of this road to Rajaji Tiger Reserve and the adjoining wildlife rich area of Shivalik Forest Division of UP are largely responsible for this rich assemblage of wildlife species along this stretch of road. Based on the intensity of camera captures of all wild animals on the three zones of NH72 between Ganeshpur and Dehradun, wildlife crossing zones were demarcated."It's a welcome change focused at maintaining the region's delicate biodiversity," said WII director Dhananjay Mohan.The ambitious project, which will cut down the travel time between Delhi and Dehradun to 2.5 hours, has attracted a lot of criticism from the experts as it also involves felling of 2,572 British-era Sal trees that will "disturb the perfect habitat of leopards, tigers and elephants".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-doon-highway-elevated-stretch-gets-nhai-nod-after-wii-report-shows-wildlife-movement-on-route/articleshow/77826300.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Resolution passed for no idol immersion in Godavari||Aurangabad: With an aim to prevent pollution of Godavari river, the gram panchayat in Kaygaon village as well as the Rameshwar temple trust have unanimously passed a resolution not to allow immersion of idols in the river. As per the resolution, idols can be immersed only at the artificial pond that has been constructed on the banks of Godavari river. Every year, people from far-off places make a beeline to immerse the idols, a majority of which are made of Plaster of Paris, in Godavari river which passes through Kaygaon toka on the busy Aurangabad – Pune highway.The idea to have an artificial pond for immersion of idols was floated by superintendent of Aurangabad rural police Mokshada Patil. Accordingly, inspector of Gangapur police station Machindra Survase brought members of Rameshwar temple trust and the gram panchayat on the discussion table and the resolution was passed immediately. Going a step ahead, police have also roped in local farmers to collect ‘nirmal’ (flowers and petals) offered to the idols to discourage people from dumping them in the artificial pond and pollute it further.sSurvase told TOI, “All the nirmal collected on the day of immersion will be used by local farmers for making high-quality organic compost, which can be used for making the farms more fertile.” With this decision, fire brigade authorities have heaved a sigh of relief as the possibility of accidental drowning cases at the Godavari river, which due to heavy rainfall in and around the region is flowing with high currents, will be lesser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/resolution-passed-for-no-idol-immersion-in-godavari/articleshow/77828948.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Four get anticipatory bail in assault on police case||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently granted anticipatory bail to four people who were booked for allegedly assaulting an assistant police inspector (API) and his staff at Ambi in Osmanabad in July 2020. An FIR was registered at the Ambi police station stating that the police officer and his staff tried to reason with a businessman on removing the vehicles parked in the middle of the road at Anala Chowk when the applicants, Laxman Hanumant Mukte (31), Machindra Appasaheb Kadam (30), Nitin Bibhishan Shinde (40) and Motilal Devichand Gadiya (60), all resident of Anala in Paranda taluka of Osmanabad, allegedly assaulted him. The four booked approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail through lawyer Sayyed Tauseef Yaseen. While allowing the applications, Justice R G Avachat ordered that “in the event of arrest, the applicants be released on executing Personal Recognizance (PR) bond in the sum of Rs.15,000 each with one surety each in the like amount.” The bench observed, “The record indicates that the applicant (Motilal) had made a complaint to the superintendent of police, Osmanabad alleging the informant (API) had abused and assaulted him and his family members in the morning of July 9. The superintendent of police, Osmanabad,had asked the S.D.P.O. to inquire into the incident. The enquiry officer gave clean chit to the informant herein.” The bench further observed, “...the F.I.R. has been lodged a few hours after the applicant (Motilal) made a complaint to the superintendent of police against the informant herein. The applicants have, therefore, reason to contend that false FIR has been lodged. Even if we take the allegations in the FIR. as it is, no custodial interrogation of the applicants is required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-get-anticipatory-bail-in-assault-on-police-case/articleshow/77828946.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
August 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant found dead near Thoomanur||Coimbatore: A female elephant, which was aged around 50 years, was found dead near Thoomanur on Saturday. With this, 19 elephants have died in the district so far this year due to various reasons. According to forest department officials, the carcass, which was in a partially decomposed state, was first spotted by people from Thoomanur tribal settlement when they went to the forest to graze the cattle. “They immediately alerted us.” Forest department field staff and veterinarians subsequently examined the carcass and conducted postmortem. The carcass was later left in the reserve forest for scavengers. An official said an elephant calf was found dead in the same locality on August 18. Meanwhile, the forest department has started treating the makhna (tuskless male elephant), which the Kerala forest department had tranquilized a couple of days ago and treated for its wound in the mouth after it entered their territory on August 16. They released the elephant, which is nicknamed bulldozer, back into the forest after keeping it under observation for 18 hours. The elephant then moved towards the Coimbatore forest range. On Thursday, the elephant was spotted in Narasipuram area of Boluvampatti forest range. “Immediately, we formed a special team to monitor the animal, which is in Vettaikaran Kovil area of Narasipuram forest section,” an official said. As per the advice of forest veterinary officer Dr Sukumar, medicines are being given to the elephant. “We placed rice and maize flour that were mixed with powdered tablets, and bananas and watermelon on its pathway. The elephant has taken all the food,” the officer said. D Venkatesh, district forest officer, said medicines would be provided to the elephant at regular intervals until it recovers from the wound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-found-dead-near-thoomanur/articleshow/77828083.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Two lakh poor quality engineers to pass out as arrear exams scrapped: Experts||CHENNAI: The cancellation of all arrears exams for engineering students in Tamil Nadu, due to Covid-19, may in one stroke bring down the value of lakhs of hard earned degrees and ensure that at least two lakh students without basic understanding in key subjects become engineers, say experts. It may also damage the reputation of Anna University and lead to genuine students being overlooked for courses of higher education or employment due to loss of credibility, they add. The government announced that all students with arrears (except final semester) who have registered and paid fees for exams will be exempted from writing exams and they will be promoted. There are currently 4,01,226 engineering students with arrears in TN. “Of the two lakh students now set to receive degrees without clearing exams, one lakh have finished college and 10,000 have exhausted all attempts to clear arrears,” a professor said. Currently, one student has been found to have 61 arrears out of 68 papers, he said. B Chidambararajan, principal of Chennai-based Valliammai Engineering College, said a student can clear 6-10 papers in one semester. “If students with more arrears are promoted without writing exams, the value of degrees will be lost. Even now many companies don’t rely on semester marks to select candidates,” he said. Almost all private companies have a robust recruitment process and will not take up students without screening them, he said. “If any of such candidates join the public sector, it will have very serious consequences,” he said, suggesting an exit test for students with many arrear. The concept of getting students to arrear exams is to enable them to acquire sufficient knowledge in a subject, said M A Maluk Mohammed, director and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering and Technology in Trichy. “Citing Covid-19 scenario, we cannot pass all students with arrears. It is making a mockery of the system.” The government can come up with innovative solutions like online exams or open book exams, he said. E Balagurusamy, former vice-chancellor of Anna University, said universities are not ration shops to distribute free degrees. “There is no need to declare students with arrears passed with such urgency. Many finished college years ago and have been appearing for arrear exams for several years. They can wait for a few more months.” All India Council for Technical Education chairman Anil D Sahasrabudhe wondered how a student who failed a course could be given a degree. “Such students will not be valued by industry or other higher educational institutes and would not get jobs. What is the use of such degrees?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2l-poor-quality-engineers-to-pass-out-as-arrear-exams-scrapped-experts/articleshow/77827170.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Meerut||TOI Impact: After UP govt seeks report on 12,000-acre ‘forest land grab’, district admits revenue records were fudged||Meerut: Days after a TOI report on the alleged land grab of 12,000 acres in the wildlife corridor land between Corbett and Rajaji national parks, the UP revenue department sought an explanation from the Bijnor district administration which, in turn, responded that revenue records of at least one village were fudged.“The Lucknow administration has sought information on the allegation, based on the TOI report,” Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey said. “But let me tell you, the discrepancy dates back to the early ‘50s. Rules were different then. Nevertheless, a committee has been formed and records of other villages are being checked as well. If any anomaly is found, appropriate action will be taken.”The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which operates under the Union environment ministry, had earlier asked the UP government for a report on the encroachment on Najibabad forest division by private players who had faked documents of ownership. The state government then asked the district administration. In response, the office of the district magistrate admitted to finding prima facie evidence that the revenue records of Telipada village were fudged. Telipada is one of the 12 villages that had been flagged by a whistleblower, a stenographer at the office of the sub divisional magistrate of Nagina, Kishan Chand. These were places on the wildlife corridor where forest land was being diverted to private owners by fudging revenue records, he had complained to senior officials last year, adding that the land titles were then transferred to others who used them to apply for mining tenders or farming leases. The wildlife corridor in question connects Corbett National Park and Rajaji National Park, both in Uttarakhand, which tigers and elephants frequent.On Saturday, Chand contested the dismissal of the problem by the district magistrate. “The practice of manipulating records continued well beyond the ‘50s. And which law justifies river beds being handed over to private players?” he asked. The river bed he referred to is that of the Kho, a tributary of the Ganga, the banks of which had also allegedly been “registered” by entrepreneurs from Punjab, Assam, Rajasthan and UP. The NTCA notice had come after a lawyer, Gaurav Bansal, had filed a complaint with the Union environment ministry. He said, “Since those investigating the land grab are themselves suspects in the case, we will move the court to direct an independent agency like CBI to investigate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/toi-impact-after-up-govt-seeks-report-on-12000-acre-forest-land-grab-district-admits-revenue-records-were-fudged/articleshow/77826315.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 30, 2020||Pune||Car registrations in Pune & Pimpri Chinchwad improve||PUNE: Registration of cars has shown a marked improvement in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad regional transport offices (RTOs) from June onwards. Statistics provided by the Pune RTO showed 1,627 cars were registered with them in June, followed by 1,776 in July and 2,468 from August 1 to 25, which was almost 39% more than the July figure. The Pimpri Chinchwad RTO’s statistics stated that 1,111 cars were registered in June, 1,138 in July and 2,269 from August 1 to 25, which was almost a 100% jump compared to the July numbers. “The trend, though a bit slow even now, seems to be improving. We were particularly concerned with the low car registrations, but it seems to be picking up slowly and steadily. With the festival season starting, the number of buyers of four-wheelers has been increasing. The festival season goes on till the end of November and we expect more people to buy new vehicles. However, the overall vehicle registrations during this ongoing financial year has been low, but we are positive,” a Pune RTO official told the TOI. The registrations of vehicles resumed after a gap of almost two months from May 18. “Only 445 cars were registered at Pune RTO and 428 in Pimpri Chinchwad RTO from May 18 to 31. With festivals like Dasara and Diwali coming up, we are expecting more registrations and revenue,” the official added. The Pune RTO collected total revenue of Rs10.32 crore in May, Rs29.15 crore in June, Rs34.42 crore in July and Rs40.87 crore this month till August 25. The Pimpri Chinchwad RTO collected Rs5.9 crore in May, Rs17.9 crore in June, Rs20.43 crore in July and Rs26.2 crore this month till August 25. Experts said the uptick was positive and would continue unless there was another lockdown. “We see a pent-up demand for passenger vehicles due to the ongoing festive season, which will continue till Diwali. The only catch is that there is no further lockdown in any part of the city, which will then hamper demand in that region,” said Saharah Damani, the chief executive officer of Federation of Auto Dealers Association. Nicky Sehgal, the owner of Sehgal Autoriders, also agreed. “Yes, we see an uptick in car sales with strong demand for small cars and those running on CNG,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/car-registrations-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-improve/articleshow/77828101.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 30, 2020||Rajkot||Sabarkantha collector, his commando test Covid-19 positive||Palanpur: Sabarkantha collector CJ Patel tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and is currently under home quarantine.Chief district health officer (CDHO) Rajesh Patel said the collector had been suffering from fever and cough for last couple of days and as a precaution got himself tested. His commando also tested positive. CDHO Patel said the district has reported 645 Covid-19 positive cases so far.There are nearly 645 Covid-19 positive cases in Sabarkantha district, the CDHO informed.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sabarkantha-collector-his-commando-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77827185.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Door-to-door screening starts to identify suspected Covid patients||Nagpur: The team of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), collector office and police department has started door-to-door survey and screening to identify suspected Covid-19 patients. The motive is to detect positive cases early and provide treatment to control deaths. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI that majority of Covid-19 positive deceased had been reported late to Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). “Patients of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and comorbidities are not doing for Covid-19 test after onset of symptoms while some are taking treatment for other diseases. Drive has been launched to check oxygen saturation level and temperature of people with symptoms. People will be suggested to get done test immediately in case of any symptoms of Covid,” he said. Kumar added that the drive will cover areas with high caseload followed by remaining localities. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said team has been constituted at the level of 28 police stations. “Around 2,000-2,500 members are from NMC, police, collector office and NGOs.” The NMC and police department have involved interested NGOs, members of District Peace Committee and corporators to get cooperation from the people. President of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat Khamla, Narayan Ahuja, and member Mohan Chawla said, “Drive will benefit in identification of cases and save lives if continued with dedication. We as a community and also member of District Peace Committee will accompany the team. Team is taking oxygen saturation level and also noting down all details of family members,” he said. In April, the civic body had conducted survey of high-risk people. Meanwhile, the NMC in association with RSS Lokkalyan Samiti has also launched Mission Vishwas. “Due to the large number of positive cases, the government system is proving to be inadequate. NMC has therefore decided to take the help of social organizations for this cause,” the Samiti said. Under ‘Mission Vishwas’, the volunteers of the Samiti will coordinate with NMC zonal medical officers and help them prepare list of suspects who have come in contact with positives patients. “The suspects will be encouraged to get tested at the earliest. Volunteers also help patients’ families to meet urgent requirements like medicines etc. In last few days, more than 7,000 positive patients were contacted by the volunteers. They are joined by volunteers of ‘Sevankur, an NGO working among the medical students,” the Samiti said. The Samiti added that it also provides counselling to boost the morale of the patient and the families. “Approximately 20 volunteers per zone are rendering their services. The volunteers take proper precautions like maintaining Covid distancing, using face mask, face shields, gloves etc.” The Samiti had distributed ration and daily necessity kits to around 60,000 needy people during full lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/door-to-door-screening-starts-to-identify-suspected-covid-patients/articleshow/77828103.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Trio held for chain snatching||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda CCS along with Meerpet police arrested three chain snatchers at Badangpet. The accused were identified as Varikuppala Prakash, Rapani Venkatesh and Mucha Vamshi Krishnam. They were involved in six snatching cases this year and five last year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trio-held-for-chain-snatching/articleshow/77828105.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Meerut||Army jawan, 22, from Muzaffarnagar who was due to get married in Dec killed in anti-terrorist operation in J&K’s Pulwama||Muzaffarnagar: A 22-year-old Army jawan hailing from Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, who was due to get married in December, was killed in an anti-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district The family of the slain soldier — Prashant Sharma (22) who joined the Rashtriya Rifles of the Indian Army in 2017 — in Muzaffarnagar was informed about his death on Saturday morning. “The officer on the phone told us that Prashant sustained bullet injuries during the anti-terrorist operation and was rushed to a hospital, where he died during the treatment,” said Nishant Sharma, the soldier’s brother. “He lost his life after killing three terrorists. My son sacrificed his life for the country,” said his father Sheeshpal Sharma, a former Army man. According to family members, Prashant was to get married to a Meerut-based girl on December 6, and thus, Sharma was giving a face-lift to his house in Budhana Mode locality.After getting information, locals in a large number, government officials and politicians, including Muzaffarnagar city MLA and Uttar Pradesh minister Kapil Dev Aggarwal, visited Sharma’s house to condole the grieving family. His last remains, however, are expected to reach late tonight.Sharma was the second soldier from Muzaffarnagar who lost his life in anti-terrorist operations in Kashmir in a week. On August 21, Mohit Kumar (23), an Army jawan hailing from Gadi Nowabad village under Bhorakalan police station of Muzaffarnagar, was found dead at a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch sector of Jammu and Kashmir on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/army-jawan-22-from-muzaffarnagar-who-was-due-to-get-married-in-dec-killed-in-anti-terrorist-operation-in-jks-pulwama/articleshow/77826322.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Church fest: Devotees break Covid norms at Besant Nagar||Chennai: Devotees ignored all Covid protocol and thronged Besant Nagar for the flag-hoisting that signifies start of the annual festival at the Vailankanni shrine near the beach on Saturday. Though the ceremony was closed to the public, people in their thousands came in cars, autorickshaws and on two-wheelers hoping to catch a glimpse. However, a huge police force deployed in the area barricaded all entry points leading to the beach and turned devotees away. This added to the chaos, with people, many of them not wearing masks, crowding the roads. There were traffic snarls all the way to Adayar through the day. Police were strict near the church, checking the identity cards of photographers and correspondents of various media organisations before allowing them in. But no one stopped people riding triples and packed in autorickshaws when they set out from various parts of the city. Some residents crowded on the terraces of buildings nearby to watch the flag hoisting. Only vehicles carrying food and medical supplies were allowed through the barricades. Traffic on certain roads near the area was made one-way. Durgesh Haridas, 32, a resident of Thiruvanmiyur, who had to return home through the area questioned how police and corporation allowed so many people towards the beach. “Some people parked their vehicles before the barricade and walked towards the church,” he said. Another resident said that the people from all parts of the city moving towards the area meant that social distancing norms went for a toss, especially at tea shops and restaurants. A senior police official said that no permission was given for the event and even the beach is still out of bounds for the residents. “We have posted a number of personnel there on duty and they are checking everyone strictly,” he said. A senior corporation official told TOI that they had denied permission for the event and that inspections were carried out in the morning and evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/church-fest-devotees-break-covid-norms-at-besant-nagar/articleshow/77828081.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||LG, Delhi government at odds again, this time over NEET||NEW DELHI: The AAP government and the lieutenant governor have once again locked horns, this time over conducting the Joint Entrance Exam and the National Eligibility Entrance Test. LG Anil Baijal has rejected a Delhi government proposal requesting him to not allow the JEE and NEET in the national capital. The AAP government is opposed to conducting the competitive examinations, which, it believes, may expose candidates to the risk of getting infected by the novel coronavirus. According to a Delhi government source, Baijal has rejected the proposal and returned the file to the elected government. “The file was sent to the LG, highlighting the risk of Covid-19 while conducting the examinations,” said the sources. The government also underlined that maintaining social distancing among the candidates outside the test centres would be a challenging affair, increasing the risk. It is likely that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority may permit holding the examination in the capital. Recently, Delhi’s education minister Manish Sisodia asked the Centre to reconsider its decision of holding the exams in the prevailing pandemic. Sisodia urged the central government to either postpone the tests or find an alternative way of conducting them. “The Centre has closed its eyes to the Covid-19 ground reality. Why is it forcing 28 lakh students to sit for the exams? They are saying they will make all the necessary arrangements. But despite the arrangements till now, so many people have tested positive,” Sisodia recently said on the Centre’s decision to hold the examinations. In a letter to education minister Ramesh Rokhriyal Nishank, Sisodia recently stated, “We have to accept that the country is still in the grip of corona. In Delhi and a few other states, situation may be better, but in other states, cases of infection by Covid-19 are on the rise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-delhi-govt-at-odds-again-this-time-over-neet/articleshow/77828108.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasara delight: Telangana to allot 2,000 acres for pharma companies in HPC||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Pharma City (HPC) has received fresh traction with the government deciding to allot 2,000 acres to pharma companies in the prestigious project. The project is likely to take off in the fourth week of October coinciding with Dasara festival. With power, water connections and access roads provided in these 2,000 acres, the government has decided to go ahead with land allotment, senior officials said. Principal secretary, industries, Jayesh Ranjan told STOI that once the land is handed over to the industries, it should take at least one-and-a-half years to get their operations rolling. “Even as infrastructure works in the acquired land are being taken up, acquisition of additional land will also be completed soon,” a Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) official said. A high-power committee led by chief secretary Somesh Kumar has been constituted along with members like principal secretaries of industries and finance to finalise the modalities for allotment of the land to the pharma firms and to scrutinise the applications. Ranjan said they have already received several applications for allotment of 11,000 acres. “Balance land allotment will be made in phases,” he said. Applications have come from Bulk Drug Manufacturers’ Association and individuals. “Firms have to apply individually for land allotment with their detailed project reports,” Ranjan said. Officials said local companies, operating from industrial areas within the Outer Ring Road area in Greater Hyderabad, would be preferred while allotting the land. Government already asked polluting units, numbering around 1,600, to move out of city as it is ready to allot land for them outside the Outer Ring Road limits. While about 9,000 acres land has already been acquired, another 5,000 acres is being acquired in Yacharam and Kanukuru mandals of Ranga Reddy district for two phases of Pharma City. The government had launched the pharma city project at Mucherla, on the outskirts of the city, five years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasara-delight-t-to-allot-2k-acres-for-pharma-cos-in-hpc/articleshow/77828144.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Activists: Mention vehicle no. on cantt toll plaza receipt||Aurangabad: With the aim to address the long-pending issue of overcharging at the Cantonment Board toll plaza, activists and transporters are now asking for the vehicle registration numbers to be mentioned on each vehicle entry tax (VET) receipts.Over the last few years, the Cantonment police station of Aurangabad city has registered a number of offences against the toll plaza known for forcing truck drivers, especially those hailing from other cities and states, to purchase multiple VET bills, instead of one bill of Rs 60. In the past, transporters had also raised questions over the Cantonment police’s alleged attempt to silence several complaints against the toll plaza which is run by a private contractor. Activist Shafiq Ansari said, “Despite raising the issue for years, there has not been any permanent solution to the financial harassment that truck drivers face. Now, we plan to move the high court for the redressal of our grievances.” However, authorities in the Cantonment Board said that they have acted on every complaint received. CEO of Aurangabad Cantonment Board Vikrant More told TOI, “On all the complaints reaching us, we ensure probe followed by appropriate action.” The officer welcomed the suggestion to mandatorily have registration numbers mentioned on the toll tax bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/activists-mention-vehicle-no-on-cantt-toll-plaza-receipt/articleshow/77828954.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 30, 2020||Pune||Civic officials barricade immersion ghats in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: Most immersion ghats along the rivers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been barricaded after several families turned up at the riverfront to immerse Ganapati idols through various days of the festival. The civic authorities have arranged for mobile immersion tanks and appealed to people to immerse idols at the pandal or at home to prevent crowding at ghats that could lead to further spread of Covid-19. Although authorities have prohibited immersion of idols in the river or in artificial tanks along the river, many devotees reached the ghats to immerse the Ganesh idol on the 1.5th day, third day, sixth day and seventh day of the festival. Unaware of where to go to immerse the idols, many simply waited along the riverside for clear instructions. According to officials from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the Pune police, the river banks have been barricaded in anticipation of more people reaching the ghats for immersion on Anant Chaturdashi. “Immersion in the river or artificial tanks along the riverside is not allowed this year. We had appealed to people to immerse idols at home or in mobile tanks provided by us. While most people are following the instructions, the police have installed barricades in anticipation of people coming to the riverside for immersion on the last day,” said Dnyaneshwar Molak, head of the solid waste management department at PMC. Inspector Deepak Lagad of Deccan police station said, “We have barricaded all seven ghats in areas under our jurisdiction to prevent people from conducting immersion in the river, which is not allowed this year due to the pandemic. We had begun sealing the entry points to the immersion ghats before the 7th day and we saw that people had come to the ghats for immersion. As a preventive measure, we have sealed entry to all immersion ghats.” Executive engineer at Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), Prashant Patil said, “To ensure that nobody enters the water bodies for immersion, we have barricaded entrances to all the immersion ghats along the rivers in Pimpri Chinchwad. Over the last few days, we have received around 22,000 Ganesh idols for immersion. The appeals made earlier to avoid going to the ghats for immersion seem to have worked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-officials-barricade-immersion-ghats-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/77828110.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow double murder: Girl drew ‘inspiration’ from Japanese writer’s character||LUCKNOW: The 14-year-old girl who is accused of shooting her mother and brother is a national shooting champion and has also been a meritorious student. She is inspired by Japanese author Osamu Dazai, who talks about estrangement of the individual from society. Police stumbled upon the revelation after the confession of the girl in presence of women cops and a counsellor. A senior officer who interrogated the girl said she used to follow the characters of Dazai. “A character in Dazai’s novel called Oba Yozo tries to adapt, cope and fit in but fails to become a human. The girl identified with that. In her notebook, she has scribbled “to fail to be human, to be disqualified as a human being”. This is an excerpt from the book Longer Human by Dazai,” said the officer. The girl told police that on Saturday, after having lunch, her brother and mother had gone to sleep. The girl went to the bathroom, took a shower and then with fruit jam scribbled ‘I am a disqualified human’, on the mirror. She also shot at the bathroom mirror. She later came out and shot at the temple of her mother and brother who were asleep,” the officer said. The officer also said that the pistol was registered in the name of her father. The counsellor also said that the girl used to imagine herself as the characters in Dazai’s novel and react in a similar way. Cops also recovered a toy ‘skull’ and other grotesque photos from inside her room. Teachers of a prominent city school where the girl had studied in 2017-18 said she was a very bright student. “She was not only good in studies but also in extra-curricular activities, including shooting,” the officer said. In 2017, the girl had also won a contest by Crossword book store to create a bookmark. The bookmark created by the girl had become the social bookmark of Crossword stores all over the country. The girl has been a shooter since 2013 and has participated in national rifle shooting events. Watch Lucknow double murder: Girl drew ‘inspiration’ from Japanese writer Osamu Dazai’s character||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/girl-drew-inspiration-from-japanese-writers-character/articleshow/77828960.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit DM presented ELets Water Innovation Award for Hardoi’s Belatali project||Pilibhit: Pulkit Khare, Pilibhit district magistrate, was presented the ELets Water Innovation Award on Friday via video-conferencing at the virtual ELets National Water Innovation Summit, 2020 for his Belatali project in Hardoi district during his tenure as DM there last year.This prestigious award was presented to him virtually in the summit that had been organized in partnership with the Union ministry of jal shakti. The function was presided over by secretary, ministry of jal shakti, UP Singh.Arpit Gupta of the organizers’ team said Khare had been selected for the award under the “Rejuvenating water bodies; innovation in city landscape” for his efforts in transforming a huge waterlogged stinking litter dump full of water hyacinth into a picnic spot and a fresh water reservoir in Hardoi city although the area fell under the village panchayat of Behta Chand in revenue records.“It is hard to believe that such a hazardous place can exist in the middle of the city -- being a potential breeding point for contagious diseases and a source for groundwater contamination as well as pollution," said Khare.He said the project involved a total investment of Rs 23 lakh, including the allocation of Rs 15 lakh by the finance commission and Rs 8 lakh by MNREGA. It generated 4,000 man-days for the local labourers.The transformation of the 14,570 square meter area with a depth of 2 meters was completed in eight months -- between February and September, 2019. All initiatives had been taken at the local level, including the designing of the layout, that was been carried out by the Rural Engineering Department, Khare concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-dm-presented-elets-water-innovation-award-for-hardois-belatali-project/articleshow/77826390.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai adds more than 1,300 active cases within 1 week||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 in Chennai increased to 13,653 on Saturday (August 29) from 12,287 on August 21 although the percentage of active cases remained at 10%. The steady number of cases has been putting immense pressure on doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and the healthcare system in the city. For the last ten days, nearly 70% of around 3,000 beds in four government medical college hospitals in Chennai were occupied. Of this, more than half of them required supportive and intensive care -- 12% with severe symptoms and 46% with moderate symptoms of the viral infection. While people with severe symptoms were in intensive care with high-flow oxygen or ventilation, those with moderate symptoms required oxygen. Beds in most private hospitals, particularly the ones with oxygen, were also occupied. “Hospitalisation is recommended only for people with symptoms, people above 60 years or those with comorbid conditions,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu, who is in-charge of all state-run medical colleges in the state. “Admission to hospitals in Chennai isn’t just for people living in the city. We have patients coming from the adjoining districts as well.  These hospitals serve as tertiary care facilities for those districts as well,” he said. On Friday, the active cases in the region – Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur – were 20,145. Despite high discharge rate, the number of people still under treatment remains the same. “This is because the number of fresh cases hasn’t gone down. On an average a patient who is tested positive is on the active cases list for at least ten days,” said a senior health official at the city Covid-19 control room. The average number of fresh cases in the city was around 1,800-2,300 in last week of June and first week of July, but there steady drop in cases for almost three weeks. Along with this the active cases came down. In August, the city has been reporting a daily average of 1,100 fresh cases every day. On July 28, there were 12,852 (13%) active cases in the city, a drop from 21,094 cases in June, when 39% of the cases were still under treatment. On August 1, there were 12436 cases and by August 15, it came down to 11321 and six days later it was 12287. Since then it has been steadily increasing. Health department officials at the Greater Chennai Corporation say the positivity rate – number of people testing positive over number of people tested – is higher in some zones where business have establishment, and in a few residential areas such as West Mambalam, Adyar and Ambattur particularly in apartment complexes and gated communities. “We have intensified screening and testing. We need more people to wear mask and follow social distancing norms. That is the only way to prevent spread of infection now,” said joint commissioner (health) Madhusudhan Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-adds-more-than-1-3k-active-cases-within-1-week/articleshow/77828088.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Musical genius writes message of love, brings smiles to many||CHENNAI: “Love you all” — the three words in cursive writing style with a black pen by playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam brought smiles to the faces of his nurses at the sixth floor high sterile unit of MGM Healthcare. The members of the team treating him shared the note among themselves on their internal chats. The 74-year-old singer has been undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the hospital on Nelson Manickam Road since August 5. Two days ago, the singer’s son S P Charan, a singer and producer himself, said that his father had been trying to communicate to him by writing something but he could not hold the pen. Finally, when SPB managed to put pen to paper and write the three words on Friday, the nursing team was thrilled. Later, he even wrote down names of some of the doctors and nurses. During the day, the singer listens to his favourite hymns and songs, said a member of the treatment team. Doctors said the passive physiotherapy and the intensive care was beginning to show good results. “He is still critical, but is lot better,” said one of the senior doctors. After he was admitted to the hospital 25 days ago with “mild” symptoms of Covid-19, he was put on plasma therapy, recommended medications such as remdesiver, steroids and medications to prevent blood clots. On August 13, after his oxygen saturation dropped, he was moved to the intensive care unit and was connected to life support including ventilator and an ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) unit. “He is under intensive care. He is conscious, responsive and responding well to all our therapy,” said MGM Healthcare director Dr Prashanth Rajagopalan. Meanwhile, Charan posted a message on the social media about “slow and steady progress” of his father’s health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/musical-genius-writes-message-of-love-brings-smiles-to-many/articleshow/77828097.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's IGI Airport expects 73% decline in traffic||NEW DELHI: IGI Airport is staring at a 73% fall in traffic this financial year with an expected total passenger number of 1.8 crore — down from 6.7 crore in the April 2019-March 2020 period. Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), which manages Indira Gandhi International Airport, now estimates the post-Covid recovery in air travel only by the financial year 2023-24, when it expects 7.3 crore flyers. DIAL has submitted its revised passenger numbers to Airports Economic Regulatory Authority in response to a consultation paper issued by the latter for determining tariff for April 2019-March 2024. While international passengers in 2020-21 (April to March) are expected to be 33 lakh — down 82% from 1.7 crore in the previous fiscal, the domestic count is likely to hover around 1.5 crore — a fall of 70% from almost 5 crore in 2019-20. One of IGIA’s three runways is being used as a storage for grounded planes since March. The sharp fall has had a crippling effect on the aviation industry’s fortunes, with many players now struggling to survive. DIAL itself is in the midst of implementing a Rs 8,632-crore infrastructure upgrade of laying the fourth runway, expanding Terminal 1, and constructing an elevated taxiway, among others. According to the data of Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the pandemic-struck January-July has seen 3.7 crore domestic flyers across the country, 55% less than 8.2 crore in the same period last year. As the “business impact of Covid”, the operator of India’s busiest airport has told AERA, “IGI Airport is being severely impacted in terms of scale of business/traffic by the outbreak of Covid pandemic globally… Traffic had come to a total standstill”. Even after the restrictions have been eased from May 25, DIAL said “the demand as seen in the recent past has been highly muted. The plight of international flights is not known”. With constraints on disposable income, “it may also be perused that the spend on travel would be much less even after the lifting of restrictions on air travel. The intensity and duration of impact of Covid-19 on the travel industry is predicted to be far deeper and longer”, the operator pointed out. All scheduled flights were suspended in the last week of March in India. While domestic operations have since been allowed to resume, international flights are taking place under the special arrangements of air bubbles the government is creating with some countries to ensure continuity of travel till regular flights restart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-expects-73-decline-in-traffic/articleshow/77828172.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||Notice to Azam Khan's sister for vacating bungalow||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Municipal Corporation on Saturday sent a notice to Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan’s elder sister, Nikhat Akhlaq, for vacating the River Colony bungalow allotted to her by the civic body in 2007. LMC officials said, an inquiry following a complaint found Nikhat was living in Rampur and did not visit her Lucknow house since 2010. A notice has also been sent to her Rampur address. She has been given seven days to reply why the allotment should not be cancelled if she was not residing in the house. The notice also warns that if she failed to respond or satisfactorily explain her stand, the allotment would stand cancelled and LMC will take possession of the house. Nikhat is a retired government teacher and a member of Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust, which runs Azam's varsity and schools. The civic body had allotted the 6,000sq ft bungalow to Alfaq in March 2007 at Rs 1,000 per month when Mulayam Singh Yadav was chief minister. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, the inquiry was done on directions of the state government, which recently received a complaint against Nikhat. “As per housing rules, if a unit has been allotted to someone she/he needs to reside in the house. In this case, the allottee has not visited the property even once in 10 years,” he added. Azam Khan, a Samajwadi Party heavyweight, has been a nine-time MLA from Rampur, before being elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019. Currently, he is in Sitapur jail along with his legislator wife, Tazeen Fatima, and son Abdullah Azam Khan, after being arrested in a forgery case related to the latter’s age proof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/notice-to-azam-sister-for-vacating-bungalow/articleshow/77828980.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid +ve report now ‘licence’ to get pvt hospital admission||Nagpur: A Covid positive test report has literally become the licence to get a private hospital admission in city. Yet, that too alone wouldn’t guarantee a patient of an oxygenated or ICU bed. Beside a positive report, the patient has to be mild to moderate symptomatic. In case the condition is serious there is no option but to either head to a private hospital outside city limits or knocking the doors of a government medical college where admission is not an issue but necessary facility may not be instantly available. On Friday evening, a West Nagpur lawyer had to admit his father in a private dedicated Covid hospital (DCH) in Kamptee after seven private hospitals and two trust-run hospitals laid several conditions before them. The Kamptee DCH agreed on Rs30,000 per day cost. The elderly man, suffering from pneumonia, tested negative in rapid antigen test at NMC’s Raj Nagar centre. His SPO2 level significantly dropped to below the required 95 and needed an oxygen bed immediately. But since he was Covid negative and his condition likely to become serious, none of the private hospitals gave admission. The timely admission proved useful and the man’s blood oxygen level recovered to normal level within 24 hours. Yet, the family is worried about footing the final hospital bill though the administration has claimed over 1,600 oxygenated beds in city. On Saturday, another breathless man from South-West Nagpur was refused admission even at medical colleges and had to be admitted after depositing Rs2lakh upfront fee. The situation is no less better for serious Covid patients. As per NMC’s Saturday morning record, just one trust hospitals and three private hospitals had beds, with the conditions applied tag. When TOI spoke to these hospitals, all laid the two main condition that before asking about the patient — the patient must not need ICU and shouldn’t be critical beside a compulsory Covid positive report. Going by this, it seems people developing any serious health complication and not found positive, may not get a bed anywhere in Nagpur, a medical hub. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said no patient must be denied admission. “We are aware there is shortage of beds. We are trying to increase the overall bed capacity. But patients must not wait till they reach the stage that they need a ventilator. They must get tested even at slightest indication of Covid-like symptom,” he said. Regarding NMC-run hospitals, Sharma said, “We are working on making them functional. Some of them already started.” IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey said for safety of our non-Covid staff, critical patients with respiratory infection and even others are initially kept in triage ward. “We are admitting all patients,” he said. GMCH officials said they have observed certain private hospitals are referring all critical patients now to them. “Private hospitals are just sending all patients here. They must admit non-Covid too,” they said. TOI had reported that the private hospitals had been raising the issue of non-Covid while resisting the civic body’s move to treat Covid patients there. The private hospitals had been saying that non-Covid illness could be equally dangerous and they won’t be able to manage both types of patients at same time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-report-now-licence-to-get-pvt-hospital-admission/articleshow/77828185.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 30, 2020||Trichy||237 booked for violating lockdown norms||Trichy: City police booked 237 functionaries and members of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam for violating lockdown norms and celebrating the anniversary of their organization. TMMK men hoisted the flag in seven places-opposite Crawford mosque, State Bank Colony, Ramachandra Nagar, MGR Nagar, Nethaji Nagar in Edamalaipatti pudhur police station limits, in front of Natharsa mosque in Fort police station limits and near Alwar Thoppu bus stop in Thillai Nagar police station limits on Friday. They were booked on charges of unlawful assembly, disobeying the curfew promulgated by the government and acting negligently to spread infectious disease endangering human life under sections of IPC, Epidemic Disease Act, Tamil Nadu public health Act and Disaster Management Act. The police officials said that such activities of the political parties and the outfits during the pandemic pose a challenge to the police personnel who are also bogged down with the Covid-19 prevention duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/237-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/77829232.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nashik||62% of total recoveries in last 28 days||Nashik: Roughly 62% of all Covid-19 recoveries in the city has been recorded in the past 28 days. So far, there have been 23,050 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the city. Of them, 19,179 patients have recovered. According to the civic officials, 11,872 of the recovered patients have been discharged between August 1 and 28. The remaining 7,307 recoveries had taken place between April 10 and July 31. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients was only 43% till June 30, but rose to 72% by the first week of August. Currently, it has crossed 85%. Officials said they conducted more than 40,000 antigen tests in the past month for early detection of patients and providing immediate treatment. Over 5,000 positive patients have been detected through the antigen tests, said NMC officials. “The rapid antigen tests have caused to rise in the number of recoveries also,” said NMC officials. The city had reported the first patient on April 6, while the first patient had recovered on April 20. The city had only 214 Covid-19 positive cases with eight deaths till May 31, and 82 patients had recovered by then. By June 30, the city had 2,182 Covid-19 positive patients with 105 deaths and 931 recoveries. But the number of patients in the past two months has increased 10-fold, from 2,182 patients on June 30 to 23,050 patients now. Moreover, the city had 105 deaths till June 30, but the number of deaths increased four-fold to 472 deaths over the past two months because of the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/62-of-total-recoveries-in-last-28-days/articleshow/77828982.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 30, 2020||Nashik||Demand for additional staff at Sinnar Covid centre||Nashik: There has been a demand to increase the number of doctors, nurses and ward boys at the dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) in Sinnar to ensure proper attention is paid to the patients admitted there. A senior medical official of the Sinnar rural hospital said the shortage of doctors, nurses and other employees was being felt across the district, and even several other parts of the state. However, all out efforts are being made by the available staff at the DCHC to provide good treatment to the admitted patients. The officer said the Sinnar Rural hospital has a Covid care centre (CCC) as well as a dedicated Covid health centre. “Given the rising number of cases in the Sinnar taluka, there is a continuous stream of Covid patients at the facilities. At any given time, all the 90 beds at the CCC are occupied. Thus, it is a tough task for the medical staff, including doctors, nurses and others, to pay equal attention to everyone. Nonetheless, they are doing their best,” the officer said. He added that they were paying more attention to patients who were admitted in the DCHC. “We have brought the matter of staff shortage to the senior officials’ attention. The walk-in-interview of candidates for the posts of MBBS doctors, BAMS doctors and nurses is underway at the district level. Once the posts are filled, we would get the required number doctors and paramedical staff,” said the officer who did not want to give his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/demand-for-additional-staff-at-sinnar-covid-centre/articleshow/77828984.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Reliving Ganapati festival captured through the lens||PUNE: A few days from now, Ganapati festival will draw to a close but the myriad colours, sights and vivid images of the celebration will come alive once again, courtesy a photography exhibition called Bappagraphy. “We thought of holding an exhibition of photographs clicked during the festival so that people can relive the precious moments once again through the photos,” said Kushal Khot, the organizer of the event, which has been taking place for the past eight years. The exhibition would be held online this year due to Covid-induced restrictions. Photographers@Pune, a community of shutterbugs, too would showcase photos of previous years’ Ganapati festival on their Facebook page. “All the members will meet online and share old memories of the festival,” said Soumitra Inamdar, a founding member of the group. In view of the restrictions on celebrations imposed by the authorities, the Bappagraphy team has decided to accept photos of previous years too. “The competition would be judged on three aspects — ‘Ganpati idol’, ‘moods, expressions and emotions of the festival’ and ‘Bappa story’,” said Khot. The Bappagraphy competition attracts around 500-600 entries every year, many of them from Australia, the US and the UK. Only the best 300 photos are exhibited. Photographer Milind Dhere, who has been associated with the event for several years, said, “Though Bappagraphy involves street photography, there will be more indoor photos this year due to the restrictions on public celebration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reliving-ganapati-festival-captured-through-the-lens/articleshow/77828158.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
August 30, 2020||Pune||Report on six smart cities in Maharashtra shows poor usage of air quality data||PUNE: A report published by a city NGO has highlighted the need to step up implementation of air quality improvement proposals — under the National Clean Air Programme — in six smart cities in the state. The report by Parisar compares ground-level data to plans laid out in the original smart city proposals submitted by Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Thane, and Solapur. It highlights a lack of information and a lack of action taken on data collected from air quality monitoring stations in various parts of these cities. Pune has 50 monitoring stations that relay data to a command and control centre, but how that data is used is unclear, the report stated. Solapur doesn’t have a control centre, while Thane does not have an approved air quality improvement plan, stated the report authored by Sharmila Deo and Shweta Vernekar. The report also highlighted a lack of clean and efficient public transport system. In Pune, the report stated that PMC’s own street design guidelines were not being followed. “There are obstructions on cycle paths and footpaths and the authorities are still planning flyovers, which encourage people use private vehicles. PMC should buy more buses, including e-buses, and bolster public transport,” Parisar’s convener Sujit Patwardhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/report-on-six-smart-cities-in-maha-shows-poor-usage-of-air-quality-data/articleshow/77828180.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 30, 2020||Trichy||Covid patients at care centre undergo exit test in Trichy||Trichy: The district administration has started to randomly conduct Covid-19 tests on asymptomatic patients three days before discharging them from the Covid care centre (CCC) at Bharathidasan University here. “We have lifted a few samples from asymptomatic patients at the covid care centre last week. All of them tested negative and they were discharged,” said collector S Sivarasu. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had asked states not to take up Covid-19 test while discharging cured patients. “We are staying cautious so that no asymptomatic patient returns home without complete cure. If needed, it will continue,” said a doctor. A senior doctor said that Trichy district recorded an average of 100 cases per day for the last few weeks. As of Saturday, the overall positive cases of the district were 7,261. The state medical bulletin of today showed that 836 patients were active while 6,236 patients were discharged. As per the latest positivity rate chart of Tamil Nadu districts in the week ending August 26, Trichy ranked 32 with a positivity rate of six. Out of 2,038 asymptomatic patients at the CCC at Bharathidasan University, 1,360 were male while 634 were female. The patients included 44 children up to 14 years of age. Trichy collector Sivarasu said that only three patients in the CCC developed complications after which they were shifted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital. “They also had mild complications like throat pain. They were cured after treatment at the hospital,” he said. A senior public health doctor said that Covid-19 positive patients admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital will be referred to CCC after evaluation by doctors on the intensity of the infection.If the patient is asymptomatic without comorbid conditions, they will be shifted to the CCC and kept there for 5-10 days. During their stay, they will be provided Siddha medicine Kabasura Kudineer and health advice by the government siddha doctors every day. Yoga doctors will also give them tips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-patients-at-care-centre-undergo-exit-test-in-trichy/articleshow/77829231.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Physical hearings to resume in Telangana high court from Sept 7||HYDERABAD: Nearly six months after it closed its court halls and switched to online hearings, the Telangana high court has now decided to partially resume its physical functioning from Sept 7. The full court meeting, presided over by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, has decided to reopen at least five court halls to conduct physical hearings. The full court would review the situation on September 11. Along with the CJ court, the courts presided over by Justices P Naveen Rao, Challa Kodanda Ram, Justice Shameem Akther and Justice G Sri Devi would resume hearings in their respective court halls in the main high court building from September 7. District courts in Karimnagar too have expressed their willingness to reopen physical hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/physical-hearings-to-resume-in-hc-from-sept-7/articleshow/77828189.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: BBA student, teenager join hands to sell stolen mobiles online||NEW DELHI: A BBA student has been arrested and his juvenile associate has been apprehended for allegedly stealing and selling mobile phones. Police said the accused, identified as Nitesh Sharma, who studies BBA at at an institute in Faridabad. He was nabbed on Friday. Sharma had met the 17-year-old on an e-commerce website, where they struck up a conversation over cracking the activation codes of the lock screen of mobile phones. The two became friends, and the juvenile and an associate would steal mobile phones and give it to Sharma to sell it on a reseller e-commerce website. The cops said that Sharma also sold the phone of a constable that was stolen from Malviya Nagar. They are also probing the reseller portal after it came to fore that the site doesn’t take any bills and buys phones just by taking down the Aadhaar number and the bank account details. “If the online platform is not taking any bill, then it gets easy for anyone to sell stolen mobile phones. In March, the mobile phone of a constable who worked as a driver with Delhi Police was snatched by two men on a black motorcycle in Malviya Nagar. Sharma had so far taken four mobile phones from the juvenile, deleted their data and sold them online,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP, south. The juvenile was then apprehended on the instance of the accused. The juvenile told police that he used to steal mobile phones along with his associate Nagender, who is lodged in jail at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bba-student-teenager-join-hands-to-sell-stolen-mobiles-online/articleshow/77828191.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Rains to impact pulses’ crop in Vidarbha region||Nagpur: Crops in area of at least 90,000 hectares are likely to have taken a hit following heavy rains on Friday and Saturday. As further surveys are under way, a major damage is expected to soybean and pulses like tur, moong and urad. There are chances of a further damage to the soybean crop if the cloudy weather continues. Soybean is the second major crop of the region. The state’s agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse is touring the areas to assess the losses. Cotton and paddy crops are reported to be safe at this stage, said officials in the agriculture department. In Nagpur division, 70,000 to 75000 hectares of area under soybean is expected to have been hit. The Nagpur division covers the eastern Vidarbha districts of Nagpur, Wardha, Chandrapur, Gondia, Bhandara and Gadchiroli. The damage has been reported in Nagpur, Wardha and Chandrapur. A detailed survey to assess the losses has been ordered, said the agriculture department official, who also clarified that no damage was reported on paddy which is a major crop in eastern Vidarbha. In Amravati division, which covers western Vidarbha’s districts, land under pulses like moong and urad have been affected. “Even as district-wise figures are yet to be compiled, in Amravati and Akola districts clubbed, the damage is expected to have occurred in more than 20,000 hectares,” said a senior official in the department. There has been no damage in Yavatmal district, the source said. Moong and urad are cultivated in an area of 3 lakh and 4 lakh hectares respectively in the division. However, the farmers may face a bigger crisis if the overcast condition continues as it may affect the soybean crop which is spread in 14 lakh hectares of the division, said an official. Farmers in Buldhana and Washim contacted by TOI claimed of a major loss not only in the pulses but also soybean. The crop insurance penetration has gone down by 22% in the region this year. The drop has happened after government did away with the mandatory clubbing of insurance with crop loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-to-impact-pulses-crop-in-vidarbha-region/articleshow/77828114.cms||Shishir Arya
August 30, 2020||Trichy||2 held after boy, 6, dies in cracker blast at marriage fete||Trichy: Thanjavur police arrested two people in connection with the death of a six-year-old boy in cracker blast during a marriage procession near Pandhallur in Thanjavur on Friday. S Sakthi, a native of Mathirimangalam, was killed after a country-made cracker went off at Mullukudi village on June 27. Pandhanallur police inspector K Suguna said on Saturday that a country-made serial cracker was fired during the procession. Instead of keeping the cracker in the right position, an 18-year-old boy kept it as a bunch and fired it. The cracker burst indiscriminately hitting Sakthi and another boy N Praveen, 6, in the crowd. Sakthi was injured on the right chest while Praveen sustained injuries on his stomach. Both of them were rushed to the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur. Sakthi died at the hospital a few hours later. Praveen was out of danger and is undergoing treatment. “As the cracker injured the boy after hitting a wall, and he sustained injury on some other parts. Had it hit him directly, he would have suffered more burn injuries,” inspector Suguna said. Police held cracker manufacturer Pandian, 62, of Thiruvalangadu, buyer Chinnadurai, 58, of Cauvery Nagar and the boy who fired the cracker. The manufacturer was booked on charges of culpable homicide. While Pandian and Chinnadurai were arrested, the boy was yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-held-after-boy-6-dies-in-cracker-blast-at-marriage-fete/articleshow/77829233.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nashik||Protests in Deolali Camp against hike in garbage tax||Nashik: Traders of the Deolali Cantonment Board observed a token bandh to protest against the hike in garbage tax. A delegation of traders and leaders from different parties met chief executive officer of CBD Ajay Kumar to discuss the issue. The garbage tax for general citizens has been increased from Rs 200 to Rs 400 while for traders it has been raised from from Rs 600 to Rs 1,200. District vice president of NCP Ratan Chawla said that the hike levied on CBD residents was unjust. Five years back, the CBD had levied garbage tax. At the time, there was huge opposition from all quarters of Deolali Camp; however, the tax was eventually levied on people. This time around when businesses are down and unemployment is increasing by the day owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the CBD has raised garbage tax. Chawla said that political leaders across party lines came together to protest against the recent hike in the garbage tax. The delegation led by MLA Saroj Ahire and Ratan Chawla met CEO Ajay Kumar and asked him to roll back the hike taking into account the sentiments of citizens and traders. Chavla said that while they were protesting against the hike, they wanted the entire garbage tax to be revoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/protests-in-deolali-camp-against-hike-in-garbage-tax/articleshow/77828987.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 30, 2020||Pune||Pupils complain of technical issues while giving exam||PUNE: Students appearing for the online National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA 2020) on Saturday complained of various technical issues that affected their performance. The students said the questions were getting skipped automatically without giving the candidates a chance to answer them, the “save and next” tab was not functioning properly and the question paper got submitted automatically even though there was plenty of time left till the completion of the exam. NATA 2020 is a qualifying aptitude test for admission to the Bachelor in Architecture degree programme, which is conducted by the Council of Architecture (CoA) from 2006. Sanika Dahiwal, a student who appeared for the examination from the Ambegaon test centre in Pune, said, “Each question was allotted a certain amount of time, but there was no timer. I attempted the fourth question, but before I could submit it the time was up and the software skipped two questions and took me directly to the seventh question. It showed that I had skipped the fifth question and attempted the sixth one, which I hadn’t. There were students in my class who realized the total time period of the examination was wrongfully shown on the screen as a shorter duration and the moment that ended the paper was automatically submitted.” Another student Abinav Lonkar said NATA had disabled the option of going back to the previous question. “Part I of the exam had just 10 questions, but each one was of 10 or 16 marks each. When I was attempting the paper the software skipped five out of the 10 questions on its own, leaving me with just five questions which I answered. But, this would mean my score would be very low,” he said. Social media platforms were also abuzz with students from across the country complaining about problems they faced during the examination. The CoA had given students the option to either attempt the questions from home or go to an exam centre. The CoA organizes NATA twice and the second attempt will be on September 12, for which the registrations are open till September 4. Habeeb Khan, president of Council of Architecture said, “We have received complaints from students regarding technical issues in the exam. We will investigate the same. We will not let the students suffer because of technical issues, if any.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pupils-complain-of-technical-issues-while-giving-exam/articleshow/77828197.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 30, 2020||Nashik||Slow pace of road-widening work leads to minor accidents||Nashik: The Pune highway near Sinnar Phata has become slippery again due to the slow pace of road-widening work, which is leading to minor accidents on the highway, mainly bikers skidding on wet mud. Police personnel at the Sinnar Phata police station, while admitting the road has become slippery, said people do not come to them if the accidents are minor. However, too many minor accidents occur due to the slippery road. The shopkeepers along the highway complained that every time when it is raining, they see some bikers skidding off the road. Vivek Adke, a shopkeeper along the highway, said, “We see bikers skidding off the road every year when it is raining. My father too had fallen from his bike a couple of years ago. While the entire Pune highway has been widened till Sinnar and further up to Pune, the stretch of 2.5 km had not been taken up for at least five years. Hence after the structures by the road were removed for road widening, the side shoulders of the road have nothing concrete on them.” During monsoon, the wet soil on the side shoulders of the road are accumulated on the road due to continuous vehicular traffic and hence the surface become slippery. Officials of the public works department’s (PWD) highway division said there were some problems in the past like tress on the sides of the roads which had to be removed or transplanted, then two years passed as a petition was filed against cutting the trees and later the contractor said he started facing shortage of funds. However, officials of the highway division issued a strict notice to the contractor after which he has given the undertaking to complete the work at the earliest. Officials said the contractor has assured to finish the road widening work before March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/slow-pace-of-road-widening-work-leads-to-minor-accidents/articleshow/77828985.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 30, 2020||Pune||Work from home pushes up demand for furniture rentals||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: With people being more careful about making new purchases owing to pay cuts and uncertainties about jobs, furniture rental has emerged as the most preferred option, especially for those working from home. Malini Nair, an IT professional, set up a workstation with a rented desk and swivel chair so that she can have an ‘office feel’. “My husband and I live in a 1 BHK flat. Working from home is not easy and, therefore, it is important to have some form and structure. Renting furniture is the best option in the current scenario,” she said. There are some who view work from home as a temporary arrangement and, therefore, are loath to spending a considerable sum on furniture purchase. “Though I am currently working from home, I might be able to return to office in a few months. I managed to work on my coffee table for the first two months and then decided I needed something more comfortable for work, but not a permanent one,” said Nitin Arora, a Katraj resident. Rentals for computer / laptop tables, chairs, etc have picked up in the last few months. “The advantage of rented furniture is that you don’t have to invest a lumpsum. Due to the growing demand for work-from-home furniture, we have launched a whole new category on our website. Customers can choose from a variety of table and chair options,” said a customer relationship manager of a pan-India furniture rental company. “Our sales have gone up by 40% in Pune,” he said. “About 30% of our customers, who have rented home furniture from us, are now ordering computer tables and chairs with back support. We also have many new customers who have rented workstation combination of products, including storage for charging cables. Tables with hydraulic system, which enables you to sit or stand while working, are bestsellers,” said a city manager of another rental company. The growing demand for work-from-home furniture has inspired many start-ups to come up with innovative designs. “We are into design solution. When the lockdown was announced, we thought of coming up with product designs. We have 9 designs so far which have done very well,” said the marketing executive of a start-up. “I have ordered a trolley table which can be pushed anywhere. Its top can be lifted and tilted to match the eye level while working on a laptop,” said Sree Adhikari, a teacher from Kondhwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-from-home-pushes-up-demand-for-furniture-rentals/articleshow/77828193.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Pay Rs1k/day fine or implement our order: HC to collector||Nagpur: Expressing displeasure over non-implementation of its orders on transfer of liquor license, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday warned the city collector to pay Rs1,000 per day cost till its directives are complied with. The court on July 30 had granted a stay on the collector’s decision to cancel the transfer of a liquor licence. Justice Ravi Deshpande directed the collector to implement its July 30 orders of interim stay without prejudice to rights and contentions. The directives came while hearing a case of one Keshav Mohane through counsels SG Jagtap and Sayajee challenging the collector’s order to cancel shifting of CL-III license from Itwari to Beltarodi. The license was issued to one Gyandeorao Tidke who was running his liquor shop from a rented premises at Gandhi Statue, Itwari, which was transferred to his four sons after his death on October 1, 2007. But the heirs had to shift the shop after its landlord issued notices to vacate the premises. But they sold the licence to petitioner Keshav Mohane before shifting the shop from Itwari to Datta Nagar at Beltarodi and applied for transfer of their license which was allowed by the collector with due process of law. Petitioner Mohane also paid privilege fees (four times of license fees) of Rs1.85 lakh for the purpose. But the collector on February 10 cancelled the order of shifting without granting any notice or hearing to the petitioner or original licensees, which was challenged. On July 30, Justice Manish Pitale granted a stay on the collector's decision, but he allegedly failed to comply with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-rs1k/day-fine-or-implement-our-order-hc-to-collector/articleshow/77828211.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy residents slam laying of road without milling||Trichy: While Trichy corporation has taken up road work in the city, residents are opposing its technique as instead of removing the existing layer, the civic body is laying a fresh one over it making houses and other establishments on either side of the roads falling in low-lying area vulnerable to inundation.Workers in the Ariyamangalam zone have been laying roads in Dharmanadhapuram and Arulanandhapuram in Palakkarai in the past few days. Paver machines are being used to relay the roads utilizing the Tamil Nadu urban road infrastructure fund (TURIF).Since the heights of the residential roads in Palakkarai will increase due to the addition of fresh layers, residents said the old houses situated alongside the road have become a low-lying area. As the roads either have a faulty stormwater drain or none, even a moderate rain will be a nuisance as the rain water will flow into the houses, they said. “Officials are ignoring the plight of the people. The ensuing monsoon will certainly inundate our locality,” I Augustine, a resident of Annai Nagar, said.According to the guidelines of Indian Roads Congress (IRC), the surface of the existing road should be milled to ensure better bonding between the new and existing roads. “We are taking up only restoration work, there is no scope for removing the existing road surface in such work,” an official with the corporation’s engineering department said. Residents said they are planning to take up the issue legally for achieving a permanent solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-residents-slam-laying-of-road-without-milling/articleshow/77829236.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 30, 2020||Trichy||Velankanni shrine fest begins without devotees||Trichy: The 11-day long annual festival of Shrine basilica of Our Lady of Health in Velankanni in Nagapattinam commenced with the traditional holy flag hoisting ceremony on Saturday evening. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, devotees were prohibited from attending the ceremony. The holy flag, after being taken as a procession around the basilica around 4.30 pm, was hoisted by reverend M Devadass Ambrose, bishop of Thanjavur. The bishop conducted a holy mass in Tamil at the main shrine. For the next 10 days, masses in various languages including Konkani, Malayalam, English and Kannada will be conducted in the morning hours. Considered as Lourdes of the East, the shrine attracts pilgrims annually from various parts of the country including Goa, Kerala and Karnataka. People from various districts of state on foot reach the shrine with prayers. However, the annual festival was conducted as a low-key event maintaining social distancing. For the first time, the basilica management said that the flag hoisting ceremony was conducted in the absence of devotees. Police personnel were deployed at the entries of the coastal town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/velankanni-shrine-fest-begins-without-devotees/articleshow/77829235.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Premature baby weighing 600gm gets new lease of life||Yavatmal: The Chirayu Critical Care team led by Dr Sanjeev Joshi once again displayed its expertise in delivering premature babies. This time around, a five-month old pregnant woman delivered a baby boy weighing just 600 grams. According to Dr Joshi, the baby was born as a twin. The other twin died at the time of delivery. The Uikey couple from Pandharkawda had no children since their marriage seven years ago. Pratibha was admitted to the maternity hospital of Dr Rajani Kamble where she gave birth. Dr Ravi Patil performed the preparatory care for the child and the mother. The new born was shifted to Chirayu Critical Care Centre on June 1. It was a Herculean task for the team. The determined doctors and their nursing staff didn’t lose heart. The baby was put on ventilator for more than two weeks. Since its lungs were not grown enough to breathe, it faced respiratory issues.“We put the baby on various equipment and also administered a number of drugs to ensure that it got a new lease of life,” he said. The baby was in the hospital for three months and we monitored its growth 24X7 and finally, we succeeded,” he added.The child now weighs 1800gm and is hale and hearty, said Dr Swapnil Mankar, adding it was discharged on Friday.Expressing her gratitude, Pratibha said, “We are so happy that we got our child, something we never expected. Joshi Sir and his team saved our child and we don’t know how to thank them.” Last December, Joshi and his team were successful in bringing a baby girl weighing 500gm to life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/premature-baby-weighing-600gm-gets-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77828178.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Trichy||Active cases in Trichy city fall below 500||Trichy: The total active Covid-19 cases in Trichy city has dropped below 500 for the first time in 43 days, indicating a steady recovery rate. Similarly, the number of positive cases in three out of the four zones have come down below 100 for the first time in 48 days. Health officials said the absence of people turning positive in bulk numbers from the same house or commercial establishments has kept the positivity rate low at around 5% compared to the 6% that prevailed last month. Such favourable conditions including a surge in discharge rate, have made active cases drop below 500 since July 18. Similarly, active cases in the corresponding period under hospitalisation in three zones, other than K Abishekpuram came down below 100 ever since July 13. As many as 91 asymptomatic cases with mild infections are under home isolation in all the four zones. “The successful recovery from the infection is consistently surpassing fresh infections for the past few weeks. We are expecting the active cases to dip further as asymptomatic patients are recovering fast,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner told TOI. Corporation officials also said that around 800 to 1,100 tests are being conducted per day in recent weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/active-cases-in-trichy-city-fall-below-500/articleshow/77829234.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 20 in race for three MLC vacancies under guv quota||HYDERABAD: With over 20 leaders, including former ministers and ex-MPs, hoping to get a nomination for the legislative council (upper house) in the state, the race for three MLC seats is hotting up. TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is expected to finalise nominations for the three MLC vacancies, under the governor quota, before the assembly session begins on September 7. Terms of MLCs Ramulu Naik, Nayani Narsimha Reddy and Karne Prabhakar had ended in March, June and August respectively. Ramulu Naik was disqualified for switching loyalties to Congress just before the assembly elections in December 2018. TRS sources said KCR is likely to renominate party whip and spokesperson Karna Prabhakar for the second time. Former home minister Nayani Narsimha Reddy is also seeking renomination, but his age might go against him. In that case, he may seek an MLC berth for his relative. KCR is reportedly considering his OSD Desapathi Srinivas for the upper house in the state. Marri Rajasekhar Reddy, Malkajgiri TRS incharge and son-in-law of labour minister Ch Malla Reddy, is hoping for an opportunity too. He had contested from the Malkajgiri Lok Sabha constituency in 2019 and lost to Revanth Reddy. Former minister Jupally Krishna Rao, who lost in the previous assembly elections, has also thrown his hat in the ring. Sources said former Khammam MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy, who did not get a ticket to contest in the 2019 LS elections, is also being considered for one of the three MLC seat. Similarly, former Mahbubabad MP Sitaram Naik, who too did not get a ticket in the LS polls, is asking for nomination to the council. From Warangal, Takalapally Ravinder Rao, who is with the party’s since its inception, former Telangana Beverages Corporation chairman Devi Prasad and others are in the race for the MLC seat under the governor quota..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-20-in-race-for-3-mlc-vacancies-under-guv-quota/articleshow/77828198.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 30, 2020||Pune||First general merit list for FYJC to be declared at 3pm||PUNE: The first general merit list for admission to first-year junior college (FYJC) will be declared online on Sunday at 3pm. Students will be able see the college allotted to them using their login ID and password. College representatives can also check the same using the official college login ID. An SMS will be sent to the students’ registered mobile number providing information about the allotment. A notification on the official website www.pune.11thadmission.org.in stated that student registration, as well as Part-I and II of the form filling, will be stopped till August 30. “At the beginning of regular round-II, which will be after September 3, Part-I and Part-II of the online form can be updated and filled. Meanwhile, admission to minority and management quota seats can be done during regular rounds. Students can proceed for admissions from August 31, 10am, till September 3, 5pm. All processes related to admission will be carried out online by the college and students have been told to refrain from crowding in front of admission offices. For any clarification regarding uploaded documents or mark list, college authorities have been told to call student on their mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-general-merit-list-for-fyjc-to-be-declared-at-3pm/articleshow/77828205.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Come September, all-new way to travel, rejoice||NEW DELHI: With services allowed to resume as part of the Centre’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines from September 7, Delhi Metro, the country’s biggest and busiest network, is all geared up to reopen on the 170th day of its shutdown. “According to the latest guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs under Unlock 4.0, Delhi Metro will be resuming its services for the public from September 7, 2020, in a calibrated manner,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). “Further details on metro’s functioning and its usage by the general public will be shared once the detailed SOP is issued by the Centre,” he said. “I am glad that metro has been permitted to start its operations from 7 Sep in a phased manner (sic),” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday. Kejriwal had recently urged the Centre to allow metro operations to resume, albeit in a graded manner. Your ride, however, won’t be the same anymore. DMRC sources said it was likely that, initially, only government and PSU employees, or those engaged in essential services, would be allowed during the peak hours. Train operation timings may also be curtailed. According to sources, DMRC and other metro operators in the country have been asked to discuss an SOP earlier provided by MoHUA in a video conference on Tuesday. The number of commuters in trains will be slashed to ensure social distancing, which is going to be the prime focus of DMRC and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Trains will also stop for longer durations at platforms to ensure that the passengers can maintain social distancing while boarding and de-boarding. This will result in longer travel durations. Only one entrance at most of the 242 stations will be kept open, keeping in mind which entry point sees the highest rush. Extensive “filtration” of commuters through thermal scanning and regulation to avoid crowding inside the station will be carried out, both at the entrance and inside. A DMRC official said that the reopening would be challenging and there would be teething troubles. Along with enforcement, DMRC will also carry out an extensive “sensitisation” campaign for the commuters to encourage self-regulation. It has deputed 487 officers on special duty on two shifts at all stations just to keep a check on social distancing. In case of any major defiance of norms, entry to stations will be closed and a train may have to be halted too. A senior CISF official said that extra personnel might be used in the CCTV control rooms to keep a tab on people not maintaining social distancing, or not wearing masks on the station premises. In addition to keeping a check on security, CISF’s quick-reaction teams (QRTs) are also likely to travel in the metro to enforce the norms, he said. “We are still awaiting the exact guidelines, but CISF is prepared to enforce them and we have been preparing for this for the last few months. The CCTV room will be alerting teams on the ground about people who are not wearing masks or disobeying rules. Our teams travelled in the metro earlier too, but now their focus will be more on ensuring that the new guidelines are followed,” said the official. Offenders would be handed over to DMRC for penal action, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/come-september-all-new-way-to-travel-rejoice/articleshow/77828220.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||Cleric asks azadars to stay indoors||LUCKNOW: Shia clerics on Saturday evening issued an appeal to the community to stay indoors on Ashura (Sunday) after the Allahabad high court rejected the plea to allow burial of tazias. “We respect and accept the judgment. All the azadars should stay indoors on Ashura,” said Maulana Kalbe Jawwad, who had filed one of the petitions after the demand to allow burial of tazias was not accepted by the government. “It is an unfortunate time that we have to go through such a day, but it is expected from us to adhere to the restrictions and behave in an orderly manner. We are still trying to find out a way by which taziyas can be buried without risk of exposure to the virus. So, be patient,” he said. Meanwhile, heavy police force was deployed in old city to ensure strict adherence of restrictions. Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora led the route march in the area and appealed to the people to follow restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cleric-asks-azadars-to-stay-indoors/articleshow/77828995.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nashik||New survey to finalise spots to install 800 CCTV cameras in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has started a fresh survey to finalise the locations to install 800 CCTV cameras in the city. So far, the corporation has installed 27 cameras at two major junctions. NMSCDCL officials said they will start installing the new cameras once the locations are finalised. They are expected to start the actual installation work in the second half of September. “Of the 800 new CCTV cameras, 380 will be installed at 40 traffic signals, while the others will be installed at sensitive locations,” said a Smart city official. “We are taking measures for public security under the smart city projects and all surveillance systems will be integrated and monitored through the command and control centre,” added an official. “We have already installed 27 cameras at two signals on the first Smart road in the city – Central Bus Stand and Meher point,” he said. “Earlier, we had identified locations to install the cameras, but the police wanted to conduct a fresh survey and reidentify locations. We have started finalising the spots as per the requirement of the police,” said an official. “The CCTV cameras will help control robberies, terrorist activities and agitations,” said an official. Traffic rule violations will be detected online and fines will also be slapped online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/new-survey-to-finalise-spots-to-install-800-cctv-cameras/articleshow/77828996.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Unlock 4.0: 100 guests may be allowed for weddings in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the Centre allowing further relaxations under Unlock 4.0, the capital is likely to see resumption of more economic activities. While Delhi Metro may be back on track soon, post-September 21 Delhiites may be able to invite 100 people to a wedding or a social function and open-air theatres may welcome people with strict implementation of the Covid guidelines. The number of people allowed to attend a wedding or a funeral is currently capped at 50 and 20, respectively. The limitation of 50 guests is taking a toll on the financial health of banquet halls. Their owners recently called upon CM Arvind Kejriwal to demand an increase in the number of guests. Delhi government is likely to push for increasing guest numbers to 100 in all social functions, said a source. The central government’s announcement has made owners of gyms and yoga centres hopeful. These facilities, closed since the coronoavirus lockdown has been announced in March, haven’t been allowed under Unlock 3.0 in the capital despite the Centre’s approval for opening them all across the country. The owners have been protesting across Delhi for their opening. Delhi government is in favour of allowing all economic activities while following safety norms so that more livelihood options are available and the government gets more revenue for funding its welfare and development projects. However, more activities can be allowed in the capital only after Delhi Disaster Management Authority approves them for the city. Under Unlock 3.0, DDMA, which is chaired by LG Anil Baijal, did not permit gyms and yoga centres to reopen. Under Unlock 4.0, schools, colleges and educational institutes, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and theatres will remain closed. No relaxation will be permitted in the 803 containment zones in the city till September 30. Watch MHA releases Unlock 4 guidelines; Metro services to resume from Sept 7, school-colleges to remain shut||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-100-guests-may-be-allowed-for-weddings/articleshow/77828232.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath for review of status twice a day||LUCKNOW: As the novel coronavirus tally in the state rose to 2.19 lakh on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed all the district magistrates and chief medical officers to hold review meetings twice every day in their district. Reviewing the pandemic status with Team 11, the CM said, “All DMs and CMOs must hold two meetings every day to evaluate the epidemic situation in their district. The morning meeting should be held at a Covid-19 hospital and the evening one at the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) in the district.” Reiterating the commitment for providing the best possible treatment to patients, the CM said the government is extending all necessary support to districts in tackling the pandemic, and asserted that no laxity will be tolerated at district level. Additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi later told reporters, “The CM has expressed satisfaction over more than 1.48 lakh Covid tests being conducted in the state in past 24 hours. However, he said the stakeholder departments must strive for target of 1.50 lakh tests per day.” CM Yogi also presided over a high-level meeting in wake of Unlock-4 guidelines issued by Union home ministry on Saturday and directed officials to ensure that the use of masks in public places must be ensured. “There is a need to ensure that the compulsory use of masks and social distancing norms are followed in letter and spirit,” he said. He also emphasized that training of medical staff to use High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) devices must be prioritized so that death rate is reduced. He said health teams must remain in touch with the patients in home isolation for effective monitoring of their condition. “Deaths and suffering must be curbed as far as possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-review-of-status-twice-a-day/articleshow/77829016.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||Opposition questions VMC data on Covid-19 pandemic||Vadodara: Buzz on the credibility of Covid-19 cases and deaths data provided by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had been doing the rounds for the past few months. However, the matter was discussed openly for the first time on Saturday when the elected representatives of the civic body met in the general board online meeting on Thursday. Opposition Congress members alleged that numbers were much higher than stated. Former opposition leader and Congress corporator Chirag Zaveri pointed out that there were reports of more than 400 positive cases in the city. He said that nearly eight cases were being reported in each urban health centre (UHC) of the city. Zaveri claimed he himself gathered the details from around eight UHCs in the city. “Five to six persons were testing positive in rapid testing in each centre. There are 34 such UHCs in the city. More testing is done by Dhanvantari Raths, government and private hospitals. One can only imagine the real situation, ” he said. Zaveri added the example of his neighbour. “He (neighbour) tested positive of coronavirus and I knew about it as he stays near my house. But it was included in the VMC list only after a couple of days. I was able to get details of patients in my area through sources, but his name did not figure immediately” he alleged. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that in stray cases, names were included a day or two late in the lists as details take time in compilation. “The patient is informed as soon as the result comes so that he can take precautionary steps. Sometimes, results are also conveyed to the wrong health officer and these are included later in the lists,” Patel explained, while refuting allegations of under-reporting of data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/opposition-questions-vmc-data-on-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/77826496.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao meets governor at Raj Bhavan||Hyderabad: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday called on governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan to console her after her uncle and Kanyakumari MP H Vasanthakumar died of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday.  A Raj Bhavan press release said the CM expressed his sympathies to her. He also apprised the governor about the upcoming assembly session which is beginning on September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-meets-guv-at-raj-bhavan/articleshow/77828229.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Demand for online exams rises||Nagpur: A day after the Supreme Court’s judgment on final year examinations, reactions continue to pour in from students and academics who are now demanding provision of online options by the universities to prevent them from getting infected. According to them, it would help even the outstation students and those in containment areas to appear for exams without any fear and hassles. They also demanded deferring the exams till October so that the effects of the virus get reduced by that time and it would be safe to appear in exams. Former NU management Council member Sanjay Khadakkar, who is now Academic Council member of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU), reiterated that states should at least now explore the online option of conducting exams that he had suggested to chancellor BS Koshiyari initially. “The value of a degree gets compromised if students are promoted without exams. It’s a populist and convenient option, but students would face an uncertain future.” Students like Aniket Joshi feel that if autonomous colleges in the city can conduct online exams, why can’t universities do it? “Of course there would be problems, particularly in rural areas, but Covid-19 spread isn’t alarming there like in cities. The government should make arrangements at such places, but they must insist on online options. It will help not only for the current situation, but also for the future.” Agreeing with him, electrical engineering student Karuna Tawade said online exam will be the best option as it would save them from the risk of getting contracted from the virus and also ensuring that students would get degrees only after clearing papers. Om Paradkar from Hislop College said the apex court’s decision would ensure that students wouldn’t be promoted without exams, which is crucial for gauging their quality. Electronics engineering student Siddarth Meshram said the authorities should now start preparations with full precautions. Both the students hailed the verdict and demanded that the exam timetable should be declared soon so that they could start preparations at earliest. Some students are still sceptical about the apex court’s decision. “I think for non-professional courses like BA, BSc, and BCom, a little flexibility can be given and it should be left to students if they want to appear in papers or not,” BCom student from Centre Point College Shantanu Sathe said. BA student from Hislop College Austin Coutinho said while Covid-19 cases are increasing in India, he was surprised by the UGC’s decision to conduct exams and risk health of lakhs of innocent students. (With inputs from Anchal Bhatia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demand-for-online-exams-rises/articleshow/77828195.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy dist library to reopen after five months||Trichy: Trichy district central library on West Boulevard (WB) Road, which remained closed for five months, is gearing up to reopen on September 1 (Tuesday) maintaining Covid-19 precautionary measures as advised by the state government. Only three sections of the library will initially function for the readers. The district central library, which attracts at least 1,000 readers on average per day, has been closed since the last week of March due to the pandemic. As part of relaxations, the state government has listed out a standard operating procedure (SPO) for libraries to resume operations from the ensuing month. Air conditioners will be switched off, while people above 65 years of age and below 15 years of age will not be allowed in the library. Similarly, pregnant women and people with comorbidities too will not be allowed. To ensure social distancing, the library management said that only 50% of the seating capacity will be utilised. Lending section, reference section and own book reading section will function. “All the visitors will be screened at the entrance. Readers will not be allowed to directly take the reference books from the stacks, our staffs will help them,” A P Sivakumar, district library officer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-dist-library-to-reopen-after-five-months/articleshow/77829238.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Thieves target three flats, walk away empty- handed||Times News Network Pune: Thieves broke into three flats of a housing society at Sakalnagar on Baner Road. between Tuesday and Thursday, but walked away empty handed after failing to find any valuables. One of the office bearers of the society lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police on Friday. Anil Shewale, senior police inspector, Chatushrungi police station, said, “All the three flats were empty. Their owners stay in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Delhi.” Shewale said “These three flats are in two separate buildings. The thieves identified the locked flats after conducting a recce in the last few days. They broke open the locks of these flats sometime in the night between Tuesday and Thursday.” “Local residents did not hear any noise of the thieves breaking the locks. The watchmen said that they did not come across any suspicious person/s on the society premises in the last three days,” he said. “We are studying the CCTV footages of the society to ascertain the identity of the suspects,” he said. In the last few days, thieves have targeted nine flats in the area at night. However, in all these incidents the suspects failed to steal anything valuable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-target-three-flats-walk-away-empty-handed/articleshow/77828225.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nashik||LPG-based crematorium in Nashik city restored||NASHIK: The LPG-based crematorium in the city which had stopped working due to malfunctioning of an equipment was restored on Saturday morning, thus reducing the load on electric crematorium. Earlier, due to non-functioning of the LPG-based crematorium, bodies of Covid patients that had piled up had to be cremated at the electric crematorium. Around 30 bodies were on waiting list by Thursday evening as the Nashik municipal corporation had to cremate bodies on the electric crematorium. It takes around two hours to cremate a dead body at an electric crematorium. Earlier when both the crematoriums in the city were functioning properly, 12-14 bodies were cremated on the electric crematorium in a day while 10 dead bodies were cremated at the LPG-based one. However, as the LPG-based crematorium stopped functioning, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav directed civic officials concerned to repair the defunct crematorium and make it functional immediately. Moreover, Jadhav also instructed the officials to cremate bodies of deceased Covid patients through traditional way by using wood. NMC officials said they cremated all the piled up dead bodies on waiting list by Saturday noon after the LP-based crematorium was restored. There has been a sharp rise in Covid-related deaths in the district in the last four-five days with 71 patients succumbing to the contagion. In addition, the bodies of Covid-19 patients from rural parts of the district are cremated at the crematorium based in the city. “There had been some technical snag developed at the LPG-based crematorium here that led to a delay in cremating the dead bodies. We also cremated some dead bodies using wood at the crematorium. We also repaired the LPG-crematorium and that has been made operational now since late night,” said Kalpana Kute, director of solid waste department of NMC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lpg-based-crematorium-in-nashik-city-restored/articleshow/77829005.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit DM presented ELets Water Innovation Award for Hardoi’s Belatali project||PILIBHIT: Pulkit Khare, Pilibhit district magistrate, was presented the ELets Water Innovation Award on Friday via video-conferencing at the virtual ELets National Water Innovation Summit, 2020 for his Belatali project in Hardoi district during his tenure as DM there last year. This prestigious award was presented to him virtually in the summit that had been organized in partnership with the Union ministry of jal shakti. The function was presided over by secretary, ministry of jal shakti, UP Singh. Arpit Gupta of the organizers’ team said Khare had been selected for the award under the “Rejuvenating water bodies; innovation in city landscape” for his efforts in transforming a huge waterlogged stinking litter dump full of water hyacinth into a picnic spot and a fresh water reservoir in Hardoi city although the area fell under the village panchayat of Behta Chand in revenue records. “It is hard to believe that such a hazardous place can exist in the middle of the city -- being a potential breeding point for contagious diseases and a source for groundwater contamination as well as pollution," said Khare. He said the project involved a total investment of Rs 23 lakh, including the allocation of Rs 15 lakh by the finance commission and Rs 8 lakh by MNREGA. It generated 4,000 man-days for the local labourers. The transformation of the 14,570 square meter area with a depth of 2 meters was completed in eight months -- between February and September, 2019. All initiatives had been taken at the local level, including the designing of the layout, that was been carried out by the Rural Engineering Department, Khare concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-dm-presented-elets-water-innovation-award-for-hardois-belatali-project/articleshow/77826404.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Sub-district headquarters of rural police at Baramati||PUNE: The state home department has given administrative approval to the Pune rural police to set up sub-district headquarters at Brmahanpur village in Baramati tehsil. The move is aimed at maintaining law and order in southern part of Pune district. The home department issued an order to this effect on Friday. The rural police had submitted a proposal in this regard a decade ago. Sandeep Patil, superintendent of police, told TOI, “It is a crucial development for the district. We will be able to handle law and order situation effectively once the new facility comes up.” “Currently, we need at least three to four hours to move State Reserve Police Force and the riot control team to Baramati and Indapur tehsil in case of an emergency. The new sub-headquarters will have a dedicated 400-strong police force, including officers, along with necessary equipment. An officer of the rank of additional superintendent of police will be in charge of the headquarters,” Patil added. Necessary infrastructure, such as drill ground, residential quarters, administrative buildings, and armoury will also be built at the site. “The project will be completed in three to four years. We will get budgetary allocation for the work in the coming budget session. The administrative work related to the project is already underway,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sub-district-headquarters-of-rural-police-at-baramati/articleshow/77828222.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 30, 2020||Nashik||1,274 new cases, 17 deaths in Nashik district||NASHIK: As many as 1,274 Covid-19 positive cases, including 958 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 35,320. 13 of 17 people from the district who succumbed to the contagion were from the city. The death toll stands at 485 in the city and 856 in the district. As many as 641 patients were discharged from across the district on Saturday, of which, 522 were from the city alone. At present, the district has 6,486 active cases, of which, 3,822 are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1274-new-cases-17-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/77829010.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Ensure relief for Warangal: TRS||WARANGAL: Government chief whip and Warangal West MLA Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar has urged the Centre to announce Rs 500 crore as relief. Speaking to reporters in Hanamkonda on Saturday, Vinay Bhaskar asked the state BJP leaders, including Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, to see that the Centre releases funds to Warangal in order to prove their sincerity. The TRS leaders also flayed BJP state president Bandi Sanjay for expressing sorrow without fetching any relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ensure-relief-for-warangal-trs/articleshow/77828261.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
August 30, 2020||Nashik||No leads yet in Wakhari quadruple murder case||Nashik: Three weeks on, the rural police are yet to get a clue on who could have murdered the four members of a family in Wakhari village. On the night between August 6 and 7, four people, including a couple and their two children aged six and four years, were killed with a sharp weapon by an unidentified person at Wakhari village, in Nandgaon taluka under the Malegaon taluka police station. The deceased have been identified as Samadhan Chavan (35), his wife Bharatibai (26), son Ganesh (6) and daughter Arohi (4). The incident came to light in the morning when a person from a neighbouring village came to their house, as Chavan had not turned up for a work that had been assigned to him. The man informed the police patil of the village and subsequently, the police were alerted. Samadhan Chavan resided on his 2-acre farm on Jeur Road near Wakhari village. Since the house was isolated, nobody knew who committed the crime. Sniffer dogs and forensic teams were pressed into service, but so far, the police have not found any lead. PI Narendra Bhadane of the Malegaon taluka police station said six teams are working on the case. On Friday, residents of Wakhari staged an agitation demanding immediate arrest of the killer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-leads-yet-in-wakhari-quadruple-murder-case/articleshow/77829024.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Only online payment for traffic fines||Nagpur: The Nagpur city traffic police will now accept fines from traffic violators only through the online mode. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vikram Sali said the traffic police will now stop accepting fine in cash from September 1. “The decision was taken in view of the rise in Covid cases,” said a senior cop. Several business establishments and individuals aren’t accepting currency notes fearing spread of coronavirus infection. “Traffic cops in city too are at a risk of getting infected while accepting currency notes from violators,” the cop said. The traffic police had implemented e-challan system ‘One State One Challan’ from February 8, 2019. Under the system, the traffic police had also provided MSwipe devices for accepting fines through debit and credit cards after generating e-challan. “Still many violators were paying in cash. Now, the traffic police will not accept cash and instead promote online payment options including https://mahatrafficechallan.gov.in, MahaTrafficApp, Paytm and link sent through SMS sent to the mobile numbers of the violators,” said the DCP. The DCP has appealed to citizens to follow the payment systems to help contain the spread of virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-online-payment-for-traffic-fines/articleshow/77828214.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit man takes paramour, mother of four, on Oz tour on her husband’s passport, probe ordered||Pilibhit: A 36-year-old man from Pilibhit took her paramour — mother of four children — on a tour to Australia on her husband’s passport on January 6. The duo was supposed to return in March but since all international passenger flights to Indian were suspended in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic breakout, they got stranded and returned home on August 24. Upon their return, the aggrieved husband, Gurdev Singh, 46, a resident of Damgarhi village in Pilibhit district, who works in Mumbai, approached police accusing his wife of having “illicit” relationship with the accused, Sandeep Singh, 36, also a Pilibhit resident, and charging the accused with forging documents to obtain a passport in his name. One of the children of Gurdev studies in Australia. Taking serious note of the allegations, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav ordered an investigation into the matter by a local intelligence unit (LIU) inspector and registration of an FIR based on Gurdev’s complaint. According to Gurdev, he has been working in Mumbai for the past 20 years and occasionally visits his wife Kulwant Kaur (43), who lives in a farmhouse and looks after his ancestral land. Gurdev alleged that Sandeep, a resident of Dandwa Piparia village under Puranpur kotwali, used to address his wife as ‘mausi’ (mother’s sister) to conceal their illicit relationship. “When I returned to Pilibhit on May 18, my wife was not at home. I came to know from Sandeep’s family that both had gone to Australia. To find out whether Sandeep forged documents to obtain a passport in my name showing Kulwant and him as husband-wife to visit Australia, I purposely applied for a passport on August 24 at the Bareilly-based passport office. My suspicion was ascertained by the passport authorities, who told me that a passport in my name was already issued on February 2, 2019,” said Gurdev. The SP said Gajraula police and LIU inspector Kanchan Rawat would focus their probe on how a passport in the name of Gurdev was issued despite identity-checking at multiple levels. Earlier, one of the main accused of the Nabha jailbreak case Gurjeet Singh Ladda had also succeeded in obtaining a fake passport in the name of one Surjeet Singh, a resident of Sherpur Makrandpur village under Puranpur kotwali in Pilibhit, four years ago. The matter came to light after Nadda was arrested by the Punjab ATS (Anti-Terrorist Squad) on September 19, 2017, when he was about to fly to Canada on the fake passport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-man-takes-paramour-mother-of-four-on-oz-tour-on-her-husbands-passport-probe-ordered/articleshow/77825708.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Thefts at govt hospitals lead to infra decay||HYDERABAD: Amid the pandemic, the infrastructure of government hospitals has taken a beating, thanks to frequent thefts. Most common items: copper wires from AC connections, bathroom fittings and even wheelchairs. While copper wires thefts are most common at Gandhi Hospital, almost all bathroom fittings were stolen from Niloufer Hospital’s outpatient block around six months ago. Osmania General Hospital (OGH), meanwhile, has lost nearly 100 wheelchairs over the last two years. “Sometimes four-five patients, who need a wheelchair, come at the same time. Owing to limited manpower we at times ask the attendants themselves to take the wheelchair. At the time of leaving, they take the wheelchairs along,” said Dr B Nagender, OGH superintendent. While hospital authorities tried to put in place a system of keeping the attendants’ mobile phones in custody, for the time they used the wheelchairs, they often found that just the mobile cases were left behind, after the theft . If missing wheelchairs have led to a crisis at OGH, theft of fittings have left washrooms at Niloufer unusable. “There is a need to increase security at hospitals but it isn’t a priority for the government. These things are usually done by outsiders but even hospital staff sometime hand in glove with them. It’s basically an administrative failure,” said an insider from the hospital. While authorities say that they refrain from filing FIRs as these are usually petty thefts, they often have a huge impact on patient care. “Several Covid-19 patients had complained about broken taps and unusable washrooms. The condition continues to be the same even now. FIRs are not filed also because because it is very difficult to nab offenders as there are very few security personnel or CCTV cameras in the hospital,” said a senior doctor at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thefts-at-govt-hosps-lead-to-infra-decay/articleshow/77828290.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 30, 2020||Nashik||BJP-led devotees agitate for opening of temples across Nashik||Nashik: The BJP functionaries along with a section of citizens protested outside the temples in Nashik district and at Shirdi in Ahmednagar district on Saturday demanding opening of temples across the state. The BJP-led Adhyatmik Aghadi organised a ‘Ghanta Naad’ agitation outside temples across many places demanding that the state government must throw open the doors of temples for people who wish to seek mental solace during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are agitating in Nashik city which is a known pilgrimage place across the country and abroad. We demand that the state government should open up the doors of temples, gurdwaras, Jain sthanaks and Buddha vihars at the earliest. It is people’s faith in God and the temples and the government should stay out of it,” Tushar Bhosale, who was heading the Aadhyatmik Azadi, said. The primary program was held at Ram Kund in Nashik after which the devotees, party functionaries and local priests climbed up the stairs of Kapaleshwar temple where they staged a protest asking government to re-open the doors of temples. “We have liquor shops operating normally across the state but wonder why the government is not allowing temples to open up?,” questioned BJP regional secretary MLA Devyani Pharande. Similar agitation was carried out at Trimbakeshwar, Saptshringi Gadh and Shirdi (Ahmednagar district) as well. Meanwhile, the BJP unit of Aurangabad city organised a ‘Ghanta Naad’ protest similar to the Nashik one on Saturday morning demanding opening of temples. A couple of days ago, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel had demanded opening of temples from September 1 followed by opening of mosques and other religious places from September 2 in the state. Imtiaz, who is also the state president of Hyderabad-based party AIMIM, has been demanding opening of religious places belonging to all the communities for almost a month now. However, he took a hard stand and warned of publicly offering prayers if the state government does not announce opening of religious places. He told TOI, “When the state has already allowed opening of markets, marriage halls and other places, there is no sense in keeping all the religious places closed.” Reiterating his demand of allowing religious places to open, he said, “If permission is not granted, then we will have to open all the religious places, ourselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-led-devotees-agitate-for-opening-of-temples-across-nashik/articleshow/77829020.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 30, 2020||India||Delhi high court terms govt’s Atmanirbhar call hypocritical||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has termed the claims by the Centre on “Make in India” and to call to become “Atmnirbhar” as “hypocritical” while it fails to promote local entrepreneurs. The HC made the comment while hearing a plea on tender conditions for ground handling operations in regional airports. The petitioners had challanged the change in eligibility criteria to participate in the bid. The HC said it is “pained” that on one hand the government talks of ‘Make in India’ and on the other hand floats tenders which would result in ouster of small entities. It was hearing a plea relating to tender conditions for ground handling operations in regional airports. “What really irks is that if you really want to oust these people (small entities), then say so. Don’t be hypocritical in your speeches. Your political leadership speaks of Make in India, they speak of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, they speak about encouraging local industry, but your actions don’t match your words. You are being completely hypocritical,” the court remarked. It asked additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Centre and Airport Authority of India, to seek instructions and get clarity on the issue. “We are saying stop importing from this country or that country and on the other hand we are also failing our own entrepreneurs,” HC added, referring to the tender eligibility criteria that wants an annual turnover of over Rs 35 crore and experience of having worked with scheduled airlines. “You want big players with big pocket, and maybe foreign tie-ups, to come in” HC said, pointing out that the smaller players would have worked at regional airports where flights of scheduled airlines are few or not at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-high-court-terms-govts-atmanirbhar-call-hypocritical/articleshow/77829414.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram may release its Unlock 4.0 guidelines today||GURUGRAM: With the Centre releasing Unlock 4.0 guidelines on Saturday; the district administration is going to assess these guidelines and decide which of these can be implemented in Gurugram. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that the district administration is assessing the guidelines. Moreover, a senior Haryana government official added that the state is likely to come out with its own guidelines for Unlock 4 on Sunday. According to the new guidelines, metro rail has been allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner. Schools and colleges will continue to remain shut till September 30. However, students of Class IX to Class XII can visit the school on a voluntary basis to take guidance from teachers. Moreover, the states and UTs have been given the discretion to allow up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff in the schools from September 21 for which standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be released. While cinema halls and swimming pools won’t be allowed to open, open air theatres will be permitted to open with effect from September 21. Moreover, social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/ political functions and other congregations will be allowed with a ceiling of 100 people from September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ggn-may-release-its-unlock-4-0-guidelines-today/articleshow/77829033.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Goa||As pandemic cripples Goan gig industry, musicians change tempo to survive||When he began receiving demand letters from the bank in May, Emmanuel Antao knew he was in trouble. The Chandor-based entertainer had regaled audiences in India and abroad over the years and had packed weekly schedules at several hotels and restaurants as a one-man band. But none of that could keep his family afloat after the Covid-19 outbreak and consequent lockdown brought tourism and allied sectors to naught. So, he began selling fish. In fact, over the past couple of months, Antao has expanded his services to deliver seafood to one’s doorstep anywhere in the state. “My life has changed and so has the perception of some of my colleagues. For instance, when I went to deliver fish to an acquaintance, I was asked why I hadn’t opted for any other kind of work. I told him that if he could give me a job that could pay my loans, I’d gladly work for him,” Antao said. Desperation and a weak economy forced the entertainer to make some tough decisions. He sold his limited-edition SUV at half the price to save his house from foreclosure and removed his children from an unaided school as he could no longer pay their fees. “If this situation continues for a year, I might even have to sell my house,” Antao rued. “Full-time musicians now have no source of income at all.” That the pandemic has been particularly cruel to Goa’s once thriving entertainment industry is evident. Up north in Nagoa, Bardez, Jude Davitoria – a solo artiste and events coordinator – found himself grappling with a fate similar to Antao’s. Unable to pay the EMI on his car loan in May, ‘Country Jude’ had to sell his vehicle for a song along with some music equipment that he had purchased for his teenaged son. It didn’t help that his teacher wife hadn’t been receiving her salary either. With their backs to the wall, the couple decided to convert their passion for cooking into an occupation. Today, they prepare and deliver a range of Goan masalas and pastes, pickles, curries, pulao and even an entire fish thali to most parts of the state. Their son chips in too and makes a delectable Goan caramel pudding. “What has happened over the past few months is a good lesson for all us musicians, especially those who’ve relied on the industry as the sole source of income. My parents always told me to have another trade in hand because tourism is not eternal. I now fully understand the significance of that advice,” Davitoria said. The path ahead is uncertain but the nascent cook has no plans of slowing down. Just recently, he introduced ready-to-fry beef croquettes and fish cutlets. “The profit margins are not high, but I am glad that I am at least able to pay my bills,” Davitoria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-pandemic-cripples-goan-gig-industry-musicians-change-tempo-to-survive/articleshow/77829042.cms||Nisser Dias
August 30, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Citizens appealed to use ammonium bicarbonate for household Ganesh immersion||NASHIK: The Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) has appealed to people to use ammonium bicarbonate for household immersion of Ganesh idols. People have been requested to take the chemical from the NMC’s divisional offices free of charge for eco-friendly Ganesh immersion. Residents may place their demand for ammonium bicarbonate online through NMC’s portal or they may directly approach divisional offices of the civic body. The civic body has distributed 4.5 tonne ammonium bicarbonate free of charge so far to over 1,000 residents for immersion of Ganesh idols at the household level. Moreover, the civic body has also collected over 2,500 Ganesh idols donated to them at their specified immersion spots across all six divisions. These donated idols will be immersed by the civic body to avoid large crowd of people at one place. Ammonium bicarbonate is mixed with water in a bucket, following which idols are imeersed into it and kept for about 48 hours. Once the idol is completely dissolved, the remains can be used as manure or soil conditioner for garden areas. “We are focusing on household immersion of Ganesh idols to avoid large crowd of people at immersion spots,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-appealed-to-use-ammonium-bicarbonate-for-household-ganesh-immersion/articleshow/77829027.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 30, 2020||Delhi||216 in nine days: Sealed zones touch high of 803 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The spike in Covid cases has seen the number of containment zones in Delhi going up by 216 in the last nine days. This is the sharpest rise in sealed areas in the capital and has taken the total number of red zones to 803 on August 28, the most since the Covid-19 pandemic arrived in the city. In the past three days alone, 109 areas reporting clusters of corona cases have been sealed. The growth of red zones is significant because the number of containment areas saw a dip earlier this month to less than 500 from a high of over 700 towards the end of July. A government official explained that the rise in containment zones was the outcome of the government’s reaction to the increase in Covid cases in recent days.  “The district authorities are quickly converting into containment zones those locations reporting multiple cases from a certain apartment, street or a housing block. Sealing off such areas is an effective way of checking the spread of the coronavirus,” said the official. Any locality that reports more than three Covid-positive cases within a small distance of each other is converted into a containment zone. The area is sealed off and full restrictions imposed on movement of people and vehicles there, with the implementation of the strictures overseen by police personnel and civil defence volunteers. Essentials are home delivered to the residents through select service providers under the guidance of the authorities. In the 11 districts, South-West currently has the highest number of 162 active containment zones, followed by West with 113, North 110 and South 102. The fewest containment zones, 22, are in North-East district, while North-West with 29 and New Delhi with 31 are just above it. So far, Delhi has cumulatively sealed 1,694 areas since the Covid outbreak, 321 of them located in South-West district, followed by West with 266 containment zones and North with 223. A total of 891 sealed zones have been reopened . According to a government official, containment zones help by focusing attention of the local authorities on those spots and allowing extensive disinfection, contact tracing and surveillance. Sealing does affect economic activities and people’s lives, but ultimately helps the citizens because the coronavirus is contained to a limited space. A government source confided that one of the reasons behind the rise in the number of containment zones was many members of the same families testing positive. “It has been observed that some people delay going for tests and spread the infection in the family,” the source said. “The CM has appealed to people to opt for testing as soon as they notice Covid symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/216-in-nine-days-sealed-zones-touch-high-of-803/articleshow/77828274.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||E-way & defence corridor big boon: UP CM||JHANSI: During the virtual inauguration of the new buildings of the Rani Laxmibai Central Agricultural University, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “In 2014, water would be carried to Bundelkhand villages in tankers. Today, potable water is being delivered through pipelines.” He also said, the BJP government has curbed the menace of ‘anna pratha’ (stray cattle) in the region and has come up with cow-based agriculture. Also, the Bundelkhand Expressway and defence corridor will prove to be a boon in development of the region. “For this, 2600 acre has been acquired and MoUs of Rs 36,000 crore has been signed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/e-way-defence-corridor-big-boon-cm/articleshow/77829040.cms||Arindam Ghosh
August 30, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon civic body set for Tajiya, Ganesh immersions||NASHIK: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has completed its preparation for the Ganapati immersion as well as Tajiya processions that mark the culmination of Muharram. The police department and the MMC held meetings with the members of Ganesh mandals and Tajiya committee and reviewed the preparations. They also appealed to the members to ensure that the events were handled in a safe and peaceful manner. This year, given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, there are not going to be any elaborate Ganesh or Tajiya processions. Mayor of Malegaon Tahira Shaikh has requested people to adhere to the safety protocols. “Be it Tajiya or Ganeshotsav, people should cooperate with the MMC and police,” Shaikh said. The members of Tajiya committee pointed out that the number of Tajiyas in Malegaon town this year had been brought down from 450 to 250. “We have clubbed the Tajiyas of multiple groups. Some of them have refused to do so and instead decided to limit their observance to sermons and prayers. We will ensure safe conduct of the programme,” said Shafiq Rana of the Tajiya committee. Additional superintendent of police Sandeep Ghuge said there would be no processions on any of the days as per state government orders. People have been appealed to immerse their Tajiya at their homes. The same thing applies to Ganapati idols. At most, people may hand over their idols at the nearest collection centre organised by the corporation to avoid rush near the traditional immersion sites. Corporator and former MLA of Rashid Shaikh also appealed to the people to stay safe and added that the corporation should provide facilities, including clean drinking water, to people on during the two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-civic-body-set-for-tajiya-ganesh-immersions/articleshow/77829025.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Experimental garden plans hit land hurdle||HYDERABAD: With the state government not alloting required land, the plan to set up an experimental garden to conserve the rare, endangered and threatened (RET) plant species in Telangana is yet to take shape. Senior scientists from the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) under the Union ministry of environment and its Deccan Regional Centre (DRC), Hyderabad are shuttling between the offices of the state chief secretary, chief commissioner of land administration (CCLA) and minister of forests to secure two-acres in the city. As of now, DRC is functioning from a small office in the Kendriya Sadan at Koti. “We are finding it difficult to conduct plant research from here as this location is very small,” a scientist from BSI told TOI. “A proposal to allot two-acre land had been mooted way back in 2012. Despite our best efforts nothing has happened so far. We are running from pillar to post and recently met endowments minister Indrakaran Reddy. The minister asked CCLA to pursue the matter,” the scientist said. “In 2012, the state government said it would allot two-acre land at Attapur. But we were demanded Rs 14.5 crore as the token price although environment ministry’s norms don't permit this. Our scientists here are documenting and conducting research on the flora of three states Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha,” the scientist added. If the state allocates land, DRC plans to utilise 40% of it to construct the administrative building and 60% to conserve the RET plant species in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experimental-garden-plans-hit-land-hurdle/articleshow/77828292.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 30, 2020||Goa||After 114 days for 1st 20 deaths, Goa now sees 20 every 3 days||With 25 deaths in the last 72 hours and the state’s healthcare infrastructure struggling to cope, the spotlight has once again fallen on the government’s inability to arrest the spread of the infection. This comes at a time when health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that all state-run facilities are full. The state, which took 114 days to see its first 20 deaths from the pandemic, now sees 20 fatalities every three days. And with over 500 new positives a day and medical facilities running dry, doctors, healthcare professionals and citizens l This week, the state’s Covid-19 death rate breached the 1% mark. TOI reported on Saturday that 1 in every hundred persons in Goa has already contracted the virus. While these figures are still below the national average, they’re far higher than other states with commensurate healthcare indicators like Kerala, Manipur, Sikkim, and Meghalaya. “What’s even more appalling than the 1% of the population testing positive is the fact that the mortality rate has crossed 1%. Strategies of quarantining, contact tracing, working from home and social distancing didn’t work,” a Panaji-based private doctor said. Now, as the state instead finds itself in the company of much larger, less developed states, experts are wondering if more could have been done to rein in the death count. At 1.1%, Goa’s fatality rate is on par with Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand. The state’s failure is more baffling given its population is just 15.4 lakh, area smaller than many districts, and has a full-fledged administration of a cabinet and 23 IAS officers. Mortality rate — or case fatality ratio (CFR) — is the number scientists and researchers rely on to ascertain the risk of dying from a disease. Goa’s 1.1% is slowly inching upwards towards the national average (currently 1.8%), which has been on the decline. As on August 29, Goa had 178 fatalities and 16,553 total Covid cases. Jharkhand, with a population of 3.74 crore, has 390 deaths while Haryana, with a population of 2.86 crore, has 670 deaths. In the last one week itself, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 2.7% in Goa. In Haryana, Covid-19 cases have grown by 2.3% every day while in Jharkhand new cases have risen by 3.9% per day. The state government has provided a variety of excuses for the rising numbers. Deaths, for instance, are regularly blamed on comorbidities — a strategy lambasted by everyone including former governor Satya Pal Malik. Rising cases have variously been blamed on people not following rules, and most recently, flouting Ganesh Chaturthi regulations. “Deaths can be prevented, but the only thing is that the patients have to come on time for treatment," said GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar. "Even if there are slight symptoms, then they should come to the hospital. Once the disease advances, nothing can be done." However, conspicious in the audit of the government’s goofups are the bungling failures by the top tier of the state administration. While the hundreds of new cases everyday point to the fact that contact tracing was a flop, the government’s inability to foresee a possible spike has put lakhs of lives at risk. “When the first Covid hospital was half full they should have begun getting the second hospital ready,” said a Panaji-based doctor. “When it was 80% full the second hospital should have been activated but when the numbers rose the government didn’t scale up. They dragged their feet when they should have gotten their act together and immediately activated new hospitals.” Mismanagement of containment zones, delay in decision making, shortage of healthcare professionals, also played a role in the state being two steps behind the pandemic. Citizens looking for reassurance from the government too were snubbed when its own brass — ministers, legislators and bureaucrats — made a beeline for private hospitals when they caught the infection. Last month, IMA had suggested that Goa needs to have a full-fledged Covid hospital close to GMC, maybe even the super-specialty hospital that has come up, if we want to control the deaths,” said Indian Medical Association – Goa president Dr Samuel Arawattigi. Arawattigi said that the super-specialty block could be utilized for Covid-19 treatment for a year till the pandemic subsides and a vaccine is found. Though many stakeholders refrained from coming on record, conversation among doctors has veered towards the administrative glitches that allowed Covid-19 to spread its tentacles across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-114-days-for-1st-20-deaths-goa-now-sees-20-every-3-days/articleshow/77829043.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to issue unlock orders today||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is likely to take a call and issue orders on Sunday on the unlock guidelines that were issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. This will include details about allowing metro train services in the city. The central government, on Saturday, said that from September 7, metro services will be allowed. When asked about Hyderabad, sources in the Hyderabad Metro Rail said they were awaiting state government orders on resumption of services. Apart from this, the government is also expected to give clarity regarding the centre’s orders on extending lockdown for cinema halls, schools, colleges and educational and coaching institutions till September 30. Sources in the government said the state government would follow all the guidelines including metro services and issue orders accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-to-issue-unlock-orders-today/articleshow/77827274.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Districts deploy special teams to crack the whip||NEW DELHI: Central and North districts on Saturday deployed additional special enforcement teams to ensure that people follow Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing, wearing masks, no spitting in public places and no large gathering. All districts have been asked to ramp up enforcement in the wake of the recent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, which have stoked apprehensions that the novel coronavirus infection is spreading again after a sustained dip in July and early August. Dilkhush Meena, sub-divisional magistrate (kotwali) of Central district, said nine mobile enforcement awareness vehicles were being utilised to create awareness about the Covid-19 guidelines. “The mobile vans go to different areas, especially marketplaces and localities that are likely to see large gatherings, and spread a message about the Covid-19 guidelines,” said Meena. Some time later, enforcement teams visit these areas and issue challans to all violating the guidelines, he added. Enforcement teams consist of revenue department officials and police personnel. The number of challans issued in just Central and North districts during the pandemic reveals that thousands of people are violating the norms. In Central, 19,850 challans have been issued across the district, including unauthorised and upscale colonies, and Walled City. The highest number of challans has been issued for not wearing masks and the second highest for not following social distancing. A few more people have been fined in North district. Among 19,911 challans, the highest number — 16,167 — was for violating the mask rule and the second highest — 2,987 — for not following social distancing. “Ten enforcement teams have been deployed in the district,” said district magistrate Deepak Arjun Shinde. Across the capital, the authorities have found several people not wearing masks even in public places. Large numbers of people wear them covering the chin or the chin and the mouth, but not the nose. Experts believe that the dip in cases may have led to a sense of complacency among a section of people that the Covid situation is quite under control. However, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has been constantly appealing to Delhiites to stay alert and follow the guidelines to defeat the virus. A health department official also said that one of the reasons behind the recent rise in the Covid numbers might be the complacency and carelessness among some people. North district has found 20 people violating quarantine rules, which indicates gross carelessness on their part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/districts-deploy-special-teams-to-crack-the-whip/articleshow/77828291.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Photos: Fallen trees turn into park benches in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: To save time and cost involved in transporting cut branches or fallen trees after heavy rains, East Delhi Municipal Corporation has started using them to create benches and ornamentation pieces in neighbourhood parks. EDMC horticulture director Raghwendra Singh said that the trunk and branches of uprooted trees are auctioned to contractors or sent to crematoriums free of cost. “But both require timely transportation. The contractors eligible to bid for the wood are usually so busy that our employees have to call them repeatedly to come and take the tree parts and allow smooth movement of traffic. Likewise, we need to arrange vehicles to take trees to a crematorium,” Singh said. The idea of using the wood instead for the parks occurred when a gulmohar tree fell on the EDMC headquarters complex a month ago due to heavy rain. “We have rented space in that DSIIDC building, and we needed to consult the building owner before taking any action,” recalled Singh. “When nothing happened even after two days, we toyed with the idea of turning the tree into benches for visitors on the lawn. We shared the idea with the EDMC commissioner, mayor and standing committee chairman on August 14 and they also admired it.” The concept was discussed again when two days later a huge jamun tree fell in Geeta Colony and getting it removed again proved a problem. “These two instances pushed us to find an immediate solution. I discussed the matter with my gardeners, who had worked as carpenters earlier, and they suggested multiple usage for the wood,” said Singh. “I checked such woodwork online and designated a nursery at Vivek Vihar for the collection of fallen trees. We have deployed three-four malis to fabricate usable items from fallen trees.” Branches with big girths make benches and stands, while smaller ones are turned into guards for saplings and plants. Officials said the initiative was not only adding to EDMC’s resources, but also cutting the cost of installing benches in parks.“In the last five years, we have earned Rs 75,000 on the sale of trees and branches. Rather than auctioning them, turning them into products for parks, schools and other places is a better idea,” said an official. “We have the remnants of 25 trees at Vivek Vihar, and our workers are crafting useful items out of them.” EDMC is now considering treating dead trees in a similar manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/resurrection-fallen-trees-turn-into-park-benches-in-east-delhi/articleshow/77828299.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Upset with salary, nursing body writes to Nirmal dist collector||HYDERABAD: Upset with the salary offered in the recruitment notification issued by the district medical and health officer, the Trained Nurses’ Association of India (TNAI) and the Nursing Officers Association of Telangana have shot off a letter to the Nirmal district collector. Claiming that the Rs 15,000 salary offered to a nurse for Covid-19 duties is quite less compared to the amount paid in the private sector, the associations demanded revision of the salary. The TNAI wrote in the letter, “We would like to bring your kind attention that in the case filed by TNAI, the honourable Supreme Court order (WP(C) 527/2011 and the subsequent recommendations given by the committee constituted by the MoHFW, the minimum salary is fixed as Rs 20,000/ even in private sector. This order was given on the basis of the fact that salary in all state governments in India is reasonable and much above the existing salary structure in private hospitals,” read the letter. The letter further detailed recommendations of the committee which said that the salary of a nurse working in a hospital with 200 or more beds shall be the same as that of state government hospitals.  “We also would like to bring to your notice, the recruitment notification of Medical and Health Services Recruitment Board, Telangana, Hyderabad wide Notification No: 01/2020 dated: 16 June 2020 for 246 Staff Nurses. The salary advertised is Rs 25,140. We are disappointed about the discrimination in the wage for the nurses notified in the recruitment notification by Nirmal district administration,” said Prof Roy K George, national president of the association. Letter detailed recommendations of the committee which said that the salary of a nurse working in a hospital with 200 or more beds shall be the same as that of state government hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upset-with-salary-nursing-body-writes-to-nirmal-dist-collector/articleshow/77827281.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Corporator visits NMC even as family member tests +ve||Nagpur: In alleged violation of 14-day home quarantine norm to be followed by high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive persons, a corporator visited the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), interacted with office-bearers and staffers.He visited the NMC head office on Friday, within few hours of receiving Covid-19 positive report for one of his immediate family members. The corporator, a resident of Central Nagpur, also held a press conference along with one of two top NMC office-bearers and woman corporators at the NMC office.NMC sources told TOI that the corporator along with his 14 family members had got tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. “Testing was done after doctor of one of the brothers of the corporator had tested positive. At around 11am, corporator received reports of all 15. One of the family members tested positive while remaining, including the corporator, were negative,” said the sources.On Saturday evening, the corporator took to social media to inform that five more from his family have tested positive.Earlier, if high-risk contacts of positive patients tested negative the NMC used to send them to 14-day institutional quarantine. Tests were done after completion of 14-day quarantine. Many had tested positive in second tests. After cases started increasing in city, the NMC allowed home quarantine from last week of July.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “As per guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research, high-risk contacts are advised to be in 14-day home quarantine if tested negative. With increase in cases and limited staff with NMC, it is not possible to monitor high-risk contacts. Our top priority is testing all high-risk patients,” he said.According to the corporator, the family member who tested positive was at his sister’s house for the last five days. “I returned home from the NMC and admitted my family member to one of the hospitals. Since then, I along with other family members are in home quarantine. I have even locked my house’s gate so that no one can come inside,” he said.Sources in NMC said swab samples of 15 family members were collected at a location near the corporator’s house where all including the woman who tested positive were present.TOI on August 22 had reported about family members of few Covid positive shopkeepers who did not get tested and continued to keep their shops open. One of the positive family members was in shop. Another family member was also in shop when his positive report arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corporator-visits-nmc-even-as-family-member-tests-ve/articleshow/77828308.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 30, 2020||Goa||Working to restart mining in four months: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that he is working towards restarting mining activities within four months in accordance with the law and keeping in mind all environmental norms. The chief minister’s office (CMO) said that in the month of June, the chief minister had held detailed discussions with the newly appointed advocate general Devidas Pangam for a possible solution. After an in-depth study and comprehensive discussions, it was decided that a two-pronged strategy should be adopted by the state, to file a review petition and also simultaneously pursue a central government amendment to the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987. The Centre is considering the Goa government’s suggestion for an amendment to the act, the CMO said. Stating that the chief minister is committed to the welfare and the well-being of the people affected by the mining ban, the CMO said, “Sawant is continuously monitoring the actions taken by the government towards resumption of mining and related activities.” As the formal order has not been passed by the Chief Justice of India on the application moved by the state government to tag its review petition along with the special leave petition (SLP) filed by the mining companies, the Supreme Court on Friday adjourned Goa’s crucial mining matter to September 9. The mining companies had filed a SLP in the apex court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the SC that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, they’re entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-working-to-restart-mining-in-four-months/articleshow/77829058.cms||Murari Shetye
August 30, 2020||Mysuru||Probe finds accused’s great-grandfather had smuggled hippo ivory in the 1960s||Shivamogga: Two more people were were arrested on Friday in connection with the case related to smuggling of hippo ivory, said Shiivamogga forest mobile squad, headed by DCF Balachandra Hosalli. Ravi Shankar, chief conservator of forests, said the accused are not professional smugglers. “Following a tip-off, we kept an eye on their activities for a month, and trapped them by posing as buyers,” he said. Vishal, one of the accused who lived with his grandmother in Goa, had brought old hippo ivory, including nine teeth, to Karnataka. Before shifting her house some months ago, the grandmother had handed over the hippo ivory to Vishal asking him to sell it. The ivory and teeth date back to the 1960s. A joint investigation by Karnataka and Goa forest officials revealed that her father had brought the ivory from Tanzania. After Vishal approached Anil Pansekar in Goa to sell the ivory and teeth, they were transported to Goa-Karnataka border in July, from where the other three accused — Jakir Khan from Chandragutti in Sorab taluk, Muzafar Hassan from Honnavar and Mohammed Danish from Bhatkal — took them to Karnataka. All through August, the accused tried looking for buyers, and had also approached many. Ivory, teeth and three vehicles have been recovered from them. All of them have booked under the provisions of Wildlife Protection Act (1972).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/probe-finds-accuseds-great-grandfather-had-smuggled-hippo-ivory-in-the-1960s/articleshow/77827401.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||Accused shot at while trying to escape from Kalaburagi cops||Kalaburagi: Kalaburagi police fired at history-sheeter, injuring him, when he tried to escape after attacking them at Kesaratagi village outskirts of Kalaburagi city in the early hours of Saturday. Station Bazar police were investigating an attempt-to-murder case, in which the accused, rowdy-sheeter Mirja Mohammad Abdul Baig alias Fayeem Mirja, was arrested on Friday. The shooting happened the next morning, when the police were taking the accused to the place where he had hid the lethal weapons for committing the crime. When the police reached an open place at Kesaratagi, the accused allegedly attacked the police with lethal weapons and tried escape. In self-defence, police fired at Baig’s leg after which he fell on the ground. He sustained injuries on his right leg, below the knee. He has been admitted to the government hospital. Station Bazar police inspector L H Goundi and constables Ambadas and Rafique were also injured, and were treated at a private hospital. Baig, a resident of Vidyanagar here, has been booked in murder, dacoity, attempt-to-murder and other cases in various police limits in Kalaburagi city. On June 29, he tried to kill a 22-year-old youth at Panchasheela Nagar here. Station Bazar police had arrested him on August 28 to investigate him in the latest case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/accused-shot-at-while-trying-to-escape-from-kalaburagi-cops/articleshow/77827577.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||Will deal with drug offenders stringently, says Basavaraj Bommai||Hubballi: Expressing the state government’s firm stand on dealing with trade of narcotic substances, home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that, regardless of the offender’s standing or influence, he or she would be prosecuted and dealt with stringently. In Haveri on Saturday, Bommai said that police were taking all necessary steps to crack down on the drug racket, and bring all those involved in the trade of narcotics to book. The home minister’s statements come close on the heels of the seizure of more than 200kg of marijuana in Bengaluru. “We have received information about the possible involvement of foreigners in this illegal business. We will weed out this trade and ensure that all offenders get punished,” he said. The home minister added that a campaign would be initiated in schools and colleges, once they reopen, to prevent students from getting addicted to drugs. “If we find evidence of drug abuse among students, the institution will be held accountable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/will-deal-with-drug-offenders-stringently-says-basavaraj-bommai/articleshow/77826975.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||RDA set to demolish Azam’s ‘Humsafar’ resort in Rampur||RAMPUR: In what could be fresh trouble for Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and Lok Sabha MP Azam Khan, the Rampur Development Authority (RDA) on Saturday issued orders to demolish the “illegally constructed luxurious resort ‘Humsafar’”. The resort, situated on Jauhar University Road in Rampur district, is under the name of his wife Tazeen Fatma. The RDA has sent a notice again to the jailed Rampur MLA Tazeen and sought her reply within 15 days. There was an “unsatisfactory” reply to the earlier notice, the RDA stated. Azam, his wife and son Abdullah are at present lodged at Sitapur District Jail in cases of forgery and land grab. The trio had surrendered before a local court after being declared “absconders”. Rampur’s additional district magistrate (ADM) JP Gupta told TOI, "‘Humsafar’ resort and the site map were not approved by the RDA. A notice has been earlier sent to Tazeen Fatma in 2019. But, she had filed a reply stating that the site map of the ‘Humsafar’ resort was approved by the Zila Panchayat. When a reply was sought from Zila Panchayat officials, they informed that the approval of the map in favour of Fatma's resort had already been cancelled. So, a fresh notice has been sent to Fatma and if she fails to file an appropriate reply within 15 days, the resort will be demolished.” ADM Gupta, who is also the RDA secretary, further said that a part of the resort has been constructed within the ‘green belt’ area, which is completely illegal. Earlier in August last year, the Rampur district administration had razed a boundary wall of the resort as it had allegedly encroached upon a 1,000-metre stretch of a drain belonging to the irrigation department. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rda-set-to-demolish-azams-humsafar-resort-in-rampur/articleshow/77826461.cms||Nazar Abbas
August 30, 2020||Mysuru||Suttur Mutt is adding new dimensions to education, says Rajnath Singh||Mysuru: Atmanirbhar doesn’t mean just focussing on the economy. Youths who are involved in creating a self-reliant nation should adopt the cultural and spiritual values of the country, said defence minister Rajnath Singh. Speaking after inaugurating the Suttur Mutt late seer Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Mahaswamy’s 105th Jayanthi Mahotsava organized by Suttur Mutt on Saturday, through video conferencing, Singh said that youths should realize that every citizen should come together to create a Atmanirbhar Bharat. This, he said, is possible only when we are aware of our cultural and traditional values. The defence minister said that the mutt is an ongoing movement towards establishing peace and harmony in the country. The mutt is a phenomenal cultural movement that promotes social and economic justice based on spiritual values and ideals. The mutt is on a journey towards establishing great civilisational values. This is a journey towards giving new dimensions to our education. This is a journey towards setting new benchmarks for social service. This is a journey towards making of a strong and awakened Bharat, said the minister. Singh also hailed the service of corona warriors. Later CM B S Yediyurappa released the animation movies ‘Suttur Srimata - Guruparampare’ and ‘The heritage of Suttur Mutt’ created by Abdul Kareem and team from Sunyeka Solutions; former CM Siddaramaiah released the books ‘Kayaka Tapasvi Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Swamigaru’, ‘Bakthi Bandari Basaveshwarin Vasanangal and ‘Nithisamrajya Shataka’. DCM C N Ashwath Narayan released "Prasada’ a bi-monthly magazine of the mutt. Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami, former PM H D Deve Gowda, District Minister S T Somashekar, MLC A H Vishwanath and MP Pratap Simha participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/suttur-mutt-is-adding-new-dimensions-to-education-says-rajnath-singh/articleshow/77828203.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Vadodara||MP men held with country-made guns in Savli||Vadodara: Two persons carrying country-made guns and live cartridges from Alirajpur district of Madhya Pradesh were arrested in Savli on Friday. Police said that they had received information about the duo possessing firearms will be crossing Khakharia railway crossing in Savli on a bike with MP registration. Based on the information, cops kept vigil and nabbed the accused identified as Amit Rathwa and Sohan Bhilala from the crossing. According to police, the duo even attempted to fight back. On frisking Rathwa, police found a gun and five cartridges from him. Later another gun and four cartridges were found from Bhilala. The two accused told police that they had come from Alirajpur to sell the weapons to an unidentified buyer in Tarapur. “They do not know the name of the buyer but have shared his contact number so we are searching for the buyer on the basis of the contact number,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mp-men-held-with-country-made-guns-in-savli/articleshow/77826511.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 latest trend in Telangana: Many under the age of 45 getting infected||HYDERABAD: Recent reports across the globe indicate that many young people are getting infected by the coronavirus and the latest trend in Telangana is no different. Turns out, several patients under the age of 45 years are landing up at hospitals in the state with mild to severe symptoms, including respiratory distress. Initially, hospital admissions in this age group were less than 10%. But according to the health authorities, hospital admissions have gone up to 30% now. Moreover, about 50%-60% of consultations for mild to severe symptoms at private hospitals, offering Covid-19 treatment, comprise those below 45 years old, say sources. In most of these cases the patients are at an advanced stage by the time they reach the hospital, they add. Experts believe that the people in this age group are seeking medical attention at a later stage, as they do not suffer from co-morbidities, resulting in hospitalisation. At Gandhi Hospital, which admits severe cases, there is a substantial increase in admissions from 2%-3% to around 10% in this category. “The increase has been seen in the last two months. In majority of the cases, they are being diagnosed at a later stage,” said Dr Prabhakar Rao, nodal officer for Covid-19. Admissions at the state-run Chest Hospital have gone up from 10% to 30% in this age group. “Apart from more exposure in the younger lot, there is also a tendency to ignore the symptomatology, as many tend to think that being younger is itself a protection. Also, many are not taking adequate precautions and are turning up with the advancement of the infection and breathlessness,” said Dr Mahaboob Khan, superintendent, Chest Hospital. Meanwhile, going by the overall number of positive cases in this category, there is a slight increase of positive cases in men and women in the 21 to 30 age group. According to official information, women in this category account for 8.07% of the overall positive cases as compared to 7.9% by July-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/latest-trend-many-under-the-age-of-45-getting-infected/articleshow/77828319.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Final-semester exam rule likely next week||KOLKATA: The state higher education officials, after reading the Supreme Court verdict on holding terminal-semester exams, feel some universities in Bengal, which have already published the provisional results for the final semester/year, may have to consider withdrawing them. A Bikash Bhavan official said vice-chancellors would attend an online meeting with education minister Partha Chatterjee on August 31 at 1pm to discuss the exam rules. A day after SC gave a verdict that terminal-semester/year exams would have to be conducted this year, but individual states could ask to defer the dates beyond the earlier deadline of September 30 set by UGC, vice-chancellors and other officials of state-run universities were flooded with calls from students, seeking clarification. Some even urged the government to frame a policy soon or inform the students whether they would have to reappear for the exams as the joining dates of their new jobs were ahead. “A major point of debate is that whether the provisional results published by some universities will be valid or not. After reading the judgment, it seems no university will be allowed to award any weightage to past semester scores. The entire assessment will have to be on the current semester. Only a few universities have conducted exams, with cent percent weightage to the current semester or have assessed students in the manner prescribed in the verdict. But we will have to study the judgment further and analyse,” said the Bikash Bhavan official. Higher education department officials pointed out universities had assessed terminal-semester students in different ways, based on 50-50, 70-30 or the state government-suggested 80-20 formula, under which a percentage of the weightage was awarded to the best scores from earlier semesters. “We are seekinging legal opinion and examining the judgment in details. The state is likely to take a call next week on exam dates, format and if necessary, a new formula,” the official said. Bikash Bhavan is also examining whether the universities, which had published results based on the 80-20 formula, where the higher weightage was given to the best scores from the past semesters, had to be revoked or modified. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday sent out a message that her government would hold the final-year/semester exams, following the SC order, despite her differences with the Centre over holding exams during the pandemic. But Banerjee announced the exams would not be held in September but in October before the Pujas. “I will tell the education minister to consult the universities and come up with a decision to hold online tests, and offline tests in the neighbourhoods. The decision has to be announced in three days. Exams can’t be held in September. They will be held in October before the Pujas,” the CM had said at a virtual rally on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/final-semester-exam-rule-likely-next-week/articleshow/77828391.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 30, 2020||Lucknow||PM pitches for taking farm education to school level||JHANSI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday pitched for taking farm education to middle school level to promote agro-entrepreneurship, saying reforms are being made in National Education Policy, 2020. “Efforts are on to introduce agriculture as a subject in school,” said Modi after the virtual inauguration of college and administration buildings of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi. Asserting that efforts are being made to connect farming with modern technology, the PM noted that research institutions and agricultural universities have a vital role to play, repeating a slogan — Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Jai Vigyan. Reiterating his commitment to development of drought- prone Bundelkhand region, he said, 500 projects of over Rs 10,000 crore have been sanctioned for improving water availability. “The proposed Ken-Betwa river linking project has the potential to change fortunes of the area and the Centre is in discussion with both Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on this issue,” he said.“When I visited Jhansi before elections, I promised toilets in every house in the first 5 years and water in the next 5 years. We have been successful in both. In the last two months, work on potable water of Rs 3000 crore has begun and soon water will be delivered through pipelines at each house in Bundelkhand,” he said. Invoking the valour of Bundelkhand and legendary queen Laxmibai, he said, her freedom cry motivated the entire country. “Now there's a need for a new cry from this region and that is ‘My Jhansi, My Bundelkhand’ to help build an Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. He appealed to students of agriculture to work in the mode of ‘one-life, one-mission’ and strengthen scientific research, which is the future of the country as it will turn farmers into entrepreneurs and help strengthen the Atamanirbhar mission. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union minister Narendra Tomar were present during the virtual inauguration of the academic building of Rani Laxmibai Central Agricultural University. Around 55,000 people also attended the programme through virtual platform. Asserting that the farm sector has a major role to play in making India self-reliant, Modi said, “When I talk about 'atmanirbhar' in agriculture, it is not limited to foodgrains, but self-reliance of rural economy.” Earlier, interacting with students of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, the Prime Minister expressed concern over the Rs 75,000 crore edible oil import bill and sought solution from students on the issue. He also stressed on the need to boost food processing levels and create awareness among farmers about micro, drip and sprinkler irrigation in the drought-prone Bundelkhand region and other parts of the country. The PM also stressed on promoting recycling of water and rainwater harvesting through innovative and less costlier technology in the region. He also mentioned that Israel's water technology can be of use. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University started its first academic session in 2014-15 and is offering both under-graduate and post-graduate courses in agriculture, horticulture and forestry. It is currently operating from the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi, as the main buildings were getting ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-pitches-for-taking-farm-education-to-school-level/articleshow/77829075.cms||Arindam Ghosh
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress seeks white paper on Covid spend||HYDERABAD: Congress on Saturday demanded that the state government come out with a white paper on the funds spent so far to combat coronavirus. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir demanded this after visiting the area hospitals in Kamareddy and Medak districts. “CM KCR is responsible for the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. Despite Congress making several suggestions on combating the virus, KCR is not taking the opposition parties into confidence because of his ego. As a result, coronavirus cases are spreading fast,” Vikramarka said. Vikramarka-led delegation has been touring the hospitals in various districts as part of the Congress party’s decision to exert pressure on the KCR government to extend better treatment to Covid-19 patients by upgrading infrastructure in government hospitals. The leaders said 172 posts of doctors, nurses and staff were lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-seeks-white-paper-on-covid-spend/articleshow/77828385.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||In last lap, focus only on strong points: Experts||Nagpur: With just two days remaining for JEE (main) exams to begin, experts are advising candidates to focus only on their strong points. Since JEE is a computer-based test, it is held twice daily. The exams are scheduled from September 1 to 6. Ashutosh Hisaria, centre head of Allen here in city, says there is no time left now to “prepare for something new”. “Students must not try to build any new concepts in their mind at this stage. Look for your strong points and focus there,” he said. Give one test paper daily and analyse it thoroughly, Hisaria added. “Consult with your mentors and teachers, and figure out what worked and what did not. Stick to the learning pattern that you have been following as this is not the time to change tack,” he said. Students must go through their pointer books and revise their strong topics, feels ICAD’s director of academics Dilip Vaidya. “We tell students to keep a revision book and pointers. It’s the best time to go through these and fortify your knowledge,” said Vaidya. Disapproving learning anything new at this point, Vaidya said, “There are 150 topics spread over three subjects. So, if you have not studied something at all till date, then it’s too late. Do not even think about weak points now because there are just two days left. The best thing is to go through your strong topics and strengthen your base.” Vaidya added that already students have appeared for 50-60 mock tests, so they have a feel of the exam. “Don’t overburden your brain, else it will revolt. Keep cool and study even less on your last day,” he added. Panini Telang, director of Pioneer Study Centre, said students must go through NCERT books too. “In these books students can focus on formulae, pointers etc. To revise three subjects now is almost impossible, so proceed from easy to tough,” he said. The academic added that by studying something easier first will help build self confidence. “Brain adapts to that self confidence and can take a stronger shot at the hard topics in the last day,” said Telang. Not advising mocks tests at this stage, Telang said, “Just two days to go and a bad performance in the mock test will demoralize the student. So, best to stick with revision of strong points and keep a cool head overall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-last-lap-focus-only-on-strong-points-experts/articleshow/77828424.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand removes cap on number of people visiting state in a day||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government, late on Saturday evening, issued a notification which removed the cap put on the number of people that could visit the state in a day. In view of the Covid-19 scare, the state government used to allow not more than 2,000 people into the state in a single day. This limit has been lifted now. The order clears that while no separate e-pass, approval or permission is required, the visitors will be required to register themselves on Smart City portal — smartcitydehradun.uk.gov.in. The registration document shall necessarily be verified at the state border check post while the inbound person enters the state limits. A letter from secretary of disaster management SA Murugesan mentions that there shall be no restriction on inter-state or intrastate movement of people and goods. No separate permission, approval or e-pass will be required for the process. The new order is in line with the letter (dated August 22) from the Union ministry of home affairs, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-removes-cap-on-number-of-people-visiting-state-in-a-day/articleshow/77826517.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||35% decrease in JEE (Main) registrations due to Covid fear||HYDERABAD: Students of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, two states that are known to produce the most number of IITians each year, are likely to give up on the chance to secure a seat in the coveted engineering institution this year. Fear of being infected by coronavirus has drifted many students away from appearing for the second phase of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Main) scheduled from September 1. The dip in number of registrations for the exam is a witness to the scare. Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have witnessed a steep 35% decline in the number of JEE (Main) registrations. The exam is held in two phases - January and April. This year, the April session had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. “My grandmother was infected by Covid-19 few months back. I secured 89.35 percentile in the January session. While I want to improve my score, I fear that appearing for the examination may put my family at risk,” said Mukesh Udaykumar, an aspirant from Chittoor. As per figures released by the National Testing Agency (NTA), 67,319 candidates from Telangana are set to appear in the September session as against 1,00,129 that appeared in the January session. Similarly, 82,748 are set to appear from Andhra Pradesh in the ensuing session as against 1,29,100 that appeared in the last session. “Last year, we had observed a 10%-15% drop in number of students that appeared in the second phase. However, this year, the drop has been much higher. Many parents may have asked students not to risk their lives in an attempt to better their scores. A small percentage of students might also be those who have transportation issues and come from districts where number of cases are higher,” said Ananda Ramana, the director of FIITJEE. In 2019, many students from the two states who had scored well in the first phase of JEE (Main) had reappeared in the second phase for practice before finally taking the JEE (Advanced). “My examination center is allocated in Vijayawada. I am not sure how I will travel there as I am wary of travelling by bus or train. My family is trying to arrange a private vehicle for me to reach there,” said Dinesh Kumar, an aspirant. Students are allowed to appear for either or both of the exam cycles and can choose to submit their best performance to be eligible for JEE (Advanced) and other admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/35-decrease-in-jee-main-registrations-due-to-covid-fear/articleshow/77828417.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-NMC official, RRT team trade charges during Covid-19 survey||Nagpur: A 62-year-old former assistant superintendent (accounts) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), who is in home isolation after testing positive, has accused the Dharampeth zone’s rapid response team (RRT) of asking him to come outside in the rains on Friday for contact tracing survey. The RRT team hit back saying the man got upset when they advised him to move indoors after allegedly finding him standing in the veranda of his home in Gokulpeth, close to the zone office. Staff nurse Dwarka Bhaisare told TOI that the positive man, Kundan Seriya, who wished to be named, allegedly made derogatory remarks while answering the Covid questionnaire. Seriya accused the nurse of being impolite all through the conversation which initially started on the mobile phone. The team first called up Seriya to know the exact location of his house. Seriya said that while guiding them, he accidentally came out to the porch of his house. “They were in a car and asked to me to walk up to them outside my compound. It was raining too. I know asymptomatic patients can’t even step outside their homes. When I pointed this out, she asked me to come with an umbrella to their car. I refused and asked them to come inside or near the gate,” Seriya said. Bhaisare said the team pasted an alert sticker outside the house and began contact tracing. “We requested some family member to speak and let Seriya go into isolation,” she said. Seriya said the team was reluctant to even touch the gate to open it. “She rudely asked me how many members were there in the family and people in the house. I told her about my wife and daughter and tenants who live on the upper floor. Yet, she asked me where were my other children. I reminded her that we were just three in the family. Still she continued to pester me saying where are the others,” he said. The nurse said she was only following the questionnaire. “I was taken aback when he said ab kya paida karu (Should I give birth to more),” she said. Senior officials said the nurse was advised to file a complaint over Seriya’s remarks. “We face this problem daily. If I keep lodging a complaint then when will we work? I gave him the medicine and left,” said Bhaisare. Officials claimed that Seriya was unhappy because of the delay in his test result. “He underwent the test at NU’s lower hostel centre on Monday. But as labs were not functioning to full capacity, his result was pending for three days,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-nmc-official-rrt-team-trade-charges-during-covid-19-survey/articleshow/77828415.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||Attack on Prasada home turf ‘planted’, say sources; Kapil Sibal, Tiwari back ex-Union min||BAREILLY: A day after members of the Congress unit in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district staged a protest and wrote a letter to the party's interim president Sonia Gandhi demanding disciplinary action against former Union minister Jitin Prasada for his "anti-party activities", sources close to Prasada in UP said that the attack was “planted”. Prasada was one of the 23 signatories of the recent letter calling for corrective steps in the party. There has been no official word so far from any senior Congress leader in UP. Meanwhile, senior party leader Kapil Sibal has extended support to Prasada through a tweet in which he said, “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP". On Wednesday, a meeting was held in Kheri where state Congress secretary Kumud Gangwar along with district president Prahlad Patel and other leaders raised slogans against Prasada and allegedly even called him “an agent of the opposition party”. A video of the protest later went viral on social media. An audio clip, purportedly of Prahlad Patel, went viral on social media in which a voice can be heard saying " I am ruined". He then takes the names of some senior functionaries and says that he is "just a district president" and was "made" to go against Prasada. "I am being made the scapegoat," the voice says. When TOI contacted Patel regarding the audio clip, he said, “I am not aware of it. I am a mere district president and follow instructions from the high command and our loyalty is with the Gandhi family. Since the matter is regarding senior leaders of the party, I won’t be able to comment on it.” TOI contacted Prasada but he refused to comment on the issue. However, a source close to Prasada said, “The protest against Prasada was planted by the party's district unit. Soon the truth will be revealed.” Meanwhile, reacting to the resolution passed by the Kheri district unit of the party, Kapil Sibal tweeted: “Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP. Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own.”. Another Congress leader, Manish Tewari, who was also a signatory to the letter, tweeted a single word “Prescient”. Prasada represented Shahjahanpur Lok sabha seat in 2004 and Dhaurahra Lok Sabha seat, which is a part of the Lakhimpur Kheri district, in 2009. Recently he has been trying to cultivate an image of a Brahmin leader by raising issues in favour of the caste. Prasada’s father, Jitendra Prasada, had challenged Sonia Gandhi in the elections for the party presidentship in the late 90s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attack-on-prasada-home-turf-planted-say-sources-sibal-tiwari-back-ex-union-min/articleshow/77826514.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 30, 2020||Hubballi||This village celebrates Muharram, Ganesha festival under one roof||Hubballi: Amid talks of several key events, including the Mysuru Dasara celebrations, being kept low-key owing to the prevalence of Covid-19 infection, a village in Hubballi taluk, Dharwad district has, in order to spread the message of communal harmony across sections of society, decided to organise, under one roof, Ganesha Chaturthi and Muharram festivities. This special event is held in Bidnal to celebrate the spirit of communal amity. In their eagerness to keep up the tradition and spread the message of communal amity, the Bidnal residents are not letting up on caution and safety measures. The organisers made it plain that they will adhere to the prescribed safety norms, which include maintaining of safe distance among the participants, compulsory donning of masks, subjecting all of them to tests using oxymeters and hand sanitisation. President of the Gajanan and Muharram Utsav Samiti Mohan Asundi said that the two occasions fall in proximity to one another for three years in a row, an occurrence that happens only once every 33 years. “We had celebrated both festivals together between 1985 through ’87. We have been celebrating the two festivals with each other since 2018,” Asundi said. However, he admitted to the pandemic’s prevalence necessitating some changes in routine, which included cancellation of the ‘Panja’ procession and performance of folk dances. “Other events such as camps for donation of blood, eyes and health check-up, have also been done away with this year,” said Asundi, adding that the customary ceremony wherein teachers and people from other key professions were feted for their services too had been cancelled. Modinsab Nadaf, 87, who participated in the joint festivities from ’85 through ’87, said that he was very pleased to see the continuity of the tradition. “This celebration of festivals together is unique in order to spread the message of communal harmony. There will be no communal clashes should such traditions continue,” he said. In order to ensure that more people participated in the event, the organisers telecast the event on Facebook Live. Among others, Padmashri awardee Ibrahim Suttar, Bengaluru city joint police commissioner (traffic) BR Ravikanthegowda and Shirahalli Swamiji expressed their appreciation for the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-village-celebrates-muharram-ganesha-festival-under-one-roof/articleshow/77827754.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Alarming: Now, more Covid-19 deaths in Nagpur division than Amravati||Nagpur: Covid-19 death scenario is worsening day by day in the Vidarbha region. 11 districts in the region have reported 1,111 deaths in 29 days of August. Earlier, districts in Amravati division were reporting more Covid-19 deaths. In Nagpur division, only Nagpur district, especially Nagpur city, was reporting more deaths. But from August 10 onwards, death trap is spreading in other districts of Nagpur division also. Chandrapur which had reported only 4 Covid-19 deaths till August 10 has reported 24 deaths in last 29 days and reached 25. Covid-19 Death toll in Bhandara, which was only 2 till August 19 has reached 21 on August 29. Till August 10, Gondia district was having just 3 deaths. But on August 29, the toll has reached 17. Similarly, Wardha, where toll was 9 till August 10, has reached 21 till August 29. Gadchiroli is the only district in Nagpur division where toll is still 1. Nagpur, on the other hand has no comparison with any district in the division. Nagpur’s Covid-19 death toll was 334 on August 10. It has surged to 979 on August 29. Many serious patients in other districts of Nagpur division are referred to tertiary medical facilities here. Many of them die during treatment. Nagpur is also catering patients from all districts of Vidarbha as well as neighbouring states. According to official figures, 95 deaths in Nagpur (nearly 10%) are of patients coming from other states. TOI had reported on August 29 that Covid -19 transmission in Maharashtra is rapidly growing in rural and semi-urban areas that have limited access to adequate health care. State data has revealed nearly a quarter of coronavirus deaths and 28% of cases are now from villages and non-urban areas. Taking serious contingence of the increasing deaths and cases in semi-urban areas of Nagpur division, lockdown is back to Chandrapur and Wardha districts. Seven days complete lockdown in Chandrapur city will start from August 30. No one will be allowed outside except medical emergency or those involved in emergency services. Even shops of essential commodities will remain closed. Due to the rapid increase in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths in Wardha, Selu and Deoli Tahsil, administration has declared a curfew on August 29 and 30. In Vidarbha, 1,064 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Nagpur division and 434 in Amravati division. If we exclude Nagpur district (city) from division, remaining 5 districts have reported only 64 deaths. Alarmingly, 51 of these 64 have been reported in August alone. Covid-19 cases were around 1,900 in five districts of Nagpur division on August 1. Now, this number is 6,578. Except Wardha, all districts have more than 1,000 cases. Wardha, which was known for having least number of cases in state now has 915 cases and 21 deaths. Chandrapur, which was having zero deaths till mid-July, has 2,074 cases and 25 deaths till August 29. All these figures suggest that the spread and deaths due to Covid-19 is increasing at a serious level in semi-urban parts of Nagpur division too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alarming-now-more-covid-19-deaths-in-nagpur-division-than-amravati/articleshow/77828428.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||Snakes crawl into list of ‘man-animal conflict species’||DEHRADUN: The Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) is framing a set of guidelines to reduce mortality from snakebites in the country. This comes after snake — a wildlife species that claims as many as 58,000 lives in India every year— was officially added to the country’s list of “conflict species” earlier this year. The list is a classification of animals in the wild that humans have the most encounters with and was prepared by a developmental agency under the aegis of the German government for the MoEF. The agency in collaboration with Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is now framing draft guidelines to curb snakebite mortalities for the MoEF. Neeraj Khera, team leader at Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, which partnered with the MoEF in 2018 to craft guidelines to mitigate man-animal conflict, told TOI that the agency has maintained a list of “conflict species” in India since the past three years. The list has 10 species, including leopards, Asiatic elephants, nilgai and mugger crocodiles. Wolves, which were part of the list, were replaced with snakes in February this year, taking into account that the reptiles likely claim the highest number of human lives than any other wildlife species. Estimates suggest 58,000 people die every year due to snakebites in the country. According to the World Health Organisation, India records 2.8 million snakebites every year, the highest in the world. “There is a pressing need to address this issue as emergency complaints about snakebites to forest officials in the country have been on the rise. We will submit our draft guidelines to reduce animal-snake conflict to the MoEF by next month,” said Khera. The guidelines will be made operational in three states — Karnataka, Uttarakhand and West Bengal — as part of a pilot project before being rolled out nationwide, said Khera. Scientists at WII believe that a systematic approach to curb snakebites could help reduce mortalities. “Majority of the snakebite-related mortalities are due to the ‘big four’ — Indian cobra (Naja naja), common krait (Bungarush caeruleus), Russell’s viper (Daboia russelii) and India saw-scaled viper (Echis caninatus),” said scientist Chinnasamy Ramesh. India has as many as 500 snake species, but only 60 of them are venomous. So increasing awareness among stakeholders on ways to identify different species and bites, coordinating with hospitals that store antivenom, and disbursing information on measures to mitigate occupational hazards while rescuing snakes are some of the things the draft guidelines will address. Ramesh said the current rescue practices were “not acceptable”. “Snakes are rescued using bare hands or tongs, both incorrect practices that could harm the species. So the guidelines will also lay down standards for rescue.” Other experts expressed hope that increased spotlight on snakebites could help address another issue — lack of options when it comes to antivenom. Jose Louies, deputy director and chief of the Wildlife Crime Control Division at Wildlife Trust of India (Kerala), told TOI that India has only one kind of antivenom to treat all snakebites. “The same antivenom has been in use since the 1930s and may not be as effective in all kinds of snakebites. So there is need for research and development there.” Louies also said that Kerala is also bringing a policy to allow only certified snake rescuers to catch snakes in emergency situations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snakes-crawl-into-list-of-man-animal-conflict-species/articleshow/77826526.cms||Shivani Azad
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Now, Sunny Leone turns into a nightmare for college principals||KOLKATA: The name, Sunny Leone, seems to have become a nightmare for college principals in the admission season. Institute heads in Kolkata have their fingers crossed, hoping that the name of Leone, associated with Bollywood as well as the adult film industry, does not make it to their published merit lists as it did at Asutosh College. Though Asutosh College authorities dismissed it as an “act of mischief” by someone who submitted a fake application in Leone’s name, principals of other colleges do not want to take any chance. “It is embarrassing. It indicates that our system can be breached easily and no one can spot the name of a well-known personality,” said the principal of a north Kolkata college, who along with his colleagues, double-checked their merit list before publishing. On Saturday, there were unconfirmed reports on social media that names of Sunny Leone and some porn stars had appeared on the the list of other colleges, too. After her name was published on the Asutosh College list, Leone tweeted: “See you all in college next semester!!! Hope your in my class ;)” Due to the pandemic the entire admission process has been shifted online this year. Selected students can pay their admission fees online “Honestly speaking, we had not envisaged such a situation. We were more concerned about how to refund the application money to candidates who paid before the government waived it off. But now, we are having to scan through thousands of students to weed out fake names,” said the principal of another college. The principal of a south Kolkata college pointed out they did not want to take a chance. “I held a meeting with the admission committee of our college and requested them to go through the lists of individual subjects at least one more time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-sunny-leone-turns-into-a-nightmare-for-college-principals/articleshow/77828459.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||Noted personalities urge PM to exercise caution in Char Dham Road works||Dehradun: Renowned environmentalists, former judges, academicians, scientists, and Padma Shri awardees have sent a joint letter titled “An appeal to save the Ganga-Himalayan basin” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The letter, sent on Saturday, updated the PM about the environmental degradation caused due to his pet project — All Weather Char Dham Road — in Uttarakhand. The dignitories, who sent the letter, includes Dr YP Saundriyal, head and professor of department of Geology at Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University; Professor Brij Gopal, founder director of Centre for Inland Waters in South Asia; Padma Shri awardee Indian historian Shekhar Pathak; Manoj Mishra, convenor of Yamuna Jiye; Padma Shri awardee Anil Joshi; and retired justice Giridhar Malviya of Allahabad high court. Earlier, a high-powered committee (HPC) appointed by the Supreme Court for submitting a report on the All Weather Char Dham Road had got divided and had submitted two reports before the ministry. The communication to the PM, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, “We are aware that the Char Dham All Weather Road project is close to your heart but surely you wouldn’t wish it to be carried out in an unlawful and surreptitious manner.” The experts have clearly warned in their communication that the ongoing works of the Char Dham road would threaten the lives of pilgrims visiting the state for pilgrimage. “You wouldn’t wish it to be turned into a perpetual death trap for pilgrims visiting these shrines. Also, you would never allow the Himalayas, the sacred abode of Gods and seers, to be desecrated and its rivers polluted beyond description and would certainly not wish for these areas to become tourist hot spots as opposed to the quiet pilgrimages that they are and are meant to be,” it further reads. The letter also pointed out at the ecologically hazardous activities that are ongoing in the upper Himalayas. “Our treatment of the Himalayas has been exploitative and disrespectful, to say the least. Highland meadows suspended between the earth and the sky, where human feet trembled to stray, now host weddings galas of the rich and famous; and rolling, flowery bugiyals like Dayara, have developed deep cracks that are being patched up with extensive coir matting. Tall buildings, townships, speeding traffic, impatient noisy horns, vehicular pollution, and dust are the living reality of any Himalayan Valley today.” The experts also extended full support to HPC chairman Ravi Chopra while stating “strong support to one man army of Chopra”. “We strongly support the chairman’s view and demand that for the sake of Devatma Himalaya, that is vanishing daily before our eyes, the Chairman’s recommendations, whereby the damage to the Himalayan ecology will be minimised, be adopted. At the very least, all ongoing construction works with respect to the Char Dham Pariyojana shall be halted till the Supreme Court arrives at its final order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/noted-personalities-urge-pm-to-exercise-caution-in-char-dham-road-works/articleshow/77826537.cms||Shivani Azad
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman loses Rs 4.5 lakh as fake cheque cleared, sign forged||MUMBAI: Money was siphoned from an Andheri businessman’s bank account, with a fake cheque and forged signature a week after lockdown was imposed in March. Andheri police registered a case on Friday after they found that the bank cleared the Rs 4.5 lakh cheque and the amount was sent to the account of Nagnath Barade at a nationalised bank’s Kalyan branch on March 31. Police are probing how the bank cleared the fake cheque. Atul Dave (54) learnt about the fraud on April 16, when he visited the bank to update his passbook. Dave had saved the amount he got after an insurance policy matured. “The balance was Rs 4.8 lakh on March 4 after I withdrew Rs 75,000 for my garment business. The bank said the money got debited based on a cheque I had not issued,” Dave told police. Police have sought Barade’s details from the bank. “Dave learnt from the bank that the number on the cheque cleared was never issued to anyone. It seems someone from the bank got hold of the details to forge it. We have asked for cheque details and signature,” police said. Police have also sought CCTV footage of the place from where money was withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bizman-loses-rs4-5l-as-fake-cheque-cleared-sign-forged/articleshow/77828469.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 30, 2020||India||SC to decide on Bhushan’s penalty tomorrow||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday will pronounce its order quantifying the punishment to be awarded to activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for committing contempt of court by tweeting ‘false and malicious’ statements intended to scandalise the apex court, present and former CJIs and the judiciary. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari has listed the case for pronouncement of judgement on Monday, two days before Justice Mishra retires. The bench had repeatedly granted time to Bhushan to consider tendering an apology or express regret for his ‘contemptuous remarks’ before reserving order on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-decide-on-bhushans-penalty-tomorrow/articleshow/77829428.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||‘Rate contract’ succour for insurance patients||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishments Regulatory Commission’s (WBCERC) advisory on Friday asking private hospitals to revert to their pre-April bed charges for patients who pay by cash will not lead to any immediate financial benefit or burden for the rest who are covered by insurance. Private hospitals across the city pointed out that insurance patients or those under various corporate and government schemes, too, will continue to pay the pre-April bed charge since hospitals were bound by ‘rate contracts’ with insurance companies that have not been altered to include the enhanced bed charges. Those paying their bills in cash, however, will now be enjoying a 10% and 20% discount on medicines and consumables respectively. Private hospitals enter into a rate contract with insurance companies for 2-3 years, during which the latter don’t recognize charge revisions. “Even though hospitals hike their bed charges almost every April to offset inflation, it is recognized by the insurance firms only at the end of the existing contract period. In 2020, no new contract was done so the old rates prevail across hospitals,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipto Mitra. While rate contract periods vary between hospitals and their agreements with various insurance companies, most have their renewals at the end of 2020 or at the beginning of 2021. “So, even though we have raised the bed charge, it will be applicable to a vast majority of patients later,” said Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) president Rupak Barua, who is also the CEO OF AMRI Hospitals. Around 80% of private hospital patients are either covered by insurance or various government and group insurance schemes. “Cash-paying patients are a small minority and their number has gone down further post-Covid. With non-Covid admissions coming down to a trickle, their number has reduced even more,” said Barua. Some like Medica Superspecialty Hospital desisted from hiking charges this year. “It was not a conducive situation for a rate hike so we held it back. In any case, it hasn’t made any difference for any hospital,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Hospitals, however, are worried about the 10% discount on medicines allowed to cash-paying patients. “There’s hardly a 10% margin on most drugs that makes it entirely unfeasible. We are relieved that the commission has decided to talk to pharmaceutical companies and explore the possibility of a price reduction,” said Barua. The WBCERC had last week announced that private hospitals must revert to their March bed rates and allow discounts on medicines and consumables. It led to a sharp reaction from hospitals who argued that they were already under a financial stress due to the Rs 1,000 daily cap on consumables and were not in a state to allow further concessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rate-contract-succourfor-insurance-patients/articleshow/77827374.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||Satpal Maharaj demands inner border line to be shifted to Jauljibi||Dehradun: Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj wrote a letter to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union home minister Amit Shah asking to shift the inner border line from Chiyalekh to Jauljibi. Citing the current security scenario in the country, Maharaj demanded that if the inner line will be shifted to Jauljibi, it will not just strengthen security but will also boost tourism. The border inner line carved after the Indo-China conflict in 1962 at Jauljibi was shifted to Chiyalekh in 1990-91. “The Chaundas and Darma valleys, under the Dharchula tehsil of Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, border Nepal and China and are very sensitive from the strategic and geopolitical point of view. To control the movement of outsiders from security point of view, the inner line should be shifted to Jauljibi,” said Satpal Maharaj. He added that the current inner line at Marcha is just 40 kilometres from the boundary line of China. “Due to the ongoing border dispute with China and its expansionary policy, this inner line remains a threat to the internal and external security of our country. Also, the simple and peace loving people of Bhotia tribe who are local residents of Beans, Chaundas, and Darma valleys are surrounded at present. They are feeling insecure due to their proximity to the international border and increasing criminal activities in the region,” added Maharaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satpal-maharaj-demands-inner-border-line-to-be-shifted-to-jauljibi/articleshow/77826557.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram reports 124 new Covid cases||GURUGRAM: The city on Saturday reported 124 new Covid cases. At present, the city’s Covid tally stands at 11,679 cases. The health department said 169 people recovered from Covid-19 on Saturday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 10,619. This is the highest number of single-day recoveries in August so far. One succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, an official said. Till date, 133 people have died of Covid in the city, of whom 93 had comorbidities. On Saturday, 20 people were put under the government quarantine. The district has a total of 927 active cases, of which 791 are in home isolation. The health authorities were able to collect 2,794 samples in the past 24 hours for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far,1,68,557 people have been put under surveillance in the district. The health department has sent 1,62,723 samples for testing, of which 1,49,250 turned out to be negative, while the results of 577 are still awaited. According to the health department’s data, the district is witnessing a rise in active cases. Though the city witnessed less than 100 cases daily during the early days of August, since August 21, the district has been witnessing a rise in new cases, which is a big concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/city-reports-124-new-cases/articleshow/77829107.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district reports 783 fresh cases & 17 deaths||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 783 fresh Covid cases and 17 deaths on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 22,506 and the death toll rose to 671. Of the total casualties, 184 are in the city. In Kolhapur city, Kalamba Jail reported 35 Covid cases, Bapu Ram Nagar reported 28 cases among others District collector Daulat Desai on Friday wrote to the private hospitals to buy the medicinal drugs such as Remdesivir and Flavipirapir required for treatment of critical Covid patients. He has shared the contacts of the manufacturing companies and the distributors to directly approach them to buy the drugs. Desai has asked the hospitals to use these drugs only in case of urgency. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar has called a meeting of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s general body on Monday to discuss Covid situation in the city . Shortage of beds in SangliAs most ventilator beds in the district are occupied there is a shortage of it. Local activists on Friday said that some patients from Sangli have died en-route to Pune where they were being taken anticipating the availability of beds. Fadnavis slams poor mngmtOpposition leadein r state legislature Devendra Fadnavis on his visit to Sangli said the Covid situation in the district needs immediate attention from the state government. He said, “The death rate in Sangli has reached 4.1%. The patients do not get beds. The private hospitals complain they are not reimbursed for treating Covid patients through Jan Arogya Yojana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-783-fresh-cases-17-deaths/articleshow/77826552.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Even-odd system brings shopkeepers at loggerheads with owners||Ludhiana: Five days since the odd-even system had been started, city shopkeepers are jittery as they have registered a sharp decline in their sales due to the reduction in working days, which have been reduced to 2 or 3 days now. The shopkeepers, who are running their shops on rent, are more worried than those having their own shops and are now pleading before their landlords to reduce the rent for September. Meanwhile, such tenants are also of the view that this situation has given advantage to the shopkeepers having their own shops. Suresh Dhir Raja, president of Dal Bazar Association, Ludhiana, said, “Shopkeepers and traders who have their shops on rent are worst affected. Now, those businessmen who have their own shops are at an advantage as they are not incurring any charges on account of monthly rent and they will incur less losses as compared to those traders who are running their businesses on rent.” He added, “Moreover, there are many businessmen who have given their adjoining or opposite shops on rent and the tenants are running the same business in these shops. So the even odd system will also bring these landlord and tenants at loggerheads just because the landlords will be at an advantage. Therefore, it is our request to the government to scrap the system and either allow us to open shops continuously for five days at least.” Sarit Sharma, a garment trader, said, “We have our shop on rent in the old city market and as it is certain that in September there will be only 11 days of work, and this will be a massive loss for us. As there is going to be no relaxation for us on front of power charges, workers’ salaries and even rentals and as a result in the next month we will have to bear huge loss even as we are already under tremendous pressure due to piling losses. It seems it will become nearly impossible for us to survive in the coming months. Therefore, we have requested our landlord to reduce the rent of our shop by at least 50% for the month of September, but he is yet to take a call on it.” According to Sanjeev Gupta, a property dealer dealing in commercial properties, “The situation right now is same like when the lockdown opened, when a lot of re-negotiations took place between landlords and tenants due to lockdown. Right now, tenants are in panic as they are are staring at huge losses on account of their shops remaining shut for almost 20 days next month. As of now, no result has been yielded in any deals as landlords are in wait and watch mode and will take a call on or after August 31 when the state government decides about extending the even-odd system or imposing full lockdown again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/even-odd-system-brings-shopkeepers-at-loggerheads-with-owners/articleshow/77827398.cms||Mohit Behl
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh to be held on time, permanent works to be completed by Dec 15||Dehradun: A delegation of Akhara Parishad met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at the secretariat on Saturday to discuss the preparations for Kumbh Mela 2021. During the meeting, it was said that the Kumbh would be held on stipulated dates and all the ongoing works which are permanent in nature would be completed by December 15. However, the state authorities will take a decision on the format of Kumbh Mela after reviewing the Covid-19 situation in February next year. The delegation of saints, which met the CM, was led by Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad chief Swami Narendra Giri whose health deteriorated in the last few minutes of the meeting. He was taken to a rest room in the secretariat, where doctors attended him and on their advice, Giri was taken to Mahant Indresh hospital for treatment. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “In the last few minutes of the meeting, Narendra Giri complained of chest pain. Subsequently, doctors examined him. His blood pressure and sugar was found under control. On the advice of doctors, he was taken to hospital.” Meanwhile, the state government requested the seers for bhoo samadhi (land burial) and the delegation of saints accepted it during the meet. Earlier, the seers were given jal samadhi (water burial) but the ritual polluted Ganga and hence, the state government asked for a shift from the age-old tradition. It was also decided that an area equivalent to that used in Kumbh in 2010 would be used in the next Kumbh too. A ghat, which would be named after the revered deities of the 13 Akharas, would be made at Neel Dhara of Ganga river. The Mansa Devi hill by-pass would remain open during the Mela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-to-be-held-on-time-permanent-works-to-be-completed-by-dec-15/articleshow/77826571.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Youngest heart recipient of eastern India released 11 days after surgery||KOLKATA: Ahasana Khatun (17) returned home on Saturday hoping for a better life with a new heart. The teenager who had to drop out of school due to her failing heart is hopeful that by the time school re-opens after the pandemic, she would be fit to resume classes. Khatun is the youngest heart recipient in eastern India. She was discharged from the hospital in a record 11 days after the transplant surgery at Narayana Superspeciality Hospital (NSH) Howrah. “In addition to the heart ailment, my daughter had been suffering the mental pain of not being able to attend school for nearly two years. She is now looking forward to go back to school,” said father Sheikh Hidayatullah, an imam of a mosque in Kumargram near Haldia. Eldest of three daughters, Khatun was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart muscles weaken thereby reducing it’s blood pumping capacity drastically. Even as the paediatric cardiology team at NSH — comprising Amitabha Chattopadhyay, Sanjiban Ghosh and Jayita Nandy — put her on advanced heart failure medications, she had to be hospitalized frequently. Doctors had said only a transplant surgery could save her. On August 16, ROTTO informed the hospital about a donor heart from a road traffic accident victim that matched Khatun’s blood group. The teenager then underwent the transplant surgery at NSH by a team consisting of cardiac surgeons Debasis Das and Nilanjan Dutta with Manish Sharma and Rangan Koley providing anaesthetic support. “Post-transplant phase is crucial because on one hand we have to ensure that the body accepts the new organ by suppressing the immune response and at the same time, we have to prevent infections,” said Shubhadeep Das, paediatric cardiac intensivist who led the intensive care part. The girl showed recovery signs within hours of the surgery. Doctors were able put her off ventilation in 13 hours. “She recovered well and fast but will need constant follow up and medications after discharge,” Debasis said. With the family unable to afford the surgery and medications, the hospital subsidized the cost while the patient support cell raised funds. “As an imam, I don’t have the kind of income to afford the treatment. We did not have to pay either for the surgery or the medications,” Hidayatullah told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youngest-heart-recipient-of-eastern-india-released-11-days-after-surgery/articleshow/77827394.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||New Town gets platinum Green City cert||Kolkata: New Town has been awarded ‘platinum-rated Green City certificate’ by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). Only four other cities in the country—Dholera, Chennai, Amravati and Rajkot—have received the award. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen on Friday presented a copy of the certificate to state urban development minister Firhad Hakim at the KMC office. New Town had received a gold certificate from the IGBC in August, 2018. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) have been working on several green initiatives over the past few years. “This is a recognition New Town has received from IGBC for our continuous efforts,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The certification is valid for a five years. IGBC has mentioned several initiatives taken up by Hidco and NKDA, such integrating land use with public green and open spaces, developing water bodies, making rules for green buildings, cycle-friendly infrastructure, solar power, e-mobility, rainwater harvesting and waste water treatment .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-gets-platinum-green-city-cert/articleshow/77828467.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Mortality rate in Kolhapur district increases to 3%||KOLHAPUR: The daily increase in the number of patients has also caused the mortality rate in Kolhapur district to rise sharply. The mortality rate has gone up from 1% to 3% in the past two months. Officials said of the 383 patients at the Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Hospital (CPR), 319 are put on oxygen beds, while 39 are on ventilators. In the other hospitals in the district, 51 patients are currently on ventilator. Official data reveals that the mortality rate in Kolhapur district in June, when the number of patients was under control, was around 1%. By mid-July, it rose to around 1%. On Friday night (August 28), the fatality rate crossed 3% with 20 new deaths being reported. The total number of deaths till Friday night was 654 in the district. According to the official information, 366 of the 654 fatalities were among patients aged 50 years or more. Moreover, 192 of the deceased were aged 61 and 70 years, while 174 were between 51 and 60 years. In the 41-50 year age group there have been 58 deaths, while 34 in the 31-40 years age group have succumbed. Not a single death has been reported among the children below 10 years. Two patients, who were in the 21-30 year died in the district. As many as 41 deaths people aged between 81 and 90 years have also succumbed. Officials attribute the increasing mortality rate to late admission of patients, which leaves little time for treatment. Officials said commissioning of new 20,000-litre oxygen tank and acquisition of five oxygen manufacturing companies were indicators of the seriousness of the situation. These companies have been prohibited from selling oxygen to any party other than the government. Meanwhile, Devendra Fadnavis, the opposition leader in the state legislature said: “The infection rate in Kolhapur district has risen to 25-30% over the past few days. Currently, 1,700-1,800 RT-PCR tests are being performed. This number needs to go up. The proposal of ICU beds has been sent to the state government, which must be approved soon. Almost 80% patients are asymptomatic and need only home isolation. For symptomatic patients, there is a need for more treatment facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mortality-rate-in-kolhapur-district-increases-to-3/articleshow/77826574.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||50% drop in new Covid cases in Kolkata Police||KOLKATA: For a force that has taken multiple steps to fight the Covid pandemic — from introducing monitoring apps and Covid-specific SOPs to monitoring the health of the kin of its officers admitted to various hospitals — it seems that the efforts are paying off. The past week saw a very healthy recovery rate with over 400 cops resuming duty. For the first time in the past 50 days, the total number of new Covid cases reported in Kolkata Police fell below 15. When the month began, the number was over 40 on an average. “The numbers started falling from last week. On Tuesday, fresh cases dropped to just nine. However, on Wednesday, the number went up to 20. On Thursday, there were 14 cases and we had the lowest number of fresh cases — eight — on Friday,” a senior IPS officer in charge of the welfare cell said. More importantly, the total number of active cases is now below 150 — the lowest since the beginning of July, point out senior cops. In the beginning of this month, the force had around 300-350 active cases per day. In total, 1,917 cases were reported in Kolkata Police till Friday. A total of 1,788 had recovered till Thursday noon. “We always had a very healthy recovery rate. This time, if we can manage to keep the number of new cases below 10 for a few more days, we shall know that our measures are working,” another Lalbazar officer said. Cops said the rate of hospitalization, too, saw a major drop. Most of the cops, including OCs and ACPs, were opting for home isolation. The healthy recovery rate, though, brought a challenge. The past 48 hours saw at least nine new applications for plasma donation from the police. So far, cops have donated plasma 12 times in the city. But officers said they had started receiving requests from outside Kolkata on Tuesday. “All these patients are admitted to Kolkata hospitals,” said an officer. TOI had reported how cops had prepared an internal plasma donor list . “We are trying to help as much as possible,” another officer from the welfare cell said. Those seeking police help said there was no organized unit where they could seek help. “The response has been instant from cops. That is why we pinned our hopes on them,” said the relative of a patient who received plasma from a sergeant at a Mukundapur Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-drop-in-new-covid-cases-in-kolkata-police/articleshow/77827390.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Fasting, prayers, online sermons on Ashura day||NAGPUR: The Muslim community would be observing prayers, fasting and watching sermons online to commemorate the battle of Karbala, which is commonly known as Ashura Day, on Sunday. Community members said this is the first time in their life that they won’t see any processions, social gathering or activities related to Muharram conducted by different sects. The Dawoodi Bohra community observed its Ashura day on Friday as per the Hijri calendar. Shabab and Jamaat member Sheikh Malik Ul Ashter Fidvi said sermons were relayed online. “Members watched the sermon by Syedna Taher Saifuddin RA,Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin RA and present Dai Al Mutlaq Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin TUS online while majlis, prayers and fasting, too, were done at homes,” he said. Jamia Arabia secretary Maulana Mohammad Abdul Aziz Khan said all events are online now. “The community is already following norms and offering daily and Friday prayers at home. During both Eids, no celebration was held. We have appealed to people to pay homage to Karbala martyrs on Ashura day at home only. People would be fasting and offering prayers, too, at home,” he said. Khan added that sermons would be live on Facebook and YouTube. Mominpura United Students Association’s Javed Ansari said that generally the shia sect takes out a procession but due to Covid, it hasn’t been given permission by the administration. “Sunni Muslims observe fasting between the 9th and the 11th day of the Islamic month of Muharram. The community has been following lockdown norms,” he said. Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakare directed the Muslim community to observe Muharram activities in a simple and restricted manner, mostly indoors. The 10th day of the Islamic month of Muharram is observed as ‘Ashura’, commemorating the battle of Karbala. It falls on August 30 as per the local religious bodies. Citing the epidemic and disaster management acts, Thakare prohibited any procession, waaz, tajia, majlees, alam besides limited gatherings exceeding not more than four persons. The collector has appealed to the community to hold blood donation, plasma donation and health camps on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fasting-prayers-online-sermons-on-ashura-day/articleshow/77828465.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Restoration work of Ghodbunder fort to start soon||MUMBAI: Eighteen months after being adopted by Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC), restoration work of 18th century Ghodbunder Fort in Thane is likely to commence soon. Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and state Directorate of Archaeology and Museums granted NOCs for beautification and landscaping of the Portuguese fort. The fort, spread over 7.6 hectares, is the only historical monument in Mira-Bhayander and was adopted in February last year under the state government’s ‘adopt-a-fort’ scheme. The idea of adopting a historical monument was mooted by the state in 2007. Seven years later, the civic administration made a budgetary provision of Rs 25 lakh for the restoration. The government granted heritage status to eight monuments and opened them for adoption last year. The administration is expected to spend around Rs 2 crore on beautification and landscaping. Civic officials said the restoration plan was ready in August last year, and cleaning of the fort, including cutting grass, was on until lockdown. The officials said with NOCs in place work can be undertaken on a war-footing. Though the fort was neglected, not much damage was done to the structure. The focus will be on restoring some damaged arches, landscaping and electricity at the precinct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/restoration-work-of-ghodbunder-fort-to-start-soon/articleshow/77828468.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||BMC chief, experts to visit Nagpur after rise in cases, deaths||Mumbai: An expert team from Mumbai, led by civic chief I S Chahal, will visit Nagpur on Friday to study the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths there. Home minister Anil Deshmukh told the team, including three doctors from the state Covid taskforce, to conduct a detailed review of Nagpur due to its experience in curbing similar outbreaks in Dharavi and Worli Koliwada. “We would like the team to share its inputs and help the local administration in Nagpur to fine-tune its strategy,’’ Deshmukh said. The team will also share details of its Dharavi model. The decision for a ground-level meeting in Nagpur was taken at a review meeting in Mumbai between Deshmukh and Nagpur guardian minister and energy minister Nitin Raut. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, who will be a part of the team to Nagpur, said mentorship programmes would help. “A senior doctor with expertise should be told to adopt areas within a 5km radius. The doctor’s views should be sought on ICU patients who do not improve within two days,’’ he said. Each taskforce member has been remotely advising doctors on difficult cases. There was a 341% rise in cases between July-August in Nagpur administrative circle. There was also a five-fold increase in deaths: 4,413 cases and 65 deaths in July grew to 26,182 cases and 670 deaths till Saturday. A GMC Nagpur doctor said that around 25% patients were brought dead. Of these deaths, 582 are from Nagpur city. Former Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, who is recovering from Covid, was transferred on Wednesday and Radhakrisha B took charge. Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakare attributed 70% of the deaths in August to late reporting “due to fear and stigma related to Covid-19. They reach us in a critical condition”. The doctor added Vidarbha region was catered to by nine medical colleges and there was ample stock of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-chief-experts-to-visit-nagpur-after-rise-in-cases-deaths/articleshow/77828466.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||After participating in two well-attended gatherings with Union and Cabinet ministers, Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat tests positive||Dehradun: Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat, who chaired the party’s core committee meeting on Sunday (attendees included Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank as well as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat), tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday along with his son Vikas Bhagat. Bhagat also hosted two ceremonies at his residence last week, one of which was attended by Cabinet ministers Subodh Uniyal and Dhan Singh Rawat as well as governor Baby Rani Maurya. The BJP has closed its office for two days for sanitization. Sources at the BJP told TOI that around 100 attendees of Sunday’s meeting, including the CM, HRD minister Nishank, national vice president of BJP and state in-charge Shyam Jaju as well as governor Maurya, had been advised to self isolate and get Covid-19 tests done. “The chief minister had tested negative for Covid-19 last week. The test was necessitated after his personal security guard tested positive for the virus. The others have been asked to take precautions,” said a BJP functionary who did not wish to be named. Assembly speaker Prem Chandra Agarwal has isolated himself as he met Bhagat recently. Bhagat confirmed on Twitter that he had tested positive for the coronavirus and asked his contacts to get themselves tested, adding that he will resume work soon. The BJP chief has been admitted at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) while his son is admitted at Sushila Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Both are doing fine, doctors said. One of the events at Bhagat’s home was a housewarming ceremony, organized on August 21 to celebrate the new home allotted to him by the state government in the city’s Yamuna Colony area and attended by Cabinet members. The other, held on August 24, was to welcome back MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion, who had recently been re-inducted into the BJP after a year-long suspension. The event had been attended by around 250 people, including media persons. Meanwhile, the Opposition tore into the BJP for committing the same social distancing violations that it claimed Congress leaders, including former deputy chief minister Harish Rawat, had been booked for. The state Congress’s top brass wondered when an assembly of only 20 people is allowed for funerals and 50 for weddings, “how come the events hosted by Bhagat were attended by hundreds?” “At present, there are two sets of laws in the state. One is applicable for the BJP and the other for the Congress and the common people,” contended state Congress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana. “On March 16, I visited the Doon hospital to check the arrangements for Covid-19 there and was asked to go for a 28-day-long quarantine. I followed the instructions, which clearly don’t apply to BJP members,” he added. Dismissing Congress’s allegations, BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin said that Congress should “stop playing politics in every matter” and “look into (actions of) its own party members, who were blocking roads and riding bullock carts in the time of this pandemic”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-participating-in-two-well-attended-gatherings-with-union-and-cabinet-ministers-uttarakhand-bjp-chief-bansidhar-bhagat-tests-positive/articleshow/77826594.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||Avoid controversies: BJP warns MLA Champion||Dehradun: Within a week after re-joining the BJP, Khanpur MLA Kunwar Pranav Singh ‘Champion’ got a warning from the saffron party to refrain from controversy. Champion, who was removed from BJP for six years after his video showing him dancing with guns in hand went viral, was re-inducted in the party on Monday. Subsequently, another video of the MLA went viral in which he could be seen organising a road show in his constituency as part of celebrations after rejoining BJP with a gun in his car. Over a dozen cars could be seen in his fleet in the video and Champion was seen waving from the top of the car that had a gun inside which was visible from the car window. BJP's state general secretary (organisation) Ajay Kumar, on Saturday, warned Khanpur MLA to act as per the party’s policy and avoid any controversy. The warning was given to Champion in an online meeting where he was presenting his side of the story. The meet was initially scheduled by state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat but was later headed by Kumar as Bhagat was hospitalised after testing positive for coronavirus. “I have asked Champion to do his work as per the party’s customary policy and he must not do anything which is not compatible with the functioning of the party. He was told that he should refrain from any work that could cause controversy,” added Ajay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/avoid-controversies-bjp-warns-mla-champion/articleshow/77826589.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Building branch to check hotels for misuse of parking space||Ludhiana: MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has ordered the building branch officials to conduct a survey of hotels in the city using parking space for any other commercial purpose within 15 days. A city-based activist has already filed an RTI in the Punjab and Haryana high court against 109 hotels for violation of parking norms. In February, he had also made a request to the local bodies department for conducting a checking in all other hotels so that these were also included in the PIL. The activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had filed a PIL in the court where he had submitted the list of 109 hotels. The officials had then checked the hotel premises and notices were served to the violators. A decision in this regard is still pending in the court. Now, in between the matter of other such hotels was also taken up by the activist. The activist claimed that there are many hotels in the city where parking space is being misused for other commercial purposes and people are forced to park on roadside, adding to the traffic woes. While issuing the orders, the commissioner mentioned that in the next 15 days a report should be submitted and assistant town planners will certify that after a fresh survey no hotel was left out where violations could be found. The municipal town planner, SS Bindra, said, “This survey will help in identify other violating hotels as well so that even those could be included in the PIL and decision should come for all hotels.” He said the commissioner issued the orders and now assistant town planners will be put on the task to conduct this survey. “If hotels have misused their parking space for other commercial purposes, then action should be taken against the owners,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/building-branch-to-check-hotels-for-misuse-of-parking-space/articleshow/77827405.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||In a victory for greens, govt to drop SRDP work at KBR Park||HYDERABAD: In a victory for the city’s green brigade, the state government has finally decided to ‘drop’ work at the KBR Park under its State Road Development Plan (SRDP). Officials confirmed that work at six junctions surrounding the national park has been shelved for now. “The KBR project has been dropped for the time being. A proposal for the flyovers and underpasses planned at the junctions surrounding the park were put before the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) last year, but approval has been pending,” said a GHMC official speaking on condition of anonymity. The plan to build multi-level grade separators around the park was to cost Rs 436 crore. GHMC sources said that the focus will now be on completing other projects. “Work worth Rs 5,000 crore is currently underway, achieving which is no small feat,” said an official. While elated over the development, activists and environmentalists said this was not enough. Environmentalist Kaajal Maheshwari, who was at the centre of the ‘Save KBR’ campaign said: “This is a very welcome decision but needs to be officially endorsed.” She added that in 2002, the Supreme Court had directed state governments to notify area within 10km of boundaries of National Parks and Sanctuaries as eco-sensitive zone.  “From 2002 till date, the ESZ for KBR National Park has not been declared. Over the years, the 10km radius was encroached leaving only the walkway. In fact, the last proposal by this government -- that is still with MoEF -- proposes to do away with a major chunk of the existing walkway for the flyovers. The government should withdraw the existing proposal and submit a new one that protects the walkway in its entirety,” Maheshwari added. She said a GO similar to GO111 should be issued that further prohibits activities around KBR Park, especially in the buffer zone. Some experts suggested that the Covid-19 pandemic has been a wake up call for government planning. “The pandemic has taught us that the work-from-home concept is possible... With lesser traffic being a feasible option, there must be re-think on all infrastructure projects,” said former Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) member Subba Rao. Anant Maringanti, director, Hyderabad Urban Lab said there was a need to push for community-based infrastructure rather than big-ticket projects. “There needs to be a re-envisioning of urban planning,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-victory-for-greens-govt-to-drop-srdp-work-at-kbr-park/articleshow/77828560.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||After surrendering, undertrial flees Covid hospital in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A man who surrendered in court on August 24 after a non-bailable warrant was issued against him, fled from a Covid facility in Shahjahanpur on Saturday afternoon. S Anand, SSP, Shahjahanpur, has ordered registration of an FIR against the policemen on duty. Police teams have been deployed to nab undertrial as he is a carrier of Covid-19 infection. Police said he had surrendered in court after an NBW was issued against him in a case relating to thrashing a neighbour. Pravesh Singh, SHO Kotwali police station, said, “The accused was initially shifted to a temporary jail and his swab sample was sent for testing. It turned out to be positive and he was shifted to a Covid facility at the district hospital. Policemen were deployed on duty but he managed to dodge them and escaped from hospital. We have sent a team to his village and are searching for him at other locations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-surrendering-undertrial-flees-covid-hospital-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/77825838.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Boards with contractor details, work cost to be put up at road construction site||Ludhiana: After receiving complaints about poor quality roads and failure of samples collected from various newly constructed roads, the municipal corporation is now planning to tighten screws on contractors. In future, whenever there will be any road construction work anywhere, boards will have to be displayed giving information about the ongoing work to public. The officials have requested the residents to complaint in case they find any kind of compromise with quality of material or other shortcomings. As of now people do not get information about the ongoing works at the site and this the reason public do not have any measure to keep check. The officials claimed that now they would get boards displayed at the site on which the name and contact number of the contractor, name and contact number of SDO/JE concerned, cost of work and specifications of work will be mentioned for the people. Not only this, information about the ongoing works will be uploaded on the MC website also for public information. The residents in case of any clarification will be able to contact those phone numbers. In case people have any complaint regarding quality or other things, they can write to MC commissioner or other officials concerned. Recently, the officials got the quality of roads checked through Guru Nanak Engineering College and many roads failed the test. The officials gave notices to the contractors who were forced to construct the roads again. Meanwhile, additional commissioner Rishipal Singh said, “We are going to bring everything in public domain so that people should have first hand information about the approved works.” He said they were taking these steps to ensure better roads for the city residents because poor quality roads result in early damage as well as wastage of public money. Road takes major quotient of MC budget For the construction of roads the civic body keeps good amount of funds every year in the annual budget. In this financial year the budget they had kept is Rs 113 crore for the road construction and repair work while in the last financial year it was Rs 100 crore. But even after spending such a huge amount on roads the residents keep on complaining about potholes and poor quality roads. Samples of 8 roads under scanner Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh without disclosing the names of roads has mentioned that they are going to take samples of eight more roads which were constructed recently. After receiving the report suitable action will be taken against the contractors if any shortcomings was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/boards-with-contractor-details-work-cost-to-be-put-up-at-road-construction-site/articleshow/77827410.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||ASI injured at naka in Moga village||Bathinda: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was seriously injured after a vehicle that was signalled to stop at a checkpoint, ran over him, at Karahewala village in Moga on late Saturday evening. Police said ASI Shri Ram was on duty at the checkpoint when he signalled a car to stop. The vehicle coming from Makhu side hit the cop, injuring him seriously. Nihal Singh Wala deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Subegh Singh said the driver sped away from the spot. ASI’s both legs have been fractured, he also sustained other grievous injuries. He has been admitted at a hospital in Moga and his statement is being recorded,” said DSP. DSP said a case has been registered against the unidentified driver under attempt to murder and other charges at Fatehgarh Panjtoor police station. The CCTV cameras are being checked to see if vehicle registration number has been captured, said DSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/asi-injured-at-naka-in-moga-village/articleshow/77829281.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Political ambitions behind letter politics: Jakhar||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Saturday said the letter-politics seeking change in the party top leadership “reflected the insecurities and political ambitions” of the certain signatories. “Now that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had clearly stated that the party organisation and president would be elected in six months, it was unfortunate that some leaders continue making unwanted statements. Such statements become even more ridiculous as the demand for elections are being made by the leaders who either never contested the elections themselves or now even they themselves may not remember when they contested last,” Jakhar said. Stating that there were inherent contradictions in the letter written by them, he said they targeted Rahul Gandhi for “abetting division within the ranks” by holding Youth Congress elections, and on the other hand they wanted elections to be held from block level to the national body despite pandemic crisis. “Is it not applying double standards? Will these elections then not create rift in the party,” he questioned. Instead of giving a serious thought before making statements on the issue, some leaders were trying only to protect their positions, which was a sign of frustration and weakness, he added. “Of course, I am a supporter of democracy in the party but there should be regular brainstorming within the party and the modalities of its implementation should be worked out through mutual deliberation,” Jakhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/political-ambitions-behind-letter-politics-jakhar/articleshow/77829280.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid cases in Maharashtra's Sangli district cross 10,000-mark on Friday||KOLHAPUR: Sangli district has crossed 10,000-mark of Covid cases on Friday, indicating the spread of the infection in western Maharashtra. Sangli was the only district which had below 10,000 cases till a few days ago. Sangli district recorded 481 new cases on Friday (August 28), taking the total number of Covid cases to 10,422. Four districts in western Maharashtra – Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur now have more than 10,000 cases. Kolhapur tops among them with 21,723 cases. The number of Covid cases doubling in two weeks sparked concern in the administration The district had 5,000 cases on August 12, while it crossed 10,000 on Friday. Sangli t has been recording 300 to 400 patients every day for the past two weeks. While the situation in the district was said to be under control until the second week of July when it had only 1,000 patients, it jumped to 2,000 by the end of July. The number was doubled — 4,000— by the end of the first week of August. Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation and Miraj tehsil have emerged as hotspots in the district. The jurisdiction of municipal corporations has reported 5,954 cases out of the total number of patients. Miraj tehsil has reported 957 cases, followed by Walva with 691 patients. Shirala tehsil, which once had the highest number of patients in the district, has currently 431 cases. Kadegaon tehsil has the lowest number of cases –212. According to the official data, the district has recorded 428 deaths till Friday night and the municipal corporation has the highest number of casualties- 219. Sangli and Miran reported 121 and 86 deaths, respectively. Atpadi tehsil had reported five deaths, which is the lowest in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-cases-in-sangli-district-cross-10000-mark-on-friday/articleshow/77826604.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Rlys to install boards with helpline nos for complaint against water-logging||Ludhiana: In a bid to check the problem of water-logging at the limited height subways of the railways which come under the jurisdiction of Ferozepur division and includes Ludhiana district, the Northern Railway authorities have asked local officials of the cleanliness department to put up boards carrying helpline numbers of the control room at the sites of these subways, so that local passersby can easily register their complaint against the poor maintenance of subways during heavy rainfall when water gets accumulated. The development comes in the wake of several complaints against the poor maintenance of limited height subway, which mostly remained submerged under water during heavy rainfall. After getting directions, the local railway authorities have started identifying the limited height subways, which are worst affected and get submerged under water after only a few minutes of rainfall and later give tough time to commuters. Divisional railway manager of Ferozepur division Rajesh Aggarwal, said “We have given directions to the local railway authorities to put up awareness boards containing helpline numbers of local railway authorities, so that commuters can easily make a complaint to the railway authorities about water-logging during heavy rainfall in the monsoon season.” He further said that any passerby could complain to the railway authorities on their Twitter handle about the lack of maintenance of limited height subways during heavy rainfall.” Rajinder Singh, a local resident, said “Railway officials are not giving attention to work of cleanliness and maintenance of limited height subways during monsoon, which has led to water accumulation at these places. Moreover, roads constructed under the subways also develope potholes due to poor maintenance of subway, which leads to accident during night time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rlys-to-install-boards-with-helpline-nos-for-complaint-against-water-logging/articleshow/77827442.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops clueless about who attacked Suresh Raina’s kin||Pathankot: Ten days after a ‘kala kachha’ gang struck at the house of former Indian cricketer Suresh Raina’s relatives, the police are still clueless about the criminals. Superintendent of police Prabhjot Singh Virk told TOI on Saturday, “The investigation is going on. We have taken technical assistance to arrest the kala kachha gang members and have also sent several police teams to trace and nab them.” He said on the intervening night of August 19-20, some members of a kala kachha gang had entered the house of contractor Ashok Kumar and attacked him and his family members, most of whom were sleeping on the rooftop at Thariyal village near Madhopur in the district. Ashok Kumar (58), who was husband of Raina’s paternal aunt, was killed in the incident and his wife Asha Devi (55), mother Satya Devi (80), sons Kaushal Kumar (30) and Apin Kumar (22) had sustained injuries. Asha Devi is still in a hospital in Pathankot. Amandeep Hospital’s managing director Dr Avtar Singh said four members of the family were admitted to the hospital on August 20, of whom two were discharged on Friday and the condition of the remaining two — Asha Devi and Kaushal Kumar — is critical as both had received head injuries. Sources said the gang had attacked the family with blunt iron objects and baseball bats and had among other things snatched Satya Devi’s earrings. Chennai Super Kings (CSK) vice-captain Suresh Raina recently announced his retirement from international cricket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-clueless-about-who-attacked-suresh-rainas-kin/articleshow/77829282.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 30,000 +ve cases; first 10,000 in 153 days, 20,000 in 19 days||NAGPUR: The district surpassed 30,000 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday. It took 153 days to register the first 10,000 cases while remaining 20,000 came in just 19 days. The district had registered first case on March 11. On August 10, the caseload reached 10,681 while on August 20 the count increased to 20,271. The Covid count of the district reached 30,885 after addition of 1,348 fresh cases on Saturday. By the end of July, the district had registered 5,392 cases. At that time, it was on the 10th position among 35 districts in the state. Now, it is at 5th position after Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nashik and has overtaken Raigad, Jalgaon, Palghar, Aurangabad and Solapur. Even, the cases of the district are high when compared with four of five districts. Cases started increasing after lockdown was eased from June 1. The caseload has increased manifold while positivity rate is around 30% since beginning of August. The month has seen five times increase in cases, with two days still remaining. The district crossed first 1,000 cases on June 14, 96 days after registering the first case. Now, over 1,000 cases are being registered on a daily basis. On August 14, the district had registered 1,108 cases, which was the first time it crossed 1,000 cases in a single day. In the last 12 days, the district had recorded over 1,000 cases on 11 days. The highest single day count is 1,516 cases registered on August 26. If district’s population is considered to be 48 lakh, then 0.64% persons have been infected so far. Alarmingly, the district is also witnessing sharp surge in Covid-19 deaths. Only two deaths were reported till end of April. It increased to 11 on May 31. The number of deaths was 25 by end of June and 126 on July 31. As on Saturday, the number of fatalities is 979 which mean 853 deaths in 29 days of August. Out of the total 30,885 cases in district, the city has contributed 24,515 (79.37%) and rural areas 6,071 (19.65%). Remaining 299 (0.98%) cases came from other districts. The state government has projected 44,451 cases in the district by August 31. MLC Parinay Fuke said, “Projection was made considering actual increase in cases in the past. Projection might be correct as far as spread of disease is concerned. Like I said earlier too, the official number of cases might be low than the projected number due to less testing. The testing has not increased in the district,” he said. The district conducts under 5,000 tests per day, which need to be doubled, as per experts. The NMC had stated that the city is inching towards the peak of Covid-19. The district administration had projected 50,000 new cases in the next one month. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had earlier declared that community spread has already started in city. He has proposed full lockdown with curfew in the city on weekends to check the spread of infection. The association of traders is demanding abolition of odd-even system before implementing weekend lockdown. Final decision is likely on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-crosses-30k-ve-cases-first-10k-in-153-days-20k-in-19-days/articleshow/77828511.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Panchayat officer, BDO, ex-sarpanch booked for fraud||Ludhiana: Sudhar police has booked a social education and panchayat officer (SEPO), block development officer (BDO), a secretary, panchayat, and a former sarpanch for alleged fraud of gram panchayat funds. The accused have been identified as Balbir Singh, SEPO Pakhowal, Sukhpal Singh, secretary panchayat, Harpreet Singh BDO, Pakhowal, and Manjit Kaur, former sarpanch of Bhamal village. In her police complaint, block development and panchayat officer (BDPO), Pakhowal, Rupinder Kaur said that as per the inquiry record and the bank statement, between January 1, 2016, and August 1, 2018, the gram panchayat had deposited Rs 14,78,477 in its account in Indian Overseas Bank. She added that it was found that Rs 12,30,016 had been withdrawn from the account. The complainant said that from January 1, 2016, to May 2, 2018, the gram panchayat had deposited Rs 74,01, 101 in another account. She added that it was found that Rs 64,55, 400 had been withdrawn from there also and so in total Rs76,85, 416 had been withdrawn. BDPO told the cops that from the gram panchayat cashbook, work register and stock register, the JEeer didn’t find record of the money. Police officials said that the accused produced the account of Rs 46, 07,570, whereas they are yet to produce records related to Rs.30,77,846. Sudhar police station has registered a case against the accused persons under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 406 (committing criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. The accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/panchayat-officer-bdo-ex-sarpanch-booked-for-fraud/articleshow/77827475.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre should stand by its promise on GST and simply borrow more to meet financing needs: Montek||The group of experts headed by Montek Singh Ahluwalia, economist and former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission of India, submitted its first report, titled ‘Medium & Long Term Post Covid Economic Strategy for Punjab,’ to the Punjab government earlier this month. As several questions have been raised from various quarters on the recommendations, Ahluwalia shared his views with Sanjeev Verma to clear the air on troublesome issues. Q. Your experts’ group has been criticised for making anti-farmer recommendations. Your comments. The report is in no way anti-farmer. On the contrary, it charts a strongly pro-farmer strategy. Let me explain. We were asked to propose a medium to longer term strategy for Punjab post-Covid that would bring Punjab back to its earlier pre-eminent position. From that perspective, a critical objective for Punjab must be agricultural diversification, moving away from the traditional focus on food grains and expanding production of maize, fruits and vegetables, dairy etc which will generate much more income per hectare. Punjab farmers are rightly proud of the contribution they made to food security in the days when our total food production was inadequate. But the situation has now changed. Total food grain production is more than adequate as other states have increased production. Public sector stocks are about 90 million tonnes, more than twice the required level! Over time, you can be sure that there will be much less willingness to increase the MSP for wheat and paddy just to feed surplus stocks. We should anticipate this and shift away from paddy which is highly water intensive. We have recommended reducing paddy acreage by one million hectares over the next five to six years. Q. Why do you think this point is not being understood? Everyone agrees that diversification is desirable, but farmers feel they cannot diversify unless there is an assured and attractive MSP. But that approach assumes that the government must always provide a market for agricultural surpluses. That was feasible for nonperishables like food grains. It is simply not feasible for perishables. In any case, the government doesn’t have to be the only buyer for farmers. Punjab has seen a tremendous growth in cotton production, which is sold in the market. The solution lies in modernisation of agricultural markets. This, in turn, means allowing the private sector to enter and invest in modern storage and handling capacity and creating other logistical infrastructure, including links to food processing. This is the way to build a ‘farm to fork’ supply chain. Q. Some of the recommendations in your report like opening up agriculture marketing beyond APMC are on the lines of three farm ordinances being pushed by the Centre and opposed by the Punjab government. We have not been influenced by the central government’s ordinances. We are only recommending what the Punjab government should do and it doesn’t need central ordinances for this. Personally, I have always been in favour of liberalising access to the private sector into marketing of agricultural goods, including allowing contract farming. Both the Eleventh Plan and the Twelfth Plan finalised during the time of the NDA recommended this explicitly. We cannot expect to solve the marketing problem of diversified agriculture with an FCI-type government purchase operation, based on assured MSPs and open-ended support of losses. We need to encourage the private sector to enter into agricultural marketing and build high quality storage facilities and encourage a linkage with food processing and also exports. Q. Your report has been criticised for advocating abandonment of free power for agriculture. We never actually advocated abandonment of free power because we recognised that this is a politically-sensitive issue and the government had already announced that it would continue the policy and we took that as a political constraint. We did, however, draw attention to the implications of free power over the medium term. This issue does need to be discussed more thoroughly. Farmers are not impressed by the argument that free power puts a strain on the budget because they feel it is a ploy to withdraw a benefit from farmers to improve the budget. That is not our approach. Our view is that more resources need to be directed into agriculture, including for building infrastructure, incentivising diversification and expanding agricultural R&D. However, since total resources are limited it is relevant to ask whether the resources presently spent on free power would be more beneficial for farmers if they were redirected to these ends.. The political case for free power is usually made on the grounds that small and medium farmers need support. That is certainly true, but it is actually the relatively small number of large farmers who get most of the benefit of free power. A cash subsidy per hectare of tilled land, up to a maximum of say five hectares, would be much better targeted. A major problem created by free power is that it reduces the cost of extracting water, thereby encouraging water intensive crops such as paddy. This is an ecological disaster and has led to an alarming decline in the water table every year. Free power is in fact a hidden subsidy to paddy, with no comparable subsidy for other less water using crops. That is why we have recommended giving a cash incentive to farmers if we want them to switch away from paddy. The extra expenditure will be compensated by the reduced need for a power subsidy. All these aspects need to be considered carefully over the medium term. For the present, we have recognised that there are political constraints so we have said that if free power must continue, we should explore second best solutions such as separation of agricultural feeders and introduction of schemes such as the ‘Paani Bachao Paisa Kamao’ scheme. Q. Economists in Punjab believe that the focus of the experts’ group is more on inclusion of the private sector and since most of the group members are from outside Punjab, they have less knowledge of the ground realities. They also feel that there are many such recommendations which have already been given earlier by learned economists. I have no doubt that the private sector has to play the lead role in the modernisation of both agriculture and industry in Punjab. That is true for the country as a whole and also for Punjab. However, I must point out that we are not neglectful of the role of the public sector. Infrastructure development for example is an area where the public sector has a major role to play, including through supporting various forms of PPP. In the area of health, we have clearly said that the Covid pandemic shows that public health has been neglected. This is actually true in all states, but Punjab spends less on health than it should, given its per capita GSDP. We have recommended a 20% increase every year for the next five years in government expenditure on public health. As for the criticism that many of the recommendations have been given earlier, I must plead guilty. If policies recommended earlier have not been implemented but are still valid, it should not prevent later expert groups from repeating them. The call for diversification of agriculture, for example, has been around for 40 years. It remains valid today and in fact it is now much more urgent. Q. Your report has also been criticised for not saying enough on how to help MSMEs. MSMEs have been very badly hit by the downturn and there is apprehension that a large number may not even survive. Ensuring survival through the current crisis must be the immediate objective. How far this can be achieved depends upon two things — one is how quickly the economy as a whole recovers. This, in turn, depends mainly on national policies which were outside our terms of reference. The second factor affecting survival is how effectively the credit support measures that have been announced actually work on the ground in Punjab for MSMEs. Credit delivery is the business of the banks and the Punjab government doesn’t control them. We are also concerned that the smaller MSMEs will face problems because most of them do not depend upon credit from the commercial banks. We have suggested that the Punjab government must work closely with industry to ensure that enough of the expanded credit generated actually flows to industry in Punjab to make a difference on the ground. Looking to the post-Covid future, we need to recognise that a healthy MSME sector must be one that is efficient and capable of absorbing modern technology so that it can produce competitively to provide inputs for a modern industrial sector. The present industrial structure is unbalanced. Each sector is characteriesd by a few large units at one end and a very large number of very small units at the other end. There is a ‘missing middle’ which needs to be filled up. This means that some of the more efficient MSMEs need to grow into much more substantial middle-sized units. As these units expand, their market share will increase and they will push out the very low technology low productivity small units which proliferate at present. If this happens in an environment where the economy grows rapidly, the transition may not cause much pain. But if the economy as a whole grows slowly, we will face real problems with a loss of a lot of low wage employment. Q. What other things are you recommending for industrial revival? Our sub-group on industry has compiled a list of about 120 initiatives that respond to the perceptions of industry in Punjab on what could improve the ease of doing business. All the recommendations may not be feasible, but if a large number are actually implemented on the ground, in the next six months or so, Punjab would be well placed to attract investment just as investment interest begins to revive which we expect will only happen in the middle of 2021. We have suggested to the government that we should look at these recommendations not through narrow departmental perceptions but through the wider lens of making Punjab competitive with other states. Our aim should be to put Punjab among the top four or five states as far as ease of doing business is concerned. Attracting investment is a competitve business and Punjab should learn from states which are doing better. We have also made a number of recommendations on how to promote a culture of innovation and encourage start-ups. The start-up revolution has begun in India and Punjab should not miss out on it. Start-ups could over time be a major contributor to job creation. We have recommended a new ‘Innovation Mission,’ headed by someone from the private sector, with the government providing some support. Start-ups could over time be a major contributor to good quality job creation. Q. Implementation of GST is facing so many glitches in its third year and the state governments have been forced to literally beg before the Centre for their GST compensation. What is the way out? This is indeed a very serious problem. GST revenues were disappointing last year even before Covid. They will be much worse this year because the economic contraction means a huge loss of revenue for state governments. Not only will the states’ own GST revenues be lower, their share of central taxes will also be lower. At a time when the economy is already suffering from a demand shock because the lockdown led to a loss of income, it makes no sense for the state governments to respond to the revenue loss by cutting their expenditure. The Punjab CM had written to the Centre suggesting a special Covid grant to the states which could be financed by the Centre by borrowing more, but this has not been accepted. States are now complaining that the Centre has resiled from its promise that it would make up the shortfall if GST revenue fell below a benchmark determined by a projected 14% annual increase that was agreed. The 14% benchmark was admittedly ambitious, but it was promised, and there was no suggestion that it would depend on a particular rate of growth of GDP. On balance I feel the Centre should stand by its promise and simply borrow more to meet the cost of financing the shortfall. This will increase the fiscal deficit of the Centre but this is an exceptional year all over the world. Markets will understand as long as we make clear that we will return to a credible fiscal path when normalcy returns. Fulfilling the promise is also critical for credibility of the commitment to cooperative federalism. Apart from the GST shortfall, the states will also face low levels of tax devolution and also other revenues. The Centre is under no obligation to meet this shortfall, but to avoid expenditure contraction in the states at a time when the economy will not have fully stabilised, the states should be allowed to borrow more if they wish. In fact, they may need accommodation not just for the current year, but also 2021-22, because revenues in that year will only come up to where they were in 2019-20. Perhaps, the Finance Commission should be asked to make recommendations on this issue. FOR BLURBS That (assured MSP) was feasible for non-perishables like food grains. It is simply not feasible for perishables. In any case, the government doesn’t have to be the only buyer for farmers. Punjab has seen a tremendous growth in cotton production, which is sold in the market. Public sector stocks are about 90 million tonnes, more than twice the required level! Over time, you can be sure that there will be much less willingness to increase the MSP for wheat and paddy just to feed surplus stocks. We should anticipate this and shift away from paddy which is highly water intensive. The present industrial structure is unbalanced. Each sector is characteriesd by a few large units at one end and a very large number of very small units at the other end. There is a “missing middle” which needs to be filled up. This means that some of the more efficient MSMEs need to grow into much more substantial middle-sized units. The political case for free power is usually made on the grounds that small and medium farmers need support. That is certainly true, but it is actually the relatively small number of large farmers who get most of the benefit of free power. A cash subsidy per hectare of tilled land, up to a maximum of say five hectares, would be much better targeted. States are now complaining that the Centre has resiled from its promise that it would make up the shortfall if GST revenue fell below a benchmark determined by a projected 14% annual increase that was agreed. The 14% benchmark was admittedly ambitious, but it was promised, and there was no suggestion that it would depend on a particular rate of growth of GDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-should-stand-by-its-promise-on-gst-and-simply-borrow-more-to-meet-financing-needs-montek/articleshow/77829283.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 containment zones reduced to 100-metre radius in Agra||AGRA: With the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to reduce the size of containment zones. Now, the containment zones will be of 100-metre radius around the residence of a person tested positive of the virus. Earlier, the size of the containment zone was 250 metres. Till Friday evening, there were 171 containment zones in Agra district. Of these, 92 were in the city and 79 in rural areas. According to the health department officials, the size of containment zones has been reduced to ensure a large population do not face inconvenience due to movement restrictions. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “We will be conducting antigen testing for Covid-19 on all the people living in the active containment zone. Municipal corporation teams will be conducting fogging and sanitization in the containment zones. Garbage generated from the houses in the containment zones will be separately collected and disposed of." District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The area of containment zones has been reduced from 250m to 100m of radius around the house of a Covid-19 patient. Each containment zone will remain active for 14 days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-containment-zones-reduced-to-100-metre-radius-in-agra/articleshow/77826613.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Agra||13 held for duping hundreds with fake jobs, services||AGRA: The district cybercrime cell has arrested 13 youths from Tadheta Garhwar village on Friday for allegedly duping nearly one lakh people across the country of over Rs 5 crore by luring them with fake jobs and other services through online classifieds portals and social media sites. According to police, the four masterminds of the gang — Kamlesh Kumar, 32, Prempal Singh, 24, Mansingh, 24, and Khushilal, 21 — had divided the work among themselves and even employed nine people, aged between 19 and 35, to assist them. Police said that while Kamlesh dealt with duping people seeking jobs like managers, supervisors, security guards and linemen, Prempal lured those looking for work from home and part-time jobs. They added that the other two — Mansingh and Khushilal — handled queries about discounts on online shopping and spa services respectively. The other five members of the gang are on the run. Detailing the modus operandi of the gang, SSP Babloo Kumar said that the gang members used to place paid advertisements on online portals and social sites about jobs and other offers. When potential customers approach, they used to take the relevant personal details and advise them to register themselves on the portal set up by the accused for job offers based on qualification and experience. They used to charge anything between Rs 4,999 to Rs 49,999 for the same depending on the sort of the job applied by the aspirant, added the SSP. Kumar said that around 1 lakh people were duped by the gang in the last two years, adding that around eight other villages in Agra are under scanner for similar frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/13-held-for-duping-hundreds-with-fake-jobs-services/articleshow/77826607.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||658 new Covid-19 cases surface in U’khand||Dehradun: Two healthcare workers — a nurse and a junior resident (JR) doctor from a private nursing home — died in the state capital in the last 48 hours. On Saturday, 658 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the tally to 18,571 in the state. Eleven deaths were also reported in the day, taking the state’s coronavirus toll to 250. The administration of Vaishya Nursing Home, where the JR and the nurse worked, has claimed that all of them had tested negative for Covid-19 but they all suffered from different kinds of respiratory ailments and chest congestion. Notably, Vaishya Nursing Home is not a Covid-19 facility. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that for the third consecutive day, the state capital reported the maximum of Covid-19 cases. Dehradun on Saturday reported 179 new coronavirus cases, followed by 161 cases in Haridwar. “Udham Singh Nagar reported 90 fresh cases, followed by 54 cases from Almora, 46 from Tehri Garhwal, 45 from Nainital, 19 from Uttarkashi, 16 from Bageshwar, and 11 from Pithoragarh. Champawat and Pauri also reported six new cases each, Chamoli reported five fresh cases and Rudraprayag recorded two cases of Covid-19,” added Tripathi. Among the 11 deaths reported on the day, six were recorded at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, one each at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital and Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital. Meanwhile, three deaths were reported from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Apart from fresh cases and deaths, the state also recorded 400 cases of recovery from coronavirus. The total recoveries in Uttarakhand reached 12,524 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/658-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/77826626.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 30, 2020||Bareilly||District administration on alert to prevent second Covid-19 wave in Agra||AGRA/BAREILLY: Covid-19 has again started spreading in Agra district. On Saturday evening, 56 cases were reported in the past 24 hours. District administration has now sounded alert to prevent any second wave of the Covid-19 spread. District magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh in a tweet posted on Saturday afternoon stated, “Seeing trends of countries such as France, Australia, USA, Japan and likewise, we should be ready for the second wave of Covid-19 in Agra." The DM urged the people to strictly follow social distancing norms and wear face masks regularly. According to details shared by the district administration, 968 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Agra district in the 29 days of August. Earlier, the Covid-19 cases had started spreading rapidly in mid-April and continued till the first week of May. It was referred to as the first wave of Covid-19 in Agra district. In March, a total of 12 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district. In the month of April, 415 cases were reported, 472 in May, 328 in June, 577 in July and 968 in the 29 days of August. Moreover, at least 56 new cases surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, taking the district tally to 2,772. So far, the death toll is 107. “Over 1.12 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the district. The rate of Covid-19 samples getting tested positive is 2.5%. It had exceeded over 8% earlier. Of the 2,772 cases reported in the district till Saturday evening, 83% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 363 active Covid-19 cases in the district," the DM added. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,302 people have been cured of the infection. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.” Meanwhile, 108 people were tested positive for Covid-19 while two persons died during treatment in Bareilly district. Also, at least 87 people were tested positive with one death in Shahjahanpur district. So far, 3,074 cases have been reported here. And the toll here is 40. (With inputs from Bareilly)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dist-admin-on-alert-to-prevent-second-covid-19-wave-in-agra/articleshow/77832320.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 30, 2020||Agra||District administration on alert to prevent second Covid-19 wave in Agra||AGRA/BAREILLY: Covid-19 has again started spreading in Agra district. On Saturday evening, 56 cases were reported in the past 24 hours. District administration has now sounded alert to prevent any second wave of the Covid-19 spread. District magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh in a tweet posted on Saturday afternoon stated, “Seeing trends of countries such as France, Australia, USA, Japan and likewise, we should be ready for the second wave of Covid-19 in Agra." The DM urged the people to strictly follow social distancing norms and wear face masks regularly. According to details shared by the district administration, 968 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Agra district in the 29 days of August. Earlier, the Covid-19 cases had started spreading rapidly in mid-April and continued till the first week of May. It was referred to as the first wave of Covid-19 in Agra district. In March, a total of 12 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district. In the month of April, 415 cases were reported, 472 in May, 328 in June, 577 in July and 968 in the 29 days of August. Moreover, at least 56 new cases surfaced in Agra district on Saturday, taking the district tally to 2,772. So far, the death toll is 107. “Over 1.12 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the district. The rate of Covid-19 samples getting tested positive is 2.5%. It had exceeded over 8% earlier. Of the 2,772 cases reported in the district till Saturday evening, 83% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 363 active Covid-19 cases in the district," the DM added. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,302 people have been cured of the infection. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.” Meanwhile, 108 people were tested positive for Covid-19 while two persons died during treatment in Bareilly district. Also, at least 87 people were tested positive with one death in Shahjahanpur district. So far, 3,074 cases have been reported here. And the toll here is 40. (With inputs from Bareilly)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dist-admin-on-alert-to-prevent-second-covid-19-wave-in-agra/articleshow/77826636.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||‘Govt must help pvt hospitals with material & manpower’||Indian Medical Association (IMA) Nagpur president Dr Archana Kothari, a practicing gynaecologist and obstetrician, is a front-line Covid warrior. She has been assisting teams of doctors as well as the administration since day one of the lockdown and unlock 1.0. With allegations questioning the integrity of private hospitals and practitioners doing the rounds, Dr Kothari, in an interview to TOI, echoed the feelings of her fraternity with respect to the civic body, media and the society at large. Excerpts... Q. How would you define the commitment of private hospitals and practitioners in the fight against Covid?A. As a duty towards humanity, we are fighting Covid for the last six months. Private health care service providers rightly understand our commitment towards society and hence, we are dedicated to the cause. We are giving our services not just for Covid but also to non-Covid patients with the same importance. On the request of the civic administration almost all big private hospitals are now serving as Covid Hospitals. Our doctors are starting telecounselling for home quarantine patients. We are also planning to post our member doctors at one or two civic-run hospitals. Q. Is IMA and its members helping out in rural areas?A. The IMA is working at the local, state and national level. We are assisting the government in every aspect. We are definitely helping people in rural areas. IMA branches in some districts have started Covid testing centres and doctors are helping in government hospitals as well. Only private practitioners are IMA members is a misconception. Doctors working with government hospitals are also our IMA members. Our members are spread across medical colleges, some even occupying top posts. So IMA is working through them. Q. Why is there so much acrimony between the civic body and private hospitals?A. The civic body and the administration should understand our problems. We have always shown our readiness to help. We are always at the forefront and helping civic bodies. We are doing our duty with dedication, but unfortunately, everyone, including citizens, is misunderstanding us. In print and social media, news regarding our fraternity is being presented in such a way that it is not only damaging our image and reputation but also demoralizing us. As the government support for health care is insufficient, the private sector is catering to 80% of the patients. If the civic body understands our problems, there won’t be any grudges or blame games. So many doctors have tested Covid positive and many have even risked their lives, but no one is stepping back. Q. Your thoughts on the media coverage.A. Sensational journalism must be avoided while reporting about health care workers and private hospitals. Reporters must try to investigate facts before writing about hospitals and doctors. We request the media to go into the details of any issue and confirm facts before filing reports. Recently, a lot of questions were raised regarding private labs. They were accused of giving incorrect reports without fully understanding the technicalities. A lot depends on the timing of the test sensitivity specificity and many other factors. All of us are going through a very difficult time and we need to understand each other, cooperate with each other to fight this war against Covid-19. Q. Why are hospitals being hauled up for overcharging?A. It’s very unfortunate that doctors are being accused of overcharging. If we look at the Covid treatment, there are many challenges that each one of us is facing. Even after paying thrice the salary and perks to health care workers and doctors, we are facing shortage of staff. Those who have worked at the forefront need to be quarantined. We also need to make arrangements for their lodging and boarding. Increased salaries. Sanitization charges, PPE, disposables, disposal of biomedical waste, repayment of loans and EMIs and hospital maintenance add up to the list of expenses. We continue to pay property tax, electricity and water bills at commercial rates. We are not getting any subsidies or GST rebate. Doing duties in PPE kits is a difficult job but somehow we are managing. We, too, have families, but we have to stay away from them to prevent them from getting infected. Despite our sacrifices and all the stress, we are threatened with registration cancellation. The government and citizens must understand the challenges faced by us and be a bit considerate. Q. Private hospitals want GMCH to be converted into a jumbo Covid hospital. A. Private hospitals don’t get anything for free. The occupancy rate of hospitals is around 50%. It is difficult for us to meet EMIs, machinery maintenance, salaries and fixed expenditures. Besides this, there is added exposure to Covid. But looking at our social commitment we are doing our duty relentlessly. A majority of big private hospitals and even super speciality hospitals have been converted into Covid Hospitals. We are taking care of non-Covid patients too. If all major private hospitals are taken over then where will the other patients go for treatment. Q. What kind of support do you expect from the civic body and the district administration?A. Please let us work in a stress-free environment with a free mind. Under stress and harassment, doctors can’t work properly. At this crucial time we at IMA request the government and authorities to help us in respect of money, material and manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-must-help-pvt-hospitals-with-material-manpower/articleshow/77828526.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: NEET aspirants face virus risk or loss of a year||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government’s decision to conduct the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET – undergraduate) on September 13 has evoked mixed reactions among students aspiring to study medical and dental courses (MBBS and BDS). While students and their parents are worried about travelling to the exam centre, braving the prevailing health risk, most students do not want to waste an academic year and would rather appear for the entrance test by following safety guidelines. K Meghana, who is appearing for the exam at a centre 35 km from her house, said, “This is my second attempt at NEET and I do not want to lose a year for the pandemic after taking all preparations. I will travel in our private vehicle and will carry hand sanitizer, a fitness certificate, wear masks and write the three-hour exam at the centre, where we are told adequate social distancing will be maintained. Already the exam was postponed from May 3 to July 26 and now it is slotted for September 13.” However, several students from various districts of AP and Telangana, such as Krishna, Kadapa and Warangal, who had opted to write the exam from Hyderabad as they taken coaching classes there, have decided to opt out of NEET this year after returning home. The decision was taken to avoid travelling all the way back to Hyderabad given the Covid-19 scenario. President of AP Junior Doctors Association (APJUDA) Dr N Deepchand, a PG medico said, “It is challenging for the undergraduates to write the exam amid the pandemic despite all the assurances of safety measures. Most students have come back to their native places and would have to travel hundreds of kilometres, probably a day before the exams, to reach their allocated centres. It is both risky and difficult to manage a safe accommodation in another city given the present situation, nor are hostels available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/neet-aspirants-face-virus-risk-or-loss-of-a-year/articleshow/77826618.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 30, 2020||Agra||Delhi woman ‘raped’ in moving bus, with 45 passengers on board||AGRA: A 30-year-old woman from Delhi was allegedly raped by a man on a bus headed for Delhi on Saturday. There were 45 passengers on board at the time, who said they were asleep at the time. The woman was on her way from Lucknow to Delhi. Around 7pm on Friday night, Ravi Gupta, a helper on another bus, took a lift from Gonda. “Early in the morning, I was woken up by a lot of noise. I went to the passenger’s aisle and saw a woman beating up Ravi,” said Indrapal, one of two drivers, who had handed the wheel to the second driver, Shivraj, when this happened. The woman had called the emergency helpline, 112, and told the police that she had been raped on the bus. “This happened near the Maant toll plaza (on the Noida side of the Yamuna Expressway) around 5.30am,” said SP (rural) Shirish Chandra. So when the bus went past Milestone 65, police caught up and stopped it. On the basis of the woman’s complaint, police filed an FIR against Gupta under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC. “I had taken the double-decker bus from Lucknow to Delhi. At some point, Ravi got on the bus. I was asleep on a sleeper seat when Ravi forced himself on me, tore off my clothes and raped me. There were 45 passengers on board when this happened,” her complaint said. The SP said passengers were all asleep and did not wake up until they heard a commotion. When Gupta was questioned, he claimed the woman’s narrative was a false one. A resident of Bahraich, Gupta said the sex was consensual and solicited — that they didn't agree on the promised amount and that’s what the dispute was about. Gupta was arrested, produced in court and the woman taken away for medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/delhi-woman-raped-in-moving-bus-with-45-passengers-on-board/articleshow/77826627.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 30, 2020||Agra||Dalit couple publicly shamed in UP over affair, heads tonsured, faces blackened||AGRA: A Dalit widow and a man, also belonging to the same community, were publicly humiliated by fellow villagers — by tonsuring their heads, blackening their faces and even being made to wear a garland of shoes — in Mainpuri’s Nagla Gurbaksh on Friday night for allegedly having an affair. The villagers even tried to disrobe the woman and parade the couple in the area but both of them were rescued by police in the nick of time. A video purportedly of the episode has also gone viral on social media. Based on a complaint lodged by one of the victims, police arrested three persons on Saturday for allegedly tonsuring the couple’s heads. Mainpuri SP Ajay Kumar said that a case has been registered against 16 people, including 10 unidentified women, under IPC sections 499 and 500 (defamation), 269 and 270 (negligent act likely to spread infectious diseases), and section 506 (criminal intimidation). He added that they are on the lookout for the remaining accused. Locals claimed that the duo was in an illicit relationship for the past three years. They said that a neighbour of the woman allegedly caught her in a “compromising position” with the man on Friday night after which they thrashed and publicly shamed both of them. In the viral video, some of the residents can even be heard saying that they would have “paraded them in the village if police had not arrived”. The incident comes days after a widow and a differently-abled man were thrashed, their heads tonsured and their faces blackened before being paraded in a Kannauj village as punishment for their alleged relationship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dalit-couple-publicly-shamed-in-up-over-affair-heads-tonsured-faces-blackened/articleshow/77826619.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ features Ekta Mandal’s ‘Corona Care Hosp’||Nagpur: In a proud moment for all Ganesh mandals in the state, city-based Ekta Ganesh Utsav Mandal’s theme of ‘Corona Care Hospital-2020’ found a mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ aired on Sunday. Led by former NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye, the mandal, popular for various socio-economic themes, has focused on the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic that has wreaked havoc across the globe leading to lakhs of deaths, including thousands from India. While the PM was speaking on how Indians celebrated eco-friendly Ganesha, the mandal’s videos of Lord Ganesha in doctor’s attire treating a patient along with a nurse and police constable were telecast in the backdrop with devotees performing aarti. “With global pandemic adversely affecting citizens, we’ve decided to pay our respects and tributes to Covid warriors, which included not only medical practitioners, but also nurses, police personnel, health care workers and others, who worked tirelessly since last four months for common people while risking their lives,” Gajbhiye told TOI. In its 32-year history, the mandal always came up with out of the box themes, which attracts devotees from entire Vidarbha. Lakhs throng the narrow lanes and bylanes of Hill Top, Ram Nagar, every year to have a glimpse of the mandal’s decoration. It’s biggest attraction however is a huge idol of nearly 30 feet set up every year, which it claims is the tallest in Maharashtra. “One of our themes on spreading education in slums and another on promoting science and technology among students were the talk of the town and much appreciated,” an elated Gajbhiye says. As per government’s directives, the mandal initially planned to drop the celebrations this year, but on the insistence of devotees, the members decided to do something for Covid warriors. “These warriors who’re battling with deadly disease are our real gods. Unfortunately, many of them lost their lives after getting infected while working to save others. So we’ve portrayed Vighnaharta as a doctor treating patients and police constable guarding people. Only objective is to recognize their immense contribution in fight against coronavirus,” the ex-MLC adds. The recipient of many awards for its innovative themes, Ekta Mandal has installed a small idol this year, but focused on ongoing pandemic with a view to make people aware of deadly virus. “We’re strictly following all social distancing norms and asking visitors to put on masks before entry. We believe that we all are humans first even though we belong to different religions, castes and sub-castes. Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Buddha and Isai, Hum Sab Hai Bhai Bhai,” Gajbhiye sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pms-mann-ki-baat-features-ekta-mandals-corona-care-hosp/articleshow/77832926.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AUCE alumni sign MoU to build hostel||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University College of Engineering (AUCE) alumni have come forward to construct a new student hostel at a cost of around Rs 1 crore. The alumni entered into a memorandum of understanding with AU officials here in the varsity on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, AUCE principal Prof P Srinivasa Rao said, “It is very good to see the alumni coming forward to support the cause of the present generation students. It will inspire others too,” said Prof Rao. Prof Rao and AUCE alumni association president MV Rao signed the MoU and exchanged documents in the presence of other association members. MV Rao said they will soon start construction work on the hostel building. “It would provide hostel facility to nearly 150 students. Every alumni association member contributed their bit to this initiative. University vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Reddy extended his support,” said MV Rao. Association secretary Prof P Mallikarjuna Rao said the proposed hostel will have 45 rooms, a reading room, mess and kitchen facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/auce-alumni-sign-mou-to-build-hostel/articleshow/77826637.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||Squatters occupy Central Park even after HC order||Jaipur: Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has failed to remove encroachments on the 322-bigha Central Park in the heart of the city, even after the high court directions.Encroachments carried out by influential and religious entities continue to prevail on the public land even after the court’s deadline.Before the hearing, senior officials of JDA on Saturday inspected the park area to take stock of the encroachments. A senior JDA offical said, “On Monday, there is a hearing on the Central Park in the court. The new Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) inspected the area on Saturday.”Yogesh Yadav, who filed the public interest litigation (PIL), alleged that officials were still favouring a few of the occupants and even disputed the possession claims of JDA. Though the court granted ownership of the land to JDA, encroachments continue to remain on the ground.Yadav said, “No encroachments were removed and false affidavit was given in the court. A 10-minute video recording on the encroachments has also been presented in the court. But the authorities have not adhered to it. Though possession of a 11-bigha farm house was taken, it has not been utilised.” It was further informed that the Central Park area is a no-construction zone as per a 1996 high court order. But some people, contrary to the interest of the general public at large, have illegally encroached upon the land in the guise of religious structures and constantly carrying out illegal constructions.The JDA allegedly failed to discharge its responsibilities. “The religious structures are expanding on the park land. The court has directed to close the gate opening inside the park. However, a small wall has been constructed and visitors can still go.”Walking and jogging track has been developed around the entire park area which is used by hundreds of people every day. But there is no maintenance of the track and also no regular disposal of waste from the park, alleged a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/squatters-occupy-central-park-even-after-hc-order/articleshow/77828547.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chirayinkeezhu to be lab for a green economy experiment||Thiruvananthapuram: In a move towards achieving local economic development in a sustainable manner, a collective of people has formed an NGO, Society for Socio Economic Development and Climate Resilient Communities. The initiative aims to benefit farmers and NRIs who are interested in agricultural activities. Agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar inaugurated the activities of the NGO in eight panchayats of Chirayinkeezhu through video conferencing on Saturday. Deputy speaker V Sasi presided over . “The project provides a platform for youth, NRIs and people searching for a job to understand the potential in the agriculture sector. When central government policy for agriculture only benefits the corporates, these local communities are needed to protect the sector. Our society has human resources who can support such initiatives,” said V S Sunil Kumar. The project has been launched in line with Subhiksha Keralam scheme of the state government. They have titled their activities under the brand name Ashtamudi, and around 200 farmers who live in eight panchayats in and around Chirayinkeezhu will associate with the project initially. “Chirayinkeezhu was chosen for its tourism and agriculture possibilities. Our idea is to bring in transparency and give better value for agricultural produce of farmers, even when the prices of vegetables and chicken is low. Avoiding the middlemen, we will directly sell the agriculture and poultry products in the market. We have experts in these fields to guide and also people from IT background in our team to deal with the technical aspects,” said N Muraleedaran Pillai, secretary of the society. Projects will be taken in the area of vegetables, poultry, aquaculture, dairy, eggs and handlooms. The major objectives include best practices in agriculture and allied activities, solid waste management, training and skill development in related areas, linkages in inputs and marketing, technology and project support for value addition, community development programs in health, hygiene and education, micro enterprises development and cluster type development model, awareness and extension services for various schemes of central and state governments, women empowerment and economic development of marginalized communities. “Due to Covid crisis, many NRIs are returning to the state. There may be people interested to engage in activities related to agriculture and we are providing a channel to connect them with the possibilities. I will be handling the handloom wing in the project and proposals like starting a garment unit here are under consideration,” said Sobha Viswanath, one of the founding members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chirayinkeezhu-to-be-lab-for-a-green-economy-experiment/articleshow/77827521.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana's Adampur power project: Clamour to claim credit||HISAR: Soon after the Haryana government approved the construction of a 33kw sub-station in Sadalpur village of Adampur assembly constituency in Hisar district, leaders from both ruling and opposition parties are clamouring to claim credit for the project, which is yet to take shape. Prominent among those vying for the credit are Congress MLA from Adampur Kuldeep Bishnoi and Sonali Phogat, the BJP leader, who lost to the former in the 2019 assembly election. Both have claimed that it is due to their efforts that the project has been approved, though the power minister described it as a normal process. Bishnoi claimed that on the demand of villagers, he made efforts and requested the minister of power Ranjit Singh Chautala and managing director of the electricity board Shatrujit Kapoor to fulfil this demand of the villagers. He said that apart from Sadalpur, he is also making efforts for electricity sub-stations in Kohli and Kaliravan villages.On the other hand, Phogat claimed that when the villagers told her about the problem of power, she met the power minister and also spoke to Kapoor. “With my efforts, now the 33kw power sub-station has been approved in Sadalpur. This powerhouse will be built over 2 acres of land located behind the waterworks in the village. The construction work will be completed by April,” Sonali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/clamour-to-claim-credit-for-adampur-power-project/articleshow/77829285.cms||Kumar Mukesh
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Frontline warriors among new 187 Covid cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The surge in Covid infections doesn’t seem to ebb. With 187 new Covid-19 cases reported in the state capital on Saturday, the virus is growing steadily. A significant number of medical practitioners continue to be infected with the disease. On Saturday, three doctors tested positive from Gandhi Medical College, while four tested positive from AIIMS campus. Chirayu Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) reported eight positives apart from some non-clinical staff. Six cases of infection were reported from police lines Govindpura and Nehru Nagar. Police station Jehangirabad also reported a positive case. Another positive case was reported from 3 EME centre. 25th Battalion also reported new infections. Two CRPF jawans were also diagnosed with Covid-19. Fire station (Fategarh), Bagsewania police station, Chowki Tallaya, Sukhisewania also reported cases of the deadly infection. Abhinav Homes (Ayodhya by-pass) reported three cases. Four cases of infection were reported from nearby phase-5 (Ayodhya Nagar). Four members of same family have been tested positive from a colony in Karond. Gautam Nagar, Bhim Nagar, Aradhna Nagar, Tilajamalpura and Nebri Karoda, Nipania Jat, Shakti Nagar(sector-2), Rohit Nagar, Gehukheda, Amrai(AIIMS) Capital Mall, reported two cases each. Tulsi Nagar reported three positive cases. Sagar Institute of Science and Technology, Ratibad, reported three positives cases. Gulmohar reported three positives in same family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/frontline-warriors-among-new-187-covid-cases-in-city/articleshow/77827518.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Toll plaza owes Panipat MC Rs 98 lakh: RTI query||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: The earnings of Panipat toll plaza, which is among the top 195 defaulters of the municipal corporation, run into lakhs every day. Despite that, it has not deposited property tax amounting to over Rs 98 lakh for the last several years. Panipat MC disclosed these details to RTI activist Vaibhav Deswal in response to an RTI application. The reply says that more than Rs 151 crore property tax is to be recovered from major defaulters in the city, who owe tax worth Rs 5 lakh and above. Panipat toll tax office is among the top 195 property tax defaulters of the municipal corporation (MC). Other major defaulters include market committee Agro mall, the judicial complex, advocate chambers, PWD, Railways, BSNL, UHBVN, sugar mill, municipal building, bus stand, malls, and several government and private institutions, who have to pay crores as property tax. MC officials are struggling to recover dues from them. The municipal corporation sent several notices to various institutions but to no avail. Meanwhile, Deswal filed a complaint with the CM window for recovery of property tax in the limits of the Panipat MC. He held MC officials responsible for failure to recover the property tax and sought action against errant officials. Sources said Panipat MC earns nearly Rs 23.69 crore from nearly 1.41 lakh property tax payers every year. Pending dues have caused a financial crisis and development work was being affected, sources added. Panipat Mayor Avneet Kaur said, “We have identified several defaulters who owe Rs 5 lakh or more as property tax. Notice will be served to them. I have written to the MC commissioner in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/toll-plaza-owes-panipat-mc-rs-98-lakh-rti-query/articleshow/77829284.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA seals club owned by brother of former Cong state chief||Dehradun: The MDDA officials on Saturday sealed the restaurant and club owned by Sachin Upadhyay, the brother of former Uttarakhand Congress state president Kishore Upadhyay. The officials alleged that the club owner had carried out unauthorised construction. Subsequently, the property was sealed. The club is located in the posh Rajpur Road area of the state capital. According to the officials at Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority, the club owners were using a residential property for commercial purposes and a notice was issued to the owners. The club owners had also filed an appeal against the sealing orders at the high court. However, the court did not revoke the sealing orders and the property was sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-seals-club-owned-by-brother-of-former-cong-state-chief/articleshow/77826639.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Hyderabad||2,751 new Covid-19 cases, nine deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With 2,751 new Covid-19 cases added in the last 24 hours to the case load in the state, Telangana for the first time recorded over 30,000 active cases on Friday. The number of active cases has jumped from 17,534 on August 1 to 30,008 on Friday, seeing a huge jump. With the latest numbers, the total number of cases recorded so far in the state now stand at 1,20,166. Also, 9 deaths were recorded over the last 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 808. So far, 89,350 patients have recovered from the Covid-19 infection in the state, while 30,008 active patients are currently under treatment in the state. A total of 62,300 samples were tested on Friday. The increased sample testing over the last two weeks has resulted in the samples tested per million count to have increased from nearly 20,000 a month back to 34,117 on Friday. GHMC limits recorded 432 cases, while Rangareddy and Karimnagar districts recorded nearly 200 cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2751-new-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-in-telangana/articleshow/77828570.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Pune||Most Covid-19 cases in rural Pune logged in villages along highways||PUNE: Villages along highways have accounted for a majority of active Covid-19 cases in rural Pune, which zilla parishad officials attributed to industrials units and markets operating in these areas. “These villages have industries. So, people from the city limits come here for work. The villages also have various markets, including that for vegetables, which also attract buyers and sellers from the village as well as surrounding areas. This is how the virus is spreading in the rural areas,” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune zilla parishad (ZP), told TOI on Saturday. The ZP officials said villages like Wagholi, Shikrapur, Koregaon Bhima, Ranjangaon, Loni Kalbhor, Manjari and Uruli Kanchan, among others were worst affected. “They also have a large population,” a ZP official said. “We have Covid-19 cases in 588 gram panchayats out of 1,407 across 13 tehsils. About 86% of the active cases are from the villages which are in the vicinity of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations’ limits and near the highways,” Prasad said. He said, “We have directed the gram panchayats to maintain a record of shopkeepers, traders, employees and other workers travelling to the cities for work frequently and check their health on a regular basis. Besides, we have launched various drives to check health of senior citizens and those with comorbidities.” The ZP has also directed the worst-affected gram panchayats to intensify action against people not following social distancing norms and not wearing masks. “To provide health care facilities, the ZP has converted most private hospitals into dedicated Covid care centres in these gram panchayats. It has also increased tests to identify patients to contain the spread,” said a senior official from the health department of ZP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-covid-19-cases-in-rural-pune-logged-in-villages-along-highways/articleshow/77828567.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sanction given for Kottarakkara flyover||Kollam: State government has given administrative sanction of Rs 59.5 crore for the construction of a flyover at Pulamon junction in Kottarakkara. PWD minister G Sudhakaran said in a statement that the demand for a fly over at Pulamon junction on the MC Road was a long pending one. Once the flyover is constructed traffic bottle neck at Pulamon junction could be avoided, he said.The minister also directed officials to initiate further steps for the construction. Kollam-Thirumangalam National Highway crosses the MC Road at Pulamon junction and so traffic snarls are a regular feature. During office hours, the long queues of vehicles on the MC Road and the NH extend to more than 1km, forcing passengers being stuck in traffic jams for about half an hour. A flyover passing through Kottarakkara town has been a long pending demand of the people.As KSRTC bus station and the private bus stand are close to junction, the buses entering and coming out of the bus stations cause heavy traffic block on the MC Road and NH.If any political rally or local festival takes place along the road which in fact occurs at regular intervals, the situation gets out of hand.It has become a common sight to see people accompanying patients in a serious condition on ambulances pleading with the vehicle ahead to give way to them at this traffic bottleneck.The headquarters of various congregations of Pentecostal churches are also located along the MC Road close to Pulamon junction, and they conduct prayer conventions at regular intervals, besides the usual Sunday prayers. Thousands of people converge in this part of MC Road and NH, making it a tough task for the traffic police to clear the way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sanction-given-for-kottarakkara-flyover/articleshow/77827541.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||20L schoolkids participated in Punjab Achievement Survey: Minister||Chandigarh: Punjab Achievement Survey conducted by the state’s education department evoked a positive response, said Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday. The minister said a test was conducted for the students of Class VI to XII, in which 19.61 lakh students from government and government-aided schools participated. Singla said secretary (school education) Krishan Kumar was given instructions to complete the survey of government and government-aided schools in the state well before the National Achievement Survey. Secretary education is holding regular online meeting with all district education officers, deputy district education officers, principals of district education and training institutions, school principals and head teachers, block primary education officers, center head teachers and school heads, and suggestions were being sought from them, said Singla. Achievement surveys are aimed at understanding the effectiveness of the school system on student learning. Singla apprised that 15.32 lakh students from Class VI to X and 4.29 lakh students of XI and XII participated in the survey test. Giving class-wise details, he said 2,42,205 students of VI class, 2,51,200 students of VII, 2,58,042 students of VIII, 3,88,707 students of IX, and 3,92,643 students of X class took part in the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20l-schoolkids-participated-in-punjab-achievement-survey-minister/articleshow/77829286.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to conduct land surveys with drones||Jaipur: Real estate buyers will be soon be able to check information about the land at the the click of a mouse. To keep tabs on every inch of land, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has decided to survey its land pool using drones and GPS technology, which will be made available online for prospective buyers.Tenders for conducting the survey will be floated in the first week of September following which work will commence.“JDA will have account of of every inch of land after the survey is done. It will be able to inform people about disputed land and about plots which have clear title,” said a senior JDA official. Complete information about land will be made available to people at the click of a mouse, he added. The exercise involves capturing images through drones, corroborating it with the ground survey data and then developing it into a high-resolution 3D map. The JDA, through the survey, will identify encroachments, roads, parks and will also use the survey for effective land planning in times to come. Officials said chances of discrepancies through drone survey are minimal and once the land survey is available online, real estate buyers will be able to get the information about it sitting at their home. They said the drone survey will help real estate buyers to search available property on the JDA website where city zone-wise information will be provided. Through this technological intervention, buyers will be able to reach the site through GPS and check the locality. Apart from helping buyers, the JDA will expedite its work to check encroachments on its land and instruct its enforcement teams to take necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-conduct-land-surveys-with-drones/articleshow/77828564.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer commits suicide in Jind||Jind: A farmer allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at Kaloda village in Jind on Saturday. Baldev (26), who took the extreme step on his farmland, was said to be mentally unwell, claimed the police. The deceased had gone to his family-owned farms with his brother on Friday night. Whil the brother returned, the deceased stayed back. When the deceased didn’t return for long, his brother went to check and found him hanging in a room located in the field. Sadar police initiated an action into the matter and handed over the body after conducting the postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-commits-suicide-in-jind/articleshow/77829288.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM’s poll: Students back delaying NEET & JEE||Ranchi: Around 78% of the 1.78 lakh Twitter users, who took part in an online poll called by Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren over a 24-hour period that ended on Sunday night, said this year’s NEET and JEE aspirants will not face difficulties in their careers if the examinations are postponed after taking into consideration the health risks arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Late on Saturday night, Soren initiated an online polling on his verified Twitter account and sought suggestions from his “young doctor and engineer friends” about the ramifications if the exams are postponed. “I want to particularly ask and seek feedback from my young engineer and doctor friends. Will students face huge difficulties if #JEENEET exams are postponed?” The respondents were to answer in yes, no and don’t know. Till 8pm on Sunday, 1.78 lakh users had responded to Soren’s tweet. Soren’s office said: “Till 8pm, 78% of all the respondents said postponement of the exams will not cause difficulties while 20% said they will. Around 1% said they do not know.” The online exercise, which ended at 1am on Monday, came hours before the Supreme Court was due to hear the petition of six states against the conduct of NEET and JEE exams. While NEET is slated to begin from September 1, JEE is scheduled on September 13 and JEE (Advanced) will be held on September 27. Explaining the rationale behind the exercise, Soren in a written response to TOI’s query, said: “The Union government has been taking decisions unilaterally amid the pandemic. I sought the opinion of students on social media to demonstrate how far away the Centre is from the ground reality and how it is trading the health and safety of the students.” Rajshree Nayak, a Twitter user, wrote to Soren: “I am a student of IISER (Indian Institute of Science Education and Research). Given that these courses are 4.5-5 years long, the academic calendar can be easily rescheduled and extra classes can be taken to manage the course in stipulated time. Health is more valuable, given that the syllabi are manageable.” A twitter user, who goes by the account @swamijisaveus, wrote: “We wont face any difficulties as experts and institute managements have said that the academics can be managed as it will cost us just one semester.” As per estimates, 45,000 students from the state will appear in JEE and NEET examinations. Earlier, Soren had written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” seeking postponement due to the lockdown of hotels and public transport and the health risks involved. On Friday, the state government permitted hospitality sector and intra-state public transport to resume operations to facilitate the aspirants and their parents. The BJP, which had accused the ruling mahagathbandhan of misleading students, on Sunday launched a state-level helpdesk to facilitate the aspirants. BJP’s state president Deepak Prakash said helpdesks will be set up outside all exam centres across the cities and provide all necessary assistance to the aspirants and their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cms-poll-students-back-delaying-neet-jee/articleshow/77840141.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||‘Babulal reluctant to accept BJP’s Dumka poll offer’||Ranchi: With the decision to name Babulal Marandi BJP’s leader of opposition pending with the assembly speaker for seven months, the saffron party is now planning to nominate Jharkhand’s first chief minister as its candidate for the Dumka bypoll, an idea that Marandi is not too keen on. Chief minister Hemant Soren had vacated the prestigious assembly seat and decided to retain Barhait in January and the bypoll would have been concluded by July had the Covid-19 outbreak not deferred all the polls since March. Marandi had won from Dhanwar assembly segment as a JVM-P candidate, but merged his party with BJP in February, with two other party MLAs – Praddep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey – joining Congress. Despite the Election Commission recognizing JVM-P’s merger with BJP as valid, speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto, who is weighing this case under anti-defection law, is still to give a verdict and continues to recognize Marandi, Yadav and Tirkey as JVM-P lawmakers. Despite being largest opposition, BJP still doesn’t have an officially legislative party leader, which, party workers say, is a matter of concern as the aim to bring him to the party was to regain its lost ground in tribal pockets. Anticipating further delays, BJP is activating Plan B to get LOP status for Marandi. A senior BJP leader said, “Many have suggested that we field him from Dumka. If he wins on a BJP ticket, he will become the LoP easily. The tribal hotbed also has immense political significance for future polls.” Another insider added that the suggestion to field Marandi from Dumka has come from the party brass in Delhi. “Recently, our central leaders asked us to explore the possibility, but he (Marandi) does not seem to be keen to contest. He is aware that his rivals within BJP will unite to sabotage his chances. If he loses, his political career will be over,” he said. Marandi has a long history with Dumka — he first won from here in 1998 parliamentary polls on a BJP ticket, defeating JMM stalwart Shibu Soren and boosted his political stature with a place in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet. Two years later, he became the first chief minister of Jharkhand after it was carved out of Bihar. When contacted, state BJP president Deepak Prakash said the party high command will take the call in this regard at an appropriate time. “BJP named Babulalji as our leader of legislative party long ago, but the ruling dispensation is illegally trying all the tricks to devoid him of the status. We are trying even submitted a memorandum to the governor seeking her intervention into the impasse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babulal-reluctant-to-accept-bjps-dumka-poll-offer/articleshow/77828507.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Heading back after meeting Lalu, RJD leader from Bihar dies in accident in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: An RJD leader from Bihar’s Saharsa, Bijendra Prasad Yadav (60), died in a road accident in Hazaribag’s Barhi area on Sunday while returning to the neighbouring state after meeting incarcerated party chief Lalu Prasad in Ranchi. Lalu, who is undergoing jail term in fodder scam cases, is currently lodged at the director’s bungalow of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in the capital city for treatment. Two other people — identified as Yogendra Rai and Chotelal Yadav — sustained injuries in the mishap and were rushed to Rims, officer in-charge of Barhi police station Uttam Kumar Tiwari said. Tiwari further said that the driver of the vehicle took a wrong route to Patna from Barhi by turning towards NH-2, which leads to Delhi via Chouparan owing to lack of proper visibility on the way. The vehicle then crashed into a stationary oil tanker near Barsot village under Barhi police station. “All three sustained serious injuries from the impact of collision. Unfortunately, Bijendra died during treatment,” he said. RJD sources said that the deceased leader came to meet Lalu to lobby for a party ticket from Mahishi constituency, ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar. “Bijendra was a former councillor from Saharsa,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/heading-back-after-meeting-lalu-rjd-leader-from-bihar-dies-in-accident-in-hazaribag/articleshow/77840203.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Stringent norms for bus travel, fares to rise||RANCHI: A day after the state government allowed intra-state bus transport, bus operators in the state on Saturday said they are gearing up to roll out their fleet for the first time since the lockdown in March even as the transport department has made a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) ready to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The intra-state bus services, along with the opening of hotels, lodges, restaurants and eateries will provide the much-need service for the public, particularly the students, ahead of the JEE and NEET exams. Jharkhand Bus Owners’ Association president Arun Budhiya said they will follow the SOP for public safety but hinted at a hike in bus fares to make up for their losses in the past 150 days. “Our buses remained grounded all through the lockdown and during this period, the rate of diesel has gone up by at least Rs 15. In addition, all buses will have to ply with 50% capacity. These factors are forcing us to hike the fares, details of which will be announced soon,” he said, demanding that state government should also waive off road permits and taxes during the lockdown period. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar said they have prepared an exhaustive SOP for the services like mandatory thermal scanning for every passenger before boarding a bus. Anyone whose body temperature is beyond the permissible limit will be barred from undertaking the journey, he said. Moreover, there should be sufficient distance among passengers on board buses and bus operators must sanitise seats/railing of a vehicle every time a passenger boards and alights it, Kumar said, adding that only buses with valid road and route permits from the competent authority will be allowed to ply. To curb overloading, the department has capped bus passenger capacity to about 50%. For example, a 52-seater bus will carry only 26 people while only 24 people will be allowed in a 48-seater bus and so on. Kumar also said carrying passengers in the driver’s cabin is also banned. “The cabin around the driver’s seat should be properly covered by a plastic sheet and all bus staff onboard are mandated to wear masks, gloves and face shields,” he said. The SOP advises passengers to limit touching any surface of the bus as much as possible and refrain from consuming tobacco and related products to prevent spitting. “Spitting or consuming tobacco in public places is a punishable offence,” Kumar stressed. For a better contact-tracing exercise in the event of anyone testing positive for Covid-19, every bus operator is mandated to keep a detailed record of every passenger and is advised to download the Aarogya Setu app for those having smartphones. “Every bus operator should regularly share details of their drivers and staff on each route and keep a record of passengers so that in the event of any Covid-19 cases, contact tracing can be done easily,” he said. Respective district administrations and civic bodies have been asked to ensure proper cleanliness and sanitization of bus stands and district transport departments and keep a tab on violations through regular inspections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/stringent-norms-for-bus-travel-fares-to-rise/articleshow/77828648.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Stringent norms for bus travel, fares to rise||RANCHI: A day after the state government allowed intra-state bus transport, bus operators in the state on Saturday said they are gearing up to roll out their fleet for the first time since the lockdown in March even as the transport department has made a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) ready to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The intra-state bus services, along with the opening of hotels, lodges, restaurants and eateries will provide the much-need service for the public, particularly the students, ahead of the JEE and NEET exams. Jharkhand Bus Owners’ Association president Arun Budhiya said they will follow the SOP for public safety but hinted at a hike in bus fares to make up for their losses in the past 150 days. “Our buses remained grounded all through the lockdown and during this period, the rate of diesel has gone up by at least Rs 15. In addition, all buses will have to ply with 50% capacity. These factors are forcing us to hike the fares, details of which will be announced soon,” he said, demanding that state government should also waive off road permits and taxes during the lockdown period. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar said they have prepared an exhaustive SOP for the services like mandatory thermal scanning for every passenger before boarding a bus. Anyone whose body temperature is beyond the permissible limit will be barred from undertaking the journey, he said. Moreover, there should be sufficient distance among passengers on board buses and bus operators must sanitise seats/railing of a vehicle every time a passenger boards and alights it, Kumar said, adding that only buses with valid road and route permits from the competent authority will be allowed to ply. To curb overloading, the department has capped bus passenger capacity to about 50%. For example, a 52-seater bus will carry only 26 people while only 24 people will be allowed in a 48-seater bus and so on. Kumar also said carrying passengers in the driver’s cabin is also banned. “The cabin around the driver’s seat should be properly covered by a plastic sheet and all bus staff onboard are mandated to wear masks, gloves and face shields,” he said. The SOP advises passengers to limit touching any surface of the bus as much as possible and refrain from consuming tobacco and related products to prevent spitting. “Spitting or consuming tobacco in public places is a punishable offence,” Kumar stressed. For a better contact-tracing exercise in the event of anyone testing positive for Covid-19, every bus operator is mandated to keep a detailed record of every passenger and is advised to download the Aarogya Setu app for those having smartphones. “Every bus operator should regularly share details of their drivers and staff on each route and keep a record of passengers so that in the event of any Covid-19 cases, contact tracing can be done easily,” he said. Respective district administrations and civic bodies have been asked to ensure proper cleanliness and sanitization of bus stands and district transport departments and keep a tab on violations through regular inspections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/stringent-norms-for-bus-travel-fares-to-rise/articleshow/77832089.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Sanitisation of premises will take time, business to start on Tuesday||RANCHI: With the state government allowing reopening of hotels, lodges, shopping malls and salons through an unlock order issued late on Friday evening, business owners have started cleaning and sanitising their establishments before they welcome customers. However, most of them said they will not be able to resume business before September 1 as the process to sanitize the establishments will take time. At Birsa Munda bus terminus on Saturday, cleanliness staff and mechanics were seen cleaning the area and working on buses, many of which have electrical faults while some needed their engines to be worked upon. Talking to TOI, the president of Jharkhand Pradesh Bus Owners’ Association, Sachidanand Singh, said, “It will take another two to three days to resume services as most of our buses need maintenance. We are also facing a manpower crisis as drivers, conductors and other staff retuned to their homes after the lockdown was enforced. We hope to roll out buses from September 1.” Hotels have started sanitization before they start taking bookings from guests with many of them installing sanitization chambers and ensuring contactless check-ins. “We have collaborated with an international agency to clean our hotel. A 20-step protocol has been formulated on hygiene and cleanliness and we are also providing car sanitization for our guests. Wearing masks and face shields by our staff and declaration of health condition of the staff and guests have been made mandatory. All guests will be scanned with thermal guns,” said Devesh Kumar, director sales, Radisson Blu hotel. Restaurants which were home delivering food have started taking measures to facilitate start dine-ins. “We will maintain one metre distance between tables and the use of masks and sanitizers will be a must for all employees and guests,” said Luv Bhatia, owner of Kaveri Restaurant in Lalpur. Salons too have made elaborate arrangements and maximum of them were seen busy cleaning their spaces on Saturday. In order to regulate the footfall of customers, some salon owners have decided to attend guests on the basis of appointments and no waiting will be allowed. “We will be starting our services from September 1, but we are working on a model wherein our customers will not have to wait at the salon in order to avoid overcrowding. We will be providing services based on appointments only and every customer will be subjected to thermal scanning and sanitized before entering the premises,” said Mohit Prashant, owner of Be You salon chain in Ranchi. However, despite all measures, Ranchiites seem to be worried over the large scale reopening. Ritu Choubey, a student, said, “At a time when Ranchi is reporting around 1,000 cases on a daily basis, I wouldn’t risk going out for a meal with friends at restaurants or visit a salon for a haircut.” Interestingly, even shop owners at malls do not expect a jump in sales instantly and said business will pick up only after the effect of the virus reduces. “I got my entire stock removed from the display area, cleared my storage space and got the spaces sanitized. Customers need to feel confident else we will not have business,” said Md Aamir, owner of a branded footwear showroom at Nucleus mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sanitisation-of-premises-will-take-time-business-to-start-on-tuesday/articleshow/77828575.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||LS committee summons Deoghar SP in Dubey case||Dumka/Ranchi: The privilege committee of the Lok Sabha has summoned Deoghar superintendent of police, Piyush Pandey, to appear in person before it on September 8, taking cognisance of the complaint filed by BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey. On July 15, Dubey had submitted before the panel saying his privilege has been breached after the Jharkhand Police filed false FIRs against him and his family members to harass them as part of a “political vendetta”. He added that such acts are creating a hindrance in his discharge of parliamentary duties in Godda. At least three FIRs are currently filed against Dubey and his family members in different police stations of Deoghar district, falling in the Godda parliamentary constituency since in recent months. On July 14, one Vishnu Kant Jha filed an FIR against Dubey and his wife for duping the state exchequer by illegally purchasing land in Deoghar. Recently, one more FIR was filed in the town police station challenging his educational qualifications and accusing Dubey of forging an MBA degree from the Delhi University. The ruling JMM had tweeted expressing doubts about Dubey’s qualifications. Chief minister Hemant Soren via his counsel had also slapped a defamation notice against Dubey recently after the latter demanded the Maharashtra government and the Union home minister to reopen a case of rape filed against Soren in 2013 by a woman in Mumbai. The complainant had withdrawn the case against Soren. Dubey demanded reopening of the case citing Supreme Court orders which prohibit anyone to take back complaints on heinous crime arbitrarily. State BJP president Pratul Shahdeo accused the state police of acting at the behest of the ruling dispensation to harass opposition leaders in Jharkhand by filing false cases. Citing the example of the educational qualification FIR against Dubey, he said, “It was probably the first such case in the country where police filed an FIR against an MP taking note of a tweet of a political party (JMM). The FIR doesn’t mention sufficient evidence against our MP, which clearly shows how the police are acting according to their political masters in this state. The way BJP leaders are being targeted and killed in Jharkhand is proof enough of vendetta.” DIG (Dumka range) Sudarshan Pasad Mandal, however, denied the charges of slapping false FIRs against Dubey. He said, “The official concerned will place his stand before the Privilege Committee of the Lok Sabha as and when the time comes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ls-committee-summons-deoghar-sp-in-dubey-case/articleshow/77828258.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||With 100+ lockdown suicides, E Singhbhum seeks NGO help||JAMSHEDPUR: In order to check suicides, East Singhbhum district administration recently partnered with Jeevan, a Steel City-based suicide prevention centre. This comes at a time when the district recorded more than 100 suicides since the imposition of the lockdown in March, with at least 80 in the last four months. As a part of the initiative, the administration pasted posters and put up banners in at least two dozen locations across Jamshedpur, including at the quarantine centres. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar took personal interest in the initiative, said sources in the administration. The posters and banners contain the centre’s helpline numbers (9297777500, 9297777499, 9955377500, 9955435500) and the office address. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) City Manager Ambuj Kumar Singh said the initiative is in the interest of society hence the urban municipal body is cooperating in putting up banners and posters. “We will further help Jeevan if their officials suggest us new locations in the city for the banners,” Singh said. Speaking to the media, director of the centre, Jeoraj Jain said, “Suicides have increased in Jamshedpur ever since the lockdown was imposed. It’s been just four days since the posters were pasted and we are already receiving calls four to five times more than the usual inflow of around five to seven.” Jain informed that unlike pre-lockdown times, the centre is not running 24x7 and had to change the timing to 10am-9pm in view of the night curfew in Jamshedpur. “We also faced a shortage of staff after the lockdown was imposed, but after the relaxations, things are better,” Jain said. He also said that most of the callers are factory workers, vendors and small-time earners whose income have been hit, leading them to “anxiety and mental depression.” Jain said that most of the callers are above 40 years of age who feel dejected after losing their source of income. “Of the total number of suicides, 30 were committed by people above 45 years of age,” said an official at the centre. Jain added, “We are also planning to organise counselling sessions at quarantine centres and for patients in home isolation with support from psychiatrists. Counselling is the best tool to deal with depressed minds and works wonders when used to de-stress people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/with-100-lockdown-suicides-e-sbhum-seeks-ngo-help/articleshow/77831827.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||With 100+ lockdown suicides, E Singhbhum seeks NGO help||JAMSHEDPUR: In order to check suicides, East Singhbhum district administration recently partnered with Jeevan, a Steel City-based suicide prevention centre. This comes at a time when the district recorded more than 100 suicides since the imposition of the lockdown in March, with at least 80 in the last four months. As a part of the initiative, the administration pasted posters and put up banners in at least two dozen locations across Jamshedpur, including at the quarantine centres. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar took personal interest in the initiative, said sources in the administration. The posters and banners contain the centre’s helpline numbers (9297777500, 9297777499, 9955377500, 9955435500) and the office address. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) City Manager Ambuj Kumar Singh said the initiative is in the interest of society hence the urban municipal body is cooperating in putting up banners and posters. “We will further help Jeevan if their officials suggest us new locations in the city for the banners,” Singh said. Speaking to the media, director of the centre, Jeoraj Jain said, “Suicides have increased in Jamshedpur ever since the lockdown was imposed. It’s been just four days since the posters were pasted and we are already receiving calls four to five times more than the usual inflow of around five to seven.” Jain informed that unlike pre-lockdown times, the centre is not running 24x7 and had to change the timing to 10am-9pm in view of the night curfew in Jamshedpur. “We also faced a shortage of staff after the lockdown was imposed, but after the relaxations, things are better,” Jain said. He also said that most of the callers are factory workers, vendors and small-time earners whose income have been hit, leading them to “anxiety and mental depression.” Jain said that most of the callers are above 40 years of age who feel dejected after losing their source of income. “Of the total number of suicides, 30 were committed by people above 45 years of age,” said an official at the centre. Jain added, “We are also planning to organise counselling sessions at quarantine centres and for patients in home isolation with support from psychiatrists. Counselling is the best tool to deal with depressed minds and works wonders when used to de-stress people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-100-lockdown-suicides-e-sbhum-seeks-ngo-help/articleshow/77828720.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||Confusion mars arch test, students protest||Nagpur: Chaos and confusion marked the National Aptitude Test of Architecture (NATA) conducted online on Saturday at many city-based centres. Many aspirants, who reached the centres from faraway places, missed the paper due to server problems and also due to lack of coordination between the officials deployed there for holding the exam. After the fiasco, aggrieved students and parents protested against NATA demanding rescheduling of their papers. The entrance exam is conducted by the Council of Architecture (COA) at the national level for admission to the five-year Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) course at all recognized institutions across India. It’s headed by renowned city-based architect Habib Khan. Admitting that there was a technical snag during the exam, Khan told TOI that problems faced by the students would be addressed soon. “We will ensure that the students don’t suffer. They will be given another chance if the fault is technical. We’ve received many complaints through our help desk from Nagpur and other centres. By Sunday, we will be able to know the exact details.” Khan added that the COA had handed over the online exam part to a contractor and some problems may have developed in the software. “There’s also a possibility that students may have experienced problems like connectivity and bandwidth at their homes,” he said. A number of students got their computers late, resulting in loss of time at the Central India Law College. “No signposts were put up at the centres which led to chaos. Neither were any social distancing rules followed. Students completed their exam at 2.30pm itself, but were still not allowed to leave the premises,” a parent told TOI. It was Vanshita Vajirani’s maiden attempt, but she couldn’t get connected due to technical glitches in the server for a long time. “I kept on trying from 9.45am, but I missed the first part. I tried to appear in the second part, but couldn’t get connected,” she said. Students also complained about rough sheets being provided to them 10 minutes after the commencement of the exam. They clicked on the question, but the answer wasn’t submitted. “It was a case of total mismanagement. Inside the exam hall, too, improper arrangements resulted in wastage of a lot of time,” said Sarthak Pethkar. Aarsh Kandra said the standard operating procedure (SOP) wasn’t followed. “Attendance was taken after the exam ended which resulted in a long wait. The server functioned badly because of which I lost three important questions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-mars-arch-test-students-protest/articleshow/77827555.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 30, 2020||Nagpur||11,000 hit as rivers swell after heavy rain in Madhya Pradesh||Nagpur: Heavy rain in Madhya Pradesh has left rivers in Vidarbha flooded. More than 11,000 persons from 25 villages in Nagpur district have been displaced, making it comparable to the floods of 1994. Two teams of the National Disaster Relief Force and one of State Disaster Relief Force were pressed into action. The district administration has also requisitioned Army’s help, which will start operations from Sunday. Water released from Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi inundated Kamptee, Mouda and Parseoni and Kuhi tehsils. Pench water further merged into Kanhan river near Kamptee, leaving parts of the town marooned. The flood-situation has also led to water shortage in Nagpur city. According to a spokesperson from Orange City Water Ltd, the Kanhan water treatment plant (WTP) intake wells are submerged in the flood waters. “The wells are operating at half the capacity, thus reducing water pumping and affecting the supply to Ashi Nagar, Satranjipura and Nehru Nagar zones. Water supply to these areas will be restricted as the flood waters will take minimum three to four days to recede,” the spokesperson said. The gates of Chaurai dam on Pench river in Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh, have been opened, leading to flooding on the Maharashtra side towards the Totladoh dam whose all gates have been opened up to five metres. The displaced persons have been shifted to schools and other government buildings. Kamptee is worst hit, with 6,600 persons affected, followed by Mouda with 1,500 persons. The number of affected persons and villages is expected to increase, said a source in the collectorate. In Kamptee, over 250 persons from Sonegaon Raja village were shifted earlier based on the flood warning, but they returned to their village. “Rescue operation was again launched in the evening,” said an official in the district administration. Residents of Kamptee shared videos of their inundated localities. In one of the pictures, residents were seen wading through chest-high water to reach a safer place. In neighbouring Chhindwara district, 4,500 persons have been displaced. A Mi-17 helicopter from the Indian Air Force’s base at Nagpur flew to rescue six persons stranded at two of villages in the district. They were among the 20-25 persons rescued from critical situation. Another helicopter was kept standby for Nagpur. According to the calculations made at the time of finalizing the dam’s design, Friday’s flood was equal to the deluge estimated once in 500 years, said a senior official in the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC). Currently, there is an inflow of over 9,000 cubic metres per seconds (cumecs) of water in the Pench river, of which 6,600 is being released. This is having a cascading effect on the Kanhan river leading to flooding ot nearby areas as there is no dam on the river. Another 6,800 cumecs are flowing out of Kamptee Khairi also. “Had the Totladoh dam not been there, as much as 16,000 cumecs of water may have flown into the Kanhan river, leading to situation turning worse,” the source said. Attempts are being made to contain the water at Totladoh. Currently, as much as 13,000 cumecs of water is flowing from Kanhan. The water is further flowing into Wainganga river. This has led to record release of water from the Gosikhurd dam on the river. Now, as much as 21,000 cumecs of water is being released from the dam with a likelihood of the flow being increased. “This is next to the flow in 1994, when there was no dam on the river, due to an inflow of 27,000 cumecs,” the source said. Elsewhere in region, there are chances that Gadchiroli may see more floods if the rain continues. There is no dam but one barrage (Jisdoh) in the district which may have to be opened if the inflow increases. The Medigatta barrage on the Telangana side may be opened too, affecting Gadchiroli. No major floods have been reported in west Vidarbha but mild rain continues. The Totladoh dam had run dry two years ago, leading to water crisis in the city. The Madhya Pradesh government had then stopped releasing water from Chaurai dam on its side of the Pench river due to less storage there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11000-hit-as-rivers-swell-after-heavy-rain-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/77827572.cms||Ashish Roy
August 30, 2020||India||Ensure subsidies continue: India to WTO||NEW DELHI: India has backed reform of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and demanded that developing countries should retain the special treatment on tariff cuts and subsidies. In his address at the East Asia Summit, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal also called for the restoration of the functionality of WTO’s Appellate Body, where the US had blocked the appointment of fresh members, rendering the agency toothless. “We are willing to partner with all countries to ensure fair, transparent and balanced trading systems, and to enhance connectivity, for national, regional and global economic growth,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ensure-subsidies-continue-india-to-wto/articleshow/77829435.cms||---
August 30, 2020||India||BJP: Cong ‘hypocrite’, backed booze sale but opposes exam||NEW DELHI: Citing views of several Congress members who favoured sale of liquor amid lockdown, BJP on Saturday dubbed their opposition to holding of NEET and JEE exams as “hypocritical”, arguing that if queues for liquor were not dangerous and violative of Covid-19 restrictions, how will the entrance tests be so. “The hypocrisy of states opposing NEET-JEE exams — liquor vs exams,” BJP media cell chief Amit Malviya said as he shared statements of Congress chief ministers seeking opening of liquor shops in the middle of the lockdown phase. He cited how Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had in April argued that ‘if sale of fruits could be allowed, why not liquor?’ Besides Singh, CMs of Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel) and Rajssthan (Ashok Gehlot) all had supported the opening of liquor shops. “Ashok Gehlot feels that the country is flooded with coronavirus cases and hence NEET/JEE exams should be postponed. Let us remind you that it was the same Gehlot govt in Rajasthan which was issued a notice by the high court over opening up of liquor shops and risking lives,” Malviya said. Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat called the opposition to exams a conspiracy against students. “ ...will someone remind him (Rajasthan CM) how he had risked lives by keeping the state machinery in one hotel for almost two months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-cong-hypocrite-backed-booze-sale-but-opposes-exam/articleshow/77829438.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Man beaten to death for 'stealing' mobile in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 23-year-old man was tied to a tree and beaten to death by four men on suspicion of mobile phone theft in West Delhi's Naraina early on Saturday. Based on witnesses' accounts, the four accused were arrested soon after the crime. On Thursday, a man who was looking for his missing son was beaten to death by two men in the city. Police said they were informed about a man's body lying at a park with injury marks. Witnesses said they woke up around 5am on hearing the cries of the victim who was beaten with sticks and iron rods by four men at Loha Mandi in Naraina, police said. A rope and a white muffler were recovered from the spot. One of the witnesses, Shesh Kumar (30), said he saw four local men tying the victim with a tree at the park and beating him mercilessly. "I tried to stop them. But they refused to listen. They said the man stole a phone from their truck," said Kumar. Man tied to tree in park, beaten to death: CopsThe deceased was identified by police as Rahul, a resident of west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar. His family members said that Rahul had left home after an argument with his wife Pooja on Thursday evening. “He (Rahul) was released from jail on August 17. On Thursday evening we had an argument about the rainwater getting inside our house. He picked up his bag and left home saying he would come back only after getting a job,” said Pooja. “Rahul was jailed multiple times. I started looking for him on Friday morning. Assuming the cops might have picked him up, I went to the police station around 11am. Later, I was told that he was killed,” Pooja added. The four accused were identified by police as Mustaq Ahmed, Shiraj Ahmed, Anees and Istihar. “The accused said that Rahul and his accomplice had stolen the mobile phone from Siraj’s truck and fled. The accused later caught hold of the deceased, took him to an adjoining park, tied him with a tree and thrashed him to death,” said deputy commissioner of police (West) Deepak Purohit. Watch 23-year-old man tied to a tree, beaten to death for 'stealing' mobile in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-beaten-to-death-for-stealing-mobile-in-delhi/articleshow/77829440.cms||Sakshi Chand
August 30, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi at 50-day high with nearly 2,000 cases||NEW DELHI: The daily count of Covid-19 in Delhi neared the 2,000 mark with 1,954 new cases - highest single-day tally in 50 days - being recorded on Saturday. With this, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the state has crossed 1.7 lakh and the death toll has mounted to 4,404. In the last 24 hours, 15 fresh deaths were reported due to Covid-19, officials said. On July 30, it had reduced to less than 3,000 and continued to be so till August 5. But, with rise in new cases, occupancy of Covid beds is also up. On Saturday, data shared by the hospitals on the Delhi Corona app at 8 pm, showed as many as 4,022 (28% of the total beds) were occupied. The rate of occupancy of ICU beds without ventilator support and those with ventilators stood at 50% and 39%, respectively. 1,954 fresh cases, 50% of ICU beds takenData showed 17 public and private hospitals, including Lady Hardinge Medical College, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Patparganj, Apollo, and Primus hospitals among others, didn’t have a single ICU bed without ventilator support available on Saturday. Total 28 hospitals mentioned on the Delhi Corona app didn't have ICU beds with ventilator support available. Doctors say if the rise in new cases continues at the pace seen in the last one week, Delhi could be staring at another serious crisis soon. “Not just new cases, the positivity rate – number of confirmed cases from those tested – has also increased. It is a worrying sign,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak hospital. On Saturday, the positivity rate was recorded at 8.8% with 1954 persons testing positive from 22,004 tested. Earlier, from Monday to Friday, the positivity was recorded at 8.9%, 7.7%, 8.5%, 8.7%and 7.8%, respectively. In July, the positivity rate had reduced to less than 6% signalling that the disease spread was under control. Dr S K Sarin, the director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), who is also part of the task force to manage the Covid situation in the state, says lower rates of RT-PCR testing could be one of the reasons behind the spike in cases. “Rapid antigen tests have lower sensitivity. It throws a high rate of false negative results. It is possible that many people who tested negative in the rapid antigen test were actually positive and continued to spread the infection,” he said. Dr Sarin stressed the need to increase RT-PCR testing at least for people with co-morbidities and those living in containment zones because it has a better sensitivity to Covid-19. Health experts have pointed to the lack of social discipline among the public. “People aren’t following social distancing norms. If you go to a market, there are many people who aren’t wearing masks and even those who have it don’t wear the masks properly. This has to change. People have to become more responsible to reduce disease spread,” say doctors. Active cases cross 1,000 in Noida after two monthsActive Covid cases in Noida surpassed the 1,000-mark after over two months. On Sunday, 122 new cases took the district’s count of active cases to 1,002. Before this, the number of active cases had touched 1,100 in mid-June. Since then, active cases in Noida have hovered around the late 900s but never crossed 1,000. Officials said that since residents have been venturing out more with the ease in restrictions, chances of contracting the infection have grown manifold. “Also, testing in Noida has been scaled up. We have resources to handle active patients and will continue to maintain the pace of testing,” chief medical officer Deepak Kumar Ohri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-at-50-day-high-with-nearly-2000-cases/articleshow/77829444.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 30, 2020||India||Health sinks fast, 3 Maha docs die of Covid in a day||NAGPUR: Three paediatricians from Akola, Buldhana and Bhusawal, who were treating Covid-19 patients at different places, died of coronavirus infection on Friday. Very rapid deterioration of health was the common factor in all the three deaths. As per central government data, 292 health care workers have died in Maharashtra. According to state figures, 26 government doctors have died due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra till date. According to Indian Medical Association (Maharashtra), more than 90 private practitioners have died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Dr Vivek Phadke, 55, who died on Friday was the chief medical officer of the Covid care centre in Murtizapur in Akola district since the last five months. He died within 44 hours of admission. The other two were private practitioners. Neighbouring Buldhana district witnessed the death of a young private practitioner, Dr Gopal Kshirsagar (37), who used to run a hospital in Janefal town. He got admitted in a private hospital in Aurangabad on August 5. Senior paediatrician from Bhusawal, Dr Umesh Manohar Khanapurkar, died on the same day. He was known as ‘garibanche doctor’ (doctor of poor people). Dr Khanapurkar tested positive on August 11 and was admitted to a private hospital in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/health-sinks-fast-3-maha-docs-die-of-covid-in-a-day/articleshow/77829450.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Retail therapy seekers take baby steps back in to shops and malls||MUMBAI: Among the many pastimes interrupted by the virus has been ‘retail therapy’ — a ritual that is as much about the browsing as the buying. And the reopening of non-essential stores in the city earlier this month brought sharper focus on this coping mechanism for the stressed-out or plain bored with Mumbai faring better than other cities in encouraging shoppers back into shops and malls. “It felt a bit weird and scary at first. I was overwhelmed by the thought of stepping into a public space with strangers but there were hardly any shoppers and very few staff. Also trying out new shoes was such an adrenaline rush, almost a confidence booster after days of being bogged down at home,” gushed Natasha D’Cunha, 27 from Dadar after she hit a factory outlet in Parel for the first time in five months last week. But the days of leisurely shopping trips are no more. Unable to endure the stifling face mask for long, she made an early exit. “I’m not someone who shops online. I like to touch and feel what I buy but I also realise the need to stop indulging my impulses of going out shopping just because they’re open.” While masks and sanitisers are common prerequisites across stores and malls, safety measures include touchless frisking at entry, occupancy apps to track the number of customers, temporary suspension of trials and exchanges, foot-operated door handles, hard-tomiss floor markings. The return to normal business, however, could be a long way off. Shops are still reeling from an entire season rendered redundant and a dramatic decline in sales despite the easing of lockdown restrictions. When Trios, a three-storeyed fashion mall in Bandra, cautiously opened its doors for walk-ins on alternate days in July, the footfall had dropped to seven in 15 days as opposed to 150 shoppers in a day. “The months of April and May are when we see peak season sales because people go on summer holidays and there’s Eid. All the fancy new inventory that we had procured are still lying wrapped. Although footfall has picked up this month, it’s mostly for kids clothing or casual wear,” says Chirag Gada, owner of Trios. Gada has his hopes pinned on the next festive season to “liquidate” his pent up stock but is cautious about running promotions. “We have to be careful about drawing large crowds.” It hasn’t been too tough on malls trying to implement social distancing norms given the low footfall. Malad’s Infiniti Mall, for instance, that drew close to 1 lakh people on weekends, sees not more than 20,000 now since they reopened on August 7. “The government mandates 25 sq ft space per person in the mall and so we don’t see a necessity for capping the number of visitors right now,” says CEO Mukesh Kumar, adding that the draw in Mumbai’s malls was more encouraging than the reopenings in other cities. Some malls have put up protective glass on the reception desk for visitors' safety while some like the Oberoi Mall, have placed a UV box at the desk to ensure all gift vouchers, coupons, documents, lost & found items are sterilized using ultraviolet technology before being handed over to customers. The contagion has also put a leash on people’s impulses to touch, feel and try clothes on before buying. At stores like Trios and New Variety Store in Bandra or most retail stores at Malad’s Infiniti Mall, trial rooms are off-limits for now. If at Shoppers Stop outlets, alternate trial rooms are open for use, Ghulam Khan of New Variety Store uses his art of his persuasion to urge his customers into exchanging the item with a family member, instead. If digital catalogues and video consultations are being recommended by high end designers who already had their ecommerce in place, some boutiques like Pankaj & Nidhi have used this time to ramp up their online presence or launch a website. Even shops like Bandra’s six-year-old New Variety Store are contemplating the click-and-collect model. While electronics, jewellery, sports and fitness goods have been flying off the shelves, eyeshadows are now the new lipstick. “Eye makeup accentuates a face covered in a mask. Of all the customers that shopped for beauty, 27% bought eye products,” said Uma Talreja, chief marketing and customer officer, Shoppers Stop. (With inputs from Namrata Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-retail-therapy-seekers-take-baby-steps-back-in-to-shops-and-malls/articleshow/77829463.cms||Mohua Das
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai sees over 1,000 cases for 4th day, fears of a spike as Ganeshotsav ends||MUMBAI: After recording a slight dip in Covid-19 infections for a few days, Mumbai has been back to adding over 1,000 cases each day for the past four days. The city saw 1,854 infections on Wednesday, with 1,350 and 1,217 the next two days. It added 1,432 cases on Saturday. Officials said they expect a surge in infections next week with Ganeshotsav coming to an end. “With travel curbs eased, many people have travelled to meet their families and have started returning. It is likely cases could increase,” a state official said. No surge in cases in areas close to pandals, says BMCLocal factors, too, could contribute to the increase, if it happens. A doctor at a civic hospital said nine officials of a Ganesh pandal in Parel tested positive last week. “People don’t observe social distancing norms or use face masks properly. If Mumbai witnesses a second wave, it would only be because of failure to adhere to such norms,” the doctor said. TOI spoke to the three leading Ganpati mandals of Lalbaug-Parel. It turns out all have had karyakartas or officials who have been afflicted by the virus “but since they have recovered, they are visiting pandals for brief durations”. Lalbaugcha Raja mandal president Balasaheb Kamble said, “We do not have a moorti this year so crowds are absent. But we have over 2,000 volunteers, and given the spread of the virus, it was natural some of them were infected. But after they tested negative, 30-40 returned to donate plasma at our health camp. We are careful to maintain social distancing and sanitise the health camp beds and furniture every hour.” A functionary at Ganesh Gully mandal had tested positive along with his family. “But he recovered two weeks ago,” said secretary Swapnil Parab. “Other karyakartas also tested positive but are doing well now and have completed the quarantine period. None of our workers is ill at present. Those who have recovered are back to work, but many only visit the mandap for brief periods. We check body temperature at the entrance,” he added. The spokesperson of the Chinchpokli Cha Chintamani mandal was treated for coronavirus and discharged on August 18. “I suffered from fever and tested positive for Covid-19. I was admitted to a hospital in Vikhroli and discharged. My family and I are observing 14-day isolation and wearing masks and gloves. I have now tested negative. I am only taking online darshan,” he said. BMC officials, however, said a surge in cases due to Ganpati festivities was unlikely. AMC Suresh Kakani said civic officials have not noticed any surge in areas near public pandals. “Our daily cases have remained steady at 1,200 cases on an average. We are testing more, and people are following rules of social distancin,” he said. A ward official from the suburbs said, ”Ganpati mandals are taking all the required precautions to avoid crowds. They allow only a few people into the pandals during prayers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-mumbai-sees-over-1000-cases-for-4th-day-fears-of-a-spike-as-ganpati-ends/articleshow/77829482.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: August hits cops hard with 51 deaths; Covid-19 claims 34-year-old policewoman||MUMBAI: A 34-year-old from the Chandrapur police station became the youngest and only the second woman in the force to succumb to Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday. Three other police deaths took the August toll in the force to 51, the highest in any Covid month so far. One of the three others added to the police death statistics was from Aurangabad rural and two were from Nagpur; they died on Friday. The full toll in the state police touched 154 with these four deaths. Among the 154 were 15 officers. Constable Poornima Gidam, attached with the Ramnagar police station in Chandrapur, was on sick leave since May. Befiore her, there were no COvid-19 deaths in the police in Chandrapur. “Gidam’s kidneys had failed and she was undergoing dialysis when she was infected with the coronavirus. She was admitted to hospital for Covid-19 treatment and succumbed on August 26,” a Chandrapur officer said. The first policewoman Covid-19 claimed in the state was constable Pratibha Gawali from the Shrinagar police station in Thane in May. She was under treatment for a kidney ailment and was on sick leave for two months. “She was on dialysis. It's not clear how she got infected,” an officer said. Constable Mukunda Sarvodaya (58), attached with the Nagpur police headquarters, died on Friday after his condition deteriorated because of a liver problem. Constable Tulsing Chavan (54) from the Nagpur Bomb Disposal and Dog Squad (BDDS) was on night duty on Thursday when he suffered a heart attack and died on the spot. Both Sarvodaya and Chavan tested positive for Covid-19. The fourth death was of constable Pradeep Jadhav (32) on Friday. He became the first fatality from the MIDCPaithan police station in Aurangabad. Statistics show 6,226 police personnel were infected in August, with a member of the police team that had been investigating the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide among the latest to test positive. The total infected since March number 14,792. Of these, 11,867 have recovered and 2,772 are getting treatment. In the city police, 72.2%, or 3,451, of the 4,782 police personnel who tested positive have resumed duty. The current active cases in the city police are 596. A total of 4,117 personnel have recovered and 69 (including 7 officers) have died. “I was in ventilator for almost eight days out of the 26 days in the hospital. My condition was critical because of my co-morbidities. But I fought it with my will power and came out of the ventilator,” police constable Vijay Avkirkar (52) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-august-hits-cops-hard-with-51-deaths-covid-19-claims-34-year-old-policewoman/articleshow/77829507.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 30, 2020||Thane||Over 51% Thane villages Covid-free for 28 days, Navi Mumbai's tally crosses 25,000||THANE/NAVI MUMBAI: As the Navi Mumbai Covid-19 tally went past the 25,000 mark with 391 new cases on Saturday, the Thane rural region distinguished itself with a recovery rate of over 82% and zero new cases for 28 days in over 51% of its gram panchayat jurisdictions. These gram panchayats put up green flags in their villages as a display of consistency in fighting the coronavirus infection. “The weekly report taken earlier this week showed that out of the 430 gram panchayts in Thane rural, 221 have not reported Covid-19 patients in 28 days,” Chandrakant Pawar, Dy CEO, gram panchayat. Murbad, Shahpur, Bhiwandi and Ambernath with a population of 3.64 lakh have so far recorded 9,048 positive cases, with 7,427 of them recovering and 290 deaths. Active cases number 1,331. “So far there have been 1,338 containment zones. Out of these 337 are active while 1,001 have finished their 14-day quarantine period. There are 833 teams, which have visited 83,930 homes for checkup of people in the containment zones,” Pawar said. Dr Manish Renge, district health officer, said two Covid-19 hospitals were being set up in Bhiwandi, at Ganeshpuri with 300 beds and in Sawad with 150 beds. The district health department started antigen tests a fortnight ago and has conducted 1,858 tests, with 616 positive results. Increased testing through rapid antigen test kits was cited as the reason for the rise in the Covid-19 tally to 25,384 in Navi Mumbai, where it took 15 days from August 14 onwards for the number to move up from 20,000 to 25,000. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) said all RT-PCR tests were now being conducted at its own lab, which has a capacity of 1,000 swab tests a day. It was also conducting doorstep antigen tests with 34 mobile vans, and 3,000 antigen tests were being conducted daily. There are 22 fever clinics. The recovery rate has gone up to 84%, while it was 59% in June when the first 5,000 positive cases were reported. As many as 21,360 people have recovered. With five deaths on Saturday, the toll rose to 576. The mortality rate declined from 3% in June to 2.26%. Active cases dwindled from 3,564 a fortnight ago to 3,448.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/over-51-thane-villages-covid-free-for-28-days-navi-mumbais-tally-crosses-25000/articleshow/77829519.cms||B B Nayak
August 30, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Over 51% Thane villages Covid-free for 28 days, Navi Mumbai's tally crosses 25,000||THANE/NAVI MUMBAI: As the Navi Mumbai Covid-19 tally went past the 25,000 mark with 391 new cases on Saturday, the Thane rural region distinguished itself with a recovery rate of over 82% and zero new cases for 28 days in over 51% of its gram panchayat jurisdictions. These gram panchayats put up green flags in their villages as a display of consistency in fighting the coronavirus infection. “The weekly report taken earlier this week showed that out of the 430 gram panchayts in Thane rural, 221 have not reported Covid-19 patients in 28 days,” Chandrakant Pawar, Dy CEO, gram panchayat. Murbad, Shahpur, Bhiwandi and Ambernath with a population of 3.64 lakh have so far recorded 9,048 positive cases, with 7,427 of them recovering and 290 deaths. Active cases number 1,331. “So far there have been 1,338 containment zones. Out of these 337 are active while 1,001 have finished their 14-day quarantine period. There are 833 teams, which have visited 83,930 homes for checkup of people in the containment zones,” Pawar said. Dr Manish Renge, district health officer, said two Covid-19 hospitals were being set up in Bhiwandi, at Ganeshpuri with 300 beds and in Sawad with 150 beds. The district health department started antigen tests a fortnight ago and has conducted 1,858 tests, with 616 positive results. Increased testing through rapid antigen test kits was cited as the reason for the rise in the Covid-19 tally to 25,384 in Navi Mumbai, where it took 15 days from August 14 onwards for the number to move up from 20,000 to 25,000. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) said all RT-PCR tests were now being conducted at its own lab, which has a capacity of 1,000 swab tests a day. It was also conducting doorstep antigen tests with 34 mobile vans, and 3,000 antigen tests were being conducted daily. There are 22 fever clinics. The recovery rate has gone up to 84%, while it was 59% in June when the first 5,000 positive cases were reported. As many as 21,360 people have recovered. With five deaths on Saturday, the toll rose to 576. The mortality rate declined from 3% in June to 2.26%. Active cases dwindled from 3,564 a fortnight ago to 3,448.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/over-51-thane-villages-covid-free-for-28-days-navi-mumbais-tally-crosses-25000/articleshow/77829518.cms||B B Nayak
August 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 4% rise in rape cases even as overall crime rate falls||VIJAYAWADA: While the overall crime rate in the state has witnessed a substantial reduction during the lockdown, the number of rape cases has seen a rise compared to the last two years. The first six months of 2020 have seen 584 rape cases being reported in the state, an uptick of four per cent, according to data from State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB). A closer look at the cases shows that there has been a particular increase in cases reported of rape on false pretext of marriage. Between June 2019 and June 2020, there has been a 25% increase in reports of such cases. In fact, 52% of the reported rape cases are those under the false pretext of marriage. Another deeply worrying number is that 20 per cent of rape victims in the state happen to be Dalits. East Godavari district has reported the highest number of rape cases so far this year. Visakhapatnam city has seen 61 rape cases, a 17 per cent increase since 2019. Vijayawada city has seen a 27% increase in rape cases compared to the corresponding period last year. Conversely, Tirupati (urban), Kadapa and Guntur (urban) police stations have seen a relatively lower number of rape cases. Officials point out that the lockdown resulted in an increase in rape cases as most of the accused are people who the victims know. “Neighbours, relatives and friends happen to be the common accused in rape cases, especially in cases registered during the lockdown period,” a senior police official said to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4-rise-in-rape-cases-even-as-overall-crime-rate-falls/articleshow/77826564.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra: Three workers die after car rams truck at Palasa in Srikakulam district||VISAKHAPATNAM: Three persons died while nine escaped with minor injuries in a road accident near Mogilipadu flyover at Nemali Narayanapuram village in Palasa in Srikakulam district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as workers of a private port in Visakhapatnam city, police said. The deceased were identified as Sujith Kumar G, Burabadri and Robin Bogango. The three died while undergoing treatment at Palasa and Srikakulam government hospitals. Speaking to STOI, Palasa sub-inspector Y Madhusudhana Rao said 12 people, all below 25 years and from Jharkhand, left their home state on August 27 for Visakhapatnam in a car to attend to their duties at a private port in Vizag city. When they reached Palasa police station limits on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, their vehicle rammed into a stationary lorry on the National Highway-16, the SI said. Police suspect the accident took place due to negligence of the driver. Palasa deputy superintendent of police M Sivarami Reddy said, “Based on the nature of the accident, we assume that the driver of the vehicle was driving at more than 100 kmph.” Cases were registered under section 304A (causing death by negligence), section 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and other sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-workers-die-after-car-rams-truck-at-palasa/articleshow/77826576.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Locals protest against gasifier crematorium||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of Bakkannapalem are showing opposition to the setting up of a gasifier crematorium facility to cremate people who die of Covid-19 in the area. Locals say that the facility should be located far away from their burial ground. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to construct two such crematoriums to cremate people who die of Covid-19 at the earliest. While one of the crematoriums is slated to come up in Bakkannapalem near Madhurawada the other is supposed to come up at Pedagantyada near Gajuwaka. The crematoriums, which will come up at an estimated cost of Rs 3.5 crore will have a burning platform, a mortuary, an administrative building, internal roads and water facility. In this cremation process, no firewood will be used. The body will be put in a chamber or container in which flames of gas will burn the body in 40-45 minutes. Speaking to TOI, PV Satya Prasad, a resident of Bakkannapalem said, “Why does the GVMC want to set up such a facility in this thickly-populated area? We will not allow this. They should shift the location. Otherwise we will start an agitation.” Uma Sankar, another resident of the area, said that Bakkanapalem is a residential area and a school zone. “Around 3,500 school children, many retired people live here. This is also a green zone. We have already approached minister M Srinivasa Rao and GVMC authorities with our concerns,” Sankar said. However, superintending engineer of GVMC’s engineering wing, Raju said that the construction of the crematorium will be completed in three months and it will not be harmful for the locals. “We will try to convince and create awareness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/locals-protest-against-gasifier-crematorium/articleshow/77826587.cms||Siva G
August 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Kingpin of gutka racket held in Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: Responding to a tip-off from a credible source, police raided a warehouse at Pedakanani police station limits in Guntur city on Friday and arrested a notorious gutka smuggler. The accused, 57-year-old Bolisetti Kameswara Rao, was arrested along with his associates Patuboyina Ashok Yadav (32), Kapilavai Tirumala Karthick, Jidugu Easwar Lal (43 and Mantri Srinivas Rao (42). Speaking to the media on Saturday, superintendent of police for Guntur (urban), Ammi Reddy said that the accused were arrested at 3:30pm in the afternoon after the police received a tip-off about a large consignment of gutka— a tobacco product banned in Andhra Pradesh— was being stored and distributed across the town over the last four months. Police said that the main accused, Kameswara Rao, was running the illegal business across the district and operated in Amaravati, Prathipadu, Vatticherukuru among other areas. Police seized Rs 10 lakh worth of the contraband and vehicles worth Rs 6 lakh from the scene. Upon investigating further, police managed to arrest the main accused’s associates from various parts of the city. The Guntur (urban) SP said that Kameswara Rao is alleged to have been involved in three other cases. The associates arrested too have a criminal history, said the SP. Police have registered a case against the racketeers and produced them before Guntur sessions court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kingpin-of-gutka-racket-held-in-guntur/articleshow/77826605.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Popular beer brands to be sold at govt-run wine stores soon?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Some of the country’s most popular beer brands may soon be available in government-run liquor stores across the state. Acting on a request from hotels and bar-cum-restaurants, the government has started collecting samples of stocked beer from these places and are sending these bottles to manufacturers for testing. If the manufacturers give the green signal, the stocks would be shifted from the bars and sold from neighbourhood wine shops soon. Since Oct 1 last year, after the government took over all wine stores across the state, popular brands started vanishing from the racks of state-run wine outlets and were replaced by unknown and locally produced brands. The popular brands were available only at star hotels, which was not affordable for most residents, especially the regular drinkers. “Following our requests, officials have started visiting the bar-cum-restaurants. They are matching batch number of the beer stocks and collecting two-three samples of every batch number. The samples would be sent to the manufacturers for testing purpose. If the manufacturers give the green signal, these beer stocks would be sold from government-run wine stores,” Prasanth Singu, president of Hotels & Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh, told TOI. Andhra Pradesh Beverage Corporation Limited (APBCL) officials said beer stocks at most bar-cum-restaurants are either on the verge of expiry or are already expired. “The collected samples have been sent to the manufacturers, who will test the quality of the stocks. If they give us the green signal, we may consider to sell the stocks through our retail stores. It will take around 10 to 15 days to get the report,” said a senior APBCL official. Experts in the field said there shouldn’t be any issues for the samples to get the clearance. In fact, though Andhra Pradesh allows an expiry date of six months from the date of manufacture, in states like West Bengal the expiry date is 12 months from the manufacturing date. “The main thing to ensure is that oxygen does not enter the bottles. If the seal of the bottles is done properly, I see no harm in extending the expiry period,” said Parag Mitra, founder of Parag Breweries that used to manufacture Carlsberg beer in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/popular-beer-brands-to-be-sold-at-govt-run-wine-stores-soon/articleshow/77826597.cms||Arpit Basu
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bhavanapadu port: Meeting with to-be displaced villagers on Sept 5||VISAKHAPATNAM: Work on Bhavanapadu non-major port project in Srikakulam district is likely to begin on September 5. The process will start with an official meeting with residents of Bhavanapadu and Devunaltada— the two coastal villages that will be displaced by the project. The villages are located nearly 150km away from Vizag city. Bhavanapadu, which comes under Palasa assembly segment, is represented in the assembly by state fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju. Speaking to TOI, the fisheries minister said that 10,000 villagers, mostly fishermen, will have to vacate their villages for the project. As per a tentative agreement, the government is looking to pay Rs 18 lakh to Rs 20 lakh per acre as compensation for the land acquired for the project. Further, the displaced people are also expected to get house sites, employment and pension. “The project needs 2,217 acres of land. We are going to have a meeting with the villagers on September 5. Hopefully, the construction work for the project will begin by the end of this year,” said Appalaraju. The port project was first proposed nearly eight years ago under the previous regime. But various factors including bifurcation stalled progress. The state government is keen on completing at least the first phase of the project at the earliest by developing four berths in 500 acres land. Recently, the government approved the detailed project report (DPR) for the first phase of the project which will have an estimated cost of nearly Rs 3,670 crore, according to the fisheries minister. The project is part of the state government plan to develop four non-major ports in the state to meet container cargo demand which is likely to go up to 300-350 million tonnes by 2025, said the minister. A senior official based in Kakinada said that the Bhavanapadu port is one among the four proposed non-major ports. The state currently has 16 non-major ports and one major port— the Visakhapatnam port. The state government is expected to allot around Rs 261 crore towards land acquisition cost of 500 acres for the first phase of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bhavanapadu-port-meeting-with-to-be-displaced-villagers-on-sept-5/articleshow/77826616.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag targets top-5 finish in Swachh Survekshan 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM: After securing the ninth rank in Swachh Survekshan-2020, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has already started work on revised guidelines for Swachh Survekshan-2021. The civic body is currently conducting meetings with officials and staff to spread awareness about modification in weightage of various parameters of the survey. The focus areas of the survey have evolved over the years. While the first survey in 2016 simply assessed physical progress, the 2020 survey evaluated the institutionalisation of cleanliness practices. The sixth survey, that of 2021, will focus adopt an integrated approach. Indicators of the 2021 survey will focus on parameters pertaining to wastewater treatment and reuse along with faecal sludge. Legacy waste management and remediation of landfills will also act as crucial components under ‘service level progress’ category. A new category, namely ‘Prerak Dauur Samman’ has been introduced as part of the 2021 survey to classify cities on six indicators. Cities will be categorised as ‘platinum’, ‘gold’, ‘silver’, ‘bronze’ and ‘aspiring’ based on performance on select indicators. The new parameters will make cities focus on developing infrastructure that may provide end-to-end solution for sanitation. In an effort to take citizen’s participation a notch higher, the 2021 survey indicators will consider the citizen-led innovations, including citizens, start-ups, Swachchata Champions and others in terms of their contribution to reduction of solid waste. GVMC additional commissioner Dr V Sanyasi Rao said that the civic body is preparing an action plan so as to make it to the top-five in the 2021 survey. “GVMC has already started construction of a waste-to-energy plant and bio-mining at Kapuluppada dumpling yard. It will start working this October. All these factors will help the city get five-star rating in the ‘certification’ category and improve overall ranking,” Rao said. He added that the civic body has already held a meeting with Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), NGOs and other stakeholders as citizen participation is going to be a crucial component of Swachh Survekshan-2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-targets-top-5-finish-in-swachh-survekshan-2021/articleshow/77826635.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telugu Language Day celebrated||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju paid tribute to famous Telugu poet Gidugu Venkata Ramamurthy on the occasion of his birth anniversary which is observed as Telugu Language Day in Srikakulam. A group of students of Andhra University (AU) also garlanded the poet’s photograph to mark the occasion. Telugu Language Day celebrations were also held at IIIT Nuzividu through video-conference. Ganesh Tottempudi addressed the event as chief guest. Advocates condemn tonsuring incidentVisakhapatnam: Advocates on Saturday condemned the tonsuring of a youngster at Pendurthi and called it a violation of human rights. Senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals, Kuppili Muralidhar said that the police must conduct a thorough investigation. Advocate Rahimunnisa Begum said, “The act is barbaric, heinous and a crime against humanity.” Advocates called for compensation to be paid to the victim. National Sports Day observedVisakhapatnam: Sports minister M Srinivasa Rao paid tribute to hockey legent Padmavibhushan Major Dhyan Chand by garlanding his statue at Andhra University on the occasion of National Sports Day on Saturday. The minister felicitated 16-year-old Priyam Tated, a champion skater who has won a number of international and national-level competitions. Tated has been awared the Pradhan Mantri Bal Puraskar for his achievements. Man found dead at bus standVijayawada: A man was found dead at Lakshmipuram bus stand in Jilugumili mandal in West Godavari district on Saturday. Police are yet to identify the deceased. A case of suspicious death has been registered and the body has been sent for post mortem. Police believe that the man died of natural causes. Meanwhile, efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the deceased. Liquor seized, jaggery wash destroyedVijayawada: Krishna district police raided an arrack brewery on Saturday and destroyed 900 litres of fermented jaggery wash at Katlapali village under Pedana police station limits. A total of 18 drums of jaggery wash was found. Meanwhile, Anandapuram police seized 1,130 liquor bottles and arrested two people for moving liquor from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam. The accused have been identified are Muddada Rambabu and O Sanyasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telugu-language-day-celebrated/articleshow/77826658.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal may issue fresh September ‘lockdown’ circular||KOLKATA: The Bengal government is likely to issue a fresh notification on complete lockdown in the state following Saturday evening’s Unlock 4 order by the Union home ministry that prohibits states from imposing any local lockdown outside containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre. Following the new order, the issue came up for discussion during a review of the state’s Covid situation between CM Mamata Banerjee and chief secretary Rajeeva Sinha. The state has been observing intermittent ‘total lockdowns’ since July-end to “break the chain of Covid infection”. It has already observed three such shutdowns in July and five more in August while the sixth and last lockdown of August is scheduled for Monday. The government has already announced three lockdown dates for the coming month — September 7, 11 and 12. Sources said the notifica-tion announcing the September dates is likely to be scrapped and a fresh notification issu-ed after discussions with the Centre. The Unlock 4 guidelines also reiterated that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, and no separate permission/e-permit will be required for such movements. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had five days ago written to all chief secretaries, stating that such restrictions amount to violation of guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) under provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. The state government had on July 21 announced the twice-a-week total lockdowns on the advice of experts who had stressed on the need to “break the chain of infection”. The state has till now registered 1.6 lakh Covid cases and 3,126 deaths. Concerns over the Covid situation had also prompted the state government to ban flights from six Covid hotspot cities in July. On Thursday, the government announced that the restriction will be eased from next month when flights from the six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad — will be allowed to fly into Kolkata three times a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-may-issue-fresh-sept-lockdown-circular/articleshow/77829221.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi admin takes anti-Covid measures as fresh unlock phase begins||Ranchi: In fighting the Covid-19 outbreak in Ranchi district, the administration and the police have an added responsibility of implementing the standard operating procedures (SOP) as the state government on Friday announced fresh unlock norms allowing hotels, restaurants and intra-state bus transport to operate. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said, “We have been keeping a check on violations by any kind of business establishments since the first unlock began and we will continue to monitor the situation through our special teams. We are only expecting a rise in the number of complaints but anyone flouting the norms will be taken to task.” As of August 28, over 100 business establishments and several persons were booked by the district administration’s special teams by way of surprise inspections, complaint redressal sand regular monitoring. Establishments flouting the norms were sealed and asked to reply within 72 hours through an affidavit. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “Currently, unlock guideline violators are being booked under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic disease Act and the IPC. To prevent further spread of the infection, we will intensify random checks at establishments which have been allowed to operate. On many occasions, we get inputs from the public over the phone at the control room numbers and the violators are booked.” Mishra said, “After detecting a violation in a business establishment, we seal the premise for 72 hours and if the owners submit an undertaking on our queries with a promise not to repeat the violations after taking up the required measures, they are allowed to operate.” SSP Surendra Kumar Jha said the police’s role is to ensure implementation of the existing restrictions and avert any kind of law and order situation. Jha also said police might review the situation and come up with a fresh strategy soon. SP (city) Saurav said, “We will focus on implementation of the key rules, including social distancing, wearing of masks and observance of the transport department orders. Our attention will be put on checking aimless movement of people.” Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries president Kunal Ajmani said the administration should desist from making the business houses a soft target while implementing the norms. “While the administration is sealing shops for small faults like failure in maintaining visitors’ register, no action is being taken against people who crowd the streets,” Ajmani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-takes-anti-covid-measures-as-fresh-unlock-phase-begins/articleshow/77827409.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||‘Gujarat’ man’s body found in canal near B’desh border||Kolkata: The recovery of a 24-year-old man’s body, along with an Aadhaar card of Gujarat, in Vidyadhari Canal near the India-Bangladesh border has senior BSF officers foxed. Efforts are on to ascertain if Shaikh Imaran (as named in the Aadhaar card) travelled to Ghojadanga in North 24 Parganas for work or was an illegal immigrant with valid Indian documents. Over the past few weeks, BSF troops have apprehended several illegal immigrants from Bangladesh with Indian IDs. “We found the body in the canal near ICP Ghojadanga around 7.10am on Friday during routine patrolling. Troops of 153Bn spotted something floating in the canal and followed it downstream. The body got stuck on the banks and was retrieved. Local villagers failed to identify the youth. His body was handed over to police who found a diary and the Aadhaar card,” a senior BSF officer of South Bengal Frontier said. According to the Aadhaar card, Imaran was the son of one Shaikh Badshahbhai, a resident of Ahmedabad. The cause of death could not be ascertained. Basirhat police are speaking to their counterparts in Ahmedabad. “A thorough investigation is needed. We have evidence that illegal immigrants from Bangladesh are in the country with valid IDs. Recently, we caught several women who were trafficked to India years ago and now possess Aadhaar, PAN and even Election Photo Identity Cards. Such people are normally nabbed when they try to cross the International Border illegally to visit relatives in Bangladesh or attempt to return after such visits. Such people are a great security risk if they are able to so easily procure identity documents,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gujarat-mans-body-found-in-canal-near-bdesh-border/articleshow/77829198.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||9 deaths take Covid toll near 400-mark, 1k+ new cases again||RANCHI: Jharkhand’s Covid-19 casualties continued to rise with nine casualties in 24 hours taking the toll to 398 on Saturday. The statet also reported 1,299 fresh infections and 958 recoveries on Saturday. The cumulative case load in state stood at 37,112, of which 11,498 are active and 25,216 have recovered. The number of active cases registered a spike with 333 added to the virus load. Among the nine casualties, East Singhbum continued to report the highest number with four deaths while Dhanbad, Chatra, Palamu, Ranchi and West Singhbhum reported one each. If the current trends continue, the state will cross the grim milestone of 400 deaths this weekend. State capital Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of fresh cases with 257 and 233 new infections respectively. Several other districts too reported a large number of new cases with Giridih reporting 78, followed by Dumka with 65, Dhanbad (60), Ramgarh (55) and Saraikela (53). The state positivity ratio remained consistent with a minor at 6.49% as 1,299 out of total 19,993 samples tested positive for the virus. With 5,797 cases reported in five days, the seven-day growth rate continued to increase and stood at 3.73% in comparison to national average of 2.31%. The seven-day doubling rate also fell to 18 days, which 12 point less than the national average of around 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/9-deaths-take-covid-toll-near-400-mark-1k-new-cases-again/articleshow/77832592.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Govt allows only 6 pvt hosps in Jharkhand to conduct antigen tests||RANCHI: The state health department on Saturday issued an order, restricting the non-NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers) and the non-NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) private hospitals from conducting the rapid antigen tests on Covid-19 patients. The order states that as per the ICMR guidelines, only those private hospitals that are affiliated to NABH and NABL can conduct the rapid antigen tests. Going by the aforementioned criteria, only six private hospitals — two in Jamshedpur, three in Ranchi and one in Seraikela-Kharsawan — are allowed to conduct the rapid antigen tests. The six hospitals include Tata Main Hospital and Tata Motors Hospital in Jamshedpur, Raj Hospital, Medanta Hospital and Santevita Hospital in Ranchi and Bramhananda Narayana Multispeciality Hospital in Seraikela Kharsawan. “These hospitals which have been allowed to conduct the rapid tests should follow the conditions laid down by the state health department and the ICMR in letter and in spirit. The swab samples should be collected through RT-PCR and all results must be updated on the CVV portal. The ICMR code for every test result has to be generated and information regarding the test results must be passed on to the civil surgeon of the district concerned and the state IDSP unit,” the order read. The government direction has not gone down well with the private hospitals as many of them are yet to obtain the NABH certification. Association of Healthcare Providers India (Jharkhand) president Jogesh Gambhir said the restriction would lead to delay in the treatment of patients and may lead to the further spread of coronavirus. “If private hospitals can treat the Covid-19 patients, why do they need to be affiliated to NABH to conduct the tests,” he added. Gambhir pointed out that in other states, the government has procured the test kits and distributed it to the private hospitals for free to ensure that maximum number of tests are conducted. “In Jharkhand, for reasons best known to the authorities, they are restricting the tests even when the private hospitals are willing to do it after purchasing the kit on their own,” he said. The association offered that in case the government is suspicious about the maintenance of data, a government representative can be stationed in the private hospitals to collect the data and update it on the ICMR portal on a regular basis. The vice president (operations) at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital here, Anil Kumar, said that in the wake of the pandemic their application for NABH certification is pending before the council. “Rapid antigen test would have helped us in the immediate management of patients because it gives results within half an hour,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/govt-allows-only-6-pvt-hosps-in-jkhand-to-conduct-antigen-tests/articleshow/77832883.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi police struggle to maintain social distancing in lock-ups||Ranchi: With the police stations having limited number of lockups for keeping the accused persons, ensuring social distancing norms among them is proving to be a challenge for the cops. In several police stations, the accused are being kept in barracks under the surveillance of security guards. The empty women’s locks ups are also housing the men in order to maintain the social distancing norms. The challenge is even greater for small police stations like Sadar, Hindpiri, Tupudana and Nagri. For instance, Tupudana station has only one lockup and its officers have no other option but to request the other police stations to keep their accused persons in order to maintain the safety norms. An officer posted in Sadar police station said that the difficulties crop up when four or more criminals are nabbed and keeping them in a single room may lead to the spread of Covid-19. Citing an example, he said that recently four criminals were caught with a cheque worth Rs 56.42 crore and one of them tested positive, sending the entire police force in a tizzy. In many cases, police are keeping the accused in different rooms within the police stations. City SP Saurav said, “We try to maintain social distancing norms as far as possible. If the number of accused is huge, we keep them in other rooms within the police stations where the cops can keep a watch. In some cases, the accused are shifted to other police stations which have more number of rooms.” A similar situation exists in the neighbouring district of Khunti. “We keep the accused persons in different areas within the police stations and if required, even shift them to other police stations. We also try to make sure that the accused wear masks all the time,” said SP Ashutosh Shekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-police-struggle-to-maintain-social-distancing-in-lock-ups/articleshow/77827529.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Govt allows only 6 pvt hosps in Jharkhand to conduct antigen tests||RANCHI: The state health department on Saturday issued an order, restricting the non-NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers) and the non-NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) private hospitals from conducting the rapid antigen tests on Covid-19 patients. The order states that as per the ICMR guidelines, only those private hospitals that are affiliated to NABH and NABL can conduct the rapid antigen tests. Going by the aforementioned criteria, only six private hospitals — two in Jamshedpur, three in Ranchi and one in Seraikela-Kharsawan — are allowed to conduct the rapid antigen tests. The six hospitals include Tata Main Hospital and Tata Motors Hospital in Jamshedpur, Raj Hospital, Medanta Hospital and Santevita Hospital in Ranchi and Bramhananda Narayana Multispeciality Hospital in Seraikela Kharsawan. “These hospitals which have been allowed to conduct the rapid tests should follow the conditions laid down by the state health department and the ICMR in letter and in spirit. The swab samples should be collected through RT-PCR and all results must be updated on the CVV portal. The ICMR code for every test result has to be generated and information regarding the test results must be passed on to the civil surgeon of the district concerned and the state IDSP unit,” the order read. The government direction has not gone down well with the private hospitals as many of them are yet to obtain the NABH certification. Association of Healthcare Providers India (Jharkhand) president Jogesh Gambhir said the restriction would lead to delay in the treatment of patients and may lead to the further spread of coronavirus. “If private hospitals can treat the Covid-19 patients, why do they need to be affiliated to NABH to conduct the tests,” he added. Gambhir pointed out that in other states, the government has procured the test kits and distributed it to the private hospitals for free to ensure that maximum number of tests are conducted. “In Jharkhand, for reasons best known to the authorities, they are restricting the tests even when the private hospitals are willing to do it after purchasing the kit on their own,” he said. The association offered that in case the government is suspicious about the maintenance of data, a government representative can be stationed in the private hospitals to collect the data and update it on the ICMR portal on a regular basis. The vice president (operations) at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital here, Anil Kumar, said that in the wake of the pandemic their application for NABH certification is pending before the council. “Rapid antigen test would have helped us in the immediate management of patients because it gives results within half an hour,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-allows-only-6-pvt-hosps-in-jkhand-to-conduct-antigen-tests/articleshow/77827513.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Unlock 4: Will work out final details with Bengal govt, says metro GM||KOLKATA: Metro services in Kolkata may resume in a restricted manner from September 7 after remaining suspended for over five months. The ministry of home affairs (MHA), on Friday issued guidelines for Unlock 4 in which Metro has been allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner. There are no instructions for resumption of suburban or regular long-distance rail services though. “We have gone through the guidelines and will discuss the matter with the ministry of railways. As soon as we receive instructions from the ministry of railways, we will start working on a plan to resume services. If the ministry of housing and urban affairs issues standard operating procedures by then, as has been mentioned in the MHA guidelines, we will also go through them. Finally, we will sit with the West Bengal government to work out the final details,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI. On Friday, state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had written to Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar, seeking a phased resumption of Metro and suburban railway services. “State government is of the view that Metro and local train services can be resumed in Bengal in a limited manner maintaining the norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocols,” Bandyopadhyay wrote. He also asked the Railway Board to “work out the modalities and logistics” of resumption of services “in consultation with the state”. Metro Railway has kept its assets ready to resume commercial services at short notice. It has also been running special services to enable staff to reach stations for maintenance work. When commercial operations resume, it is likely to be only be for existing smart-card holders as handling of tokens may compromise on hygiene. To enable hands-free operations, Metro has also launched online recharging facilities for smart cards. Explaining why the housing and urban affairs ministry has been asked to prepare SOPs for Metro operations and not the railway ministry, an official in Kolkata said that the urban affairs ministry has a stake in all Metros across the country except the one in Kolkata. The West Bengal government will be happy with this decision by the MHA as Metro Railway is considered the ‘lifeline’ of Kolkata. With offices and businesses opening, people are finding it difficult to commute safely as buses are crowded. Issues such as social distancing will certainly be discussed when Metro and state government officials meet. This meeting is crucial as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier accused the railways of taking a “unilateral decision” to run trains to Bengal from states with higher Covid-19 counts. Even the number of special trains being run by Eastern and South Eastern Railway was brought down after this. A state proposal to resume phased Metro services from July 1 didn’t get the go ahead from Delhi earlier. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had then written to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla urging for limited Metro services particularly for people engaged in essential services. But the MHA didn’t allow the services in view of the surge in the Covid graph in Bengal. This time, too, Metro officials worry over resuming services since the underground section is a confined space. Health experts have indicated that large gatherings (even 50-100 people) at close proximity in confined spaces can have disastrous consequences. There is also the issue of crowd management. This will have to be sorted out during the meeting with the state government as manpower will be an issue. Railway officials in Kolkata heaved a sigh of relief that the guidelines have nothing on resumption of suburban rail services. Crowd management at wayside suburban railway stations remains a bother for them. “We are running some local trains for our staff. There are repeated requests from certain circles, such as bank officials and state government employees to accommodate them in these trains. But we can’t take a decision without clearance from the Railway Board. It will also be impossible to maintain social distancing at wayside suburban stations that are not designed to restrict people from accessing platforms,” a railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-work-out-final-details-with-bengal-govt-metro-gm/articleshow/77829224.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||RMO shortage at Kolkata private hospitals hits Covid-fight plans||KOLKATA: A dearth of trained resident medical officers (RMO), who can handle the increased Covid-induced pressure on ICUs, has hit private hospitals hard, forcing many to cancel or defer plans of adding beds. While some have employed their senior specialists to serve at ICUs, others are recruiting young doctors from their own training programmes, but still finding it difficult to meet the requirement. According to hospitals, the RMOs are crumbling under the additional pressure. Many have tested Covid-positive while serving patients over the last five months, leaving the rest with yet more workload. Several stressed-out RMOs have gone on leave and some are even considering quitting the profession, according to a senior specialist at a private hospital. “Since it’s a skilled job that requires handling life-support systems, drugs and taking on-the-spot decisions, RMOs are not easy to replace. You need at least four-five years’ experience to function efficiently in an ICU. There is a shortage, which has grown after the pandemic left all ICUs full,” he said. Dearth of trained critical-care RMOs stopped AMRI Hospitals from extending its HDU beds. “We have over 60 Covid critical-care beds across our three units, but not enough RMOs,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. “We have more than 60 Covid critical-care beds across our three units (at Salt Lake, Mukundapur and Dhakuria), but not enough RMOs,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. “The constant flow of critical patients, together with the fact that many of our RMOs have tested positive over the last four months, has led to a shortage. We are ready to add more HDU beds but don’t have RMOs to serve these additional patients.” Baruah added that it was difficult to recruit more RMOs for ICUs, since they are mostly trained on the job. Some private hospitals run their own DNB (Diplomate in National Board) courses in broad specialities like general surgery, emergency, anaesthesiology as well as cardiology and critical care, which form a supply line of RMOs, but they are not enough in the current scenario. Since they need to handle skilled jobs like operating invasive and non-invasive ventilators, high-flow nasal canula (HFNC) and incubators, which can’t be done by the rest, RMOs can’t be easily replaced, said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “No hospital has enough of them to take the present load,” he said. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), for instance, runs courses in multiple disciplines that have helped the hospital tide over the crisis partially. “Our DNB students are taking care of patients under the supervision of senior consultants. While our Anandapur and Howrah units have more or less an adequate number of RMOs, the Barasat unit is facing a crisis, forcing us to handle the situation on a day-to-day basis,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, specialists from general wards have been moved to the Covid ICU to handle the additional load. The hospital has added more than 40 critical care beds over the last six weeks, taking the total to 100. It’s also employing its DNB students to assist RMOs at the ICU. “Since the number of Covid patients at the general ward has slid, we have moved some specialists like anaesthetists and critical care from there to the ICU. We have around 60 RMOs now, which is adequate, but we can’t have more beds,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Others have been forced to extend the working hours for RMOs after several tested Covid-positive. It has been leaving them even more drained, according to Kumar Raj, head of emergency, ILS Hospital. “We have six ICU RMOs, three each are working on a 12-hour shift now. Several have tested positive, and once an RMO falls ill, others are having to work on multiple shifts, which is strenuous. It’s leaving them stressed and fatigued,” said Raj, adding that they are often on duty for two days at a stretch. Several RMOs at ILS are staying away from their families for weeks, fearing they might infect their kin, added Raj. “RMOs are the most important part of the Covid treatment team in hospitals, especially for critical patients. They are the ones who are present inside the ICU round-the-clock and have to act in an emergency. Their role has become extremely important in the Covid scenario. We need more RMOs to relieve the stress on those on duty.” Another intensivist added that many RMOs had gone on leave, failing to bear the work pressure. “It’s relentless, and unlike consultants, they are on the job every minute. Any decision they take is critical and they are always in the line of fire. Unfortunately, most are not well paid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rmo-shortage-at-city-private-hosps-hits-covid-fight-plans/articleshow/77829226.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||NIA grills Chhatradhar Mahato in 2009 Rajdhani case||MIDNAPORE: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) questioned PCPA-turned-Trinamool Congress leader Chhatradhar Mahato for the second consecutive day on Saturday, this time about PCPA activists laying siege to the Bhubaneswar Rajdhani Express at Banstala railway halt in Jhargram in October 2009, reports Sujoy Khanra. The investigators quizzed Mahato at the Salboni Cobra camp, a day after he was interrogated in an 11-year-old Lalgarh murder case.  Mahato told the NIA team that he had no hand in the incident because it happened after police took him into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nia-grills-mahato-in-2009-rajdhani-case/articleshow/77829164.cms||Sujoy Khanra
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||9 deaths take Covid toll near 400-mark, 1k+ new cases again||RANCHI: Jharkhand’s Covid-19 casualties continued to rise with nine casualties in 24 hours taking the toll to 398 on Saturday. The statet also reported 1,299 fresh infections and 958 recoveries on Saturday. The cumulative case load in state stood at 37,112, of which 11,498 are active and 25,216 have recovered. The number of active cases registered a spike with 333 added to the virus load. Among the nine casualties, East Singhbum continued to report the highest number with four deaths while Dhanbad, Chatra, Palamu, Ranchi and West Singhbhum reported one each. If the current trends continue, the state will cross the grim milestone of 400 deaths this weekend. State capital Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of fresh cases with 257 and 233 new infections respectively. Several other districts too reported a large number of new cases with Giridih reporting 78, followed by Dumka with 65, Dhanbad (60), Ramgarh (55) and Saraikela (53). The state positivity ratio remained consistent with a minor at 6.49% as 1,299 out of total 19,993 samples tested positive for the virus. With 5,797 cases reported in five days, the seven-day growth rate continued to increase and stood at 3.73% in comparison to national average of 2.31%. The seven-day doubling rate also fell to 18 days, which 12 point less than the national average of around 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-deaths-take-covid-toll-near-400-mark-1k-new-cases-again/articleshow/77827545.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 30, 2020||Ranchi||Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj put in 14-day quarantine in Giridih||Bokaro: BJP’s Unnao (Uttar Pradesh) MP Sakshi Maharaj was put in 14-day institutional quarantine in Giridih, about 220km from Ranchi, by the police on Saturday morning. A team led by Giridih SDO Prerna Dixit apprehended his vehicle near Pirtand police station while he was on way to Dhanbad to board a Delhi-bound Rajdhani. The MP arrived in Giridih earlier in the morning and spent two hours with his ailing 97-year-old mother at Shanti Bhawan ashram. He was on his way back when he was stopped by the team, which cited government norms and put him under quarantine at the same ashram. While Maharaj accused the JMM-Congress-RJD government quarantined him forcefully, Giridih DC Rahul Kumar Sinha said, “Sakshi Maharaj has been quarantined for 14 days as per the guidelines issued by state government on July 17. Those entering Jharkhand by road or train from must remain in quarantine for 14 days. I only acted as per instruction of my superiors.” Maharaj said, “I had sent a fax to the chief secretary, the DGP and the DC and SP in Giridih on Thursday informing them about my visit. Had they objected to my visit or told me about the quarantine rules, I would not have come here. I told the DC that I have to attend a high-level meeting of a Parliament standing committee in which important bills have to be passed, but he refused to release me. The JMM-led government has acted against me only because I belong to BJP and I will lodge a complaint with the parliamentary Committee” While, the state government said Maharaj had not inform the authorities about his visit, BJP accused JMM led government of acting unethically. “Forcibly putting Maharaj in quarantine is a politically motivated action taken by the Giridih administration,” P N Singh, BJP MP from Dhanbad, said. On Friday, an FIR was lodged against RJD chief Lalu Yadav’s elder son and former Bihar health minister Tej Pratap Yadav for violating lockdown rules in Ranchi. Tej Pratap, who was in Ranchi to meet his father on Thursday, has been charged with entering Jharkhand without giving proper information to the authorities and not following quarantine norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/unnao-mp-sakshi-maharaj-put-in-14-day-quarantine-in-giridih/articleshow/77827470.cms||Divy Khare
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Eye on coal project, Bengal lifts land purchase embargo||KOLKATA/SURI: The Bengal government has withdrawn the financial embargo on land acquisition and purchase, which it had imposed earlier as a part of an austerity drive. The embargo was lifted a week ago as CM Mamata Banerjee wishes to flag off the Deucha Panchami coal project in Birbhum before the 2021 assembly polls. The coal block has a reserve of 2.1 billion tonnes and the project is likely to create jobs for 1 lakh people. On April 2, the state had made it clear that it would not undertake any new project. However, the embargo has been withdrawn “in public interest” and considering the finance department will give its nod, an official said. Banerjee had sent chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on a field visit to Deucha Panchami in July, apparently to assess possible bottlenecks, including how acquisition hurdles could be bypassed. Sinha had held meetings with villagers and assured them of a rehabilitation/resettlement package. Mining activity in the coal block is expected to boost Birbhum’s economy and it will be the biggest industrial project before the 2021 polls. The Centre had granted allocation to Bengal in September 2019 and the state government is planning to mine 11,222.5 acres in phases. A Nabanna official said the government planned to begin land purchase/acquisition after Durga Puja. The state has already formed Bengal Birbhum Coalfields Limited (BBCL) to anchor the project under the Power Development Corporation. A Nabanna official said investments to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore were needed to develop the coal block and a huge chunk of it would be spent on land acquisition and development. Neither tribal land owners nor non-tribals are enthusiastic about handing over their ancestral plots to the government, prompting the latter to mull special rehabilitation packages. Anticipating resistance, the state is also planning to employ a section of local land owners. The mouzas that are expected to be largely affected are Hatgacha, Chanda, Alinagar, Harinsingha, Nischintapur, Ddewanganj, Bahadurganj, Kabilnagar, Saluka and Makdumnagar. A senior official said all villagers “who are living on project land will be rehabilitated and the CM has made it clear that there will be no forcible acquisition”. A land official refused to give an exact estimate of acres needed, saying “the government wants to progress in phases”. A member of Panchami Mine Owners Association said, “We are not against coal mining here, but demand adequate compensation for stone units and their labourers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eye-on-coal-project-bengal-lifts-land-purchase-embargo/articleshow/77829173.cms||Someswar Boral
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya raises President's rule demand||HEMTABAD: BJP national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya wants the 2021 assembly elections in Bengal to be held under President’s Rule. He is the first among BJP leaders to openly voice such a demand. “Holding of free and fair elections is not possible under Mamata Banerjee’s rule. The state administration is being run by a group of partisan and corrupt officials. We have already appealed to the President to seek reports from the West Bengal governor. Elections in this state should be conducted under President’s Rule,” Vijayvargiya said in Uttar Dinajpur on Saturday. During the day, a BJP delegation led by the national general secretary reached out to the family of the party’s Hemtabad MLA Debendra Nath Roy, whose body was found hanging outside a closed shop more than a month ago on July 13, one-and-a-half kilometres from his residence. BJP and the MLA’s widow have sought a CBI inquiry into what they called was a “premeditated murder” when the primary autopsy report stated that the injury was “ante-mortem”. The state police, however, held that it could be a “suicide”. State BJP leaders rubbished the state police version and petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind the very next day, on July 14, showcasing the BJP MLA’s unnatural death as a continuation of the long series of “political killings” under Banerjee’s rule in Bengal. “Democracy has been hanged in West Bengal. Political workers were being killed so far, and now elected leaders are being murdered and shown to have committed suicide. Anarchy prevails in the state, and its government has no right to be in power... We have demanded that the assembly be dissolved,” Vijayvargiya had said after meeting the President. BJP leaders complained that as many as 105 BJP activists have been killed in the state in the last three years. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar called on Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi six days later on July 20 to brief him about the state’s law and order situation. Vijayvargiya’s demand for President’s Rule comes a day after state BJP president Dilip Ghosh left it to the Election Commission to conduct free and fair polls in Bengal in the due course of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vijayvargiya-raises-prez-rule-demand/articleshow/77829199.cms||Subhro Maitra
August 30, 2020||Kolkata||Three senior Visva-Bharati officials dismissed from service||SANTINIKETAN: Visva-Bharati has dismissed three senior officials of which two are faculty members. The VB executive council in its meeting on Saturday removed former officiating vice-chancellor Sabujkali Sen, former officiating registrar Sougata Chattopadhyay and former finance officer and Botany professor Samit Roy from service. The EC decision has been communicated to them via mail. Sen got the “removal from service” mail two days ahead of her retirement on Monday. The VB EC cracked the whip based on the recommendations of former Calcutta high court Chief Justice Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, who proposed the ultimate punishment after going through the report of an UGC-appointed committee with Prime Minister’s nominee Dulal Ghosh as member. One among the three dismissed said: “The university didn’t give us enough time to submit papers in our defence. The decision was pre-fixed. And the so-called investigation is just an eyewash. We will move court.” The UGC appointed the Dulal Ghosh Committee to look into the alleged tampering of the Visva-Bharati EC resolution No. 2 of the February 17, 2018 meeting. The accused had allegedly tampered with the recording of the resolution in the minute book in a bid to extend Sen’s tenure as director to give her an edge in the race of getting the officiating vice-chancellor’s post. The three were suspended on June13, 2020 after the EC found prima facie substance in the allegations. Accordingly, Visva-Bharati appointed a one-man committee under former Calcutta high court Chief Justice Jyotirmoy Bhattacahrya to propose the quantum of punishment against the three who were found guilty in the Dulal Ghosh committee report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-senior-vb-officials-dismissed-from-service/articleshow/77829175.cms||Someswar Boral
August 30, 2020||World||Trump surveys Hurricane Laura damage in post-convention trip||LAKE CHARLES: President Donald Trump got a firsthand look Saturday at the damage from Hurricane Laura on a post-Republican National Convention trip that allowed him to use the trappings of his office to try to project empathy and leadership. His stops, first in Louisiana and later in Texas, came two days after the Category 4 storm slammed the Gulf Coast, leaving at least 16 dead and wreaking havoc with severe winds and flooding. While the storm surge has receded and the cleanup effort has begun, hundreds of thousands remain without power or water, and they could for weeks or months as the hot summer stretches on. "I'm here to support the great people of Louisiana. It's been a great state for me,'' he said in Lake Charles. "It was a tremendously powerful storm." He said he knows one thing about the state: "They rebuild it fast." During the slightly more than two hours he spent in the city, Trump met with officials and relief workers but not with any of the residents whose homes had been ripped apart in the storm. He did, however, get a good look at the extensive damage and the debris strewn across the city of 80,000 people, beginning with the bird's eye view from Air Force One as it came in for landing. His first stop was a warehouse being used as a staging area for the Cajun Navy, a group of Louisiana volunteers who help with search and rescue after hurricanes and floods. "Good job," Trump told them. Trump then toured a neighborhood with Gov. John Bel Edwards and acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf, making his way down a street blocked by felled trees and where houses were battered by the storm, one with its entire roof torn off. Edwards has said Laura was the most powerful hurricane ever to strike his state, surpassing even Hurricane Katrina, which was a Category 3 when it hit almost exactly 15 years ago. "Whether you come from Louisiana or 5th Avenue In New York, you know about Katrina," Trump said. The president then flew by helicopter to Orange, Texas, which was the worst-hit area in the state. Several hundred supporters greeted his arrival with Trump 2020 flags, banners and signs. Among the officials on hand were Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas. Before a tour by air over damaged areas, Trump and other officials visited the emergency operations center in Orange County to discuss storm damage and the government response. Trump has sometimes struggled with his role as consoler in chief, failing to project empathy when visiting places hard hit by tragedy and disaster. That includes in Puerto Rico, where Trump was photographed tossing rolls of paper towel into the crowd, which some saw as inappropriately playful, given the circumstances. During a trip to the Carolinas in 2018, Trump marveled at a yacht floodwaters had washed onto a family's property, telling them, "At least you got a nice boat out of the deal." And he was caught on camera telling a person he'd handed out food to "have a good time." Other times, Trump has been a source of comfort. After a tornado ripped through Alabama last year, killing nearly two dozen people, Trump spent time with families who'd lost loved ones, listening to their stories and hugging them. Showing empathy has come more naturally for his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, who issued a statement Saturday saying he and his wife were praying for those hurt by the storm and promising that "we will be there to help you build back better." In a possible subtle dig at the incumbent, Biden praised the response of families in the hurricane-hit states and thanked them for "reminding Americans that no disaster, no single person, no injustice can match the humble, personal, courageous ways that Americans choose decency every single day." Laura, which packed 150-mph (240-kph) winds and a storm surge as high as 15 feet (4.5 meters), toppled trees and damaged buildings as far north as central Arkansas. More than 580,000 coastal residents evacuated in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. More than half of those who died succumbed to carbon monoxide poisoning from the unsafe operation of generators. The hurricane also killed nearly two dozen people in Haiti and the Dominican Republic as it barreled toward the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-surveys-hurricane-laura-damage-in-post-convention-trip/articleshow/77829541.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: DIG may be suspended for neglecting duty||MUMBAI: The state prison department has recommended suspension of Swati Sathe, deputy inspector general (DIG), prisons, for dereliction of duty and going on leave without following due procedure during the ongoing pandemic. The state government is yet to take a decision on the matter. Sathe resumed work on August 11, a day after the recommendation was made. ‘Showed open defiance to transfer, didn’t join duty’Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, prisons, on August 10 sent a letter to Sanjay Chahande, additional chief secretary (prisons), recommending Sathe’s suspension. Sources in the prison department said Sathe was posted as DIG headquarters in Pune and was transferred as DIG prisons (east region) in Nagpur on June 15. A senior officer said she did not join duty immediately during the pandemic when a number of Covid-19 positive cases were being reported from various jails. “On July 4, as many as 42 prisoners and 56 jail staffers tested positive for Covid-19 in the Nagpur jail. Anil Deshmukh, state home minister, and Ramanand had visited the Nagpur jail, but Sathe had till then not joined duty as DIG in Nagpur,” said the jail official. Ramanand wrote a letter to Sathe on July 6 asking her to resume duty immediately. On July 13, Sathe joined duty as DIG (east region). Sources further said that on August 7, Sathe sought leave and proceeded on leave without getting it sanctioned from senior officials. The source said Sathe had allegedly “shown open defiance to the transfer order and not resumed office for a long time even during the pandemic and ran away from her job in complete dereliction of duty.” On August 11, Deepak Pandey, inspector general of police (prisons), issued summons to Sathe asking her to appear before him to record her statement related to her leave. Sathe joined duty the same day. When contacted, Sathe told TOI that she didn’t know anything about any recommendation of her suspension. “I don’t want to say anything. I was on leave for a couple of days and have submitted a medical certificate. I am on duty,” she said. Pandey, confirming he was conducting a preliminary enquiry and had issued summons to Sathe, said, “The matter is under inquiry. I cannot speak at this moment about it.” Chahande declined to speak. “It is purely a procedural issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-dig-may-be-suspended-for-neglecting-duty/articleshow/77829575.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu logs 6,352 cases, highest in a month||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases, 6,352, and the lowest number of deaths, 87, in a month on Saturday. On July 29, the state reported 6,426 fresh cases and the previous day it had reported 88 deaths. While daily case load steadily declined, the number of deaths went up. On an average, the state reported 5,847 cases and 110 deaths a day in August. However, active cases came down to 52,726 on Saturday from 57,490 on July 29. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the doubling period for the infection that was around 22 days in July has gone up to 46 days. This means it will take 46 days for TN to double the infection from 4 lakh to 8 lakh. "But this can be stopped with aggressive testing and isolation by health agencies. So far, we have done more than 45 lakh tests using RT-PCR. We with achieve better results with 'herd masking' and social distancing," he said, minutes after the state expert medical committee met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Although TN has the highest number of cases after Maharashtra, the test positive rateis around 8% compared to 21% in Maharashtra and 17% in Andhra Pradesh. The doubling time for deaths has also moved up from 27 days in the last week of July to 45 days. In the last one week, Chennai, Tiruvallur, Coimbatore, Chengalpet and Cuddalore had the maximum number of cases followed by Salem and Kancheepuram. While Chennai added 9,012 cases, Tiruvallur added 2,264 and Coimbatore 2,909. On Saturday, Chennai reported 1,285 cases and 17 deaths. Chengalpet reported 306 cases, Kancheepuram 241 and Tiruvallur 284. The seven other northern districts reported 1,184 cases and 16 deaths. Cuddalore topped the table with 420 cases, followed by Vellore (178), Villupuram (171) Tiruvannamala i(152) and Ranipet(151). Vellore reported six deaths. The eight western districts together reported 1,324 cases compared to 1,044 in the south and 672 in the central zone. However, the ten southern districts reported 19 deaths compared to 17 in the West and eight in central districts. Coimbatore reported 491 cases followed by 432 in Salem and 156 in Erode. In the South, there were 154 cases in Tirunelveli and 161 in Kanyakumari, 126 in Virudhunagar and 125 in Theni. Madurai reported 115 cases and Dindigul clocked 129. Kanyakumari reported six deaths, Coimbatore nine and Madurai four. Among the central districts, Thanjavur (134) topped the table followed by Pudukottai(124). Tiruvarur and Trichy reported 102 cases each. Nagapattinam had 101 cases. Nilgiris, Dharamapuri and Perambalur reported 17, 18 and 19 fresh cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-logs-6352-cases-highest-in-a-month/articleshow/77829587.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chennai||Give priority to the elderly, speed up Covid tests: Tamil Nadu CM||CHENNAI: In the backdrop of the state surpassing four lakh positive cases and 7,000 deaths, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has directed the district collectors to give priority to the elderly people and those with co-morbidities while doing RT-PCR tests. He has also asked them to expedite the test results. The state tested 80,988 samples on Saturday, a record in the five months of Covid management. In his four-hour-long video conference with the district collectors, the chief minister reviewed the districts one by one. Adequate awareness should be created for those with symptoms of fever, cold, dry cough, wheezing, tiredness, head ache and loss of smell and taste reach hospitals in 24 hours, he said. "The chief minister expressed concerns over spike in Covid cases in Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Salem, Vellore, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur districts. They have to adopt a focus strategy to bring down the cases," said a senior official. These districts have to map the affected areas, hold fever camps and mount surveillance involving non-government organisations and tests to clean up the affected regions, said the official. Government sources said the chief minister was considering more relaxations to revive the economy. It needs to be clubbed with strict action to curb the disease. Districts like Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai and Tiruvarur were told to increase tests because the positivity rate was high in those areas. Certain districts were asked to set up screening centres to send the symptomatic to Covid hospitals and health centres and asymptomatic to Covid care centres.. The state government has spent 7,162 crore towards Covid control, treatment and relief measures so far. "Spike in cases in the western belt is attributed to the opening of industries. The chief minister was particular about the workers getting tested and the factories being visited by a team of labour department and local body authorities," another official said. The government feels that abolishing e-pass and movement of public transport would complicate the disease control measures. The chief minister is also strongly advocating the use of e-pass to trace the contacts. On Saturday, a specific direction was issued to Greater Chennai Corporation to put in place measures to control hike in cases once e-pass relaxations are announced. While unveiling "Unlock 4.0" guidelines, the Union home ministry said there "shall be no restriction" on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements. But the state government does not subscribe to this thought. Quoting study reports, Palaniswami sought to convey that the state was recovering speedily from the economic impact due to Covid-19, with various welfare measures being implemented by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/give-priority-to-the-elderly-speed-up-covid-tests-tamil-nadu-cm/articleshow/77829589.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Timing changes, stringent measures likely in Namma Metro||BENGALURU: In major relief to Namma Metro commuters, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will resume services, in a graded manner, from September 7. This follows the latest guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs under Unlock 4.0 on Saturday. “Let’s await the SOP from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs as it says in a graded manner,” said BMRCL chief public relations officer BL Yashvanth Chavan. BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth had earlier said they can be ready in 4-5 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-timing-changes-stringent-measures-likely-in-namma-metro/articleshow/77829621.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Hospitals can use cadaver organs for own patients||BENGALURU: With no cadaver donations since the last week of March when the lockdown was announced till last week of August, the government has tweaked organ donation allocation criteria. Now, a hospital with a brain-dead patient can retrieve organs and transplant them to patients undergoing treatment at the same facility. The move, which may boost organ retrievals, is a Uturn by Jeevasarthakathe, the cadaver organ donation coordinating unit of the state government, which had, in February, scrapped in-house allocation for hospitals as it sensed foul play. Suspecting some hospital chains had formed a cartel with smaller health centres to get patients on the verge of being declared brain dead, the government had withdrawn the special allocation preference conferred on hospitals in this regard. The move was largely opposed by all stakeholders. We’ve temporarily relaxed criteria to encourage organ donations: OfficialAfter the February decision, there were five donations till mid-March. But since March-end, there have been no cadaver transplants. The first was a brain-dead plumber whose organs were harvested on August 28. “To encourage organ donations and boost transplants, we have temporarily relaxed the criteria for in-house allocation,” said Dr Kishore Phadke, convener, Jeevasarthakathe. “For the time being, we’ll follow the old rules. The donor hospital will get preference when it comes to organ allocation. If there are no suitable recipients at the donor hospital, then the organ will go to the general pool. As kidneys are shared organs, one of them will be given to the retrieval centre and other will go to the general pool,” said Dr Phadke. More than 2,000 patients in the state are on the waiting list for kidneys alone and are surviving on dialysis. “Hospitals have to be transparent and ensure they do not take undue advantage of the situation during the pandemic. This was much needed to save lives of patients seeking organs. Non-Covid deaths must have gone up for want of organs, said a livertransplant surgeon from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-hospitals-can-use-cadaver-organs-for-own-patients/articleshow/77829637.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 30, 2020||Bengaluru||In 1st cadaver donation since March, brain-dead plumber from Bengaluru saves 3 lives||BENGALURU: A 31-year-old man from KR Puram, who was declared brain dead following an accidental fall at his workplace, breathed new life into three ailing people. The man’s heart, lungs, liver and corneas were harvested with the consent of his family members. This happens to be the first cadaver donation in Karnataka since March. Narendra (name changed) worked as a plumber-cumelectrician. Around 5.30pm on August 19, Narendra, who was from Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, fell from the second floor of a building near Horamavu, where he was working. He was immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he was on ventilator for six days, but showed no signs of improvement. On August 26, Narendra was shifted to SSNMC hospital on the city’s outskirts. However, two days later he was declared brain dead and his family members were informed about the same, along with the possibility of organ donation if they agreed. Though they lost their only breadwinner, the grief-stricken family agreed to the idea. Narendra’s organs were retrieved the same day and allocated to needy recipients. While his liver was given to a 40-year-old man at SSNMC hospital, the lungs went to to a 64-year old woman at Gleneagles Global Hospitals. Narendra’s heart went to a 29-yearold man at Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. His corneas were also retrieved and donated to Narayana Nethralaya. Narendra is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son. “We lost him because he sustained grievous injury. We can’t blame anyone. We were aware of organ donation and agreed when doctors informed us,” Narendra’s cousin told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-1st-cadaver-donation-since-march-brain-dead-plumber-from-bengaluru-saves-3-lives/articleshow/77829666.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Narmada flowing 9ft over danger mark||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted on Saturday night that floods have wreaked havoc in 394 villages in nine districts of Madhya Pradesh, and that 7,000 people have been rescued. Narmada was flowing 9ft over the danger mark at 894ft in Nemawar area of Dewas, forcing evacuation of at least four villages. Narmada water began surging over Mortakka bridge in Khandwa, forcing police to stop traffic. Rivers feeding the Narmada, like Jamner, were also flooded, cutting off roads to several villages. CM Chouhan said five people stranded in Chhindwara were rescued by helicopter. Villages in Hoshangabad, Sehore and Raisen have been hit hard by floods. “Two Air Force helicopters were sought to rescue people in Hoshangabad, Sehore and Raisen, but the choppers could not reach due to bad weather. We have asked for more helicopters from IAF. Rescue work will start from early Sunday morning,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-narmada-flowing-9ft-over-danger-mark/articleshow/77829669.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Farm worker sells baby girl for Rs 1 lakh, buys bike and phone||CHIKKABALLAPUR: An agricultural labourer in Chikkaballapur district sold his 3-month-old daughter for Rs 1 lakh and bought a new motorbike and a mobile phone. The infant, sold to a childless couple from a neighbouring village, was rescued by officials of the women and child welfare department on Saturday. While the girl’s mother was detained, the father is on the run. (The identities of the parents have been concealed.) The incident occurred at Tinakal village in Chintamani taluk, about 70km from Bengaluru. Acting on a tipoff, officials went to the village and questioned a few people, including the mother. According to sources, this was the man’s second marriage. He was known for his flamboyance and known to indulge in splurging. When baby was born, the parents planned to sell her and were negotiating with some persons in Bengaluru. However, their plan was foiled as hospital authorities were vigilant. In the meantime, another person got wind of their intention and struck a deal with the man on behalf of a childless couple of Malamachanahalli in Siddlaghatta taluk. The latter, aged over 50 years, had paid Rs 1 lakh for the baby. Subsequently, the man reportedly bought a motorbike for Rs 50,000 and a smartphone for Rs 15,000. Mom appeals to authorities to give back her childHis spending spree aroused suspicions among neighbours who soon realised the baby had been missing. They alerted officials who visited the house. They’re yet to confirm when the baby was handed over to the couple. The mother maintained she agreed to sell the baby as her husband had threatened with dire consequences. The baby was rescued and handed over to the adoption centre in Chikkaballapura, according to Lakshmidevi, Child Development Project Officer, Chikkaballapura. Meanwhile, the mother appealed to authorities to give back her child. A decision about it will be taken at the sitting of the Child Welfare Committee on Tuesday, said Lakshmidevi. Police have launched a manhunt for the father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-farm-worker-sells-baby-girl-for-rs-1-lakh-buys-bike-and-phone/articleshow/77829681.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Monsoon pours misery in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: After playing truant for most of the season, monsoon poured misery on Bhopal and large parts of the state on Saturday, forcing the evacuation of over 200 in the state capital and 7,000 people from around 400 villages elsewhere. The Army has been called out in Hoshangabad — which faces flooding for the first time since 1973 — and Sehore and Raisen districts. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took an aerial inspection of the flooded areas and tweeted on Saturday night that help has been sought from IAF. In the state capital, there was up to 2 feet water on roads, 3ft at some places. At least 50 slums were submerged, prompting a mass evacuation. All underpasses were unpassable with cars sinking till the windscreen. Chirayu Hospital, a dedicated Covid care centre, was flooded, as Upper Lake broke its banks. The lower decks of the hospital were under nearly knee-deep water, and the parking lot was flooded, but patient care and Covid operations were not affected, said hospital authorities. Among the 650 patients admitted there is MP health minister Prabhuram Chaudhury. Traffic was a torture all day as Hamidia Road, Bharat Talkies Road, and the stretch from Alpana trisection to the railway station were under 2 feet of water. Homes were flooded in Bhopal Talkies area, Saifia Road, Sindhi Colony Tiraha, Shiv Nagar Colony of Karond, Bhanpur and Atal Ayub Nagar, with Raslakheri among the worst hit. In Kolar, traffic was so badly clogged that it took an hour to cover 3km in the evening. Tractor Turns Ambulance: A 6-year-old boy got stuck in an ambulance on a waterlogged road near Eithkhedi. The driver called another ambulance, which couldn’t reach them either. A local resident who owns a tractor came to the rescue. The boy, who was on oxygen was put on the tractor and driven to the other ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/monsoon-pours-misery-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/77829660.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Another high in MP, 47% Covid cases have come in August||BHOPAL: Yet another ‘highest ever’ daily count — 1,442 — took MP’s Covid tally well past the 60,000 mark on Saturday. Indore reported its own high of 265 new cases, along with the midnight bulletin, taking its tally to 12,720. A whopping 12,254 cases have been reported in the past 10 days, and August’s tally of over 29,000 cases is 47% of MP’s entire tally. It’s the 10th consecutive day that 1,000-plus cases were detected per day. Along with it, 22 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 1,345. Over 33% of MP’s toll has come in August, at an alarming rate of one every 90 minutes. To add to the worry, all 52 districts of the state reported fresh cases on Saturday — for the first time this month — and 37 districts reported double-digit figures. Indore, again, had the highest tally on Saturday at 226, followed Bhopal (175), Gwalior (168) and Jabalpur (126), says the state health bulletin. These four districts have been on top of the charts all month, accounting for over 53% of MP’s active-case count of 13,117. This month has been a story of record counts, one after the other. On August 20, 1,142 people had tested positive, and a day later 1,147. The next three days were also highs of 1,226, 1,263 and 1,292. On August 25, a whopping 1,379 people had tested positive. After two days of a slight dip, the Covid count shot to another record on August 30. MP sees over 29,000 Covid cases in AugIt’s likely that this month will have more cases than the other four months taken together. An alarming 29,069 positive cases have so far been reported in the state in the month of August itself. While 13,593 cases were reported till June 30, 18,213 cases were reported in July alone. August has long surpassed July. The positivity rate, which was 4.1 till July, is now 4.59. On the brighter side, 1,017 people recovered on Saturday, taking the cure count to 46,413. The recovery rate stands at 76%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-high-in-mp-47-covid-cases-have-come-in-august/articleshow/77829692.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Indore||Another high in MP, 47% Covid cases have come in August||BHOPAL: Yet another ‘highest ever’ daily count — 1,442 — took MP’s Covid tally well past the 60,000 mark on Saturday. Indore reported its own high of 265 new cases, along with the midnight bulletin, taking its tally to 12,720. A whopping 12,254 cases have been reported in the past 10 days, and August’s tally of over 29,000 cases is 47% of MP’s entire tally. It’s the 10th consecutive day that 1,000-plus cases were detected per day. Along with it, 22 deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 1,345. Over 33% of MP’s toll has come in August, at an alarming rate of one every 90 minutes. To add to the worry, all 52 districts of the state reported fresh cases on Saturday — for the first time this month — and 37 districts reported double-digit figures. Indore, again, had the highest tally on Saturday at 226, followed Bhopal (175), Gwalior (168) and Jabalpur (126), says the state health bulletin. These four districts have been on top of the charts all month, accounting for over 53% of MP’s active-case count of 13,117. This month has been a story of record counts, one after the other. On August 20, 1,142 people had tested positive, and a day later 1,147. The next three days were also highs of 1,226, 1,263 and 1,292. On August 25, a whopping 1,379 people had tested positive. After two days of a slight dip, the Covid count shot to another record on August 30. MP sees over 29,000 Covid cases in AugIt’s likely that this month will have more cases than the other four months taken together. An alarming 29,069 positive cases have so far been reported in the state in the month of August itself. While 13,593 cases were reported till June 30, 18,213 cases were reported in July alone. August has long surpassed July. The positivity rate, which was 4.1 till July, is now 4.59. On the brighter side, 1,017 people recovered on Saturday, taking the cure count to 46,413. The recovery rate stands at 76%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/another-high-in-mp-47-covid-cases-have-come-in-august/articleshow/77829696.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Mysuru||Oxford vaccine trial begins at Mysuru’s JSS Medical College||MYSURU: Two volunteers were administered doses of Oxford University’s Covishield vaccine here on Saturday, under phase 2 and 3 of human trials in the country. The vaccine is manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. A total of 250 volunteers from Mysuru and Bengaluru have signed up for the trials. “On day 1, we administered the vaccine candidate to two volunteers. They are aged 30 and 40,” said Dr H Basavanagowdappa, principal of JSS Medical College. “The screening of other volunteers participating in these trials is under progress. Two scientists of ICMR are monitoring these trials.” This is the second such trial being carried out in the state. The other vaccine in trial is the indigenous Covaxin, for which Bharat Biotech has partnered with Belagavi-based Jeevan Rekha Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/oxford-vaccine-trial-begins-at-mysurus-jss-medical-college/articleshow/77829698.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||PDS ration stocks in 2 districts fit for ‘goats & sheep’, Centre writes to MP govt||JABALPUR: PDS ration stocked in warehouses in Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat and Mandla districts is “suitable only for goats and sheep”, the Centre has written to the state. The ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution has asked the MP government to withhold further distribution of rice stocks across the state. “They are unfit for human consumption,” says a report sent by the ministry to principal secretary, department of food and civil supplies, in MP. A team led by a deputy commissioner had inspected depots of state agencies and fair-price shops in Balaghat and Mandla from July 30 to August 2 this year. It collected 32 samples —31 from depots and one from a ration shop — which were analysed in NABL-accredited Central Grain Analysis Laboratory (CGAL), Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi. It is the referral lab for SAARC countries as well, said officials. “Analysis found that all 32 samples were not just beyond the rejection limit, as per the uniform specifications issued by the ministry, but also beyond PFA standards as per FSSAI,” reads the report, a copy of which is with TOI. “Stocks are found to be unfit for human consumption and in the category of ‘feed’ — suitable for livestock such as goat, horse, sheep and poultry,” the report adds. According to the records of godowns, the stocks from where samples were drawn were procured in May-July 2020 while the condition of the stock represents a different picture altogether, says the report sent by ministry’s deputy commissioner Vishwajeet Haldar. ‘Stocks 100% recycled, grave lapses in quality of rice’The stocks are 100% recycled old stocks and the gunny bags used for storage are also at least two to three years old,” he adds, pointing out that sample analysis clearly depicts “grave shortcomings in the quality of rice”. “There have been grave lapses by district officers, officials and authorities in the entire channel from procurement to distribution. The personnel need to be identified and proceedings may be initiated against them under PFA/ FSSAI Act,” he said. The ministry has asked the state government to blacklist the rice millers involved in delivery of such stocks with immediate effect. In this context, concern has arisen regarding the other stocks in Madhya Pradesh, said Haldar, adding: “It is requested to withhold rice stocks available in the depots till further investigation and re-categorization”. The MP government has been asked to submit an action taken report at the earliest to the ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-pds-ration-stocks-in-2-districts-fit-for-goats-sheep-not-humans/articleshow/77829700.cms||Siddharth Shankar Pandey
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chief secretary will probe scholarship scam: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Insisting that nobody found guilty of complicity in the alleged scholarship scam would be spared, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday had asked the chief secretary to conduct a thorough probe into the case, which will be taken to its logical conclusion as per the law. The chief secretary, Vini Mahajan will look into all aspects of the case, and anyone found involved, whatever his position within or outside the government, would be penalised and punished in accordance with the legal provisions, said Amarinder. Law will take its course, he asserted. The chief minister said nobody could be put on the mat without a fair probe and proper inquiry, which cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot also deserved. “There is rule of law, which needs to be followed,” he said, adding that he would not succumb to the Opposition trial in the case. ‘AAP behaving like rogue party’However, there was no question of protecting or shielding anyone, and action under the law would be taken if anyone was found guilty of any involvement in the case, he added. The chief minister also lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for behaving like a rogue party by baying for Dharamsot’s blood without a proper inquiry. “Are we living in a state of anarchy, with no rule of law,” Captain Amarinder asked, reacting strongly to the completely unwarranted and uncalled for demand of AAP and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLAs, who had created a din in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday over the issue. “Do you really expect me to take action without a proper inquiry against my own minister when I have not done so even against many Opposition leaders?” asked Amarinder, pointing out that Dharamsot has already said he is ready to face any inquiry in the matter. Unfortunately, allegations and counter-allegations had become a way of life in Indian politics, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chief-secretary-will-probe-scholarship-scam-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh/articleshow/77829733.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Bhopal||Jumbo gets electrocuted by power line in Madhya Pradesh's Bandhavgarh||BHOPAL: An elephant was electrocuted in a freak accident in the core area of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Madhya Pradesh’s Umaria district on Friday afternoon. The female was moving with a herd of 15-20 when it raised its trunk and touched a live high-tension wire. There had been several instances of tigers, deer and wild boars getting electrocuted by transmission lines passing through forest areas in the state, but this is the first time in over 50 years that a wild elephant became the victim. “I can’t recall the death of any wild elephant in many years. We will survey transmission lines passing through forest corridors and mitigate the problem with the help of electricity department,” says Alok Kumar, chief wildlife warden of the state. BTR officials said the herd was heading for Gangital village in the afternoon, and a forest team was on its trail. Jumbo was gasping; died before med help could reachWhile crossing a pond in Gangital Beat of Panapatha Range around 1-1.30pm, the female elephant tried to climb a ridge and accidently touched the live wire with its trunk. When the elephant monitoring team arrived, it was gasping and died before medical help could reach,” said a release. On Saturday, BTR field director Vincent Rahim and veterinarian Nitin Gupta went to the spot for the post-mortem. Samples were preserved for further investigation. After autopsy, the carcass was buried as per SOP, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jumbo-gets-electrocuted-by-power-line-in-madhya-pradeshs-bandhavgarh/articleshow/77829734.cms||---
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab screens over 42% population in survey||CHANDIGARH: Against the backdrop of a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases and many deaths, Punjab government has claimed to have screened over 42% of the state's population through a house-to-house survey to identify suspected patients and to conduct prompt testing for containing spread of the infection. In the first phase of the survey, which concluded on August 10, the teams of the state health department examined 11,677,651 individuals across the state, out of total population 27,704,236 as per the 2011 Census. The exercise proved beneficial for the health authorities for early detection of symptomatic and persons with co-morbidities. The remaining population will be covered under the second phase. Under the survey, the population above 30 years was surveyed to identify infected people in the community while people below 30 years having co-morbidity, influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) were also examined. In Punjab, more than 4 lakh had hypertension, 2.26 lakh diabetesSpecial emphasis was given to high priority zones — clusters, micro-containment zones and large outbreak zones — identified in the worst-hit areas of the state. Majority of the high priority areas are in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. Sharing the details, Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said during the survey, 4,11,000 people were found to be suffering from hypertension, 2,26,000 with diabetes and 6,823 chronic kidney disease. A total of 11,677 people were found to be symptomatic, 2,432 had fever, 1,050 sore throat, 5,017 cough, 937 diarrhoea and 613 coughing up blood. A total of 932 people had ILIs and 225 SARI. Early detection of such people is of significance as they carry a heavy virus load and transmit the virus further at a higher rate than asymptomatic people. As many as 8,011 people with ILI or SARI have tested positive for the virus till date in Punjab. A total of 14,86,996 people, highest in the state, were examined in Ludhiana, the most densely-populated district and worst hit by the Covid-19 outbreak. In Amritsar, 10,41,411 individuals were screened and 835,147 and 824,872 in Jalandhar and Patiala, respectively. Strong 26,522 workforce, comprising ASHA, Anganwadi workers and volunteers equipped with smartphones, was pressed into service with a questionnaire to gather information. Dr Bhaskar said the exercise proved beneficial as it helped in timely detection of infected people. “Door to door survey is one of the key components of our containment strategy. The second phase of the exercise has been planned and will be initiated shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-screens-over-42-population-in-survey/articleshow/77829745.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 30, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Punjab screens over 42% population in survey||CHANDIGARH: Against the backdrop of a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases and many deaths, Punjab government has claimed to have screened over 42% of the state's population through a house-to-house survey to identify suspected patients and to conduct prompt testing for containing spread of the infection. In the first phase of the survey, which concluded on August 10, the teams of the state health department examined 11,677,651 individuals across the state, out of total population 27,704,236 as per the 2011 Census. The exercise proved beneficial for the health authorities for early detection of symptomatic and persons with co-morbidities. The remaining population will be covered under the second phase. Under the survey, the population above 30 years was surveyed to identify infected people in the community while people below 30 years having co-morbidity, influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) were also examined. In Punjab, more than 4 lakh had hypertension, 2.26 lakh diabetesSpecial emphasis was given to high priority zones — clusters, micro-containment zones and large outbreak zones — identified in the worst-hit areas of the state. Majority of the high priority areas are in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. Sharing the details, Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said during the survey, 4,11,000 people were found to be suffering from hypertension, 2,26,000 with diabetes and 6,823 chronic kidney disease. A total of 11,677 people were found to be symptomatic, 2,432 had fever, 1,050 sore throat, 5,017 cough, 937 diarrhoea and 613 coughing up blood. A total of 932 people had ILIs and 225 SARI. Early detection of such people is of significance as they carry a heavy virus load and transmit the virus further at a higher rate than asymptomatic people. As many as 8,011 people with ILI or SARI have tested positive for the virus till date in Punjab. A total of 14,86,996 people, highest in the state, were examined in Ludhiana, the most densely-populated district and worst hit by the Covid-19 outbreak. In Amritsar, 10,41,411 individuals were screened and 835,147 and 824,872 in Jalandhar and Patiala, respectively. Strong 26,522 workforce, comprising ASHA, Anganwadi workers and volunteers equipped with smartphones, was pressed into service with a questionnaire to gather information. Dr Bhaskar said the exercise proved beneficial as it helped in timely detection of infected people. “Door to door survey is one of the key components of our containment strategy. The second phase of the exercise has been planned and will be initiated shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/covid-19-punjab-screens-over-42-population-in-survey/articleshow/77829749.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Punjab screens over 42% population in survey||CHANDIGARH: Against the backdrop of a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases and many deaths, Punjab government has claimed to have screened over 42% of the state's population through a house-to-house survey to identify suspected patients and to conduct prompt testing for containing spread of the infection. In the first phase of the survey, which concluded on August 10, the teams of the state health department examined 11,677,651 individuals across the state, out of total population 27,704,236 as per the 2011 Census. The exercise proved beneficial for the health authorities for early detection of symptomatic and persons with co-morbidities. The remaining population will be covered under the second phase. Under the survey, the population above 30 years was surveyed to identify infected people in the community while people below 30 years having co-morbidity, influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) were also examined. In Punjab, more than 4 lakh had hypertension, 2.26 lakh diabetesSpecial emphasis was given to high priority zones — clusters, micro-containment zones and large outbreak zones — identified in the worst-hit areas of the state. Majority of the high priority areas are in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. Sharing the details, Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said during the survey, 4,11,000 people were found to be suffering from hypertension, 2,26,000 with diabetes and 6,823 chronic kidney disease. A total of 11,677 people were found to be symptomatic, 2,432 had fever, 1,050 sore throat, 5,017 cough, 937 diarrhoea and 613 coughing up blood. A total of 932 people had ILIs and 225 SARI. Early detection of such people is of significance as they carry a heavy virus load and transmit the virus further at a higher rate than asymptomatic people. As many as 8,011 people with ILI or SARI have tested positive for the virus till date in Punjab. A total of 14,86,996 people, highest in the state, were examined in Ludhiana, the most densely-populated district and worst hit by the Covid-19 outbreak. In Amritsar, 10,41,411 individuals were screened and 835,147 and 824,872 in Jalandhar and Patiala, respectively. Strong 26,522 workforce, comprising ASHA, Anganwadi workers and volunteers equipped with smartphones, was pressed into service with a questionnaire to gather information. Dr Bhaskar said the exercise proved beneficial as it helped in timely detection of infected people. “Door to door survey is one of the key components of our containment strategy. The second phase of the exercise has been planned and will be initiated shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-punjab-screens-over-42-population-in-survey/articleshow/77829748.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 30, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Widening 18km highway could save thousands of trees in Choral jungle||INDORE: A realignment of 18km of the proposed Indore-Icchapur highway would save 170 acres of forest land in Choral Range. If National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) considers widening the existing Indore-Khandwa road to six lanes, Indore wouldn’t be shorn of its precious green cover. On the blueprint, 18km of the 201km-long highway passes through Choral jungle in Indore district as the officials claimed that widening the existing Indore-Khandwa Road will lead to the demolition of several houses and other structures in Bigram, Simrol and Choral. By moving the road through Choral jungle, the officials have avoided paying hefty compensation to house owners and potential litigation, which would have delayed the project. Besides, NHAI wants to maintain a speed of 100kmph on the Indore-Icchapur highway. If the widened highway passes through Bigram, Simrol and Choral, local traffic will crisscross it and the risk of accidents will shoot up, said an official. NHAI officials thus realigned the 18km stretch through the jungle, bypassing residential areas but putting thousands of trees on the chopping block. The authorities have said they will plant twice as many trees to ‘compensate’. However, since it is unlikely that so much vacant land will be found in Indore, the compensatory plantation will probably happen in another district and Indore’s loss will be permanent. Counting of trees to be felled is well under way. Already facing a loss of around 70 acres of forest land, provided to MP Metro Rail Corporation for developing a depot at Super Corridor in Indore, forest officials are clueless how they will compensate the loss in Choral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-widening-18km-highway-could-save-thousands-of-trees-in-choral-jungle/articleshow/77829741.cms||Sagar Choukse
August 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Pregnant 15-year-old alleges rape, DNA sample of boy, 13, collected||HISAR: Police plan to go for a DNA analysis to ascertain the paternity of a 15-year-old girl’s baby, after the eightmonth pregnant teenager’s family alleged that she was raped several times over the past year by a 13-year-old boy. In-charge of women police station said the boy’s sample had been collected at a civil hospital on Saturday and that of the baby would be collected after its birth. On a complaint by the girl’s mother, police have registered a case against the 13-year-old boy, his father, sister, and a cousin. Police have not made any arrests, said the cop, adding that further action would be taken only after the DNA report. The FIR has been registered under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366-A (procuration of minor girl), 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age), 376 (2)(n)( rape repeatedly on the same woman), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. While the accusations against his family are not clear, the boy has been accused of raping the girl last year and then threatening to defame her to coerce her into having an physical relationship with him. The DNA test would be conducted at Haryana Forensic Science Laboratory in Madhuban, Hisar, said the inspector. In the police complaint, the girl’s mother said her husband passed away some years ago, after which the boy’s father, a distant relative, started coming to her house. Both her daughter and his daughter were friends since childhood, due to which her daughter used to go to his house, she said. “Last year, my daughter went to their home to meet his daughter, but his son was alone there. The minor drugged her, after which she fell unconscious and he raped her. He threatened to defame her and threatened to kill her in case she complained to anyone and after this he raped her continuously,” she alleged. The cop said the woman alleged that her daughter complained of a stomach ache some days ago and she took her to a doctor, only to find out that the teenager was eight months pregnant. “In a panchayat meeting called to resolve the issue, the woman refused to marry the girl to the accused and decided to approach the police,” said the cop. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dna-test-to-decide-if-13-yr-old-raped-pregnant-15-year-old-cops/articleshow/77828677.cms||Kumar Mukesh
August 30, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Tantrik’ held, confesses to raping minor||YAMUNANAGAR: The police on Saturday arrested the tantrik (occultist) accused of repeatedly raping a 17-year-old girl of a village. They also arrested the girl’s mother, who allegedly took the girl to the man out of superstition that he would cure her stomach ailments, for abetment of the crime. Both the man and the rape survivor’s mother have been sent to judicial remand, said women police station inspector, adding that the tantrik has confessed his crime. “Accused tantrik had been raping the girl since December 21, 2019. The girl was taken to him by her mother for treatment of stone and neoplasia in her stomach. Later, the woman started taking the girl to him on a regular basis and she was raped multiple times till April 2020,” said the SHO . The girl confided in her father, who approached the police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/tantrik-held-confesses-to-raping-minor/articleshow/77828727.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Now, AAP launches ‘oximeter centres’||CHANDIGARH: Having failed to make a debut in Haryana either in parliamentary or assembly elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has now decided to reach out to the people of the state in a different way — by testing their level of oxygen amid the Covid-19 crisis. Using the crisis as an opportunity to connect with the masses, the party has decided to open 14,000 oximeter centres across the state. The process of setting up the centres began last week itself, but officially, it was started from Panchkula on Friday, with Rajya Sabha member and party’s Haryana in-charge Sushil Gupta formally launching the initiative. He was accompanied by Surendra Rathee, president of the Panchkula district unit of AAP. “Haryana has left the Covid-infected persons at the mercy of god. Had the system been powerful or infrastructure was in hospitals, CM Khattar and his MLAs would not have rushed to private hospitals. Hence, we decided to help the people,’’ said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-aap-launches-oximeter-centres/articleshow/77828731.cms||Manvir Saini
