August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: VRA molests 9-year-old, held||TIRUPATI: A village revenue assistant (VRA) at Mylavaram under Jammalamadugu mandal in Kadapa district was arrested on Saturday evening for allegedly molesting a minor girl. The nine-year-old girl, resident of a nearby colony, was playing with her friends when the accused dragged her away. “When the other children came to the spot, he fled. We have tracked him down and arrested him,” deputy superintendent of police N Nagaraju told reporters. A case was registered under the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vra-molests-9-year-old-held/articleshow/77838978.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Shimla||Himachal reports 164 new Covid cases, one death||SHIMLA: The state on Sunday reported 164 new Covid-19 cases and one death pushing the coronavirus tally to 5,942 and coronavirus toll to 33. The Covid-related death was reported from Barsar tehsil of Hamirpur district. Himachal Pradesh now has 1,460 active patients, 4,408 have recovered while 42 have migrated out of state. In the state, a total of 2,13,104 people have been tested till Sunday of which 2,06,192 have been tested negative while results of 967 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-reports-164-new-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/77840391.cms||Anand Bodh
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||City Ganesh mandals gear up for simple visarjan on Anant Chaturdashi||This year, due to the coronavirus outbreak Ganeshotsav celebrations have worn a simple look. Keeping in mind the rise in number of COVID cases, the government had issued certain guidelines. While the height of the Bappa idols were limited to just four-feet, the pandals set up by the sarvajanik mandals were also not elaborate like previous years. In fact, a few mandals preferred to install the Ganesha idol in a small room and restrict the entry of the general public. Now, the immersion process will be carried out in a simpler manner sans any dhol-tasha etc. Here's how pandals are gearing up for the visarjan. Last year being the centenary year, the procession of Shri Dakshinamurti Swayamsevak Ganeshotsav Mandal was quite an extravagant affair. But the scenario this time will be quite different. "The welcome procession was sans any sho-sha. We focused on virtual darshan and there was minimal decoration inside the pandal. So, for the visarjan procession, there will be just 6 members and there will be no fireworks or dhol; we will just immerse our Bappa's idol in the artificial tank," says one of the members, Rohit Page. One of the members of 63-year-old, Mahal Ka Raja, Sachin Kemaye informs, "We have paid special attention to the safety precautions. We intend to do nothing that could cause inconvenience to the people. Thus, it is only obvious that our visarjan process will be wrapped in an absolute low-key manner." Echoing similar sentiments, Munna Jaiswal, one of the founders of Shree Ashtvinayaka Bahuudeshiya Sanstha Dhantoli, shares, "We will definitely miss the procession but at this juncture, people's safety is of utmost importance. So, we will be bid adieu to Bappa in a simple manner by immersing his idol in an artificial tank."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-ganesh-mandals-gear-up-for-simple-visarjan-on-anant-chaturdashi/articleshow/77840492.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||PM focuses on schoolkids’ diet, proposes nutrition report cards||NEW DELHI: Ahead of ‘nutrition month’ which is observed in India in September, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke about new initiatives such as creation of ‘Agricultural Fund of India’ and introduction of the concepts of ‘nutrition monitor’ and ‘nutrition card’ in schools to address nutritional challenges through awareness at all levels. “An ‘Agricultural Fund of India’ is being created. It will have complete information about the crops that are grown in each district and their related nutritional value. This fund can be of great use for all of you,” said Modi in his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’ while appealing to everyone to “eat nutritious food and stay healthy”. Referring to a maxim “Yatha Annam Tatha Mannam”, which means our mental and intellectual development is directly related to the quality of our food intake, the PM said efforts were being made to increase awareness among students. “Just like there is a ‘class monitor’ in the section, there should be a ‘nutrition monitor’ in a similar manner and just like a report card, a ‘nutrition card’ should also be introduced. These are some of the measures that are being initiated,” said Modi. He also said a food and nutrition quiz will also be organised on the ‘My Gov’ portal, and there will be a meme competition as well on nutrition issues during the course of the nutrition month. “Whether it is the nutrition week or the nutrition month, more and more awareness is being generated through these measures,” said Modi. Noting the importance of seasonal and local foodgrain of particular regions, he advised listeners to include local foodgrain, fruits and vegetables in people’s diet plans and pitched for use of nutritious millets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-focuses-on-schoolkids-diet-proposes-nutrition-report-cards/articleshow/77841360.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||NMC takes up measures to protect lakes this visarjan||On Anant Chaturdashi, every year, people immerse Bappa idols in various city lakes, including Futala Lake, Ambazari Lake, which leads to water pollution and contamination. Quite obviously then, the civic authorities are in no mood to see the repeat of the same and are gearing up to ensure that the immersion process is carried out peacefully at various lakes. Apart from setting up artificial tanks at various areas, certain steps are being taken by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation to curb the 'lake visarjan' this time. For starters, tin sheets have been put up surrounding Futala Lake, which is one of the most preferred destinations for visarjan. Guards have been deployed at Ambazari Lake to keep the check on the revellers and ensure no one throws any kind of plastic remains in the lake. Happy to see these positive steps, a youngster Yash Ubhrani said, "It is definitely a welcome move. We are glad that NMC has sealed the entrance by tin sheets and have set up artificial tanks on the lake premises. We need to understand that it is for our own safety and for the betterment of the environment." Apart from this, one could find Nirmalya pots at various places. This year, the festival was celebrated in a simpler manner. While people made their own Ganesha idols at home, the sarvajanik mandals cut down heavily on the decorations and dekhavas were completely avoided. Not only this, but there were no dhol-tasha performances scheduled in any of the mandals this time. In fact, blood donation camps and virtual darshan via social media ruled supreme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-takes-up-measures-to-protect-lakes-this-visarjan/articleshow/77841443.cms||Preeti Atulkar
August 31, 2020||India||Coronavirus: India crosses 80,000 cases in a day, first country to do so||NEW DELHI: India added a record 80,092 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, becoming the first country in the world to cross the 80,000-mark in one single day since the outbreak of the pandemic, even as the week ending August 30 turned out to be the worst of the month. The growth rate in both fresh cases and fatalities not only increased after a dip, but more than doubled compared to the preceding week. The 80,000-plus peak comes on a Sunday, when the number of fresh infections have been lower than other days of the week because of a lull in testing during the weekends. The highest tally on a Sunday was last recorded on August 9 with 63,851 fresh cases. However, more alarming than the new peak in fresh infections is the growth rate of both new infections and the toll shooting up in the last week of August after a fall seen in the earlier weeks of the month. With more than 76,000 fresh cases being registered daily for five consecutive days, the growth rate this week at 13.1% was almost three times the 4.7% growth registered the previous week. This was 5.9% in the preceding week and 10.9% in the first week of the month (August 3-9). Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusSimilarly, with 1,000-plus fresh deaths recorded for four consecutive days, the growth rate in fatalities this week, at 3.9%, was more than double of 1.7% recorded in the previous week. Sunday’s peak of fresh cases came on the back of Maharashtra recording its second-highest surge with 16,408 infections — more than 16,000 cases for the second consecutive day — as well as five other states/UTs registering their highest peaks: UP (which crossed the 6,000-mark for the first time with 6,233 new cases), Rajasthan (1,450 fresh cases), Madhya Pradesh (1,558), Chhattisgarh (1,471) and Jammu & Kashmir (786). Read AlsoCovid has spelt a lockdown for routine health servicesThere have been innumerable stories of the suffering of non-Covid patients across the country during the lockdown and after, and official data is now available to show the extent to which routine health services were unavailable and the scale of its impact.With 970 fresh deaths on Sunday, India’s toll inched closer to the 65,000-mark at 64,550, according to numbers provided by state government collated by TOI. Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, registered 296 fresh deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 24,399, which is nearly 38% of the country’s total fatalities. Maharashtra registered its highest peak with 16,867 new cases just a day ago. While the cumulative caseload of the country crossed the 36-lakh mark on Sunday at 36,16,730, the number of patients who have recovered is 27,67,412. The number of active cases is close to the 8-lakh mark at 7,84,768. Andhra Pradesh emerged as the second worst-affected state in the country with 10,603 new infections, taking the state’s caseload to 4,24,767 and pushing Tamil Nadu to the third place with a caseload of 4,22,085. Watch Covid-19 India crosses 80,000 cases in a day, first country to do so||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-crosses-80000-cases-in-a-day-first-country-to-do-so/articleshow/77841508.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Business||I-T warns banks of penalty for charging fee on e-payments||NEW DELHI: The income tax department on Sunday hit out at banks levying fee on electronic transactions or payments via tools such as UPI, warning them of penal action for violating the law. Last year, the government had inserted a new provision mandating every business with annual turnover of Rs 50 crore or more to provide customers the choice of making payment through prescribed modes of payment. The list includes systems such as BHIM UPI, UPI-QR Code, Aadhaar Pay, certain debit cards, NEFT and RTGS. On August 25, TOI had reported that almost all large private banks had introduced charges, ranging from Rs 2.50 to Rs 5, on person-to-person payments made via Unified Payment Interface (UPI) beyond 20 times a month. In a circular issued on Sunday, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said it had received representations that some banks are imposing and collecting charges on transactions carried out using UPI. It pointed to an earlier circular where it was specified that no merchant discount rate (MDR) will be levied on transactions made through the prescribed modes. Pointing out that the charges are a violation of its circular issued last December, CBDT instructed banks to refund the charges and not to levy any fee in future. It warned banks that a breach of the guidelines will attract penal action under the Income Tax Act as well as Payment and Settlement Systems Act. The rule had been put in place to make the system transparent as businesses often refuse to accept payment by electronic mode or cheque and insist on cash payment, which they do not disclose and generate black money across the system. Watch Could face penalty for charging fee on e-payments: I-T warns banks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/i-t-warns-banks-of-penalty-for-charging-fee-on-e-payments/articleshow/77841526.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||The heart doctor with a big heart passes away||Professor (Dr) Siva Rama Krishna Iyer Padmavati, began her journey on 20th June, 1917 from a dusty oblivious town of Magwe in central British Burma, maturing into an illustrious career in Medicine and Cardiology. Hers was a story of an indomitable spirit, working her way up through determination and hard work, at a time when cardiology hardly existed. Infact her name became synonymous with cardiology earning her the sobriquet - ‘God Mother of Cardiology in India’. She moved on after her centurial terrestrial journey on 29 th August, 2020. Read AlsoIndia’s 1st female cardiologist dies of Covid at 103India’s first female cardiologist, Dr SI Padmavati, passed away on Saturday night due to Covid-19. She was 103. Dr OP Yadav, CEO of National Heart Institute (NHI), where she was admitted 11 days ago, said Dr Padmavati developed a severe infection in both her lungs, which caused the death. TheHer father, V.S. Aiyar, was a prominent barrister and her mother, a dedicated home maker, besides being well versed in Sanskrit and Carnatic music. She had 5 siblings. A maverick brain, nurtured by privileged upbringing, the young Padmavati topped the province in her final school examination. She graduated from the Rangoon Medical College with the MBBS ‘Magna cum laude’, besides a surfeit of other awards and distinctions, including the ‘Best out going student’. The dark clouds of the World War-II, hovering for some time, finally burst with Japan’s invasion of Burma in 1942 and forced Padmavati, her mother and sisters to flee Magwe to settle in Coimbatore, leaving the men folks behind. After 3 agonising years of no news of the men, the family was reunited in 1945, when the war ended. Its probably these experiences, which created steel in her, which she exhibited later in her life. Soon thereafter Padmavati left for post graduate studies to London and acquired Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Edinburgh. After a stint in Sweden under Gustav Nylin and Gunnat Bjorck at the Sodersjukhuset hospital in Stockholm, the quest for more took her to the mecca of cardiology then, the John Hopkins in Baltimore and later to the Harvard Medical School, Boston, where she trained under and along the legendary Helen Taussig and Paul Dudley White. On her return to India, she was marked very early in her career as a leading light in cardiology and was picked up by Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, the then Union Health Minister, and was appointed to the faculty at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi. Subsequently she was elevated to Professor and Head of the Department of Medicine. The lacunae in cardiology, rather than deterring, stimulated her to establish North India’s 1st Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in 1954. Besides her clinical responsibilities, she engaged in epidemiological research in Rheumatic fever, Cor-pulmonale, Ischaemic Heart Disease and Hypertension, which still stand ground and is oft quoted. In 1967, at the pinnacle of her glory, she took over as Director-Principal of Maulana Azad Medical College and Associated then Irwin and G B Pant Hospitals. It was here that she introduced the 1st DM course in cardiology, the 1st coronary care unit and the 1st coronary care van in India. She donned multiple hats and discharged them with aplomb, as President of the Cardiological Society of India and National Academy of Medical Sciences; Member Governing Body – Indian Council of Medical Research, All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, Bangalore and Dean - Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi. Dr. S. Padmavati, along with Sahu Ashok Jain of Bennett Coleman Ltd, founded the All India Heart Foundation in 1962, as the official member of World Heart Federation from India. Like a true ‘Karam Yogi’, she took praise and obloquy in her stride, getting flustered by none. Embattled in 1976, after her personal friend, Mrs Indira Gandhi’s loss at the electoral hustings, she remained unaffected and non plussed, setting up the National Heart Institute and developing it into a modern heart hospital in Delhi with first cardiac catheterisation laboratory in the private sector in the southern hemisphere. Awards and accolades came fast and furious – Fellowship of the American College of Cardiology and FAMS culminating into the award of Padma Bhushan in 1967 and Padma Vibhushan in 1992 by the Government of India. Other prominent awards were DSc (Hon), MGR Medical University, Madras, (1994); Harvard Medical International Award (2003); Antonio Samia Oration of APSC (2005); PhD (Hon), Sri Venkateshwara University, Tirupati (2008); Lifetime Award, Cardiological Society of India (2012); Lifetime Achievement Award, National Academy of Medical Sciences (2013) and many others. Seeing her from closest of close quarters, as a rookie medical student, as a resident doctor, as a consultant cardiac surgeon and as the chief executive officer of National Heart Institute, I never saw her to be arrogant, rude or socially inappropriate. Her virtuous qualities included a quiet, yet resounding and firm demeanour, a master of all she surveyed. On a lighter note, a sports freak, tennis and swimming were her passion, lapping 20-30 lengths of Ford Foundation swimming pool, well into her 90s. An afficianada of silk sarees and solitaire diamonds, she was an envy of any fashionista. Spartan in diet, she did enjoy her glass of port every evening with a 30 minute dose of ‘BBC News’. No matter from what vantage point you evaluate this ‘Great Dame of Cardiology’, the diminutive five foot nothing Dr. S. Padmavati stood tall, domineering well above all that have walked the field of Medicine in this country and yet there were no theatrics, no rhetorics and no polemics in her dealings. Absence makes the heart grow fonder, and just as we miss you Paddy madam, and shall continue to do so for perpetuity, we salute you and wish you a glorious journey ahead, as fruitful, blissful and satisfying, as the one we witnessed. Dr Yadava is chief cardiac surgeon & chief executive officer, National Heart Institute||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-heart-doctor-with-a-big-heart-passes-away/articleshow/77841582.cms||Dr O P Yadava
August 31, 2020||India||India’s 1st female cardiologist dies of Covid at 103||NEW DELHI: India’s first female cardiologist, Dr SI Padmavati, passed away on Saturday night due to Covid-19. She was 103. Dr OP Yadav, CEO of National Heart Institute (NHI), where she was admitted 11 days ago, said Dr Padmavati developed a severe infection in both her lungs, which caused the death. Her last rites were performed at the Punjabi Bagh crematorium in west Delhi. The legendary cardiologist led an active and healthy life till her last few days. Read AlsoThe heart doctor with a big heart passes awayProfessor (Dr) Siva Rama Krishna Iyer Padmavati, began her journey on 20th June, 1917 from a dusty oblivious town of Magwe in central British Burma, maturing into an illustrious career in Medicine and Cardiology. Hers was a story of an indomitable spirit, working her way up through determination andUntil late 2015, she was working 12 hours a day, five days a week at NHI, which was founded by her in 1981. Such was her contribution that it earned her sobriquet of the ‘Godmother of Cardiology’. She went on to establish North India’s first Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in 1954. In 1967, she took over as director-principal of Maulana Azad Medical College and associated Irwin and G B Pant Hospitals. It was here that she introduced the first DM course in cardiology, the first coronary care unit and the first coronary care van in India. Dr S Padmavati founded the All India Heart Foundation in 1962, and the National Heart Institute in 1981, and won the Padma Bhushan in 1967 and Padma Vibhushan in 1992. Watch India’s 1st female cardiologist dies of Covid at 103||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-1st-female-cardiologist-dies-of-covid-at-103/articleshow/77841687.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Business||PM Modi bats for local toy industry, urges people to support desi apps||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged startups and entrepreneurs to develop innovative “toys and games, for India and of India” to meet domestic demand and increase its share in the global toy business, estimated at Rs 7 lakh crore. He also called upon people to support indigenously developed apps which could replace the ones currently in vogue and are controlled by foreign companies. In his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Modi said there was a need to become self-reliant in every field, including in toys, He added that Mahatma Gandhi’s call for non-cooperation was also aimed at making India self-reliant. Speaking about apps, Modi appreciated Made in India ones like Koo, StepSetGo, Zoho, Chingari, Kutuki, FTC talent etc. The ‘Aatmanirbhar App Innovation Challenge’ selected the best apps from around 7,000 entries across India. These were from different categories like gaming, entertainment, business, utilities, social media and fitness and have been built by India youth from different parts of the country, he said. “Friends, be it virtual games, be it the sector of toys in the self-reliant India campaign, all have to play a very important role, and therein lies an opportunity too. A hundred years ago when the non-cooperation movement started, Gandhiji had written that non-cooperation movement is an effort to make countrymen realise their self-respect and their power,” he said. Giving a push to Atmanirbhar Bharat, Modi said the seed was sown in the form of the non-cooperation movement, and it was now the responsibility of all to transform it into a banyan tree of self-reliant India. Modi had recently chaired a meeting aimed at boosting India’s share in the global toy trade in which China is one of the largest manufacturers and exporters. “We can do two things through toys, bring back the glorious past in our lives and also spruce up our golden future. To my startup friends, to our new entrepreneurs, I say, team up for toys. For everybody, it is the time to get vocal for local toys,” he said. Noting that computer games have become more popular in the era of computers and smartphones, the PM said most of the themes were from foreign countries. “It’s time to make games in India and of India. Let’s play games,” he said. Modi said toys not only augment activity, they also give flight to aspirations and build the mind and foster an intent too, he said. “At the beginning of this month, the country's youth were given an app innovation challenge. Our youth wholeheartedly participated in the Atmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge. Around 7,000 entries were received which included almost two-thirds apps made by youth from tier 2 and 3 cities,” Modi said. He added that today's small startups would transform into big companies tomorrow and become the mark of India in the world. Watch Mann ki Baat: PM Narendra Modi says time to get vocal for local toys||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-modi-bats-for-local-toy-industry-urges-people-to-support-desi-apps/articleshow/77841819.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||Glitches mar architecture aptitude test||One instance of impersonation, technical glitches and allegations of lack of Covid-19 safety protocols at some of the examination centres marked the online National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA), which was held across the country on Saturday. The Council of Architecture (CoA) said action had been taken against the case of impersonation and it was looking into the technical glitches. It claimed that all standard operating procedures were in place and that there was no breach of Covid-19 safety measures across the 218 exam centres. Keeping in mind the pandemic, the CoA also gave an option to the aspirants to take online tests from home this year. A total of 30,000 candidates had registered for the NATA. The online aptitude test is conducted for admission to five-year B Arch degree programmes offered by 465 higher education institutes. Some aspirants and parents raised questions on social media on the credibility and sanctity of the exam taken from home. Raj Oberoi, registrar, CoA, said one candidate had been found impersonating. “Action was taken immediately. Any kind of unfair means is unacceptable,” Oberoi said. Many students took to social media highlighting the technical glitches. Shushti Desai, an aspirant, wrote, “Yesterday I appeared for the NATA exam and I faced many problems. My question was automatically skipped and the server was hanging. I want @CouncilofArchi1 to look into this matter and get us updated about the action which will be taken.” Other issues highlighted by the aspirants include time running out even before the completion of exams, questions where options were not visible and server crash, among others. At one of the examination centres at Trivedi College in Aligarh, candidates could not take all the questions due to a power cut soon after the test began. A group of agitated parents later lodged a complaint with the local police station accusing authorities of negligence. Oberoi admitted that there were technical glitches faced by some candidates. “Less than 1% of the candidates faced technical issues and that is being looked into by the committee,” Oberoi added. The council conducts the NATA twice in a year. The second test is scheduled to be held on September 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/glitches-mar-architecture-aptitude-test/articleshow/77841896.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
August 31, 2020||India||We have a leader in Sonia, Rahul so no urgency for polls: Salman Khurshid||NEW DELHI: Uneasy conversations have been taking place between the Congress leadership and the G-23 since both sides emerged from a stormy CWC meeting following the letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi questioning absentee leadership and organisational decline. Meanwhile, senior member Salman Khurshid questioned the dissidents’ demand for elections to the post of president and to the CWC, adding that leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had been part of the leadership for years, during which su- ch polls never happened. “We have a leader in Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi. So, for me, there is no sense of urgency about electing leaders. Electing a president, yes that will happen when it happens, I can't see the heavens falling down. What is the sense of urgency that is being expressed, is not clear to me,” he said. Sources said both sides have tried to ease tensions over continuing irritants by reaching out while the dissenters have been discussing issues among themselves. Interestingly, it is learnt that a close Rahul aide has contacted some of the letter writers in bid to gather their reasons for signing the missive. Meanwhile, party general secretary K C Venugopal reached out to Shashi Tharoor to urge him to drop the ante after a verbal war broke out between the Kerala unit and the diplomat-turned-politician. As a signatory, Tharoor faced angry reactions from colleagues. It is learnt the state unit as well as Venugopal urged him to bury the matter. While Tharoor followed up the request with a tweet urging that the issue be put to rest, senior MP K Suresh withdrew his jibe against Tharoor calling him a “guest artist”. Congress sources said Azad took up with a senior member the issue of appointment of Gaurav Gogoi as deputy leader and Ravneet Bittu as whip in Lok Sabha, as the move was seen as the leadership’s angry message to Tharoor and Manish Tewari. Tewari too has signed the controversial letter. Similarly, the angry reaction by Jitin Prasada’s home district party unit was also broached with the leadership. As the uneasy interactions have taken place, dissident leaders are of the view that they should not react to provocations as “tremors” were natural after the group “shook” the big tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-have-a-leader-in-sonia-rahul-so-no-urgency-for-polls-salman-khurshid/articleshow/77841944.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||14 killed as MP is hit by floods; Army, IAF, NDRF rescue 11,000||BHOPAL: At least, 14 people have been killed over the past two days in floods and incessant rain in Madhya Pradesh. Army, Air Force, NDRF and SDRF rescued 11,000 people and took them to temporary shelters — 257 of them had to be rescued by helicopter. In just four hours, 193 people were airlifted from Bamori and Somalwada villages in Sehore district. They included 155 women and children. “It is probably the highest number of rescue by air in the state so far,” Sehore collector Ajay Gupta told TOI. Ten people were swept to their deaths in different districts. Most of them drowned, said officials. Four others were killed in house collapses. “At least 800 houses have been fully damaged and 8,000 partially damaged,” principal secretary to the CM Manish Rastogi told TOI. Among the worst affected districts are Hoshangabad, Sehore, Raisen, Seoni, Chhindwara, Narsinghpur and Balaghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/14-killed-as-mp-is-hit-by-floods-army-iaf-ndrf-rescue-11000/articleshow/77841960.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Business||WFH: Home will always be office for RPG staff||MUMBAI: In a breakaway from traditional norms, RPG Enterprises has become the first Indian diversified conglomerate to do a permanent reset in its workplace policy around work-from-home (WFH). The $4 billion group, which has a presence in tyres, IT, health, energy, infrastructure and plantations, has framed a new policy wherein all its sales people will permanently work remotely, while office-based staff would WFH 50% of the time. For office-based staff, this can extend to 75% in special cases. In a month, an office-based employee can work two weeks from home, and in special cases, he/she can work remotely for three weeks. At present, office-based staff are entirely working from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with the group unanimously keeping all its offices shut. The new ‘RPG Remote Working Policy’, which is effective prospectively from September 1, is location- and workplace- agnostic. It is applicable to RPG’s global operations as well, and also covers factories and plantations for those workers who don’t work on machines. Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises, told TOI: “Our new work from home policy shatters the notion of traditional workspace and productivity and has turned it on its head. Employees who are not operating machines in our manufacturing businesses or do not have a client obligation in our technology services business, can work from ‘anywhere’ even after the pandemic is behind us. It aligns with our vision tenet of ‘touching lives’ and brand promise of ‘happiness’.” In a note to its 30,000 employees across the world, across companies like CEAT, RPG Life Sciences, KEC International, Harrisons Malayalam, RPG Enterprises said it is imperative for the conglomerate to encourage employees to adopt new and contemporary methods of working that improve their quality of life, productivity and also optimize the group companies’ operating expenses. “Empowering employees by giving them a choice to work remotely from home or another location for a significant number of days in a month, will enhance employee efficiency and business output,” it said in the note. S ‘Venky’ Venkatesh, president group HR, and member, group management board, RPG Enterprises, said: “We have seen that employee productivity has only increased during the past few months, and our early investments in building digital capabilities has given us the confidence to roll out this path breaking policy for perpetuity. What is noteworthy and unique is this policy is industry-agnostic and covers employees in all our group companies in all geographies around the world, including CEOs and senior leadership. We would be the first diversified conglomerate to effect such a far reaching policy as a long term option beyond the Covid-19 phase.” The lockdown period helped the group comprehend the benefits of remote working. To operationalize WFH, it set up a task-force comprising a young team which directly presented its recommendations to the group management board. The board then set up a sub-committee to take it forward and frame a policy. Venkatesh said the policy looks at remote working as a long-term and on-going new normal, even in the post-Covid world. “Today, due to Covid, all our offices are anyway 100% closed, but our factories/project sites/plantations are working. We have categorized employees into four groups by the nature of their work and basis that it would be decided who can work remotely and to what extent. A security officer, for instance, will need to be present at the office premises. An employee at the shop floor will need to be present at the factory. In case of Zensar Technologies, the business model is such that everybody can work from home. Exceptions in IT will be those who need to work from SEZ/client locations or mandated by contractual obligations with clients to work from company locations,” said Venkatesh. Until now, the group’s policy allowed only office-based employees to work from anywhere up to a few days in a month. The new policy has expanded the scope across our manufacturing and plantations locations. The new policy will help the group rationalise its office real estate space and enable hot desking. The move could trigger a similar thinking among other large conglomerates and groups. In India, CavinKare shut down its corporate office and moved to a WFH platform in June. Globally, Twitter allowed employees to choose to WFH as long as they wished to, while Facebook and Google have extended the flexibility to their employees to work remotely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/all-rpg-sales-staff-can-now-wfh-permanently/articleshow/77841980.cms||Namrata Singh
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||#DurgaPuja2020: Women dhakis gear up to play with masks, gloves||The 75 women dhakis belonging to Gokul Chandra Das’s troupe are on a mission these days. With less than two months to go for Durga Puja, they are training hard to make sure the new safety norms of wearing masks and gloves don’t hamper their performance. For Gokul, a popular dhaki who has carved out a niche for himself in Kolkata’s Puja and music circle by inspiring women to take on a profession traditionally dominated by men, the journey hasn’t been easy. However, the challenges he’s facing this year are unprecedented. Not only has the demand for dhakis fallen drastically, the need to wear masks and gloves has made their physically demanding job even more challenging. But, he’s not one to give up without a fight. Focus on breath and gripA standard dhak made of wood and leather weighs around 12-13 kg and traditionally, dhakis sling it over their shoulders. It is also customary for them to dance along with the rhythm of the dhak. This means apart from skills to play the drum, they also need a considerable amount of physical strength to perform. “And like any other laborious job, proper breathing is a must for dhakis. Therefore, I always offer breathing lessons to my students,” said Gokul. Since the pandemic has made masks mandatory, the drummers are finding it difficult to perform for more than 15-20 minutes at a stretch. “An experienced dhaki should be able to play for about 60 to 90 minutes without a break. But the mask is making it difficult to breathe, leaving them tired in a few minutes,” said Gokul. Another problem the dhakis are facing is getting a grip on the sticks while wearing gloves. “Sticks often slip away from our hands, causing us to miss the beats. It’s embarrassing for a senior dhaki like me,” said Susmita Das, who has been performing across the world for the last six years. According to Gokul, the rhythms and beats for different Pujas are specifically mentioned in Purohit Darpan. “So, Durga Puja’s dhak will be different from Kali Puja’s and so on. Missing a beat is considered a sin. That is why it is important to practise,” he said. To cope with these challenges, Gokul and his students are now practising two to three hours every day. More than the rhythm, dynamics and harmony, they are now concentrating on their breath and grip. Traditionally, when a novice comes to Gokul to learn, they start with some basic rhythms. “I write it down, ask the student to memorise it and then finally help them play it. Basic rhythms are practised every day, even by senior players. But now, more than that, our focus is on improving their physical strength,” Gokul added. no smoking please The new challenges were noticed by Gokul and his students when they resumed classes in June after a forced break in the lockdown. To overcome it, students are asked to perform breathing exercises every day to increase their lung capacity. “Besides, I have strictly forbidden my students from smoking. If they can’t breathe, they can’t play,” said Gokul. shorter performancesWhile doctors have been advising against performing arduous jobs with masks on, Gokul believes everything is possible with practice. To manage things, he is planning to break an average 90-minute performance into three performances of 30 minutes each. “Besides, we will not sling the dhak over our shoulders. We will keep it somewhere and play. This will help us save our stamina,” said Sangeeta Das, who has been playing the dhak for five years. For around 150 men and 75 women in Gokul’s troupe, Durga Puja is their busiest time of the year. But the troupe performs throughout the year across the world at events celebrating Bengali culture. They usually sign up for 15 to 20 events a month. However, this year, they have been booked by just one Puja in Kolkata so far. Since playing the dhak is not the primary occupation for most dhakis, they are not worried about their survival. “But it used to help us make a quick buck. It seems, this year we have to depend entirely on the other job,” said a woman dhaki, who works as a domestic help. Besides the money, dhakis also look forward to playing the drums to get a break from their mundane lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durgapuja2020-women-dhakis-gear-up-to-play-with-masks-gloves/articleshow/77838516.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
August 31, 2020||India||Women in R&D: Pvt sector outshines PSUs||BENGALURU: Research and Development (R&D) activity in India’s private sector has a larger proportion of women compared to government-supported agencies even as men continue to dominate the sector overwhelmingly. The private sector has also outpaced public R&D investment over the years although the latter has put in more in absolute terms. The revelations are made by the latest edition of Science and Technology Indicators (STI-2019-20) compiled by the department of science and technology under the Centre, which was released earlier this month. While the employment data is for 2017-18, investment data is up to 2018-19, and is the latest available on the subject. While at least seven of every 10 women employed by private R&D facilities are actually doing research and development, not even half of the women hired by major scientific agencies are directly involved in research. Only public units in the industrial sector compare well with private R&D facilities — but the overall number of women on rolls at such units is 10 times lesser compared to private R&D facilities. Percentage of women in other Central and state government departments, and scientific and industrial research organisations all paling in comparison to the private sector. Of the more than 20,000 women employed in private R&D companies, more than 15,000 were involved in R&D activities, while about 2,800 and 2,500 were in auxiliary and administrative activities. In the major scientific agencies funded by the government, there are more than 23,000 women employed but only 10,000 worked directly in R&D. “This has been the case for a while now. The DST task force report also had these details but nothing has changed much. Although there is a slight increase in women in academia with the number of assistant professors have increased, the divide between academic and research institutions in this country means that not enough women are in R&D,” Prof Rohini Godbole, a senior physicist who has also charmed a panel on women in S&T said. Another scientist, working closely with the government on the new S&T policy said: “I’ve been told not to comment on the policy until the consultations are over, but I can tell you that this is one of the focuses of the policy. You will see something good.” Investment GrowthFurther, while R&D investment by the government was about 120% more than the private sector in 2004-05, the gap has reduced significantly. In 2018-19, public investment was only 40% more than investment made by the business enterprises (see graphic). Compared to the 300% jump in public investment on R&D from 2004-05 to 2018-19, private sector investment spiked over 600%. In 2018-19, of the 1.2 lakh crore investment in R&D, private investment was Rs 51,115 crore, while the government invested Rs 72,732 crore. Mohan Das Pai, chairman, Aarin Capital Partners, says that the reason for a higher percentage of women in the private sector being in R&D is very clear: There’s been a massive increase in hiring by the private sector for R&D while all the government research units have not been hiring. “...And I’m glad we are discussing investment, because for some reason people in this country think the private sector does not invest in research, which is not correct. As companies make more money, they become bigger and compete more. At this stage, they invest more in R&D as they need product information. This is happening in a big way in pharma and IT now, and we will see this increase,” Pai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/women-in-rd-pvt-sector-outshines-psus/articleshow/77842013.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 31, 2020||Business||Asean agrees to review trade pact with India||NEW DELHI: After months of inaction and the government’s threat to pull out of the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) with Asean, members of the trading block have agreed to review the trade pact amid concerns that China is using the treaty to ship goods to India, which is unable to take full advantage of the 10-year-old arrangement. While the scope of the review will be finalised at the official level, New Delhi is keen that some of the anomalies be removed at the earliest. Chief among them is the inability of Indian exporters to get a level-playing field. An official told TOI that Indonesia had lowered duties on only 50% of the items, while close to 75% of its products were getting customs duty benefit in India. A similar problem persisted with some of the other Asean members, although those such as Indonesia are not classified as least-developed countries. Government officials also pointed to other deficiencies. For instance, Japanese automobiles can be imported into Thailand and Indonesia at 5% duty, while Indian cars faced 35% tariff. Ditto with two-wheelers. Similarly, against 35% duty on rice for trade among Asean members, Indian rice faced a 50% levy. Another key concern for India are the weak rules of origin meant to check the misuse of treaty benefits by countries that are not part of the agreement. The Asean trade agreement requires at least 35% value addition in one of the member countries for a product to get duty advantage in India. But the rules are seen to be lax with government officials listing Chinese set top boxes, copper and polyester among products which were allegedly misusing the CECA. The government is also demanding better customs procedure, which will also allow Indian customs authorities to verify the details, a facility that is currently unavailable. Then a provision on exchange of data is also proposed to be provided for as part of the review. While India has data on imports through the preferential duty route, corresponding numbers on exports are inaccessible to it. Given that the Modi government has criticised its predecessor, UPA, for rushing through with the Asean CECA, it is set to bargain hard when the talks begin. Asean members were earlier linking the review to the conclusion of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Cooperation agreement, where India walked out late last year, arguing the deal was not favourable to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/asean-agrees-to-review-trade-pact-with-india/articleshow/77842044.cms||Sidhartha
August 31, 2020||Business||Centre unlikely to cede ground on GST compensation||NEW DELHI: The government is unlikely to give in to demands for changing the compensation formula for goods and services tax (GST) despite opposition-ruled states demanding that the Centre borrow from the market and transfer funds to meet the shortfall between actual collections and the promised growth of 14%. Top government officials told TOI that the compensation mechanism and calculations of what it should be has been “hard wired” into the law and the proposals put before the states were based on two rounds of consultation with attorney general K K Venugopal. “It is absolutely clear that the funds must come from the cess and the 14% is calculated on a base year of 2015-16 for all states. This is the basis on which the Rs 97,000 crore figure has been arrived at while assuming 10% nominal growth,” explained a source in the government. Read AlsoNon-BJP states unhappy with GST relief plan, may forge joint strategyThe Centre on Saturday circulated two options for states to borrow and meet the GST shortfall, which will be repaid via an extension of the compensation cess beyond the June 2022 deadline. The proposal, however, did not find the support of all states. Most states not ruled by BJP plan to meet onThe finance ministry has considered possible options over the last two months since finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman assured states that there will be a GST Council meeting just to address the issue of compensation. She has been part of meetings that might usually involve only officials at a stage where options are being studied before being put before the minister, sources told TOI. It was felt that she should provide necessary guidance in a matter that is of central importance to the finances of the Centre and states. Read AlsoGST compensation dues: Centre gives full details of two borrowing options for statesThe Central government on Saturday wrote to states suggesting options of borrowing money to make up for the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in GST revenues expected in the ongoing fiscal. The finance ministry wrote to state governments saying they could borrow either via a special window it willOpposition-ruled states are demanding that the Centre take over the burden and are expected to lodge their protest over the two options shared by the finance ministry on Saturday. Read AlsoCovid an 'act of God', may result in contraction of economy: Nirmala SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that the economy is facing an extraordinary 'act of God' in form of the coronavirus pandemic which may result in contraction in India's growth for the current fiscal. She also revealed that the pandemic has severely impacted GST revenues whichBut the Centre arrived at the view that if it were to borrow from the market, the result would be higher rates all around as bond yields would harden, a position that was clearly articulated in the finance ministry’s communications to states on Saturday. If the interest rates of government securities were to go up, the cost of any borrowings undertaken by states would also rise. Further, the borrowing costs for the private sector will also go up. Read AlsoThrusting GST debt on states will lead to 'brute power of centralism': Bengal finance ministerWest Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday said that the Centre's suggestion to states to borrow for meeting the shortfall in revenue from GST is "totally unacceptable" as it would destroy their financial health and lead to "brute power of centralism. Union finance minister Nirmala SitharamanBesides, officials at the Centre argued, by opening a special window to enable states to borrow up to Rs 97,000 crore, the Centre was offering a good rate in addition to cushioning the impact on the market. The formula the Centre worked out was very precise,, the sources said. The compensation was worked out at a 10% nominal growth (4% inflation). The loss caused by this estimate being drastically lowered works out to Rs 97,000 crore. The shortfall over and above this is the impact of the Covid-91 situation of force majeure or as Sitharaman called it "an act of god". Therefore, the terms for financing this part of the Rs 2.35 lakh crore will be different, officials said. It is also pointed out that the Centre itself is having to bear a higher spending and consequently deficit than was earlier estimated. In the event, it would not be financially sound for the Centre, and in terms of impact, even the states. Watch Centre unlikely to give in to states' demand on GST compensation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-unlikely-to-cede-ground-on-gst-compensation/articleshow/77842064.cms||Sidhartha
August 31, 2020||India||Online Chess Olympiad: India, Russia joint winners||NAGPUR: After a lost connection and two forfeited games, an appeal to the World Chess Federation yielded success as India and Russia were declared joint winners of Fide Online Chess Olympiad on Sunday. The much-awaited grand finale — followed by a 64,000-plus strong audience — ended on a tame note as a technical glitch forced the Fide president to pass an equitable judgment as India registered their first-ever triumph at Olympiad level. In 2014, India won the bronze in the open section, and the women’s best finish was fourth in 2012. The finale began on a cautious note as the 2419-rated Indian side held higher ranked Russia — with an average rating of 2599 — to a 3-3 draw, that too without the presence of experienced Viswanathan Anand. The five-time world champion returned for the crucial second round, where Anand, skipper Vidit Gujrathi and Harika Dronavalli split the points with their higher-ranked Russian GMs Ian Nepomniachtchi, Dubov Daniil and Alexandra Kosteniuk, respectively. With India’s fate hanging in the hands of World Rapid champion Koneru Humpy and U-20 boards —where youngsters Divya Deshmukh and Nihal Sarin had the upper hand — an unprecedented event of connection error happened. Within seconds, both Divya and Nihal were declared defeated as they “lost connection to their games and forfeited on time”. Both Divya and Nihal had no time to make their moves while their opponents Polina Shuvalova and Andrey Esipenko had 1.22 and 1.31 minutes left on clock. Both the games were played for 25 moves. On the third board, Humpy was two pawns down in a double-rook endgame and lost with her black pieces to Aleksandra Goryachkina in 88 moves. Thereafter, the India team lodged an official appeal on the two games they “forfeited on time.” In an official statement, the Fide president Arkady Dvorkovich said, “The Online Chess Olympiad has been impacted by a global Internet outage that severely affected several countries, including India. The appeals committee has examined all the evidence. As Fide president, I made the decision to award gold medals to both teams.” After five world titles and an historic Olympiad gold he has won everything there is to win in chess, and Anand was elated. Giving most of the credit to the youngsters, an emotional Anand said, “You can’t make this up. You can’t write a script for this.” In a chat with TOI, Humpy said, “Well, it’s a strange feeling to be declared as joint winners due to server breakdown. Our team has given its best performance in the history of Olympiad and I am happy that we are rewarded for our hard work.” Relieved with the end result, Divya said, “Couldn't be more happy. This tournament has taught me lessons I will keep with myself for life. Honour playing with legendary teammates and amazing opponents. Congrats Russia and Team India.” Earlier, in the opening round India held Russia 3-3. Vidit was the first to hold higher ranked Nepomniachtchi with his white pieces in 37 moves. In a thriller of a tie played between the World Rapid and Blitz champion, Koneru Humpy and Lagno Kateryna, the latter managed to save the game. The champion masters’ game ended in a 48-move draw. Harika followed Humpy and forced 2517 Elo Kosteniuk to split the points in 48 moves. Harikrishna Pentala who played the opening round in place of Anand too played out an exciting 54-move draw against 2769 Elo GM Vladislav Artemiev. Both the U-20 boards followed their seniors’ suit. After Praggnanandhaa R drew with Russia’s super GM and 2618-rated Alexey Sarana in 56-moves, Divya defended well with black and forced WGM Polina Shuvalova to split the points in 51 moves. RESULTS ROUND 2: Vidit Gujrathi drew with Dubov Daniil, WHITE GM 2517 Alexandra Kosteniuk drew with Harika Dronavalli, Ian Nepomniachtchi drew with V Anand, Andrey Esipenko bt Nihal Sarin, Divya Deshmukh lost to Polina Shuvalova, Aleksandra Goryachkina bt Koneru Humpy. ROUND 1: Vidit drew with Nepomniachtchi, Humpy drew with Kateryna, Kosteniuk drew with Harika, Vladislav Artemievdrew with Harikrishna Pentala, Praggnanandhaa R drew with Alexey Sarana, Polina drew with Divya. VISHY ANAND’S REACTION ON THE TECHNICAL GLITCH For a moment, I had given up. Initially I thought the failure was ours and I wrote to Divya and Nihal saying that these things happen and that you can’t do anything. Subsequently, I wrote to Srinath and he informed me that it was a case of chess.com server failing and it was global problem. Both Nihal and Divya have been working hard and I thought of patting them on their back and then I realized it was unnecessary. That was a nice turnaround. You have to see the course of the match and then decide when the interruption happens and what the situation was. One of the strongest cards was that Nihal's position had improved substantially and Divya was almost winning or at least much better and Fide took that into account before making the decision which was fair to both teams. In the end it was fair. Had Nihal held and Divya won and we would have tied the match and this kind of failure wasn’t the fault of either team. Something more complicated would have been to play another match which could have exhausting for everyone and dragged things on for quite too long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/online-chess-olympiad-india-russia-joint-winners/articleshow/77842075.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mysuru||Gendekatte Forest in Hassan identified for biodiversity park||Hassan: In a move aimed at preserving local wildlife, the Gendekatte Forest on the outskirts of Hassan city will soon be home to a biodiversity park, which will showcase the flora and fauna indigenous to the district. The forest, spread across 308 acres, is roughly 6km from the heart of the city, and has served as a lush lungspace, helping keep the climate temperate the year round in Hassan. The State Biodiversity Board zeroed in on the forest among the three proposed sites for the creation of such parks, two of which were to be developed in Bengaluru. However, plans for the two parks in the state capital have now been put on hold. However, the state government has sanctioned a sum of Rs 1 crore for the development if the biodiversity park at Gendekatte Forest in Hassan. Furthermore, the forest is home to more than 100 deer, in addition to 20 species of birds, which include peacocks. There have also been reports of leopards being sighted in the forest. The proposed park will be developed across 124 hectares of the forest, and will include a bambusetum - a grove of bamboo shoots – and an aroboretum, which is a botanical garden the primary interest of which is the preservation of endangered species of trees. On the anvil is also a plan for a walkers’ park. State Biodiversity Board chief Anant Hegde Ashisar paid a visit to the Gendekatte Forest on August 19 to assess its prospects as a potential biodiversity park, and later held a meeting with all the stakeholders, during the course of which officials of the forest department were tasked with identification of areas, ancient ponds and hills, which could be transformed into biodiversity hotspots. Ashisar emphasised the need to focus on the protection of rare and endangered local species. “Local biodiversity committees must strive to raise awareness in the community, and ensure its participation in these efforts. Officials in the agriculture and horticulture department must work towards getting the GI tag for indigenous fruits, medicinal plants and animals,” he added. On recovery of encroached land, Hassan deputy commissioner R Girish said that around 1,100 ponds had been surveyed across the district, and work was under way to erect fences around them to prevent any encroachment in the future. Deputy conservator of forests Shivaram Babu said that grant of deemed forest area too was encroachment, as would allocation of parcels coming under the reserved forest area tag. “We have found that 1,500 acres of forest land across Hassan district have been encroached upon,” Babu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/gendekatte-forest-in-hassan-identified-for-biodiversity-park/articleshow/77839816.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mysuru||Open education centre in J&K, Lt Governor tells Suttur Mutt seer||Mysuru: Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha asked Suttur Mutt seer Shivarati Deshikendra Swami to open JSS Academy of Higher Education extension centre in the union territory. Speaking after inaugurating a discussion programme during the 150th birth anniversary of Sri Shivaratri Rajendra Mahaswami organized by the mutt through video conferencing, Sinha said that the mutt is creating awareness among people about coronavirus and Prime Minister Narendra Modi too has expressed his appreciation. “I suggest the mutt to open its higher education centre in Jammu and Kashmir,” Sinha said. Speaking at the event, Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty said that people should maintain cleanliness to prevent diseases and lead a quality life. “Lots of people lost their jobs during the lockdown. So, I request well-to-do persons to support people around them who are in distress and facing financial difficulties,” she said. Shri Kshethra Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari Veerendra Heggade said that people suffered from contagious diseases like cholera, plague, malaria and smallpox in the past. “But due to lack of advanced technology to create and spread awareness about preventive measures, a lot of people had to suffer. But today, people have awareness. They should follow the guidelines to prevent the spread of the disease,” he said. Medical education minister K Sudhakar and actor Darshan who participated in the discussion appealed to people to follow the guidelines of the health department to prevent curb the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/open-education-centre-in-jk-lt-governor-tells-suttur-mutt-seer/articleshow/77839666.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hubballi||Covid masks protect residents from dust pollution in Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi: The dry spell following the burst of the monsoon has resulted in dust pollution levels spiking in Hubballi-Dharwad. Generally, this would have resulted in a proportional rise in the number of cases of influenza and common cold, but the protective masks that the people are compelled to wear owing to the Covid-19 crisis, has helped check these afflictions this year. Among the zones where dust pollution is particularly perceptible are Kittur Rani Channamma Circle, Koppikar Road, Dajiban Peth Road, Janata Bazaar Road, Tulajabhavani Circle. On the one hand, while residents are upset with the failure of the authorities concerned to have dealt with the situation beforehand, they are grateful for the compulsion of the masks on the other. However, those refusing to don masks are bearing the brunt of the decline in the quality of air in some of the twin cities’ commercial boroughs. Dharwad district environmental officer Shobha Gajakosh attributed the spike in dust pollution levels in the twin cities to the disappearance of trees from the sides of the road, in addition to the rampancy of potholes. “The authorities concerned must take steps to fill up the potholes and commence a drive to plant saplings on the sides of roads. Once the trees grow, they will help mitigate the pollution by absorbing the dust,” Shobha said. Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) commissioner Suresh Itnal admitted to rise in dust pollution in the twin cities, which he ascribed to the many ongoing developmental projects at Station Road, JC Nagar and other localities. Itnal said that the problem was bound to persist for some time owing to work having only started on some of the roads that are being newly laid. “We will, however, take necessary steps to tackle pollution. Owing to heavy rain, potholes are appearing on some of the roads. We have already issued instructions to officials concerned to initiate work on filling of potholes,” the HDMC commissioner said. Deshpande Nagar resident Sudha Naik said that they could not walk on the roads without masks. “We were asked to wear masks to prevent spread of Covid-19, but now we are wearing them to protect ourselves from the dust,” she said. Anil Kumar, a trader at KC Circle, said that work on the Neeligin Road had turned the junction in Hubballi into a place under a cloud of dust. He urged the authorities concerned to ensure that civic projects were completed speedily lest residents contract allergies such as cold. “Sprinkling water on the roads helps curtail dust pollution to some extent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-masks-protect-residents-from-dust-pollution-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/77840347.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||More flights from tomorrow, but taxis may be scarce||Kolkata: A large section of metered taxi operators at Kolkata airport are set to withdraw services on Tuesday and Wednesday to protest against the rampant tout raj eating into their business. Incidentally, the number of flights and passengers is set to increase from Tuesday after resumption of flights from six cities three days a week. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, taxi operators said they were forced to take the drastic step after repeated pleas to the NSCBI airport police did not yield results. Though a drive was conducted on August 11-12 where around 50-odd touts were apprehended, they are back in business in bigger numbers and control the exit gates at the passenger terminal. While metered cabs did 2,200-2,500 trips a day prior to Covid, the numbers have come down to 70-100. “Between August 11 and 13, when the touts were restrained, our cabs were able to run around three trips daily on an average. But since then, we are back to barely one trip a day. Each taxi operator here is losing at least two trips a day to the touts who whisk away passengers from the gate,” said a cab operator. Sources said around 100-120 touts were in operation in two shifts daily with 60 touts in each shift. The first shift is from 8am to 1pm and the second from 1pm till the last flight, around 11pm. “The touts crowd around gate 1A/1B, accost flyers and take them to luxury taxis where they are charged two-three times the pre-paid fare. There is a set of touts deployed at the AC bus stand as well to get passengers when buses aren’t there. They were always a menace, but since the pandemic, they are hurting us so much that we have no option but to go on strike,” said another cab operator, adding that the only way they would withdraw the strike was if the Bidhannagar Commissionerate assures them of an end to touts’ business at the airport. The embargo on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur had contributed to the slump in passengers, with barely 60 flights arriving per day and most carrying passengers heading to districts. But the situation is likely to change from Tuesday with 85-odd arrivals and almost double the number of passengers at present. There is no attempt to curb the menace. The only thing that needs to be done is for police to crack the whip and maintain vigil,” said a businessman who has seen many passengers fall prey to touts. Officers of Bidhannagar Commissionerate, however, contested the allegations and added that they haven’t received any official letter from the taxi operators about the strike. “The number of passengers has come down drastically. To get passengers, some drivers registered with private rental operators at the airport are trying to get bookings, but they are not touts. We arrested around 22-odd touts two weeks ago and continue to conduct sustained drives. In fact, a section of pre-paid taxi operators who want to remove the queue system and get passengers themselves are the ones trying to create a disturbance. But if some group organizes a strike and disturbs passengers on these two days, we will take strong action against them,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-flights-from-tomorrow-but-taxis-may-be-scarce/articleshow/77840462.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 31, 2020||Patna||Tej says tickets to formidable candidates only||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav said his party would select formidable candidates only on the basis of a survey carried out in the state for the forthcoming assembly polls. He was talking to the workers who had assembled at the RJD office with their resumes on Sunday. He, however, hastened to add that workers had the right to demand the party tickets but the leadership has to decide candidates. Tej, who returned from Ranchi after meeting his ailing father on Saturday, said RJD would go to the polls with the sole motive of dethroning the NDA government. People have decided to get rid of the government, which has failed on all fronts, he added. In reply to a query, the Mahua MLA said there were no beds available in government hospitals and the patients were forced to remain on the floor for days together. The former health minister alleged that there was scarcity of doctors and paramedical staff were on the warpath in support of their demands. Medicines are not provided to the patients for long, he alleged. Referring to an FIR lodged against him in Ranchi for violating the lockdown norms, Tej said he had called on the state chief secretary and expressed his wish to stay in a government guesthouse, but in vain. “As I had no option, I stayed in a hotel in the night,” he said. Tej, however, added that he was tested negative for Covid-19. Earlier, Tej reviewed the preparations for the RJD youth wing’s meeting on September 4. His younger brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had met him at his residence on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tej-says-tickets-to-formidable-candidates-only/articleshow/77839350.cms||Ramashankar
August 31, 2020||Hubballi||Viral skin disease in cattle causes new worry for farmers||Haveri: Karnataka is facing outbreaks of a debilitating virus in cattle that causes a condition called ‘lumpy skin disease’(LSD). At least 200 cattle have been infected by a highly contagious viral disease across the districts. The virus causes nodules to form on the skin that gradually turn into wounds, with accompanying symptoms such as much lower milk production, but it is rarely fatal, say veterinary doctors. LSD has been discovered in North-Eastern states like Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh earlier. After the outbreak was reported in Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, it has reached the state, said doctors. “LSD has been detected among cattle in Yadagiri, Bidar, Bengaluru rural, Ramanagar, Haveri, Uttara Kannada and other districts. Normally, this skin infection increases during monsoon. However, this is not a diabolic virus and currently mortality rate is zero in our state. Alhough no specific vaccine is available, we have taken prompt action to prevent this virus and using goat pox vaccine,” said Dr P T Srinivas, additional director (livestock health), department of animal husbandry and veterinary services. Dr HC Patil, a chief veterinary officer of Shiggavi in Haveri district said LSD is spreading gradually in the taluk and over 40 cattle have been infected with it. “However, farmers need not panic. Awareness should be created to prevent the spread,” he said. “A total of eight cattle have been infected in our farm, however, we didn’t know about LSD earlier, so we did not know how to prevent it. It has affected a lot of our cattle. The disease causes the cattle to develop a high fever, general malaise and strong aversion to food,” said Annappa Hosamani, a farmer from Shiggavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/viral-skin-disease-in-cattle-causes-new-worry-for-farmers/articleshow/77840535.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
August 31, 2020||Patna||2,078 fresh Covid cases in Bihar take tally to 1,35,013||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state increased to 1,35,013 on Sunday with 2,078 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With the virus killing nine more people in the last 24 hours, the state’s toll has jumped to 688. Five fresh deaths were registered in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 161. Two fresh deaths were registered in Begusarai and one each in Nalanda and Sitamarhi as per the daily bulletin released by the state health department. With 1,17,305 recoveries and 688 official deaths so far, the active cases stand at 17,020 in the state. The state’s recovery rate has now touched 86.88%, more than 10% higher than the national average of 76.4%. In his daily briefing, state health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said altogether 2,231 patients have recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally of recovered patients to 1,17,305 in the state. Singh said 1,07,730 samples were tested in the state on August 29. Health minister Mangal Pandey, on the other hand, tweeted, “The number of sample testing in Bihar touched 30 lakh-mark on Sunday. The recovery rate has further improved to 86%. The positivity rate has also declined.” On Sunday, Patna registered 253 fresh Covid cases. With this, the number of total cases in the district has reached 20,889. The number of active cases in the district stood at 2,247 on Sunday as 18,481 people have so far recovered from the virus, including 307 in the last 24 hours. The district’s recovery rate now stands 88.4%. Other districts which reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases included Madhubani (116), Saharsa (112), Bhagalpur (102), Araria (101), Purnia (100) and Begusarai (88). One Covid casualty was reported in AIIMS-Patna on Sunday. According to the nodal officer for Covid at AIIMS-P Dr Sanjeev Kumar, a 78-year-old man Bhagalpur, who was admitted to the hospital on August 23, died on Sunday. At NMCH, no casualty was registered on Sunday while seven more patients were discharged from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2078-fresh-covid-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-135013/articleshow/77838579.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 31, 2020||Patna||19-year-old raped by uncle in Patna||PATNA: A 19-year-old married girl was allegedly raped by her step maternal uncle under Kadamkuan police station area in Patna on Saturday night. SHO Nishikant Nishi said the girl lodged an FIR on Sunday. He said the victim lived in a rented accommodation with her husband while her mother lived in the neighbourhood. The SHO said the victim alleged that her step maternal uncle had reached her house to meet them. As her husband was not at home, he took advantage and raped her. The girl’s maternal grandfather had married twice and the accused is the son from his second wife. He said the victim narrated the incident to her husband after he returned home late in the night. Nishi said raids were on to arrest the accused. He said the victim would be sent for medical examination on Monday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-year-old-raped-by-uncle-in-city/articleshow/77839932.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Patna||Patna: Flights to Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai see 100% occupancy||PATNA: With around 33 domestic flights operating from the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport, the daily footfall of passengers has increased to 8,000 in the last couple of days, airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said. Negi released the revised flight schedule of Patna airport, which has been approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, on Saturday. The new flight schedule will remain effective till October. According to Airports Authority of India-Patna officials, with the addition of flights to Lucknow, Varanasi, Guwahati, Amritsar and Kolkata, Patna airport has now become one of the most well-connected state capitals in the country with connection to all major cities. As per the revised schedule, IndiGo is operating maximum 15 flights, including five to Delhi, two each to Hyderabad, Kolkata and Bengaluru and one each to Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Lucknow. SpiceJet is operating 10 flights (two to Delhi and one each to Amritsar, Guwahati, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Varanasi), GoAir (4) and Air India and Vistara two each. The flight operation time at Patna airport has now increased to 20 hours a day as the first flight arrived at 5am from Delhi and the last flight to Hyderabad departed at 12.30am. Negi said the Patna airport recorded the highest passenger footfall of nearly 8,000 in a single day on August 28 since the resumption of flight operations on May 25. Earlier, footfall of 7,000 passengers was recorded on August 22. The city airport is also experiencing a reversed pattern of domestic travel. In August, most flights on Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai routes witnessed full occupancy as people started returning to their workplaces. Most airlines claimed the flights are now departing with 100% occupancy, while the incoming flights have 80% occupancy. An IndiGo executive at Patna airport said the outgoing flights are departing with 100% occupancy. “Earlier, the trend was different. The incoming flights were full and the outgoing flights had minimum passengers,” the executives said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flights-to-bengaluru-delhi-and-mumbai-see-100-occupancy/articleshow/77838565.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Kanhaiya Kumar may share stage with Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: If things move on expected lines, CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar will share the dais with RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav during campaigning for the upcoming assembly polls in the state. CPI state secretary and former MLA Ram Naresh Pandey said, “Since we are set to forge political alliance with RJD, possibilities of Kanhaiya and Tejashwi campaigning together can’t be ruled out. They are young leaders and the motive behind the alliance is to defeat the ruling NDA.” When reminded of the 2019 Lok Sabha election when Kanhaiya had contested from Begusarai against BJP and RJD, Pandey said, “Nobody is a permanent enemy (rival) in politics.” The political observers had attributed the RJD’s decision to field a candidate as the reason behind Kanhaiya’s defeat against BJP’s Giriraj Singh. Pandey admitted that CPI and CPI(M) decided to forge an alliance with RJD to prevent the fragmentation of votes. “The rank and file of the two Left parties is overwhelmed and will give a befitting reply to the NDA,” he added. As CPI and CPI(M) have their vote base in certain pockets of Bihar, they expect reasonable number of seats to contest the assembly elections scheduled in October-November. “The news about our alliance with RJD has sent chills down the spine of NDA partners,” a senior CPI(M) functionary said. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “The CPI and CPI(M) leaders met our state president Jagdanand Singh on Wednesday and discussed alliance issues. Tejashwi has authorized Jagda Babu to hold alliance related talks with other parties. We have agreed in principle to contest the assembly polls together.” However, JD(U) spokesperson and IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar took a dig at their alliance. “It will be interesting to see Kanhaiya Kumar, who studied in JNU, sharing stage with a man who is a non-matriculate,” he said. The CPI (ML) is, however, yet to take a decision on the issue. An RJD leader said the ML had earlier talked to RJD chief Lalu Prasad but there has been no discussion on the issue in the recent past. Senior party leaders refused to disclose their political move at this stage. The CPI(ML) has three MLAs in the current assembly — Darauli (Siwan), Tarari (Bhojpur) and Balrampur (Katihar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kanhaiya-may-share-stage-with-tejashwi/articleshow/77839341.cms||Ramashankar
August 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Transport, food a concern for JEE aspirants||GAYA/BHAGALPUR: Even as steps are being taken by authorities concerned to conduct Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2020 amid precautions from September 1 to 6, shortage of transportation, lack of proper accommodation and food availability have emerged as some of the major concerns for examinees. Some of the JEE aspirants from Patwatoli in Gaya said using spec and mask simultaneously during examination would be tough for them as it would cause moist on the glasses, thereby making reading and writing all the more difficult. According to community leader Prem Patwa, about 100 boys and girls from the locality have applied for the test. Anand Kumar, an IIT aspirant from Patwatoli, who will take the test on September 3, said he has practicing to write papers wearing mask. “Since I also use spec, moist appears on the glasses once I wear a mask. The moist causes irritation and reduces visibility,” he added. Arya, another aspirant, said, “At a time when so many positive cases are reported daily, every examinee would be eying their fellow examinees, invigilators and others as potential virus carriers. Their performance would also be adversely affected.” Gaya Sadar SDO Indravir Kumar said there are half-a-dozen centres for JEE in the town. “The examinees will have to make their own arrangements for transportation and boarding. Takeaway eatables are permitted in the eateries,” the SDO added. Meanwhile some examinees from Bhagalpur and Banka districts, who have meagre means, are even considering dropping the examination this year as they are finding it difficult to travel to Bhagalpur or Patna and stay in hotels or dharmashalas. “The situation for girl examinees and their guardians, who reside at far-off places, is all the more tough as they have to make arrangements for three days to stay either in Bhagalpur or Patna, besides facing travel hassles,” said Pragati Kumari, a JEE aspirant. Several students are unhappy as their examination centres have been shifted to Patna. Ashish Anand of TNB College said Bhagalpur was his first choice as exam centre, Purnia second and Patna third. However, he has been allotted Patna centre. Rahul, whose father has meagre income, said he would either have to drop the exam or take a loan of Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000 to appear for it in Patna. Though bus services have started, but is limited and the threat of Covid-19 pandemic still looms large, said some other aspirants. About, 3,500-4000 students are likely to appear for the JEE Main examination in Bhagalpur. Some aspirants will appear in four outsourced examination centres – ‘TCS iON’ at Barari Industrial Area, Exam India (at Kutchery Chowk), Online Exam Centre (at Manali Chowk) and Online Exam Centre (on S M College Road). “Earlier, there used to be just one outsourced examination centre – ‘TCS iON’,” sources said, adding this year the NTA endeavoured to make four online test centres in view of Covid-19 pandemic. One of the owners of an online examination centre said, “We have been asked to make preparations for online exams with adequate infrastructure.” Bhagalpur DM Parnav Kumar said arrangements for maintaining the standard protocol of social distancing would have to be made by the agencies concerned. “We will be making administrative arrangements outside the examination centres by deputing executive magistrates and police personnel in adequate number,” the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/transport-food-a-concern-for-jee-aspirants/articleshow/77839232.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 31, 2020||Patna||Two Patna hospitals register 42% Covid deaths in August||PATNA: The two Covid-dedicated hospitals in the city – AIIMS-Patna and NMCH – registered around 42.4% deaths in August alone and one-third of patients died due to late detection of the infection and comorbidities. Some patients died before getting any treatment and others even before reaching the hospital. At AIIMS-Patna, 281 Covid patients have so far died, including 139 in August. Similarly, of the total 166 Covid deaths at NMCH, 51 were registered in August. According AIIMS-P officials, of the 281 Covid deaths at the hospital, 22.7% of patients died on the day of their admission or within 24 hours after beginning of their treatment. Majority of them were high-risk patients – those with comorbidities and aged above 50 years. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-P, said some patients came to the hospital late for treatment while many were referred from other hospitals after their condition turned critical. “Some patients ignored the early symptoms and allowed the infection to spread to their other organs. They took the early symptoms as signs of seasonal influenza and went for Covid test only after their health condition deteriorated. In some cases, the early test results came negative for Covid,” Dr Kumar added. Around 64 people succumbed to Covid at AIIMS-Patna within 24 hours of their admission in July and August. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer for Covid-19 at NMCH, said early detection of the virus and risk assessment could reduce Covid mortality rate. “Private hospitals referred at least 28 patients to NMCH after putting them on ventilation support. Some of them died on way to the hospital, while others showed no signs of recovery due to late detection of the virus,” Dr Mukul said. Health experts said the risk of death due to Covid-19 is less among patients who do not have comorbidities. Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, former president of Indian Medical Association, Bihar chapter, stressed on the need for proper health education to reduce Covid mortality rate. “Social distancing, wearing masks and early detection and treatment are a must to fight Covid,” he said, adding people should not ignore the early symptoms of the virus. Dr Pratyush, a city-based general physician, said people should get themselves tested if they develop Covid symptoms. “Pre-existing health problems and delay in Covid treatment are the prime factors for Covid deaths,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-city-hospitals-register-42-covid-deaths-in-august/articleshow/77838547.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Barmer: A beachy wonder in the middle of desert||JAISALMER: A place in Barmer is getting famous on social media which people are calling as mini Goa. Barmer is a desert area where people travel for many kilometres to procure water. But, 69km away from Barmer district headquarters there is a place adjoining the Indo-Pak international border where water is accumulated in 10km area. Large number of people from Barmer and nearby districts are coming to visit Redana Rann for picnic. People say that they have never seen such beauty in the desert. Daily 2,000 to 3,000 people come here in vehicles on picnic. Barmer SP Anand Sharma has deployed additional police personnel to maintain law and order and avoid any possible accidents. Chauhatan SDM has issued an appeal to people not to litter. Apart from this, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary has started efforts to develop this place as a new tourism hub. Heavy rain has been lashing Chauhatan area these days and there is water all around in Rann area. The place boasts of pristine beauty like that of Goa and hundreds of people are coming here daily. In fact, Redana village is surrounded by hills and rainwater accumulated here gives it the appearance of an ocean. As two feet under the gravel is clay so water is not seeping in. It has created a beach-like atmosphere in the middle of the desert. Hitesh Sanklecha of Barmer said that he had been to Nainital, Goa and other places but has not seen a place like this. He came to know about the spot through social media. Jhujhar Singh of Redana said that every year water accumulates here. Since this year people could not go to other places due to the pandemic, so they are coming here and liking this place. People have uploaded the photos of this place on social media. Visitors are thronging here. He said that the locals are demanding that the government declare this place as a tourist spot so that people get the facilities. Kailash Choudhary has assured the people to develop Redana Rann as a tourist place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/a-beachy-wonder-in-the-middle-of-desert/articleshow/77841334.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Patna||No e-pindadaan this year during Pitrapaksha||GAYA: In 2019 the Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC) introduced a package for the performance of ‘e-pindadaan’ during Pitrapaksh for those who were not in a position to visit Gaya for performing the rituals. However, no such package has been announced this year and as such neither real nor virtual ‘pindadaan’ is possible this season. As per the 2019 package, those interested in the performance of ‘e-pindadaan’ were required to register themselves and get it done in e-mode. The ‘e-pindaanis’ in 2019 were required to deposit Rs 19,950 in account number 440102682 of the Birchand Patel Marg branch of the the Bank of India. A fee of Rs 19,000 was the fee for conduct of rituals at Vishnupad Temple, Akshay Vat and Falgu river. It included the fee of the priest and the cost of video recording of the event and the dispatch of pen drive containing the recording to the remote pilgrim. About 5% GST was also chargeable making the total cost of ‘e-pindadaan’ to Rs 19,950. Earlier this month, the revenue department of the state government cancelled the fortnight-long event scheduled to begin on September 1, 2001. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said that in 2019, the e-pindadaan was conducted by the BSTDC and the district administration was not involved in the project. Tourism department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar could not be contacted for his comments. According to Panda leader Rajen Sijuar, the very concept of ‘e-pindadaan’ was flawed and it did not have any religious sanction. Physical presence of those offering pinds was mandatory and it cannot be performed remote. Agreeing with the stand of the Panda leader that ‘e-pindadaan’ cannot be performed, Acharya Kishore Kunal, former chairman of the Religious Trust Board said that heaven would not fall if ‘pindadaan’ is not performed during the pandemic. If not 2020, it can be performed any time thereafter. “In Mahavir Mandir, Patna too, no ritual is performed without the physical presence of the ‘yagnaman’ concerned. In case of ‘japs’ too, the person concerned has to be present at least during the initial rendering and final stage,” said Kunal. According to Kunal, “Though preferable, pindadan performance in Gaya was not mandatory. It can be performed anywhere including the place of residence of the deceased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-e-pindadaan-this-year-during-pitrapaksha/articleshow/77838528.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 31, 2020||Mysuru||Lack of organised network for plasma donation hampers Covid-19 treatment in Mysuru||Mysuru: Against a backdrop of a rising Covid-19 graph in Mysuru district, the lack of clarity on seeking plasma therapy is proving to be a handicap in the battle against the pandemic. Mysuru district has done commendably well in terms of its recovery rate, with over 12,000 patients who contracted Covid-19 now being free of the infection. The efficacy of plasma therapy in treating Covid-19 patients has been repeatedly emphasised by doctors, but the lack of an organised network to seek donation from those who have recovered from the infection is hampering the chances of those now battling it in Mysuru district. Kin of Covid-19 patients advised plasma therapy by doctors have been left with no option but to reach out those who have recovered from the infection through blood donors’ groups. Stakeholders in Mysuru district believe that there is a need to raise awareness among the people to clear them of misapprehensions about plasma donation if it is to see a spike in the number of voluntary plasma donations. Recounting the ordeal he went through to get a plasma donor for a relative with Covid-19 and on ventilator support at a private hospital, a Mysuru resident said, “I had to struggle for two days to locate a willing donor. I had to reach out to all family members, friends and blood donors’ groups. There is no plasma facility at the Krishna Rajendra (KR) Hospital's blood bank. Many of those who had recovered from the infection too expressed reluctance in donating plasma citing stigma attached to visiting a Covid-19 hospital.” Fortunately, he was able to get one unit of plasma, largely owing to the efforts of his relative. But the prospect of doctors asking for another unit of plasma is keeping him worried nevertheless. A blood bank officer in Mysuru city said that, since the beginning of August, he had made 1,000 calls to patients who had recovered from Covid-19, beseeching them to come forward to donate plasma, to little avail. “Family members of Covid-19 patients ask why they cannot donate plasma just as they can do with blood. It is rather hard to convince them and explain the difference,” he added. Sources at a blood bank in Mysuru city said that one unit of plasma costed around Rs 9,900. Dr Manjunath BS, who works at the KR Hospital’s blood bank office, said that, as on August 17, only 26 patients who had recovered from Covid-19 in Mysuru city had donated plasma. The plasma collection equipment at KR Hospital being in a state of disrepair has prompted the authorities to send willing donors to Mandya. “Not enough patients who have recovered from the infection are coming forward to donate plasma,” Dr Manjunath admitted. Dr Lakshmi Narasimhan R, a Mysuru-based pulmonologist, echoed the observation of a deficit in the number of people coming forward to donate plasma compared with the demand for it. “Nearly 5% of patients with Covid-19 require plasma from those who have recovered. The success rate of plasma treatment is around 50%. Only those patients the condition of whom is grave and are on ventilator are treated with plasma therapy,” said Dr Narasimhan, reiterating the need to rid people of the misconceptions surrounding plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lack-of-organised-network-for-plasma-donation-hampers-covid-19-treatment-in-mysuru/articleshow/77840397.cms||Shrinivasa M
August 31, 2020||Mysuru||Birders want vulture breeding centre at Ramanagara, not Bannerghatta||Mysuru: The forest department has decided to set up a vulture breeding centre in Bannerghatta National Park, Bengaluru to protect and develop the population of the critically endangered vultures of Ramanagara. However, volunteers of various wildlife organisations involved in the protection of vultures want a centre to be set up in Ramanagara and have urged forest authorities to reconsider their decision. The forest department initiating to save and increase the population of Long-Billed Vulture and Egyptian Vultures - of Ramadevara Betta Vulture Sanctuary prepared a management plan based on the opinion by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) deputy director Vibhu Prakash, who had visited Ramanagara to study and locate ideal vulture breeding and release sites. Members of Karnataka Vulture Conservation Trust, Ramanagara claimed that Vibhu Prakash had recognised two separate sites, Chikkamannugudda for setting the breeding centre and Ramadevara Betta Vulture Sanctuary as a vulture release centre. The plan was prepared accordingly for the respective centres to be established at the mentioned sites which are in ideal proximity within Ramanagara District. However, the forest department has recently decided to set up the breeding centre at Bannerghatta National Park and the Vulture ‘restaurant’ (feeding place) remains Ramadevara Betta. “Bannerghatta is not a suitable place for the breeding centre as it does not fulfil the prerequisites of a breeding centre as mentioned in the manual published by the Central Zoo Authority,” trust secretary Shashikumar B told TOI. The volunteers claim as Chikkamannugudde is ideally close to Ramadevara Betta, it is ideal for conservation of vultures. The breeding centre is not preferable near zoological parks comprising various indigenous and exotic animals which exposes them to diseases. The centre should be at least 25 km away from a zoo for a safe conservation breeding programme, they said. Ramanagara sub-division assistant conservator of forests (ACF) M Ramakrishnappa told TOI that plans are afoot to set up the breeding centre in Bannerghatta National Park. “The members of vulture conservation trust want the breeding centre to be set up in Ramanagar district. A decision will be taken by department high-ups,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/birders-want-vulture-breeding-centre-at-ramanagara-not-bannerghatta/articleshow/77839939.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 31, 2020||Mysuru||Aged couple murdered at their farm house||Hassan: An aged couple was allegedly strangled to death by unknown miscreants at Alagondanahalli village, Dandiganahalli hobli of Channarayapatna taluk in the district on Saturday night. The couple, who were living in a house in their 40-acre plantation were allegedly killed using a pillow. The victims are Muralidhar, 81, and Umadevi, 67. The couple had no children. Umadevi was obese and used to use a walking stick while walking said police. Muralidhar’s younger brother Ramesh said, “Muralidhar was very passionate about agriculture. He had grown coconut, areca, banana, teak including other trees in his plantation.” The plantation is one kilometre from Alagondanahalli, which is 7km from the taluk. According to police, two weeks back a coconut merchant had visited the victims’ house to discuss harvesting coconuts. Police said that by around 7pm on Saturday, all labourers had left the plantation. A gang of unknown miscreants allegedly entered the house. Chilli powder was found scattered in the house. While Muralidhar was found dead on the floor in a room, Umadevi was dead on a bed in another room. Most materials in house were lying scattered. Police were informed about the incident by the son of Meenakshi, who used to supply milk to the house daily. "The couple had an adopted a son from other community to take care of them. Prima facie evidence indicates the couple were strangled using a pillow,” said additional superintendent of police BN Nandini. Animal skulls found Around 50 animal skulls are found in an uninhabited area near Suranahalli village on the outskirts of Holenarasipur on Sunday. The spot is bushy and in a low-lying area in a cemetery. Holenarsipur TMC in-charge chief officer Shanthala said they suspect the skulls might be of calves and they would confirm after testing them. “It appears that the skulls were lying there for many days. We will get the skulls tested and probe who is responsible for dumping them there,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/aged-couple-murdered-at-their-farm-house/articleshow/77839102.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Allahabad||33 more inmates test corona positive in Naini jail, active cases soar to 157||Prayagraj: Thirty three inmates at Naini Central Jail were diagnosed with Covid-19 on Sunday, after testing negative for the infection about 10 days back. The inmates were diagnosed using rapid antigen test kits. Senior superintendent of Naini central jail PN Pandey said, “A team of health department officials had conducted tests on 100 inmates and 33 of them tested positive for Covid-19. The 33 inmates had earlier tested negative during a testing drive organised on the prison premises around 10 days back. Then too, they were tested using rapid antigen kits.” Prison authorities decided to get them tested again after some of the inmates developed symptoms similar to Covid-19. Pandey said that currently there are 157 active cases in the prison and they are being treated at the Covid quarantine centre-cum-hospital set up in one of the barracks of the jail. Teams of medical and paramedical staff is tending to the inmates. On Saturday, a joint team of police, health and district administration inspected the Covid quarantine centre inside the jail. The team decided to deploy an additional team of medical and paramedical staff including three doctors to take better care of inmates. The local administration has decided to set up a 120-bed hospital inside the jail. The jail administration has gotten over 1,900 inmates tested for Covid-19 in the past two weeks. Currently, around 4,700 inmates lodged in Naini central jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/33-more-inmates-test-corona-positive-in-naini-jail-active-cases-soar-to-157/articleshow/77839734.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Delay in supply of urea upsets Kodagu farmers||Madikeri: The farming community in the district is upset as urea has not been supplied to cooperative societies by the agriculture department. Farmers say this is the right season for coffee growers and other farmers to apply urea to their crops, but they are unable to get it. While other fertilizers are available at village agricultural cooperative societies, not a single bag of urea has reached the, alleged Ajjamada Chengappa, president of Shrimangala agricultural produce cooperative society. He questioned how the other commercial shops get the stock? Reacting to the issue, Kodagu deputy commissioner Anies Kanmani Joy said, “I came to know about the unavailability of urea in the village level societies which is essential for local growers. I had discussed the issue with the agricultural officers and the problem will be soon sorted out.” Meanwhile, Kodagu agricultural joint director Shabana Shaik said that due to Covid-19 pandemic and the recent flood and landslides in the district, supply of urea was not timely. “We have contacted the concerned. The urea will reach Kodagu soon. The department will arrange for distribution of urea in the taluk levels soon,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/delay-in-supply-of-urea-upsets-kodagu-farmers/articleshow/77838948.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Metro to wait for urban affairs minister SOP before planning resumption of services||KOLKATA: Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi indicated on Sunday that officials will wait for the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) to formulate an SOP over the next few days before discussing the matter of resumption of services with the state. “We have certain plans and will wait for the MOHUA SOP before we declare a final set of regulations for resumption of services. We shall incorporate any recommendations by MOHUA that are useful. Though we don’t come under MOHUA directly, we shall abide by the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, which is the final decision maker,” Joshi told TOI. All Metro networks across the country, save for Metro Railway in Kolkata, have MOHUA as a stakeholder, apart from the respective state governments. Officials believe the MHA has entrusted MOHUA to create an SOP for Metro operations across the country due to this. However, Metro Railway is unique in certain ways and may have to amend the recommendations of MOHUA according to its own requirements. “We are not concerned about our preparedness. Over the last five months, we have maintained our assets and carried out trials. Necessary repairs and replacements have also been undertaken across the network. Our greatest concern managing crowds once we resume commercial operations. A decision has already been taken not to issue tokens. We will solicit support from our commuters to maintain social distancing and discipline,” said Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee. The concerns of officials are not unfounded since there has been resistance every time an attempt has been made to bring about some discipline. A PTI report from New Delhi indicated that the SOPs for running the Metro trains have already been circulated and will be discussed through video conference by the MOHUA with all Metro companies on September 1 before being finalized. All MDs have been asked to look into SOPs prepared by the MOHUA earlier in view of the current reality. The Bengal government also wants suburban trains and metro services to resume in a “limited manner” in the state. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay has written to Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav urging for a phased resumption of Metro and local train services, which have remained suspended for the last four months. “The state government is of the view that Metro and local train services can be resumed in Bengal in a limited manner maintaining the norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocols,” Bandyopadhyay wrote in his letter. The state home secretary has made a request to the Railway Board chairman to “work out the modalities and logistics” for resuming the services “in consultation with the state government”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-to-wait-for-urban-affairs-min-sop-before-planning-resumption-of-services/articleshow/77840449.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Manipal students design hybrid bio hazmat suit||Manipal: With global health emergency taking the central stage, many believe that the battle to reduce plastic waste has taken a back seat. While production of personal protection equipment has surged in the recent months due to the pandemic, there is a growing concern over the rising plastic waste especially due to the increasing use of PPE kits. Addressing, this issue, a team of students from the Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) have designed a hybrid bio hazmat suit that was presented at the Manipal Covid Challenge, organised by the Innovation Centre, MAHE and in collaboration with KMC, Manipal and Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT). Nearly eight teams emerged winners from 47 participating teams over two phases ideation and prototyping. In the personal protective devices category, the hybrid bio hazmat suit emerged as a winner. Noyal Babu PS, second-year MSc, Nuclear Medicine student, Manipal College of Health Professions (MCHP), and team leader said: “Realising that there is no effective eco-friendly PPE, our team worked on a prototype. The hybrid bio hazmat suit, a coverall gown is lightweight and prepared from a plant-based biodegradable polymer and is easily disposable. Each gown is expected to cost around Rs 200. It comes with a specially designed respirator that can be attached inside the PPE kit. The coverall was tested by a few healthcare workers in KMC Hospital to check the comfort and quality. The users’ feedback stated they were satisfied with the design and comfort of the PPE kit after using it for five hours,” he added. Team members who worked on the project included Ajil Saji from third year BSc (nuclear medicine), MCHP, Varun Suresh, third year MBBS from KMC, MAHE, and Suraj PN, a fourth year engineering student from MIT, Manipal. The project mentors are Dr Shivanand Bhushan and Sibi Oommen, from MCHP. On the Manipal Covid Challenge, Dr Arun Shanbhag, chief innovation officer, MAHE said, “We started in April in the midst of a lockdown. Most of our students are scattered all across the country. Yet they all managed to connect, form teams, come up with novel solutions, and even deploy prototypes for many of their solutions. The Innovation Centre supported them in every way along this journey. I saw a deep desire in our students to fulfil the Prime Minister’s call for Atma Nirbhar — self-reliance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/manipal-students-design-hybrid-bio-hazmat-suit/articleshow/77840262.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Drive under way in DK to help needy obtain Ayushman cards||Mangaluru: Several youths and members of NGOs in the city have joined hands to help the citizens obtain Ayushman Bharat cards that provide healthcare for Covid-19 and other diseases in government and empanelled private hospitals. Wellness Helpline, a platform of doctors, district administration officials, and NGOs formed to fight Covid-19, have launched Wellness Smart Locality Camp and are helping people get Ayushman Bharat cards for free. They have identified a sponsor — Edinabba Foundation — to look after the expenses for the initial 10,000 cards and other services. Zakaria Farvez, co-ordinator, Wellness Helpline told TOI, the idea of reaching out to the needy and taking care of their health needs, struck during the nationwide lockdown. “We were lacking a system in place to deal with health challenges. Several NGOs reached out to the poor and were involved in ration distribution. This helped us build a database of the needy. With the pandemic, people realized the importance of having Ayushman Health Card and various other supportive documents with them. Since we are on a mission to fight the pandemic, we have seen people struggle to obtain documents, especially after hospital admissions,” he said. “We are trying to connect with Jamats and other faith-based organisations in Dakshina Kannada to identify the poor. We have also launched locality wise camps. Along with Ayushman cards, we help people obtain senior citizen cards, new APL cards, addition and deletion of names in ration card, address changes in Aadhaar cards, labour cards, and other essential documents. Four camps have been held so far after a pilot was launched in Kudroli last week. This camp is open to people of all faith,” he said. The fifth camp will be held from August 31 to September 3 at the St Mary’s High school, Falnir. So far nearly 5,000 Ayushman Bharat cards have been issued. Dr Ratnakar, district nodal officer, Ayushman Bharat scheme said, Ayushman cards can be obtained through agents recognised under the Seva Sindhu portal and also from Mangalore One centres. So far, about 3.5 lakh cards have been issued. “With the pandemic, people have become more conscious about health-related programmes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/drive-under-way-in-dk-to-help-needy-obtain-ayushman-cards/articleshow/77840083.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||‘Air travel safest public transport in Cov times’||Kolkata: An in-flight transmission study by industry body International Air Transport Association (IATA) of four airlines that carried 1.3 lakh flyers, 1,100 of whom were confirmed Covid-19 cases, revealed that only one passenger may have been infected during the flight. In India, 341 passengers tested positive for Covid out of more than 12.4 lakh who travelled on domestic flights between May 25 and June 15. But contact tracing did not find even one co-flyer to have contracted the infection. “In Covid times, air travel is the safest mode of public transport. In-flight travel is safe due to strict regulatory checks, high compliance to protective measures among passengers and crew, and use of technology,” aviation medicine expert, group captain Yashvir Singh Dahiya said at an aviation webinar on “navigating through Covid clouds to safer cruising heights”. Boeing India president Salil Gupte explained the distinctive features of aircraft ventilation systems that replace the cabin air every two-three minutes, pumping fresh air in from ceiling vents and removing the air from vents on the walls along the floor. This meant there was very little possibility of lateral droplet transmission. “The high air displacement rates are complemented with HEPA filters that remove almost all particles of the typical size of coronavirus,” he explained. Boeing and Airbus, whose planes carry nearly 95% of flyers in India, have advised airlines to keep the ventilation system running when passengers are boarding and disembarking to further minimize the risk. Turnover time for aircraft has increased from 25-40 minutes to at least an hour to ensure sanitization. “Earlier, deep cleaning of an aircraft happened at the end of the day. Now, it happens after every flight,” said IndiGo senior VP (flight operations) Capt Ashim Mittra. The SOPs adopted at airports, including emphasis on web-check in, has added to the safety, said civil aviation additional secretary Usha Padhee. Former DGCA chief Arun Mishra, now the Asia-Pacific director of International Civil Aviation Organisation, has been coordinating the SOPs as an integral member of the Council for Aviation Recovery Taskforce. Veteran pilot Sarvesh Gupta and IATA country head Amitabh Khosla also discussed the possibility of Covid insurance being introduced in air travel and rapid test prior to flying. Some international carriers, like Emirates, have already introduced free global Covid cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/air-travel-safest-public-transport-in-cov-times/articleshow/77840490.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Kerala allows patients from Kasaragod to visit hospitals in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: After more than five months of roadblocks and restrictions, patients, especially from northern parts of Kerala, are being allowed to visit medical colleges and hospitals in Mangaluru. Though Dakshina Kannada district administration had opened all its inter-state borders, restrictions had continued for commuters between Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada due to Kasaragod district administration’s rules. Now the Kasaragod district administration has decided to open its borders for patients from Kerala to visit hospitals in Mangaluru on a condition that they should return on the same day. The move is expected to increase the number of patients in the outpatient departments of medical colleges and hospitals in Mangaluru. “We have already opened Kerala-Karnataka borders at Jalsoor, Perla, Manimoola–Bandadukka, Panathoor and Talapady as per Kerala High Court’s order. All patients, who wants to cross Talapady border to avail treatment in Mangaluru and return to Kerala the same day, need not undergo antigen test. Similarly, businessmen on a one-day emergency trip also need not undergo antigen test,” Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu said. However, he said, those inter-state daily commuters will have to undergo antigen test once in 21 days and upload the negative report on Covid-19 on Jagratha portal of the Kerala government. Others, who visit Kasaragod district, also must register details on the portal, he added. Incidentally, Kasaragod district also has been witnessing increase in number of Covid-19 cases. The district has reported 1,304 positive cases between August 20 and 29. Out of the 1,304 cases, 586 were reported during August 27-29, according to the data released by the district information office, Kasaragod. Meanwhile, in Dakshina Kannada, 2,579 cases were reported between August 20 and 29 as per the data released by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. The district had recorded its highest single-day spike with 448 cases on August 29. EOM/ August||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kerala-allows-patients-from-kasaragod-to-visit-hospitals-in-mangaluru/articleshow/77840410.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Patna||Muharram passes off peacefully||PATNA: The Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel, along with district police, conducted flag march in different localities of Phulwarisharif at Patna on Sunday to maintain law and order and keep antisocial elements at bay on the occasion of Muharram, which passed off peacefully in the state. Sources said though religious congregations were not allowed, police remained on alert in all the sensitive places across the state in view of the upcoming assembly election in October-November. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said everything was peaceful across state on the occasion of Muharram. RAF and police personnel had conducted flag march in Sultanganj and Alamganj police station areas of eastern Patna on Saturday. Patna City SDPO Amit Sharan said only few people were allowed to offer prayers publicly as per government guidelines due to Covid-19 pandemic. SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said no procession or tazia was allowed. “Deployment of forces will continue at least till Monday,” he added. Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti said there were some minor law and order problems in Kotwali and Kartarpur police station areas on Friday night, but that were resolved. Bharti said he led a flag march in different areas of Bhagalpur town on Saturday. “Everything was peaceful till Sunday evening,” he said. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said flag march were conducted with SSB and BMP personnel on Friday and Saturday in the town area and on its outskirts. “Everything remained peaceful. One SSB and six BMP companies were allotted to Muzaffarpur for deployment on Muharram,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muharram-passes-off-peacefully/articleshow/77839381.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Three youths killed after MUV hits bike in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Three youths who were going to their village died on the spot after their motorcycle was hit by an MUV coming from the opposite direction under Phalsoond police station area in Jaisalmer district late on Friday night. On getting information, police reached the spot and handed over the bodies to the family members after post-mortem. SHO Devkishan said Kundan Singh, 20, Samunder Singh, 21, and Soubhaya Singh, 22, had gone to Khumansar village on Friday night and were returning to Bhurjgarh village when an MUV hit them on Phalsoond-Jodhpur route. The four-wheeler too overturned in the mishap, leaving the driver injured. Police took the youths to Pokharan for treatment where the doctors declared them dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-youths-killed-after-muv-hits-bike-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77841362.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Patna||Patna: Mobile teams start collecting samples from riverine areas||PATNA: The Patna administration has deputed mobile teams for collecting samples of suspected Covid patients living in riverine areas in the district where road connectivity was paralysed due to rise in water level of rivers. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the district authorities have been collecting samples of people from diara and taal areas. Around 8,000 such samples have been tested and 3% of people were tested positive for Covid. As per the data provided by the district administration, the maximum samples were collected from Belchi taal (1,995), followed by Ghoswari taal (1,481), Ram Nagar diara (500), Chiraiya diara (399) and Bahadur taal (222). Around 300 samples were tested in Danapur block covering areas like Purani Panapur, Kasimchak, Gangaur, Manas and Patlapur. On Sunday, 456 samples were collected from diara areas and only one person was tested positive for the virus. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said symptomatic Covid patients from diara and taal areas were sent to hospitals and asymptomatic patients to the isolation centres. “The mobile team also did contact tracing for containment of the virus. As the people in riverine areas can’t reach the primary health centres, the team is conducting rapid antigen tests for early detection. All riverine areas, including Patna Sadar, Bakhtiyarpur and Fatuha, are covered,” the DM added. Meanwhile, the district administration has so far collected 168 samples from supermarkets in Patna. None of the sample, however, was tested positive for coronavirus. Of 12,749 samples tested in containment zones so far, 1,060 people were tested positive for the virus in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mobile-teams-start-collecting-samples-from-riverine-areas/articleshow/77838824.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 31, 2020||Patna||Lawyer in triple murder case escapes bid on life||PATNA: Former Gopalganj civil court public prosecutor Ramnath Sahu (69), who is representing JP Yadav in the triple murder case, had a narrow escape after criminals fired several rounds at his residence late Saturday night. One of the bullets hit his bedroom window. His residence is on Ramnath Sharma road under Town police station area of Gopalganj. Police said the incident took place at around 11pm. They said two bike-borne criminals were captured in the CCTV cameras installed at Sahu’s residence. RJD leader JP Yadav’s father Mahesh Chaudhary and mother Sanketia Devi were shot dead at Repura under Hathua police station area in Gopalganj on May 24. Yadav, along with elder brother Shantanu Yadav, had also sustained bullet injuries. Shantanu died during treatment. Kuchaikot MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, his elder brother Satish Pandey and Satish’s son Mukesh Pandey are among the main accused in the triple murder case. Mukesh is also Gopalganj district board chairman. Sahu told TOI over phone on Sunday that the firing took place to threaten and terrorize him. Sahu is also associated with RJD. He said two criminals on a bike with covered faces had reached near his residence and opened fire. “I along with my family members rushed outside and found three empty cartridges and one live bullet. We were going to bed when the incidence took place,” he added. Town police station SHO Prashant Kumar said Sahu has lodged an FIR in this connection. “He suspects the incident was to terrorize him for not opposing Mukesh’s bail plea in the court,” the SHO said. Mukesh, along with father Satish and one Bateshwar Pandey are in jail in the triple murder case. In less than 48 hours of the incident, the MLA’s close aide Shashikant Tiwari alias Munna Tiwari had been shot dead at Repura under Hathua police station area. The four killings had created in tension in Gopalganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyer-in-triple-murder-case-escapes-bid-on-life/articleshow/77839404.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gang of five attack two men in tempo and steal Rs 30 lakh, one held||PUNE: Of the five armed robbers, who stole a sum of Rs 30 lakh from a tempo after assaulting the driver and cleaner of the vehicle on Pune-Solapur highway near Kurkumbh on Saturday evening, was arrested the same night by the Daund police and Rs2.10 lakh was recovered from his possession. Sub-inspector Rushikesh Adhikari told TOI, “We have arrested Pramod Gargule (36) of Wakhari village near Yavat. The search for the other four men is underway.” Adhikari said the tempo, owned by a poultry farm owner, was headed towards Solapur to buy poultry feed. The cash was meant to buy the feed. “The five suspects, riding on two separate motorcycles, started chasing the tempo on the highway around 8pm and managed to overtake it near Kurkumbh. They halted their motorcycles in front of the tempo and forced the driver to halt by barring his way,” Adhikari said. The five armed men pulled out the driver, Sagar Mahahan (30) of Loni Kalbhor, and pushed him in a ditch along the highway. The tempo cleaner, Ganesh Chavan, retaliated but the suspects assaulted him with heavy sharp weapons. He sustained deep injuries on his hand and on shoulder, police said. The suspects then picked stole the bag of cash kept in the cabin and sped away on their motorcycles, Adikari said. “However, the driver immediately called the police and a naka bandi was ordered on the highway and neighbouring villages. Police found a motorcycle rider moving suspiciously near Patas toll plaza around 11pm. Police decided to check his bag and found Rs2.10 lakh,” Adhikari said. Gargule said he and the other four had split the money and he was on his way home when he was nabbed. The names and other details of the four other men have been obtained by the police and they will be nabbed soon, Adhikari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-of-five-attack-two-men-in-tempo-steal-rs-30l-one-held/articleshow/77841337.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: 2,500 shifted from 21 villages as Narmada dam level rises||VADODARA/BHARUCH: At least, 2,500 people were relocated from several villages in Bharuch on Sunday as water levels Narmada River swelled after nine lakh cusecs was released from Sardar Sarovar Dam. Nearly 21 villages in Bharuch, Ankleshwar, and Jhagadia were inundated as waters entered gushed into these areas. Floodwaters also entered low lying areas in Furja, Pirkanthi, Dholikui area of Bharuch town. P C Vyas, director Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) told TOI, “The water level in th dam touched 132 m after inflow of 11.12 lakh cusecs. We released 9.54 lakh cusecs on Sunday evening.” A total of nine turbines of river bed and canal head power houses have been made operational. They generate 1,350 megawatt electricity of 24 million units worth Rs five crore per day. The live storage in the dam reservoir is 3681 million cubic metres. “Water level at Golden Bridge near Bharuch crossed the danger level of 24 foot on Sunday morning and reached 29.5 foot in the evening,” said Bharuch collector Dr MD Modiya. Aruond 9,96 people from the low-lying areas of Narmada were shifted to camps in safer areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2500-shifted-from-21-villages-as-narmada-dam-level-rises/articleshow/77838463.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man lured on dating app, thrashed & robbed||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police on Sunday launched a search for a gang of four men who robbed a 34-year-old of his valuables worth Rs 81,000 after luring him on a dating application for gay people. One of the four men called the victim to a desolate location off Sinhagad Road on August 9 around 11.30am. “The suspect then took him to a room located on an empty plot. Three more men barged inside soon after. They threatened him with a sharp weapon and forcibly took his gold rings, silver bracelet and wallet. They so recorded the entire incident. They then forced him to transfer Rs20,000 from his e-wallet and also took the PIN of his debit card and withdrew Rs14,000 from a ATM. They threatened him to not to reveal anything about the incident to anyone, else they would post his video on social media platforms,” assistant inspector Satish Umare said. The man, an employee of a private company, did not approach the police immediately as he did not want his wife and family members to know about it. On his friend’s insistence, the man on Sunday lodged an FIR with the Sinhagad Road police. “We have registered a case of robbery. Our probe is on,” Umare said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-lured-on-dating-app-thrashed-robbed/articleshow/77841332.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 31, 2020||Patna||PM Narendra Modi lauds Tharus in ‘Mann Ki Baat’||PATNA: The members of Tharu tribe in West Champaran region got appreciation from unexpected quarters on Sunday. PM Narendra Modi on his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ talked about Tharu tribe’s ‘Barna’ festival, which is celebrated during the month of ‘Shrawan’ every year. The festival shows their love for nature and commitment towards conservation of forests. PM Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ was telecast by the news channels and broadcast over All India Radio on Sunday morning. Modi said, “The members of Tharu community in West Champaran district observe 60-hour lockdown as part of their ‘Barna festival’, which exhibits their love for nature.” During the festival period, nobody is allowed to move out of their homes and outsiders are not allowed to enter villages. They remain indoors so that the plants are not trampled, which mostly grow during the month of ‘shrawan’. Traditional dance and other rituals are also performed to mark the end of the festival. PM Modi said, “Every ‘parv-tyohar’ (festival) in India is related to nature and has its significance. In ‘Barna’ festival too, women prepare ‘pakwan’, ‘halwa’, and other delicious dishes and distribute among brethren after the puja. Needless to say, ‘guru’ (priest) of each village perform the puja of ‘barkhan’ (Peepal tree) on the occasion.” Founder of Bhartiya Charu Kalyan Mahasangh Deep Narain Prasad said, “It’s a matter of pride for the members of this community, which is still a neglected lot. We are devoted to maintaining our traditional values.” Prasad said that the ‘Barna’ festival’ is an embodiment of the tribe’s commitment to conservation of forest and natural resources. “The members of this tribe mostly rely on natural resources for their livelihood. Cattle are not used in any work while people remain indoors for 60 hours. Those found to be violating the tradition is penalized by the elderly of the community,” he said. The members of Tharu community are mostly reside in 214 revenue villages under Bagaha-II and Gaunaha block of West Champaran district. The population of the community is around 2.57 lakh. A few members of this tribe have also settled in some villages under Laukaha block in Madhubani and Araria districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-lauds-tharus-in-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/77839435.cms||Ramashankar
August 31, 2020||Patna||Shooter Shreyasi Singh, mom likely to join RJD||PATNA: The 2018 Commonwealth Games shooting gold medal winner, Shreyasi Singh, along with her mother and former Banka MP Putul Kumari, is likely to join Lalu Prasad-led RJD in the first week of September. RJD sources said Lalu has already given his nod in this regard. “Putul, the widow of former Union minister Digvijay Singh, is in Delhi. She will join RJD in the presence of former CM Rabri Devi once she and her daughter return to the state capital. Putul has told us she will join in the first week of September. The date will be announced in a day or two,” a senior RJD leader told TOI on Sunday. Two senior bureaucrats, including one from Jharkhand cadre, played a vital role in the negotiation between Putul and senior RJD leaders, sources said. “Shreyasi will most probably contest the forthcoming Bihar assembly elections on the RJD ticket from Amarpur seat in Banka district,” the RJD leader said, preferring anonymity. When contacted, Shreyasi told TOI on Sunday that she too heard about media reports about their joining the RJD. “I will not comment on these issues. My mother will comment on political matters. Please talk to her,” Shreyasi said. She, however, neither denied nor confirmed the media reports. “I am not saying anything on the issue,” she said. Calls made to Putul on her mobile phone numbers were responded by her personal assistant Chandra Shekhar Singh. When asked about Putul’s likely joining the RJD, Singh said things would be cleared in a few days. “Madam is not taking calls from any media house. I will convey your message to her,” he said. Putul had won Banka parliamentary seat as an independent candidate in the 2010 byelection . .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shooter-shreyasi-mom-likely-to-join-rjd/articleshow/77839252.cms||Madan Kumar
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No change in tax now, IMFL sector breathes easy||KOLKATA: There may be some reprieve for hard liquor drinkers for some more days, but none for those who prefer light beer. The proposed excise tax regime will not be implemented from September 1 following requests from the India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and beer industry. There was growing apprehension that prices of several popular IMFL brands may go up after the tax-structure revision, though there was also a buzz about light-beer prices coming down. The state beverage corporation (Bevco), which was supposed to be closed from September 1 to 10 to accommodate the changeover to the new price regime will now remain operational. An executive of a liquor firm told TOI that the excise department has also extended the time frame to submit ex-distillery price (EDP) and ex-brewery price (EBP) of producers. The state had decided to abolish the 30% additional sales tax on liquor introduced on April 9 and change the entire excise structure by introducing a slab -based tax based on product value. The new structure would have had 16 slabs based on declared EBP of beer and 22 slabs based on declared EDP of IMFL. The declared EDP and EBP would not be more than other states’. If they were higher, then the company would have to justify it. International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI) and the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), who between them account for most of the branded liquor industry in India, had earlier submitted a joint representation to the state about the concern of liquor companies following the proposal for the new tax regime. CIABC and ISWAI had pointed out that under the proposed policy, consumer prices of the fast-moving brands would go up substantially (translating to a rise of Rs 150 to Rs 450 per bottle).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-change-in-tax-now-imfl-sector-breathes-easy/articleshow/77840496.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra FYJC first merit list: Arts stream records historic high cut-off, bumps Science off top spot||PUNE: In a historic change in trend observed in admissions to first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI), the Arts stream has recorded a higher cut-off than the Science stream in almost all top educational institutes in the city. The city’s most popular higher education destination, Fergusson College, recorded the highest cut-off of 97.4% for Arts (English) while its cut-off for Science was 97%. The early trend could indicate an interest towards the Arts stream even by the 90s club achievers. Educationists have attributed the change to students’ preference leaning towards preparation for competitive exams, careers in psychology, counselling and allied fields. The cut-off has also increased by nearly 4-5% overall at all colleges owing to higher pass percentages for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC, Std X) examination this year. Prakash Pawar, vice principal and HoD (Arts) at Fergusson College, said, “There is a big difference in the number of high schools in the city and the number of junior colleges offering Arts in English medium. This automatically leads to more competition. Then there is growing interest in subjects like Psychology and Economics, among students. Moreover, a number of students who want to appear for public service examinations from across the state come to Pune and take up Arts. All this has increased the competition.” College principal Ravindrasinh Pardeshi said he has not witnessed the Arts cut-off overriding that of Science in the past decade. He attributed the trend to the changing outlook of students in building a career. “More students are now opting for competitive exams. In fact, we have noticed that students are switching from the Science stream to Arts for the first year of graduation only to pursue a career in public administration, political science, language-specific courses, among others,” he said. While the cut-off for Science increased by 5-10 marks at most colleges, that for Arts has gone up by a minimum 10 marks to even 20-25 marks at institutes like Modern College, SP College and Garware College, among others. Principal of Modern College of Arts, Science & Commerce R Zunjarrao said, “Nowadays. many meritorious students take up Arts to prepare for state and national civil services exams. Many want to pursue a career in Psychology to become counsellors or sports psychologists. Apart from this, the intake capacity for Arts (English) is lesser in Pune colleges although they are more in demand.” Even seats for Marathi-medium courses have seen a significant increase in cut-off. For instance, the cut-off has gone up to 75.8% at Modern College as against last year’s 53.80%, a whopping 22% jump. Principal of SP College Dilip Sheth said, “I think the rise in the overall cut-off was expected due to the high pass percentage. However, the Arts cut-off is definitely a surprise. It just reflects how students are thinking these days. They are highly inclined towards subjects like social science, public administration and government services. Hence, students prefer Arts as they can prepare for these careers simultaneously.” As far as the Commerce stream is concerned, there has been a gradual increase in cut-offs and Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce ended with the highest cut-off for this stream with 96.4%, an improvement of nearly 2% over last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/arts-stream-records-historic-high-cut-off-bumps-science-off-top-spot/articleshow/77842632.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Gang steals garlic worth Rs 5L, busted||Kota: The police here on Saturday arrested eight members of a gang who were allegedly involved in stealing garlic worth Rs 4-5 lakh from at least six places in Kota and Jhalawar districts. The accused were nabbed in the forest when they were allegedly planning for looting a petrol pump near Mundiya village in Kota. They were produced before the court on Sunday afternoon which handed them over to the police for two-day remand for interrogation. Kota Rural SP Sharad Chaudhary said that the gang members were arrested based on a tip-off that they were planning to loot a petrol pump. The police team was led by Digod police station SHO Nand Singh. The miscreants confronted with the police, however, they were nabbed, he said. Chaudhary said the accused have been identified as Jitendra Mogiya, Pappu Mogiya, Lokesh Mongiya, Suresh Mogiya, Rajaram, Mahaveer, Jodhraj and Mahaveer, Mohanlal. A Bolero van, which was used for crime, seized from the accused, he added. Chaudhary said the two kingpins of the gang, Jitendra Mogiya and Pappu Mogiya, are notorious criminals as five and eight criminal cases, respectively, registered against them in various police stations of the area, he said. In initial interrogation, the accused revealed to have committed burglary of garlic worth Rs 4-5 lakh from the farmers from at least six places in the area. Choudhary announced to felicitate the members of the police team and cyber cell who played a role in busting the notorious gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-steals-garlic-worth-rs-5l-busted/articleshow/77841383.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University admission 2020: Registration for entry to close today||NEW DELHI: The registration for admission to Delhi University ends at 5pm on Monday. The university, however, has clarified that the aspirants who were awaiting their marksheets and other certificates for admissions to undergraduate courses would get an opportunity later to upload the same. “Applicants whose qualifying examination is yet to be held or who are required to upload their marksheet/certificates are hereby informed that the university will give them sufficient time to do so even after the registration is closed,” the notification said. These are mostly for students awaiting their re-evaluation results, while a few await their OBC and EWS certificates. The registration dates for undergraduate courses in 63 colleges were extended after DU was directed to conduct admission for extracurricular activities. The university had decided not to hold ECA admissions due to Covid-19. The admission under the category this year would be based on the best three certificates. The portal will reopen sometime in the second/third week of September, DU said, adding that it has so far received 3,48,412 applications for about 63,000 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/registration-for-entry-into-du-closes-today/articleshow/77844042.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||BHU sets up committee to implement Startup policy||VARANASI: Banaras Hindu University has formed a 21-member committee under vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar to implement the new national innovation and Startup policy-2019 introduced by ministry of education, at the university level. The committee’s convenor Dr Manish Arora of the department of applied arts, said that the committee comprises academicians as well as students and alumni, entrepreneurs and experts from different fields. During its first brain storming session held online on Saturday evening, the committee’s vice-chairman Prof S Srikrishna explained that the ministry has come up with national innovation and startup policy in higher education institutions under the new education policy to encourage innovation, startups and promote entrepreneurial approach at higher education institutions across the country for better ranking in the global innovation index. Arora highlighted that the Design Innovation Centre and Atal Incubation Centre were established in 2015 and 2018, respectively, to promote innovation at the university. The government had initially come out with a policy related to innovation and startup in 2016 while the new policy is an upgraded form of the same, he said adding that since 2015 innovation in the country has registered a big boost as India’s ranking has jumped from 81st to 52nd in the global innovation rankings in 2019. BHU, which was ranked 11th, jumped to 25th position under public funded institutions category of the country in the recently released Atal Innovation Rankings, he said adding that the university is making all efforts to make it to the top-5 position. In her address, Dr Poonam Sinha, director of National Institute of Entrepreneurship and Small Scale Industries Development, said that through this new policy the government wants to provide support and facilities to startups and make them partners in the country’s progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-sets-up-committee-to-implement-startup-policy/articleshow/77839786.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court orders probe against Shahibaug cops in 2016 torture case||Ahmedabad: In what could spell trouble for cops at the Shahibaug police station, the metropolitan court has ordered investigation into a 2016 custodial death case and sought an investigation report or a chargesheet by September 5.Chief metropolitan magistrate A Y Dave directed ACP (Zone 4) to conduct investigation against Shahibaug police for death of one Umang Chhatral alias Sonu, who was allegedly brutally beaten in police custody in November 2016. Sonu’s brother, Pritesh, had filed a complaint seeking inquiry into the custodial death. He had complained that he and Sonu had been in custody of Shahibaug police where they were beaten. After they were sent to judicial custody, his brother succumbed to the injuries. The autopsy report had revealed 11 ante-mortem injuries.The court did not act upon Pritesh’s complaint for nearly three years. Pritesh moved the Gujarat high court, which asked for a report from the metropolitan court in March. The report was submitted to the HC, which expressed its dissatisfaction over the pace of proceedings and pulled up the judicial officer for the casual approach shown towards the HC directions for action in the serious complaint. Earlier this month, the HC ordered the chief metropolitan magistrate to personally hear and decide Pritesh’s complaint.Accordingly, the chief metropolitan magistrate last week ordered the complaint to be registered in its inquiry register, and issued directions to ACP (Zone-4) under provisions of Section 156(3) of IPC to conduct investigation quickly into the custodial death and come up either with his report or with a chargesheet by September 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-orders-probe-against-shahibaug-cops-in-2016-torture-case/articleshow/77840254.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Allahabad||Rivers in spate, priests on ghats shift for safety||Prayagraj: Flood control division officials maintained a close watch on low-lying areas like Meja, Sadar, Manda and Handia as the water level of Ganga and Yamuna continued to rise in Prayagraj on Sunday. District officials said that the water level of Ganga at Phaphamau and Chatnag rose by 2cm and 5cm respectively. At Naini, the water level of Yamuna rose by 6cm . The water level of Ganga at Phaphamau and Chatnag was recorded as 80.32m and 79.28m respectively on Sunday evening. At Naini, Yamuna was flowing at 79.87m. The danger mark for both rivers is 84.73m. The rivers have started approaching the premises of Bade Hanuman temple. Meanwhile, priests and vendors who have set up shops on ghats shifted their belongings to safer locations. RK Tiwari, a priest, said “Many priests have shifted to Parade Ground area for the fear of floods.” Flood control division officials said the rivers are rising due to the floodwater being released from barrages in Narora, Haridwar and Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rivers-in-spate-priests-on-ghats-shift-for-safety/articleshow/77839752.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: At 70, he lined up for doctorate, not doctors||AHMEDABAD: When Balkrushna Pandya used to frequent the Gujarat University (GU) campus before the lockdown, anyone would have mistaken him for a senior faculty. “But I’m just a student, and my guide is younger than me,” chuckles the 70-year old. Pandya recently completed his doctoral thesis on the theme of comparative study of Rudrashtadhyaya and Pratishakhya in the context of Sanskrit grammar under the guideship of Dr Kamlesh Choksi, director and head of Department of Sanskrit, School of Languages at GU. But after all, it’s not the first of Pandya’s achievement – he had earlier completed his BA and MA in Sanskrit from the same department in the past one decade. A businessman before his retirement, Pandya had last attended college four decades ago when he had got a master’s degree in organic chemistry. “After my son got shifted to the US, I was spending a retired life. I had heard that my grandfather was a Sanskrit expert and was a key person in deciphering old texts for the city-based researchers. He was offered big rewards, but he would take only what’s sufficient to sustain self and family,” says Pandya. “It motivated me to continue the legacy and also to understand our ancient scriptures such as Vedas and Yogasutras in its original form.” He had sought special permission from the vice-chancellor earlier to attend regular classes along with other students. “If my health permits, I still want to study further and expand horizons of my knowledge,” says the septuagenarian. Choksi, his guide, is all praises for his ‘pupil.’ “He completed the study with all his vigour and interest. It’s rare to see such an inquisitive mind at this age when his peers are happy with their grandchildren. His quest to understand Sanskrit and various ancient texts is commendable and can motivate others to take up study at a relatively older age,” he said, adding that if not the oldest, he could well be one of the oldest PhD recipients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-70-he-lined-up-for-doctorate-not-doctors/articleshow/77840253.cms||Bharat Yagnik
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid mortality rate falls nationally, but rises in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Even as number of new deaths due to Covid-19 are on a decline at the national level, the rate at which people are succumbing to the virus in Punjab is showing no signs of slowing down. The national Covid-19 fatality rate has fallen from 3.36% in mid-July to 1.81% on August 28. In the same period, Punjab’s death rate rose from 2.41% to 2.64%, close on the heels of the global death rate of 3.38%. Maharashtra and Gujarat, which are the only states ahead of Punjab, also saw a drop in the fatality rate from 4% to 3.2% in August, which has so far turned out to be the worst month for Punjab, accounting for 69% and 65.44% of the total deaths and cases, respectively. The virus had snuffed out the lives of 1,307 people and infected 49,378 till August 28. The death of 902 infected people in the ongoing month — 315 of them in the last one week — has pushed the state’s deaths per million population to 43.6 against the national rate of 34.8 deaths, raising questions on the clinical management of the infected people Experts attribute the high mortality rate to high percentage of ageing population and urbanisation clubbed with high prevalence of non-communicable diseases. Over the years, Punjab witnessed a decline in the young population and an increase in the number of elderly, 60 years and above. Punjab has one of the highest percentage of population in the age group of 60 years and above in the country. According to the 2011 Census, 10% of the population is in the category of senior citizen. According to the analysis of 1,000 deaths by the health department, the majority occurred in the age group of 60 years and above. As many as 164 people in the age group of 70 years and above lost their lives to the virus, which killed 284 people in the age group of 61-70 years while 268 people died in the 51-60 age category. Only 277 people were killed in the age bracket of 15-50 and seven in 0-14 years. About 38% of the state’s population resides in densely populated, congested urban areas having a fatality rate of 4.5% against rural areas where 3.3% of total infected people have died. Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali reported most number of deaths. Barring a few, the majority of people who died had one or multiple underlying health conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, kidney and heart ailments. Explaining the reasons for surge in number of deaths in Punjab, health economist prof Aswini Kumar Nanda of the Chandigarh-based Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) said more people were dying due to surge in cases, which Punjab managed to delay when compared with other states. “Punjab is in a phase of rapid rise in cases, which many other states may have reached earlier,” said prof Nanda, who urged the state government to focus on patient management. Taking note, the central government this week directed Punjab along with eight other states\UT to take corrective steps for controlling fatality rate. These states were directed to bring fatality rate below 1% by focusing on testing, contact tracing and surveillance. The Centre laid stress on ensuring a minimum of 140 tests per million per day and bringing down positivity rate below 5% according to norms of World Health Organization. The state government has managed to increase testing capacity. Punjab CM has set a target of testing 30,000 people in a day by this month’s end. It has improved surveillance, especially in worst-hit areas. But, it is lagging in contact tracing. In about 15% cases, teams of the health department were either late or failed to trace transmission of infection. People not cooperating with health teams is one of the main reasons. There have been instances of teams being assaulted by villagers. They have now started taking police help. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the situation was being reviewed daily and corrective steps are being taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-mortality-rate-falls-nationally-but-rises-in-pb/articleshow/77841400.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||Utilise all available resources to tackle Covid: CM to BHU||Varanasi: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked Banaras Hindu University to utilise its full resources in order to yield results on Covid-19 front as per its reputation and honour. The university was mired in controversy following two suicides by patients of Covid ward and some other incidents leading to probes in past one month. The CM during his visit to the BHU, took stock of Covid-19 combat exercises, especially by BHU hospitals with Covid-19 level-3 facility, on Saturday evening. Yogi asked the university to utilise its complete potential. “State government is ready to extend all help, but BHU should ensure that good results in combating Covid-19 are felt by all,” said Yogi. He held suicides by the two patients of BHU hospital as worrisome and said that it gave a wrong message. “I am visiting BHU for the second time to see that the battle against Covid is being fought with full capacity,” said Yogi. The CM had earlier visited BHU on July 26 to review Covid related exercises. “In comparison to the state Covid fatality, the rate is high in Varanasi,” said Yogi. He asked to increase the number of beds in ICU of BHU hospitals up to 150 and also directed the district administration to carry out ward wise survey and cover 100% urban population.  Yogi said the results of Covid samples should be given within 24 hours of their arrival at laboratories and also asked to enhance Covid sample testing capacity from 4,000 to 4,500 per day. The BHU authorities were asked to ensure that senior residents visit Covid wards and to keep separate dialysis machines for Covid and non-Covid patients. The CM also asked for regular checking of private hospitals and initiate stern action in case of detection of overcharging from patients. Apart from suicides by two patients, the episodes of exchange of bodies, death of a photographer due to alleged medical negligence and some other incidents had kept inviting trouble for BHU hospital authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/utilise-all-available-resources-to-tackle-covid-cm-to-bhu/articleshow/77839798.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Surat||146mm rain batters Mangrol in 10 hours, Ukai swells||Surat: Mangrol taluka of Surat district received 146 mm rainfall between 6 am to 4 pm when heavy rains pounded the region on Sunday. According to flood control room officials, heavy rains continued in parts of Surat district on Sunday. With 74 mm rainfall on Sunday, Umarpada taluka so far received 3,224mm rainfall this season, the highest in the district. Olpad got 45 mm, Mahuva received 33 mm and Bardoli received 32 mm rainfall on Sunday. In Surat city, Varachha (A) received highest rainfall with 21 mm followed by 16 mm Varachha (B) zone. Due to heavy rainfall in the catchment area of Ukai dam, the dam authority is releasing 1.59 lakh cusecs of water into Tapi river as on Sunday evening. Surat city and district administration is closely watching the outflow of water into Tapi river which passes through Surat city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), the city received 1,908 mm rainfall this monsoon, the highest since 2013. “Surat city received 1,908 mm rainfall, which is the highest in seven years. In 2013, Surat city had received 2,135 mm rainfall,” an SMC official said. Heavy rainfall across South Gujarat has filled the dams with fresh water. According to Narmada Water Resources department data, average water in all 13 dams of South Gujarat is 87.06 percent as on Sunday and increasing. Moreover, nine of 13 dams in the region are overflowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/146mm-rain-batters-mangrol-in-10-hours-ukai-swells/articleshow/77839239.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||KARE varsity gets ABET accreditation for 11 BTech courses||Madurai: The Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education (KARE), has received accreditation for 11 of its BTech programs from the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), a US-based international accreditation body.The 11 streams of engineering courses at the deemed university-automobile, mechanical, computer science, information technology, electrical and electronics, electronics and communications, food technology, bio-technology, bio-medical, chemical and civil engineering-have been accorded the accreditation for six years.The university’s vice-president, Dr S Shasi Anand, in a release said that the ABET accreditation for the BTech courses will be an added advantage to the university’s students seeking employment abroad or those who wish to pursue higher studies in foreign universities. The chancellor Dr K Sridharan and pro-chancellor Dr S Arivalagi Sridharan congratulated all the faculty, administration and all stakeholders of the university for their hard work.ABET, an organisation founded in 1992, has accredited 4,144 programs at 812 colleges and universities in 32 countries so far. The ABET committee comprising 17 experts from academics and industries in the USA, had visited the KARE campus for inspection in November 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kare-varsity-gets-abet-accreditation-for-11-btech-courses/articleshow/77841862.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Plasma most effective if given within first 3 days: GMC dean||PANAJI: Setting straight misconceptions about Convalescent Plasma Therapy (CPT), dean of Goa Medical College Dr S M Bandekar told TOI that though the treatment has proven effective in treating critically ill Covid patients it is very important that it be administered within the golden period — first three days — of moderate symptoms manifesting. “If a patient is brought as soon as he or she starts showing symptoms of fever, cough, severe body ache or a loss of taste, the chances of recovery are high. Unfortunately, many have come after advancement of the disease. Some even after ten days,” he said. It is not that plasma cannot be administered to a patient after three days of exhibiting severe symptoms, Bandekar said. “There also is a protocol in place for that, but the therapy to such a patient may not yield favourable results.” “If given on the fifth day, we tell the patient that his prognosis is bad so that he doesn’t blame the system,” Bandekar said, adding that this is why they are creating awareness about the golden period. “Please come to us within the golden hours, we will do our best for you.” Bandekar said many who have come on time have been cured, which is evidence that recovery is possibly. He gave an example of a woman who was brought to GMC two days ago with full sepsis. “It was too late to do anything to her, and she died the same day,” he said. “Some patients brought after the disease has advanced to florid pneumonia have died within hours of admission,” he said. The GMC has launched an aggressive campaign asking recovered Covid patients to come forward to donate plasma. With the increasing patient load the requirement for plasma has gone up. There were about 80 patients in GMC itself on the weekend. “A patient eligible to receive plasma needs a matching donor, and all this takes time when the number of plasma packs are few,” a senior GMC doctor said. The GMC needs at least 10 donors a day, but so far only four to five donations are received. With its plasma donation campaign the GMC is hoping that more donors will come forward. The state’s tertiary care hospital commissioned facilities for treating high-risk Covid patients from last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plasma-most-effective-if-given-within-1st-3-days-gmc-dean/articleshow/77841863.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Airways of traffic cops deployed at junctions more constricted: Study||Ahmedabad: Almost all the traffic police personnel serving at busy junctions in the city who were tested were found to have constriction of their air passage. The medical study was conducted by researchers from NHL Municipal Medical College who studied around 90 traffic personnel of both genders, 60 who were deputed at busy traffic junctions and and 30 who were handling back-end functions of the traffic department. The comparative study between the two sets of traffic police personnel lasted for 10 months, from October 2018 to August 2019, and the results were finally published in July.The study involved performing at least seven different tests including the pulmonary function test, forced vital capacity of lungs study, forced expiratory volume (FEV) in first second, forced expiratory flow at 25-75% and 50% lung capacity. In all these, the 60 traffic policemen deployed at junctions showed constriction of air passageways. Researchers from the department of physiology said their peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), which measures expiratory efforts of an individual, was significantly lower among the personnel deputed at junctions, an average of 3.44 litres, while those engaged in back-end work had an average expiratory flow rate of 5.53 litres. Similarly, the personnel at junctions when it came to forced expiratory flow rate measured at 25-75% per second had an average reading of 2.23 litres, indicating small airway obstruction. The personnel in offices showed a value of 3.41 litres. The study found no major difference when it came to pulse rate and diastolic blood pressure.The study was conducted by Dr Pranav Shukla, associate professor Dr Hina Mod, and head of the department of physiology Dr Anita Verma. “Our study suggests obstruction and narrowing of airways in the study group of traffic police personnel compared to the control group. It may be due to exposure to vehicle emissions for several hours a day, which decreases their lung capacity,” the study says.SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE COMPARED TO personnel WITH DESK JOBS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/airways-of-traffic-cops-deployed-at-junctions-more-constricted-study/articleshow/77840318.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Govt can’t thwart higher studies of a doctor, says HC||Madurai: Observing that the opportunity for a doctor to pursue further studies cannot be thwarted by anyone including the government, Madras high court directed the state government to accept the resignation of a doctor and return his original certificates so that he can pursue DNB General Surgery (Broad Speciality) course. Petitioner Samjaison was appointed as assistant surgeon (general) at a primary health centre at Erwadi in Ramanathapuram district in 2019. After clearing the competitive exam, he got admission for the postgraduate course in an institution in Chennai. Though the petitioner tendered his resignation in July, it was not accepted and his certificates were not returned. The additional government pleader submitted that according to the conditions in the appointment order, the petitioner should serve the government for three years and would not be permitted to pursue a PG course within two years. He further submitted that the petitioner is working at a PHC in a remote area and during the Covid-19 period basic medical facilities are to be given to the needy. He further submitted that owing to the pandemic, the government is already struggling for want of more doctors and if the existing doctors are leaving, then it would further aggravate the situation. Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that there is no doubt that this was a very difficult period in our life time, where the whole world is struggling against Covid-19 pandemic situation. Doctors, supporting staff and paramedical staff are in the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. The judge observed that though the services of the petitioner is required, there was a need for more qualified people with updation in the field of medicine since it will help the society at large. So saying, the judge granted relief to the petitioner to pursue further studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-cant-thwart-higher-studies-of-a-doctor-says-hc/articleshow/77841864.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana reaches 19,000 tests per day average, total crosses 11-lakh mark||CHANDIGARH: Although the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state of Haryana has been increasing, the testing in the small state has also been increased, with around 25,000 samples tested in a single day on Friday. Till Friday, the state had tested 11,03,832 persons for Covid-19. Importantly, on Friday, the single day sampling in the state had reached 24,769 persons. While the government laboratories have taken 9,82,638 samples, 96,425 samples were taken by the private laboratories. While the highest number of 1,70,973 tests have been done in Gurugram district, followed by Faridabad (1,27,771) and Sonipat (82,084). District Charkhi Dadri is at the bottom in terms of sampling as only 12,583 samples have been collected in the newly carved district till August 29. Average testing in the last one month in the state is around 16,000 per day. From August 1 to 29, a total of 4,75,026 tests were conducted with an average of 16,380 tests every day. However, average testing in the last 10 days in the state is around 19,000 tests per day. Additional chief secretary for health Rajeev Arora said despite being a small state, Haryana’s testing is one of the highest in the country in terms of its population and geographical area. Arora also claimed that all such infrastructure and laboratories for Covid-19 sampling were developed only in the past few months after the outbreak of the pandemic. He said there are 20 laboratories in the state, including 14 government-run and six private ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reaches-19k-tests-per-day-average-total-crosses-11-lakh-mark/articleshow/77841406.cms||Ajay Sura
August 31, 2020||Mumbai||FYJC 1st list: 8% rise in cut-offs across streams||MUMBAI: Improved class X results across boards and a bigger pool of 90-percenters applying for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions resulted in a jump in cut-offs by up to 8% across streams. While several colleges saw a hike of 2-6% in three streams, science cutoffs, too, increased this year, with Sathaye College, Vile Parle, going from 84.4% last year to 92.8%. Among the highest cutoffs in arts was 94.6% at St Xavier’s College, the most popular choice. Last year, the first merit list closed at 94%. TimesViewIn the initial stages of the admission process, students tend to vie for the better known colleges with high cut-offs. Many other institutions may not be in the elite league, but their faculty is equally experienced and capable of producing good results. Students should not feel disheartened. There are enough seats for all, and besides, the first merit list is not necessarily the final one.Jump in arts cut-offs, more high scorers opting for it tooAt several soughtafter city colleges closed their arts first merit list for FYJC admission above 90%. At Ruia College in Matunga, the first list cut-off for arts rose to 94.2% as compared to 92.6% in 2019. “Arts stream has been a popular choice among high scorers for a couple of years now and we can see the trend continue in the degree college admission as well. We have not only seen cut-offs jump, but also more high scorers opting for arts. We give students from the arts stream the choice to opt for mathematics and IT, which further widens their career options,” said Hemalata Bagla, principal of KC College. The Churchgate college recorded a cut-off of 90.2% in arts against 87.8% last year. Commerce stream cutoffs increased by 3-4% in most sought-after city colleges. One of the highest cut-offs was recorded at R A Podar College in Matunga where the first merit list closed at 94.2%, up from 92.8% in 2019. “With the high scores in the board exams, the increase in cut-offs is in line with what we had expected,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund. At the college, commerce and science cut-offs were up by over 3%, while arts cut-off was higher by 5.2%. Principals said that they were pleasantly surprised with the rise in science cutoffs. “With all that is happening around us, there are a lot of opportunities in technology and bio-technology in addition to the conventional choices of medicine and engineering. There is a possibility that students and parents have sensed the opportunity and opted for sciences...” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College, Churchgate. At the college, the top score in science stream is 98% and the cut-off of 89.6% has increased by 6% as compared to last year. For the second merit list, principals do not expect a major dip in cut-offs. “Most students who are allotted a seat in our college confirm admissions. We don’t have any vacancy in the quotas as well. So we expect a marginal drop in the next list,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal of NM College, Vile Parle. The first merit list closed at 94% for commerce students from the open category. While cut-offs were higher, a lower number of students were allotted seats in one of the 10 colleges they had chosen. Of the 1.2 lakh students allotted a seat, 40,476 obtained a seat in the college listed as their top preference. “The number of seats available is higher than the applicants, hence students must rejig their preferences in the second list in accordance with the cut-offs and scores,” said an official. Students have until September 3 to confirm their seats at the colleges allotted to them. A detailed schedule for the second merit will be announced soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fyjc-1st-list-8-rise-in-cut-offs-across-streams/articleshow/77841871.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Haryana reaches 19,000 tests per day average, total crosses 11-lakh mark||CHANDIGARH: Although the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state of Haryana has been increasing, the testing in the small state has also been increased, with around 25,000 samples tested in a single day on Friday. Till Friday, the state had tested 11,03,832 persons for Covid-19. Importantly, on Friday, the single day sampling in the state had reached 24,769 persons. While the government laboratories have taken 9,82,638 samples, 96,425 samples were taken by the private laboratories. While the highest number of 1,70,973 tests have been done in Gurugram district, followed by Faridabad (1,27,771) and Sonipat (82,084). District Charkhi Dadri is at the bottom in terms of sampling as only 12,583 samples have been collected in the newly carved district till August 29. Average testing in the last one month in the state is around 16,000 per day. From August 1 to 29, a total of 4,75,026 tests were conducted with an average of 16,380 tests every day. However, average testing in the last 10 days in the state is around 19,000 tests per day. Additional chief secretary for health Rajeev Arora said despite being a small state, Haryana’s testing is one of the highest in the country in terms of its population and geographical area. Arora also claimed that all such infrastructure and laboratories for Covid-19 sampling were developed only in the past few months after the outbreak of the pandemic. He said there are 20 laboratories in the state, including 14 government-run and six private ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-reaches-19k-tests-per-day-average-total-crosses-11-lakh-mark/articleshow/77847372.cms||Ajay Sura
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: In Haryana, over 66% deaths in age group from 45 to 74 years||CHANDIGARH: More than 66% deaths in Haryana due to Covid-19 are in the age group from 45 to 74 years. However, the highest number of around 62% coronavirus infected are in the age group of 15-44 years. As far as gender is concerned, 70% of those died due to Covid-19 are male and 30% are female. Around 31% deaths of Covid-19 patients took place due to comorbidities. Around 9% deaths reported in the state due to Covid-19, had diabetes. According to the data procured from the Haryana health department, 34,080 of the total 54,386 cases in the state till August 23 were in the age group of 15 to 44 years. It comes out to be around 62.76% of the total cases. Similarly, 399 of 603 total deaths in the state till August 23 were in the age group of 45 to 74 years. It comes out to be around 66% of the total deaths. Around 30% of Covid-19 patients who died in the state had no comorbidity. Around 14% of those died due to Covid-19 were suffering from respiratory disease, hypertension and heart ailments. This data was prepared by the state’s health department while analysing 603 deaths and 54,386 Covid-19 positive cases, which were recorded till August 23. Interestingly, a total of 976 cases of Covid-19 positive were reported in the state in the age group of 0 to 5 years, of which three died. However, in the age group of 5 to 14 years, 2,927 cases were reported but no death was reported in this age group.  In the age group of 15-24 years, only six deaths were reported, out of 8,324 cases of Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hry-over-66-deaths-in-age-group-from-45-to-74-yrs/articleshow/77841402.cms||Ajay Sura
August 31, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Metal casting company director stabs brother at board meet||RAJKOT: The board meeting of Bhavnagar-based Tamboli Casting Ltd (TCL), one of the biggest metal casting companies in India, witnessed unprecedented scenes when the chairman's elder son allegedly attacked his younger brother with a knife on Saturday evening. Mehul Tamboli, one of the directors in TCL, reportedly got enraged after his father Bipin put forward a proposal to the board to remove him from the post. The board meeting was called at the company's campus in Vartej, 24 km from Bhavnagar city. Mehul TamboliAt least seven people were present in the boardroom when a furious Mehul suddenly picked up the knife and started stabbing Vaibhav in the stomach. He was overpowered by others and Vaibhav was rushed to a private hospital where he was operated upon late in the night. His condition is said to be stable. VaibhavAccording to the FIR lodged by Bipin Tamboli, others present in the meeting were company's vice-chairman P A Subramanium, independent director Abhinandan Jain, chartered accountant Ankit and two others. He had moved the proposal to drop Mehul after discussions with other shareholders, the 77-year-old chairman told police. Mehul TamboliSenior police officials said that Mehul, who is around 50 years, is on the run after the incident and efforts are being made to trace him. However, he has been booked under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) in Vartej police station. Manish Thakar, deputy superintendent of police, Bhavnagar said “We have got to know that the reason for the assault is business disputes in the family. We are still investigating the matter and efforts are on to arrest Mehul.” Police are yet to ascertain how Mehul got a knife and whether the attack was pre-planned if he was already carrying it in the board meeting. It is learnt that the relationship between the two brothers has been strained for a long time now and sources said the main reason is ownership of the family properties. “Doctors have said Vaibhav’s condition is improving and there is nothing to worry.” When asked about the business dispute, he refused to comment. Tamboli Casting is the wholly owned subsidiary of BSE-listed Tamboli Capital Ltd (TCAP) which holds 100% equity shares in TCL. Vaibhav, 45, is the chairman, CEO and whole-time director of the holding company, according to the company's 2020 annual report filed with the BSE. The company supplies auto parts to international car majors like Ferrari, Jaguar and Mercedes too. Senior police officials in Bhavnagar told TOI that Mehul is extremely temperamental and impulsive in nature. Earlier in 2012, his wife Julie had lodged a complaint of domestic violence against him. Bipin and his wife stay with Vaibhav and his family in Hill Drive plot while Mehul lives separately near Neelambaug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/metal-casting-company-director-stabs-brother-at-board-meet/articleshow/77839220.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Haryana reaches 19,000 tests per day average, total crosses 11-lakh mark||CHANDIGARH: Although the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state of Haryana has been increasing, the testing in the small state has also been increased, with around 25,000 samples tested in a single day on Friday. Till Friday, the state had tested 11,03,832 persons for Covid-19. Importantly, on Friday, the single day sampling in the state had reached 24,769 persons. While the government laboratories have taken 9,82,638 samples, 96,425 samples were taken by the private laboratories. While the highest number of 1,70,973 tests have been done in Gurugram district, followed by Faridabad (1,27,771) and Sonipat (82,084). District Charkhi Dadri is at the bottom in terms of sampling as only 12,583 samples have been collected in the newly carved district till August 29. Average testing in the last one month in the state is around 16,000 per day. From August 1 to 29, a total of 4,75,026 tests were conducted with an average of 16,380 tests every day. However, average testing in the last 10 days in the state is around 19,000 tests per day. Additional chief secretary for health Rajeev Arora said despite being a small state, Haryana’s testing is one of the highest in the country in terms of its population and geographical area. Arora also claimed that all such infrastructure and laboratories for Covid-19 sampling were developed only in the past few months after the outbreak of the pandemic. He said there are 20 laboratories in the state, including 14 government-run and six private ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-reaches-19k-tests-per-day-average-total-crosses-11-lakh-mark/articleshow/77847373.cms||Ajay Sura
August 31, 2020||Goa||Rainfall may weaken from today in Goa||PANAJI: While most parts of the state were lashed by heavy rain over the weekend, rainfall activity is likely to weaken from Monday. The heavy showers on the weekend were owing to a low-pressure area over north Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan. However, the system is no longer prevalent, thus decreasing the intensity of rainfall over the state. “The state will experience only normal rain due to weak activity over Goa,” India meteorological department (IMD), scientist, Rahul M, said. In its weather bulletin, however, IMD has warned of strong wind with speed reaching up to 45-55 kmph likely to be prevalent along the Arabian Sea from August 30 to September 3. Fishermen have been advised not to venture along and off the coast during this period. This year, up to August 30, IMD recorded 344cm rainfall. The state average in last year’s south west monsoon was 394cm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rainfall-may-weaken-from-today-in-goa/articleshow/77841865.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Punjab fatality count passes 1,400||CHANDIGARH: As many as 56 patients lost their lives to Covid-19 in Punjab on Sunday and the state reported 1,689 new cases of the virus. With this, the state’s death toll touched 1,404 and the number of confirmed cases rose to 52,526. When this report was filed, there were 15,375 active cases. Also, 77 patients were critical and on ventilator support, and 474 on oxygen support. Besides,, 1,656 patients were discharged during the day. At 15, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths, followed by eight in Patiala, seven in Jalandhar, five in Sangrur, four each in Bathinda and Kapurthala, three in Amritsar, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, and one each in Faridkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar and Pathankot districts. Of the 58 positive cases in Sangrur on Sunday, one case was transferred to Haryana. In Faridkot district, 10 duplicate entries were deleted, said the state government’s Covid medial bulletin. The highest number of 273 new cases were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 188 in Patiala, 150 in Jalandhar, 148 in Mohali, 136 in Gurdaspur, 111 in Amritsar, 74 in Faridkot, 68 in Fazilka, 65 in Kapurthala, 60 in Bathinda, 58 in Sangrur, 57 in Ferozepur, 56 in Muktsar, 55 in Pathankot, 44 in Hoshiarpur, 38 in Moga, 34 in Barnala, 33 in Ropar, 15 in Mansa, 10 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Nawanshahr, and six in Tarn Taran district. Among the new cases, 16 have source of infection from out of Punjab, 26 are jail inmates, 13 are police personnel, six are health workers, 14 are cases of factory workers in Sangrur, and three are other frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-fatality-count-passes-1-4k/articleshow/77847322.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||3 minors in custody for raping girl in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Police have taken three minors under custody for alleged gangrape of a 11-year-old girl in Jodhpur on Sunday. All of them are neighbours of the victim and had been sexually exploiting the girl for the last six months. The victim approached police on Saturday night with her mother and filed a report against six persons including four minors for consistently raping her. Police are yet to verify the role of three other accused. “The girl has been changing her statements. We got her medical examination done and recorded her statements under Section 164 of Crpc,” said ACP Neeraj Sharma, adding that the three minors have been taken under custody and the others would be arrested after verifying the allegations of the victim. Sharma said the girl was so terrified that she refused to go to her home inspite of assurances and counselling by police. She had to be accommodated in a shelter home through the child welfare committee. According to the report, the girl had gone in search of her brother on Saturday night under Rajiv Gandhi Nagar police station area. When she did not return home, her mother went looking for her and was found at a nearby house where she was allegedly raped by a neighbour. On learning about the matter, both the girl and her mother went to police and filed a complaint against 6 persons including four minors, three of whom were said to be victims’ relatives. Police filed a case under POCSO and other relevant sections and began investigation into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-minors-in-custody-for-raping-girl-in-jodhpur/articleshow/77841412.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||‘Roads in Doon dug up for Smart City work will be repaired after Sept 15’||Dehradun: In some relief for residents, the Public Works Department (PWD) has announced it will start repairing roads dug up for the Dehradun Smart City Limited(DSCL) projects in Doon after September 15. According to PWD officials, prominent stretches like EC Road, Subhash Road and Cross Road, where the work of laying water and sewerage pipelines has been been ongoing, will be fixed on priority. The decision was taken in a meeting held by the DSCL advisory forum on Saturday. It was attended by mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama, public representatives as well as officials from traffic police, Pey Jal Nigam, PWD and the municipal corporation. Speaking on the issue, mayor Gama said, “The budget for repairing the (dug up) roads has been transferred to the PWD. They will initiate the work in the second half of September.” Mahesh Bhandari, president, Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, while welcoming the announcement, added that “PWD officials must take care to expedite the (repair) work to ensure minimum loss of raw material, which tends to get quickly washed away in the monsoon.” The menace of dug-up roads left unattended, and riddled with potholes, has been a festering issue for residents. The situation grows worse in monsoons, posing the risk of accidents as well as the threat of breeding of disease-causing mosquitoes. The issue has been highlighted by TOI several times in its earlier editions. Officials concerned had recently been rapped about expediting Smart City works that involved dug-up roads. Dehradun district magistrate and CEO of Dehradun DSCL Ashish Kumar Srivastava on August 22, had asked officials to finish work on dug-up roads first and then start work on fresh stretches. He had also asked the officials and contractors concerned to stick to the projects’ timelines. In Saturday’s meeting, other Smart City projects, including Water ATMs, Smart toilets, development works at Paltan Bazaar and Parade Ground, were reviewed as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/roads-in-doon-dug-up-for-smart-city-work-will-be-repaired-after-sept-15/articleshow/77838372.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vadodara||More Covid-19 patients sent home after recovery than fresh cases||Vadodara: Vadodara reported more discharges of Covid-19 patients than fresh cases on Sunday.Going by the medical bulletin shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), by Sunday evening, the city and the district had registered 122 fresh cases taking the total number of Covid-19 cases during the pandemic to 7,940.Against this, the total number of patients discharged during the day stood at 150 taking the total number of recoveries during the pandemic to 6,204.The 150 patients who were discharged included 59 from government hospitals, 43 from private hospitals and 48 who were in home isolation.The 122 fresh cases are results of 2,388 samples that were tested till Sunday evening. VMC also declared one death taking the total official death toll to 140.The fresh cases have been reported from Swad, Ramdevnagar, Warasiya, Sudamapuri, Panigate, Navayard, Navi Dharti, Sama, Karelibaug, Manjalpur, Gajrawadi, Danteshwar, Kapurai, Vadsar, Subhanpura, Akota, Jetalpur and Gokulnagar areas within VMC limits.In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases have been reported from Dabhoi, Shinor, Waghodiya, Karjan, Padra, Undera, Khatamba, Bhayli, Bill and Desar.Of the 1,596 patients who are currently under treatment, condition of 1,390 is said to be stable while 154 are being treated under oxygen whereas 52 are under ventilator or BI-PAP.Of the 4,117 individuals who are under quarantine, 4,100 are under home quarantine while one is under quarantine at government facility and six others at private facility.Vadodara rural continued to witness spike in cases. By Sunday evening, it registered 35 fresh cases taking the total to 1,771.Within VMC limits, north zone continued to be worst affected with addition of 21 fresh cases after which the total number of cases in this zone has reached 1,992.South zone witnessed addition of 26 new cases taking the total to 1,561 in this zone of VMC. The east and west zones recorded 17 and 23 new cases after which the total number of cases here reached 1,337 and 1,243 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-covid-19-patients-sent-home-after-recovery-than-fresh-cases/articleshow/77838475.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Tenders to appoint consultant for Civil Lines flyover soon||Jaipur: With the city’s main railway crossing at the Civil Lines caught in continuous traffic jams, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is exploring possibilities of constructing another railway over bridge (RoB) soon.The civic body, this week is all set to invite tenders to appoint a consultancy firm for preparing a design for the RoB proposed to be constructed at the Civil Lines railway crossing.Though the JDA is facing financial crunch, officals are hopeful that the project can be initiated after selling plots in recent housing societies.The Rs 75-crore project is expected to have three legs with the first one being proposed from DLB Road, Parivahan Marg.A senior official said, “The tender document has been completed and will appoint the firm soon. As per the initial proposal, the flyover would be 650 metres long.”The proposal to construct the RoB was initiated during the previous tenure too, but was shelved citing security reasons. To reduce traffic near the crossing, JDA had decided to construct an RoB in 2012. The decision was taken after the consultancy firm submitted the feasibility report.“The JDA had appointed Rambol Consulting Engineering Limited, a Kolkata-based company, to carry out a feasibility report. The firm had submitted six options,” said a source.In the previous report, it was proposed that the RoB over the railway line had to be constructed with a 60-degree curve. However, many opposed the move as giving such a sharp turn could have raised the possibilities of accidents on the over-bridge.Shifting the police outpost and water tank situated near the track was also challenged at that time.Sources said, “These structures will not be considered in the new design as the JDA has plans to shift them.”A JDA official said, “Out of these six options, the JDA had found that construction of an RoB from Jamnalal Bajaj Marg to Jacob Road was the most feasible option. The proposal had to be sent to the chief minister for final approval as it was proposed to be constructed near the chief minister’s and governor’s residences. However, the UDH department did not move the proposal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tenders-to-appoint-consultant-for-civil-lines-flyover-soon/articleshow/77841405.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||Mandals organise health camps during Ganeshotsav||Nashik: Various Ganesh mandals in Nashik conducted health check-up, eye-check up, blood donation and Covid-testing camps during the 10-day Ganesh festival. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and several restrictions in place, Ganesh mandals have decided to stick to social activities to help people in need instead of having grand celebrations. A mandal representing eight groups installed an idol at the ground and carried out rapid antigen testing for Covid, organised blood donation camps, besides distributing clothes, foodgrains and undertaking tree plantation.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mandals-organise-health-camps-during-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77839213.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot gets season’s heaviest rainfall||RAJKOT: Saurashtra’s commercial capital witnessed the season’s heaviest single-down downpour with nearly 150mm rainfall on Sunday left several areas in knee-deep water, flooded homes and submerged cars, bringing the city to a virtual halt. Rajkot city got 110mm rainfall in just two hours in the morning. On Gondal Road, two cars submerged in rain waters while traffic at Popatpara, Lakshminagar and Mahila College underbridge was flooded and closed for trafic. Traffic was also disrupted at the busy Madhapar Chowkdi which was in knee-deep waters. All major roads including Sadhu Vaswani Road, Kalavad Road, Yagnik Road, Jawahar Road, Raiya Road, all witnessed heavy waterlogging due to incessant rainfall. In Nana Mandva village of Kotda Sangani taluka adjoining Rajkot city, flood waters from Utavali River submerged a farm in which six persons including three children were stuck. They were rescued with the help of roles, said sarpanch Pravinsinh Chauhan. Elsewhere in Saurashtra, Jamnagar, Gir-Smonath and Junagadh distircts continued to reel under rain fury. Most rivers in Gondal taluka were in spate and the taluka had received more than 200% of its annual average rainfall. At Setubandh dam, Meldi temple in Gondal city turned into an island after flood waters surrounded the temple. A total of 32 devotees stranded in a temple were rescued by the local fire brigade using ropes. Three persons were swept away in the strong currents of a river in Mandh village of Una taluka in Gir-Somnath. “Body of Rohit Rathod (20) was fished out while his friends Pravin Shilot (19) and Nilesh Makwana (19) are missing,” said fire brigade sources. Vanthali of Junagadh district received 175 mm rainfall, resulting in flood waters from Ojat River flowing over into farms. Traffic was disrupted after flood waters from Saraswati River started flowing over Kodinar-Veraval coastal highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-gets-seasons-heaviest-rainfall/articleshow/77839268.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kanpur||Covid menace continues; toll surges to 432 as seven die, 200 test positive||Kanpur: Two hundred more people tested positive for novel coronavirus infection in Kanpur on Sunday, following which the count of cases in the district rose to 14,607 sincethe outbreak. However, the recovery rate has been 75.8%, leading to 11,073 patients having been declared completely cured of the infection. Giving no respite from the rising Covid fatalities, the city reported seven more deaths on Sunday. According to the health department, all the seven deceased were suffering from other ailments also, with diabetes being the most common, besides Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and pneumonia. So far, 432 Covid positive patients have died in the district. The deceased were residents of Juhi Lal Colony, Anand Vihar, Barra, Ompurwa, Avas Vikas. Two persons died at LLR hospital and two breathed their last at Kanshiram Hospital while one each died at Lifetron hospital, Divine Hospital and UHM hospital. On Sunday, 61 more persons were discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection, while 201 persons completed their home isolation. Total number of 4,482 persons have been discharged from Covid hospitals so far and 6,591 persons have completed home isolation. Now, there are 3,102 active cases under treatment at Covid hospitals. The areas from where the fresh coronavirus cases were detected include Babupurwa, Keshavpuram, Ravidaspuram, Barra Vishwa Bank, Tantya Tope Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Dabauli, Yashoda Nagar, Barasirohi, Shastri Nagar, Anand Vihar, Indira Nagar, Ratanpur Colony, Satyam Vihar, IIT, Vakeel Nagar, Swaroop Nagar, Keshav Nagar, Gangaganj, Tulsi Nagar, Sharda Nagar, Basant Vihar, Naubasta, Kidwai Nagar, Gujjaini, Rawatpur, Nawabganj, NRI City, Govind Nagar, Vidyut Colony, Rajapuram, Jawahar Nagar, Ghatampur, Maswanpur, Ompurwa, Vinayakpur, Rawatpur, Dalhi Sujjanpur, Adarsh Nagar, Pashupati Nagar, Chowk, Civil Lines, Arya Nagar, Kakadeo, Lakhanpur, JK Colony, Tilak Nagar, Naveen Nagar, Hatia, Dayanand Vihar, Khalasi Line, Jajmau, Collectorganj, RK Nagar, Juhi, Kaushalpuri among others. Health department stated that 1,147 teams visited 67,917 homes and conducted survey following which they managed to identify 585 with infection symptoms. But sample from 558 persons was collected and has been sent for test. On Sunday, health department collected 2,616 Covid samples for tests. So far, a total of 1,60,160 samples have been collected by the health department..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-menace-continues-toll-surges-to-432-as-seven-die-200-test-positive/articleshow/77839995.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Ulhasnagar Covid-19 cases plunge, but death rate soars||MUMBAI: An analysis of Covid-19 incidence across the state’s 27 municipal corporations has revealed that Ulhasnagar, which achieved one of the highest recovery rates in the country (93%), also had a shockingly high case fatality rate (CFR) in August—16.5%. As per the state government data, Ulhasnagar reported 778 cases and 128 deaths between August 1 and August 29. Five times higher than the state average, the death rate though has been contested by the local civic corporation which pegs it at 10%. Besides, the city has curbed the spread of cases significantly in August compared to July when it had 5,095 cases and 121 deaths (CFR at 2.3%). Nearly all municipal corporations and several non-urban areas have seen an exponential rise in Covid cases and deaths in August. The state’s fatality rate for August stood at 2.6% with nearly 3.6 lakh cases and 9,405 dead. Eleven of the 27 municipal corporations have recorded a CFR higher than the state average in August. Majority are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Ulhasnagar is followed by Bhiwandi-Nizampur which ranks second highest at 8%. Both Mumbai and Thane had a fatality rate of a shade more than 4% in August. Seeking to explain the high number of deaths despite a shrinking caseload, officials of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation said they would have to verify the data; their records show 962 cases and 94 deaths in August as against the state government’s estimate of 778 cases and 128 deaths. "Our mortality rate is around 10%, which is also high. The main reason is late reporting by patients at the end moment when there is little to be done," said Dr Yuvraj Bhadane, public relations officer of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation. A health official from UMC said, "We plan to campaign more so that people reach hospitals early." A senior state official told TOI that the Centre has been closely watching the state’s fatality rate and has brought it up at several meetings. In Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal corporation which has the second highest CFR for August, health officials said the higher percentage of deaths may be attributable to families making a dash for hospitals in Mumbai in the final stages even though facilities have been created in the area. “Critical patients too make a dash for Mumbai and Thane hospitals, thereby wasting golden hours when something can be done to save them here,” said a corporation health official. A private intensivist, however, told TOI that the lack of facilities for decades has left an impression on the public. Public hospitals here, for years, had less than ten ventilators for a population of 12 lakh. “People have naturally grown used to seeking treatment in Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan hospitals,” he said. The health official said after Dr Pankaj Ashiya took charge as commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampura City Municipal Corporation, there has been improvement in facilities for Covid-19 patients in civic and state-run Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Municipal corporations such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Latur, Parbhani, Nagpur have all recorded an exponential growth in cases and deaths in August. Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer, said Nagpur, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur corporations have all seen a manifold surge in cases. “Surveillance of patients under home isolation has been streamlined to identify critical cases early and reduce mortality,” he said. Within MMR, Thane, Mira Bhayander, Vasai Virar too have all seen a rise in August CFRs compared to their overall mortality numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ulhas-cases-plunge-but-death-rate-soars/articleshow/77841866.cms||Pradeep Gupta
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Pay Rs 6 for Metro ride from Badi Chaupar to Chandpole||JAIPUR: Jaipur Metro will ferry commuters from Chandpole to Badi Chaupar at Rs 6 once the 2.4km underground corridor is operational. The fare for the entire 12.06 km corridor (Mansarovar to Chandpole) will be Rs 22. The new corridor could give a fresh lease of life to JMRC as it can increase its ridership once operational. In the absence of Phase 1B, the performance of Phase 1A of Jaipur Metro was ‘poor’ as the average ridership dipped. “At present, an average 20,000 passengers commute through Metro daily, as against the projected figure of one lakh. But Phase-II is expected to boost the numbers,” said a senior official. The tariff is comparatively cheaper than other means of transport. People commuting to Walled City from Sindhi Camp, railway station and Sodala use the Metro as it is cost-effective. “At present, Metro makes 170 trips between Mansarovar and Chandpole every day. Trains arrive within an interval of 15 minutes from morning 6.25am to 8am and after 8am trains arrive within 10 minutes. It will be convenient for people coming to the Walled City.” The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and Ministry of Railways have allowed the Metro to operate from September 7 in a calibrated manner. A JMRC official said, “Once directions are received from the state government, the JMRC will prepare and issue the details on the functioning of Metro and its usage by the general public. We will also follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the ministry.” The JMRC official, however, confirmed that the newly constructed phase IB corridor (Chandpole to Badi Chaupar) will not be opened in the initial stage. “The Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety has given a nod for commencing commercial operations. However, JMRC has to meet 65 conditions before opening the corridor. The underground corridor will be operational after one month of Phase-1B,” said the official After the BJP came to power, then chief minister Vasundhara Raje inaugurated the Jaipur Metro Rail Project (Phase 1A) in June 2015. The work on the corridor was completed recently after spending Rs 2,023 crore. “The cost of the underground phase-IB project is Rs 1,126 crore. Out of which Rs 969 crore has been provided by the Asian Development Bank,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tariff-for-two-underground-stations-will-be-rs-6/articleshow/77841407.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Punjab fatality count passes 1,400||CHANDIGARH: As many as 56 patients lost their lives to Covid-19 in Punjab on Sunday and the state reported 1,689 new cases of the virus. With this, the state’s death toll touched 1,404 and the number of confirmed cases rose to 52,526. When this report was filed, there were 15,375 active cases. Also, 77 patients were critical and on ventilator support, and 474 on oxygen support. Besides,, 1,656 patients were discharged during the day. At 15, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths, followed by eight in Patiala, seven in Jalandhar, five in Sangrur, four each in Bathinda and Kapurthala, three in Amritsar, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, and one each in Faridkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar and Pathankot districts. Of the 58 positive cases in Sangrur on Sunday, one case was transferred to Haryana. In Faridkot district, 10 duplicate entries were deleted, said the state government’s Covid medial bulletin. The highest number of 273 new cases were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 188 in Patiala, 150 in Jalandhar, 148 in Mohali, 136 in Gurdaspur, 111 in Amritsar, 74 in Faridkot, 68 in Fazilka, 65 in Kapurthala, 60 in Bathinda, 58 in Sangrur, 57 in Ferozepur, 56 in Muktsar, 55 in Pathankot, 44 in Hoshiarpur, 38 in Moga, 34 in Barnala, 33 in Ropar, 15 in Mansa, 10 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Nawanshahr, and six in Tarn Taran district. Among the new cases, 16 have source of infection from out of Punjab, 26 are jail inmates, 13 are police personnel, six are health workers, 14 are cases of factory workers in Sangrur, and three are other frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-fatality-count-passes-1-4k/articleshow/77847321.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab fatality count passes 1,400||CHANDIGARH: As many as 56 patients lost their lives to Covid-19 in Punjab on Sunday and the state reported 1,689 new cases of the virus. With this, the state’s death toll touched 1,404 and the number of confirmed cases rose to 52,526. When this report was filed, there were 15,375 active cases. Also, 77 patients were critical and on ventilator support, and 474 on oxygen support. Besides,, 1,656 patients were discharged during the day. At 15, Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths, followed by eight in Patiala, seven in Jalandhar, five in Sangrur, four each in Bathinda and Kapurthala, three in Amritsar, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, and one each in Faridkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar and Pathankot districts. Of the 58 positive cases in Sangrur on Sunday, one case was transferred to Haryana. In Faridkot district, 10 duplicate entries were deleted, said the state government’s Covid medial bulletin. The highest number of 273 new cases were recorded in Ludhiana district, followed by 188 in Patiala, 150 in Jalandhar, 148 in Mohali, 136 in Gurdaspur, 111 in Amritsar, 74 in Faridkot, 68 in Fazilka, 65 in Kapurthala, 60 in Bathinda, 58 in Sangrur, 57 in Ferozepur, 56 in Muktsar, 55 in Pathankot, 44 in Hoshiarpur, 38 in Moga, 34 in Barnala, 33 in Ropar, 15 in Mansa, 10 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Nawanshahr, and six in Tarn Taran district. Among the new cases, 16 have source of infection from out of Punjab, 26 are jail inmates, 13 are police personnel, six are health workers, 14 are cases of factory workers in Sangrur, and three are other frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-fatality-count-passes-1-4k/articleshow/77841408.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Survey on child labour: Commission not satisfied with labour dept’s data||Jaipur: The state commission for protection of child rights has begun a survey, by involving labour, education and transport departments, to collect data about the number of children who have returned to Rajasthan from their home states to engage in child labour with the Unlocking of Covid restrictions. However, the commission labour department has provided a figure of around 50 children, which according to the commission is “downplaying the data”.“The labour department has provided a figure of around 50 children. We were not satisfied with the figure as it is an underestimation. In fact, we have only rescued around 150 children,” said Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson of the commission. “We have rescued around 150 children who were coming from Gaya, Bihar. We are collecting data about the number of children who have returned to Rajasthan from other states; if they have returned, whether they have been engaged in education. For this, we have sought data from labour department and education department,” she added.“We have also written to transport commissioner to keep an eye on children returning from other states. We are also trying to engage a few NGOs,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/survey-on-child-labour-commission-not-satisfied-with-labour-depts-data/articleshow/77841413.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Ulhasnagar Covid-19 cases plunge, but death rate soars||MUMBAI: An analysis of Covid-19 incidence across the state’s 27 municipal corporations has revealed that Ulhasnagar, which achieved one of the highest recovery rates in the country (93%), also had a shockingly high case fatality rate (CFR) in August—16.5%. As per the state government data, Ulhasnagar reported 778 cases and 128 deaths between August 1 and August 29. Five times higher than the state average, the death rate though has been contested by the local civic corporation which pegs it at 10%. Besides, the city has curbed the spread of cases significantly in August compared to July when it had 5,095 cases and 121 deaths (CFR at 2.3%). Nearly all municipal corporations and several non-urban areas have seen an exponential rise in Covid cases and deaths in August. The state’s fatality rate for August stood at 2.6% with nearly 3.6 lakh cases and 9,405 dead. Eleven of the 27 municipal corporations have recorded a CFR higher than the state average in August. Majority are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Ulhasnagar is followed by Bhiwandi-Nizampur which ranks second highest at 8%. Both Mumbai and Thane had a fatality rate of a shade more than 4% in August. Seeking to explain the high number of deaths despite a shrinking caseload, officials of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation said they would have to verify the data; their records show 962 cases and 94 deaths in August as against the state government’s estimate of 778 cases and 128 deaths. "Our mortality rate is around 10%, which is also high. The main reason is late reporting by patients at the end moment when there is little to be done," said Dr Yuvraj Bhadane, public relations officer of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation. A health official from UMC said, "We plan to campaign more so that people reach hospitals early." A senior state official told TOI that the Centre has been closely watching the state’s fatality rate and has brought it up at several meetings. In Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal corporation which has the second highest CFR for August, health officials said the higher percentage of deaths may be attributable to families making a dash for hospitals in Mumbai in the final stages even though facilities have been created in the area. “Critical patients too make a dash for Mumbai and Thane hospitals, thereby wasting golden hours when something can be done to save them here,” said a corporation health official. A private intensivist, however, told TOI that the lack of facilities for decades has left an impression on the public. Public hospitals here, for years, had less than ten ventilators for a population of 12 lakh. “People have naturally grown used to seeking treatment in Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan hospitals,” he said. The health official said after Dr Pankaj Ashiya took charge as commissioner of Bhiwandi-Nizampura City Municipal Corporation, there has been improvement in facilities for Covid-19 patients in civic and state-run Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Municipal corporations such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Latur, Parbhani, Nagpur have all recorded an exponential growth in cases and deaths in August. Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer, said Nagpur, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur corporations have all seen a manifold surge in cases. “Surveillance of patients under home isolation has been streamlined to identify critical cases early and reduce mortality,” he said. Within MMR, Thane, Mira Bhayander, Vasai Virar too have all seen a rise in August CFRs compared to their overall mortality numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ulhas-cases-plunge-but-death-rate-soars/articleshow/77842309.cms||Pradeep Gupta
August 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Guard on way home dies as truck rams cycle||GHAZIABAD: A 42-year-old man died after his cycle was allegedly hit by a truck from behind in city’s Vijay Nagar are on Sunday morning. According to police, the deceased, identified as Rajesh Kumar, was a resident of Vijay Nagar and worked as a security guard at a factory in Sahibabad. Devendra Bisht, station house officer (SHO), Vijay Nagar police station, told TOI that Kumar was on his way to his house in Vijay Nagar after completing his night duty. “He lived alone and his family lives in Kanpur,” he added. The accident took place around 9am on Sunday, and the truck’s driver had managed to escape. “Our team received the information after 5 minutes of the accident from a passerby and immediately reached the spot,” he said. “We took the man to a nearby hospital for medical treatment but doctors declared him brought dead,” Bisht said. “An FIR has been registered against the truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are trying to trace the culprit. We are also trying to track the truck by scanning CCTV footage of the area to check for the registration number,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/guard-on-way-home-dies-as-truck-rams-cycle/articleshow/77841418.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 1,295 test +ve, 12 succumb in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Covid count for Haryana reached 63,282 on Sunday with 1,295 new cases, while 12 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 682. The state also saw 909 recoveries, taking the tally of cured patients to 51,620. Now, there are total 10,980 active cases, out of which 237 are critical, including 33 on ventilator support. Rapid increase in the cases over the past three days has impacted the recovery rate, pulling it down to 81.57%. The doubling rate, however, remained stable at 34 days. The testing per million has gone up to 44,579 as total 1,130,073 persons have been tested so far. Gurgaon topped the daily count with 125 new cases and the district’s number of overall cases has reached 11,818 with 133 deaths. There are total 964 active cases. Gurgaon was followed by Karnal recording 121 new cases, taking the district’s total to 2,734 with 30 deaths. Ambala reported 120 new cases and three deaths and the district’s total of positive cases has gone up to 3,728 with 32 deaths. Faridabad saw 119 cases and one death. Here the total count at 12,581 with 169 deaths, while there are 744 active cases. Yamunanagar added 85 new cases, pushing the total to 1,571 with 19 deaths, while Panipat reported 84 cases and four deaths. Panipat’s total has gone up to 3,481 with 47 deaths. Panchkula reported 77 new patients and here the case tally is 2,152 with 19 deaths. Hisar reported 68 patients, and Kurukshetra 57 cases and two deaths. The district has reported 1,704 cases so far with 32 deaths. Fatehabad reported 56 new cases, followed by 54 in Rewari and 52 each in Sirsa and Mahendragarh districts. Sirsa also reported one death, where 1,303 cases and 13 deaths have been reported so far. Jind saw 47 new patients, followed by 40 each in neighbouring districts of Rohtak and Sonipat. Rohtak also reported one death and the district’s total of cases reached 2,913 with 13 deaths. Kaithal reported 29 new cases, followed by 26 cases and one death in Bhiwani district. Jhajjar reported 22 cases, Palwal 16, three cases surfaced in Charkhi Dadri and two in Nuh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1295-test-ve-12-succumb-in-state/articleshow/77841421.cms||Manvir Saini
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops to put people back in the saddle||Ahmedabad: Horse riding enthusiasts in the state will have the occasion to get back in the saddle again — Gujarat Police Horse Riding Club is set to reopen its centres across the state. The clubs had been closed since June 2019. But soon they will welcome riders in ten districts and at the Ghoda Camp in Meghaninagar in Ahmedabad. The clubs will be reopened in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh, Himmatnagar, Bhuj, Bhavnagar, Mehsana, Dahod and Gandhinagar. “In these places, a three-month basic course and a three-month advanced course will be offered,” said minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja. “To join the club, one will have to contact the nearest police horse riding institute.” Jadeja added that according to a notification dated May 10, 1985, the state home department had permitted the state police chief to provide horse-riding training. The training was to be available at all mounted police units for school and college students and other amateurs. “Horse riding enthusiasts had recently requested the government to restart the clubs, hence DGP Ashish Bhatia issued directions to that effect,” Jadeja said. The minister said that after completing a course, trainees will have to take an exam and score at least 50% to get a certificate. Police clubs offer training at rates much lower than private clubs. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, all precautions including social distancing will be maintained during training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-to-put-people-back-in-the-saddle/articleshow/77841425.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Book bazaar reopens, but time not on vendors’ side||NEW DELHI: With neat parallel lines of plastic strings separating vendors and customers, and six-foot distance between heaps of books and social-distancing circles, the iconic Sunday book bazaar reopened on Sunday after a gap of more than five months. But the usual hustle and bustle was missing. Shivam Giri (22), one of the first few visitors, said he was feeling nostalgic about the market. “I am happy that it has reopened. I have come all the way from Dwarka to buy some competitive exam books, which are cheaper here,” he said. Dharmender Yadav, another visitor who was looking for books for IIT entrance, said the market should open in morning. “We have come on our bike. It is good that the market has been reopened, but timings should be adjusted keeping in mind its nature,” Yadav said. Although the municipal corporation had permitted 90 vendors — almost half of the original number, only 60 could set up their shops on Sunday. The market started around 4pm and in three hours, just 15 vendors were left after the sunset. The market is to stay open till 10pm. Asharfilal Varma, vice-president of Daryaganj Sunday Book Bazar Patri Welfare Association, said the poor footfall was mainly due to the odd timings. “Throughout its 50-year existence, the market has always been held in mornings. Unlike other weekly markets, we sell books, not vegetables and groceries. Mostly students and youngsters come here. Why will people come to Mahila Haat to buy books between 4pm and 10pm,” the 61-year-old wondered. The association has demanded they should be allowed to put up stalls for six hours in the morning. The association has worked out a system under which 90 vendors will set up shops on an alternate week basis. Kamar Saeed, the president of the association, said the market wrapped up three hours before the deadline. “At Daryaganj, the market used to see 20,000-25,000 footfall. Even after relocating to Mahila Haat last year, 5,000-6,000 visitors came. Today there were just 400-odd customers,” Saeed said. “How will we return home after 10-11pm?” asked Nasim Ahmed, a vendor. Ravi Shankar Sharma (45), another vendor who came from Sonia Vihar, said he could not sell a single book after bringing books at his own cost. “Students, women and girls frequent our market and the timing is not right,” he said. “I appeal to the administration to allow us to work for the same number of hours in the morning,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/book-bazaar-reopens-but-time-not-on-vendors-side/articleshow/77841904.cms||Paras Singh
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Serious Covid patients to get free treatment in private hospitals, says CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said serious Covid patients will get free treatment in private hospitals if needed. While the Union home ministry raised the ceiling to 100 attendees for marriage functions and funerals — to be effective from September 21 — Gehlot on Sunday said, “not more than 50 people will be allowed in social, cultural, religious, sports, political and marriage events (as per earlier directions)”. He instructed to start Jaipur Metro operations soon following social distancing and other health protocols. Meanwhile, the Centre in its Unlock-4 guidelines had said starting September 21, social, religious, academic, sports, entertainment, religious and political functions with a maximum congregation of 100 people will be permitted in non-containment areas, subject to norms. “Prior information will have to be given to the SDMs concerned to organise these events,” Gehlot said. Gehlot also urged all MPs and MLAs to get their Covid tests done as a precautionary measure. He said the state government has made proper arrangements for oxygen beds in state hospitals. “In future, if more beds are needed, cooperation from private hospitals must be sought. District collectors will be able to arrange free treatment of serious Covid patients in private hospitals at prescribed rates of the state government.” He asked private hospitals to increase the number of ICUs and oxygen beds. “Private hospitals should tie up with hotel operators to make beds available for asymptomatic patients so that hospital beds can be made available for serious patients. The district collector should ensure this arrangement,” he said. He also instructed to arrange 100 additional beds for Covid care in Jaipur and Kota. In view of the increasing number of patients, Gehlot directed to itensify the arrangements in containment zones in Ajmer, Alwar, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali and Jhalawar. The CM also instructed the district collectors to make arrangements related to the health protocol at the JEE & NEET examination centres to prevent the spread of infection in students appearing for exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/serious-covid-patients-to-get-free-treatment-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77841419.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||With no chefs, waiters and dishwashers turn cooks in tourism hub of Calangute||CALANGUTE: People who regularly patronise restaurants in the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt say that the quality of food served has taken a hit ever since the Covid-19 pandemic hit. The reason: Non-availability of good chefs following the exodus of non-Goans to their native states over the past few months. “Everybody from waiters to dishwashers are now doing the cooking in restaurant kitchens. There is no option because the owners don’t know how to cook,” John Lobo, the Calangute-based general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society, said. After the state government reopened the tourism industry, only a handful of restaurants have resumed business and most do only takeaways for locals and the odd tourist. “There are a few tourists, but the number is not enough to fill up even five restaurants,” Lobo said. Most of the hundreds of restaurants in the tourism hub continue to remain closed due to the poor tourist footfalls on one hand and non-availability of staff on the other. Some restaurants that had reopened have shut down again for fear that they might lose their reputation if their fare is below par. There’s also the Covid-19 situation. “The SOP says that if one staff member tests positive, all the other staff members will have to be quarantined or kept in isolation, which means the restaurant will have to be kept shut,” a restaurant owner said on condition of anonymity. “All our staff are from outside Goa. To call them back in this kind of situation is not possible.” Those opening for business have consequently fallen back on workers who are still in Goa. “Some of the waiters and dish-washers know a little about cooking as they’ve been watching the chefs, but it’s not the same as before,” a hotelier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-chefs-waiters-and-dishwashers-turn-cooks-in-tourism-hub-of-calangute/articleshow/77841897.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||PFI member held for CAA protests||GHAZIABAD: In a joint operation, the Ghaziabad police and the UP anti-terror squad have arrested a member of Popular Front of India (PFI) from Rajasthan for his alleged role in violence during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests in the district. The man has been identified as Parvez Ahmad, a resident of Bhojpur, Ghaziabad. Police claimed before the protests, the accused had lured several people with money to take part in the protests, in which at least 25 cops had sustained injuries. Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural), said the accused was arrested by ATS and “handed over to Ghaziabad police because a case was registered against him at the Muradnagar police station after the protests broke out in December 2019”. “We had booked the accused under several Indian Penal Code sections, including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 307 (attempt to murder), and under Section 7 of the Criminal Amendment Act,1932,” the SP said. Last month, police had issued a NB non-bailable warrant against Parvez.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/pfi-member-held-for-caa-protests/articleshow/77841423.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for impersonating SHO||JAIPUR: Jaipur rural police arrested two persons, one of whom impersonated as Amarsar SHO, and threatwned a person to withdraw his complaint. They were allegedly making regular threat calls to the complainant and were arrested after an audio recording of their threats was uploaded on social media. The accused were identified as Kamlesh and Kailsah Yadav, both hailing from Kariri village. Amarsar SHO Sanjay Varma said, “The accused were impersonating as the SHO of our police station and calling the complainant to withdraw a case against one of their acquaintances about payment of dues.” According to the audio which the cops have, one of the accused who identified as Varma, called the complainant and apparently tried to initially make him withdraw the case by claiming that it was a simple matter of money for which no case was required to be lodged. “After the complainant refused to take the case back, the accused stopped making threats.The complainant also claimed that the person who was supposed to return the dues for cattle feed was also threatening him”, the SHO added. The complainant, who is a resident of Samod police station area, became suspicious after he received multiple calls from the accused and reported the matter. Elaborating further, Varma said, “The complainant got in touch with Samod police station officials who confirmed that neither was I making the calls, nor it was my voice on the audio. Following this, we registered the matter.” Officials claimed that it is a serious offence to impersonate any person and especially a government official. The accused were booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the mobile phone used by them also seized. Cops will question them further to find their criminal history and they were produced in court on Sunday after which sent to police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-impersonating-sho/articleshow/77841422.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||Doubling rate dips, recovery rate improves in Nashik dist||Nashik: The concerted efforts taken by the civic administration to contain the spread of Covid-19 is bearing fruit as not only has the doubling rate of the infection across the district declined, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is also improving. However, the number of active patients in the district is still very high. On July 2, there were 4,545 patients across the district which shot up to 9,394 patients in a span of 16 days on July 18. By August 6, the number of patients doubled to 18,444 in just 19 days indicating very little change in the doubling rate. Thereafter, it took around 24 days for the cases to double and reach the 36,490-mark on August 30. This indicates that since July, one month after ‘unlock’ began, the doubling rate of the infection has slightly declined. District collector Suraj Mandhare said, “As much as the number of Covid-19 patients is increasing, the recovery rate of patients is also significantly improving.” The number of active patients went up from 1,702 on July 2 to 7,116 on August 30 but interestingly, more than 77 % of these patients were asymptomatic and less than 9% serious in nature. “There were several changes adopted in carrying out the testing for Covid-19 suspects across the district which helped in early detection of patients and provide them the necessary treatment. The antigen testing carried out in Nashik city as well as in the rural areas is paying dividends,” said Mandhare. “The death rate among the patients is a major concern for any machinery. Currently, we have a very low death rate across the state,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doubling-rate-dips-recovery-rate-improves-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77839223.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||‘Acquire land along ring road for development’||Varanasi: District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said on Sunday, that a meeting will be convened in a day or two with Varanasi Development Authority and other departments concerned to initiate necessary measures regarding chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directives to acquire land along the ongoing ring road project for major establishments and clusters. The CM’s directives came at a time when an Ahmedabad-based company has already been engaged for town planning and planned development along ring road through land pooling. On Saturday night, the CM directed the officials to initiate land acquisition for planned development along the ring road and said that clusters of different establishments like medical hub, transport and others can be developed on the acquired land. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said that the zonal and town planning process has already been started by VDA. Under zonal planning the areas for residential, commercial and other categories will be defined while under town planning the development of infrastructure is proposed by land pooling. The CM also asked to arrange the land through the same process, he said. The DM admitted that with the completion of ring-road it will become difficult to find land for major projects with plotting for sale. He said that government’s focus is on the stretch of ring-road connecting Varanasi-Allahabad NH-2 and Varanasi-Lucknow NH-56. Sharma said that VDA officials had mentioned about proposal of land pooling for planned development in town planning and to discuss the same a meeting is to be convened, he added.. The VDA has recently appointed a consultant to prepare Town Planning Scheme as sanctioned under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation for ensuring planned expansion of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/acquire-land-along-ring-road-for-development/articleshow/77839806.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||Work in harmony for development: Yogi tells leaders||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath met all MLAs and MPs of the region at Gorakhpur circuit house on Sunday and told them to work in coordination for development of Gorakhpur. The CM’s direction assumes significance in the light of the recent squabble between MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal and others on the issue of transfer of PWD assistant engineer K K Singh. Agarwal was issued a show-cause notice for hurting the image of party on social media. However, the engineer was transferred from Gorakhpur and attached to Lucknow office till further notice. On coming out of the meeting, Agarwal said, “There was no fight or controversy over the transfer, it was just a conversation. Everyone has the right to put forth his views in democracy.” MLA Sadar Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal, MLA rural Vipin Singh, MLA Pipraich Mahendra Pal Singh, MLA Sahjanwa Sheetal Pandey, MLA Khajini Chauri Chaura Sant Prasad, MLA Campierganj Fateh Bahadur Singh, MLA Sangita Yadav and MP Bansgaon Kamlesh Paswan attended the meeting. Bansgaon MLA Vimlesh Paswan could not attend the meeting due to corona infection while MP Ravi Kishan reached Gorakhpur early morning by road from Delhi to attend the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/work-in-harmony-for-development-yogi-tells-leaders/articleshow/77839824.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||126% rainfall in August fills district dams 79%||Nashik: The good spell of monsoon in August has helped the district receive around 126% of its average monthly rainfall. In June, the district had received around 136% of the monthly average rainfall, but the figure went down to 75% in the following month due to frequent dry spells. The recent increase in the intensity of rainfall has led to rise in the water levels of the dams across the district — from 51% in the beginning of August to around 79% on August 30. Rainfall in catchment area of Gangapur dam, which is filled to 94% of its capacity, has forced the water resources department to increase its discharge into Godavari river, resulting in rise in the level of the waterbody. According to a WRD official, the Trimbakeshwar area has received good rainfall owing to which the department had to release water from Gangapur dam. “There has been good rainfall across the district with the western region of the district being the biggest beneficiary. This year, rainfall has been more prominent in the parched regions since June. This is very uncharacteristic as the hilly regions in Western areas of the district usually receive severe rainfall,” he said. It should be noted that Malegaon, Nandgaon, Baglan, Deola and Sinnar talukas have received rainfall ranging from 99% to 138% of their annual average rainfall as against the district’s tally of 84%. Nashik district has 24 major and medium water projects and currently has 51,949 mcft of water. “If the rain continues in the similar fashion, all the dams will be filled to their capacity in the next 10 days,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/126-rainfall-in-august-fills-district-dams-79/articleshow/77839230.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 31, 2020||Madurai||HC asks collector to reconsider plea for compassionate posting||Madurai: Granting relief to a woman, Madras high court directed the Madurai district collector to reconsider her application seeking compassionate appointment in the wake of her father’s death while in service. The court was hearing the petition filed by K Ilayarani whose father V Kallanai, who was a village assistant in Madurai district, died in 2011. Kallanai keft behind his wife and three children including the petitioner.The petitioner had submitted an application in 2012 seeking compassionate appointment. It was rejected by the collector through order dated March 17, 2020 on the ground that her brother Sakthiponnusamy got a government job in 2013. Ilayarani stated that though her brother got the job after the death of their father, the appointment was given on merit and not on compassionate grounds. She stated her brother was living separately and did not support her family.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that according to the two GOs passed by the state government, the application for compassionate appointment of a legal heir can be considered if another legal heir who is in service prior to the death of an employee, is not supporting the family. The judge observed that the authorities had rejected the petitioner’s application as it does not fit the clause under the GOs as in the case on hand, the legal heir who had joined service after the death of a government servant, is not supporting the family.Observing that the GOs should be put in with purposive interpretation, the judge said the negative interpretation given by the collector denying the request of the petitioner for compassionate appointment, cannot be accepted, as such interpretation would destroy the very purpose for which the GOs were issued by the government. Hence the judge set aside the rejection order and directed the collector to reconsider the application of the petitioner for grant of job suitable to the educational qualification of the petitioner within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-collector-to-reconsider-plea-for-compassionate-posting/articleshow/77841885.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 31, 2020||Allahabad||Men more vulnerable to Covid-19? 70% +ve patients in UP are males||LUCKNOW: In a peculiar gender dimension to coronavirus pandemic, trends have shown that men are more prone to get afflicted with the virus than women. In UP, the pattern shows that 70% of the people infected by the virus are men, additional chief secretary (medical and health), Amit Mohan Prasad said. According to experts, the reasons for this may be higher immunity level in women, higher number of women moving out of their homes and the higher tendency in men to break Covid protocol. “Trends show that more than 50% of the people affected by infection are under home isolation. Figures show that as against 54,666 active cases, at least 27,364 are in home isolation,” Prasad. “This number is not only more than those admitted to government Covid hospitals, but is also way ahead of the figure of 2,463 people undergoing treatment at private hospitals. Only 256 patients are recuperating in semi-paid category,” Prasad said. “People under home isolation should monitor their status and ensure they are adequately equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers. People may face problems in the absence of facilities at homes,” Prasad said, adding that people should opt for Covid hospitals as soon as possible for speedy recovery. He said the recovery rate in UP was more than 74% and the fatality rate was 1.51% “People should provide their health update to the integrated command and control centres which have been set up in every district. As many as 62,809 Covid helpdesks have been set up through which more than 7 lakh people have been detected for infection,” he said. Prasad said in the month of August, Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria and Kushinagar districts recorded high positivity rate. Additional chief secretary, information and home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the state had as many as 16,461 containment zones covering 85.22 lakh people. These containment zones have as many as 40,658 Covid-19 cases. Districts having more containment zones include Prayagraj, Barabanki, Kanpur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/men-more-prone-to-covid-risk-70-patients-in-up-are-males/articleshow/77844471.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||Men more vulnerable to Covid-19? 70% +ve patients in UP are males||LUCKNOW: In a peculiar gender dimension to coronavirus pandemic, trends have shown that men are more prone to get afflicted with the virus than women. In UP, the pattern shows that 70% of the people infected by the virus are men, additional chief secretary (medical and health), Amit Mohan Prasad said. According to experts, the reasons for this may be higher immunity level in women, higher number of women moving out of their homes and the higher tendency in men to break Covid protocol. “Trends show that more than 50% of the people affected by infection are under home isolation. Figures show that as against 54,666 active cases, at least 27,364 are in home isolation,” Prasad. “This number is not only more than those admitted to government Covid hospitals, but is also way ahead of the figure of 2,463 people undergoing treatment at private hospitals. Only 256 patients are recuperating in semi-paid category,” Prasad said. “People under home isolation should monitor their status and ensure they are adequately equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers. People may face problems in the absence of facilities at homes,” Prasad said, adding that people should opt for Covid hospitals as soon as possible for speedy recovery. He said the recovery rate in UP was more than 74% and the fatality rate was 1.51% “People should provide their health update to the integrated command and control centres which have been set up in every district. As many as 62,809 Covid helpdesks have been set up through which more than 7 lakh people have been detected for infection,” he said. Prasad said in the month of August, Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria and Kushinagar districts recorded high positivity rate. Additional chief secretary, information and home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the state had as many as 16,461 containment zones covering 85.22 lakh people. These containment zones have as many as 40,658 Covid-19 cases. Districts having more containment zones include Prayagraj, Barabanki, Kanpur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/men-more-prone-to-covid-risk-70-patients-in-up-are-males/articleshow/77844468.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jammu||Himachal records 164 cases, 1 casualty||Shimla: A 63-year-old woman from Barsar tehsil of Hamirpur district, who was infected with Covid-19, died at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda in Kangra district on Sunday morning. With this, Himachal Pradesh has reported 33 Covid-19 deaths so far. The state reported 109 positive cases and 30 recoveries on Sunday. The number of positive cases has reached 5,890 of which 1,517 are active, 4,296 have recovered, 33 have died while 42 have migrated out of the state. The woman who passed away on Sunday morning had been admitted in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda since August 21 and tested positive on August 22. She was also suffering from ovarian tumour. Chamba district has reported four deaths and so has Hamirpur district. There have been eight deaths in Kangra district, seven in Mandi, two in Shimla, one each in Sirmaur and Una and six in Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/himachal-records-164-cases-1-casualty/articleshow/77841435.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court temporarily restrains eatery from using name||Ahmedabad: The word ‘Shree' written in small font as prefix to ‘Shiv Shakti’ in the name of his restaurant did not help Hasmukh Vora in a battle of trademarks between two dhaba owners. A city civil court on Saturday ordered Vora not to use name Shiv Shakti for his dhaba on S G Road near Vaishnodevi temple temporarily after he was sued by Shilaben Purohit, who has been claiming right over the trade name ‘Shiv Shakti’ for a dhaba. According to Purohit’s advocate Rushvi Shah, Purohit has been using the trademark Shiv Shakti for the dhaba since 1985. She came to know in September last year that Vora had started a restaurant with the same name in Paldi. Purohit asserted that Vora could not run the eatery in the same name. He even agreed to Purohit’s insistence and stopped using the name for his restaurant. However, Purohit came to know during the lockdown period that Vora has started a dhaba very near to her eatery in the name of Shree Shiv Shakti Restaurant. She filed a civil suit against Vora for using the trademark and thereby infringing upon her right being a prior user of the mark. It was submitted before the court that Vora has used Shree as prefix to Shiv Shakti, but the prefix is written in very small sized fonts. Hence this is a direct infringement of trademark rights. She urged the court to restrain Vora from using the name of her eatery. After preliminary hearing, the court passed an ex-parte order restraining Vora from using the name for his eatery at least till September 11, when the court has posted further hearing in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-temporarily-restrains-eatery-from-using-name/articleshow/77841436.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Rajkot||Three reservoirs open gates, 50 villages on alert in N Gujarat||Palanpur: Around 50 villages in Bayad and Modasa talukas of Aravalli district have been put on alert while villagers have been warned not to venture near the site of three reservoirs in the district.With three reservoirs including one at Bayad taluka and two others – at Meshwo and Mazum dams in Modasa taluka brimming with rainwater, officials said that around 2,000 cusecs water will be released by Sunday late night.The Vedi dam in Meghrak taluka and Vatrak in Bayad taluka have also reached warning levels. North Gujarat is witnessing heavy rainfall since last couple of days.The heavy rains have flooded over 50-hectare land damaging standing crops of groundnut and maize in Virampur area of Banaskantha’s Amirgadh taluka.Similarly, overflowing Saraswati river has blocked the main road in Patan’s Harij while rains have also damaged the standing crops of groundnut, cotton and castor at Dadiyal village of Mehsana’s Visnagar taluka.In Sabarkantha too several villages including Himmatnagar, Naroda, Fatepura, Amarapura, Vasna among others have been put on alert as reservoir of Hathmati dam has reached 95 % of its total storage capacity, Himmatnagar’s taluka development officer A J Rajput said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-reservoirs-open-gates-50-villages-on-alert-in-n-gujarat/articleshow/77839304.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||HC orders protection for survey of channel||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the Palani deputy superintendent of police (DSP) to ensure adequate protection for the revenue authorities to carry out a survey, in a plea sought to remove encroachments on a channel at Virupachi village in Dindigul district. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by P Nagaraj, a resident of the district. The counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the waterbody, which originally had a width of 19.6 metres, has shrunk to five metres due to encroachments caused by four people. The president of Virupachi village panchayat had also passed a resolution in March for the removal of encroachments and also sent a communication to the Oddanchatram tahsildar. The counsel further submitted that the block development officer had sent a communication to the DSP seeking police protection. He stated that since no protection was granted, authorities were unable to carry out the survey on July 14 as there was possibility of a law and order problem on account of people gathering in huge numbers. The judges directed the authorities to complete the exercise within 10 weeks and disposed of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-protection-for-survey-of-channel/articleshow/77841895.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Renovation work on at Trichy govt museum||Trichy: The renovation work of the Trichy government museum has begun, a few months after the project was announced. The department of museums and the Union culture ministry had initiated the renovation work aimed at modernising the museum. The 354-year-old Nayak-era building housing the museum will be renovated without altering the building’s heritage look. Built by Chokkanatha Nayak in 1666, Rani Mangammal kolu mandapam, which was the audience hall of queen Mangammal, is the last surviving palace in Trichy district. Historians said that the Rani Mangammal audience hall was built with the construction materials used in Madurai Thirumalai Nayakkar palace. The government museum of Trichy has been functioning in the hall situated near Rockfort hillock for two decades now. The state government, identifying the need to strengthen the building by availing the assistance from union government, chalked out a plan to modernise the museum at a cost of Rs 3 crore. The structure of the Rani Mangammal audience hall was proposed to be renovated without altering its heritage look by using traditional building materials like limestone and ink nut (kadukkai), in early 2020. After being stalled by the lockdown, the department of museums launched the work last week.  “The building is still stable and strong. In phase I, we will renovate the structure and in phase II, the museum will be modernised. Around 20% of the work in phase I is completed,” C Sivakumar, curator (in-charge), Trichy government museum said. With 1,000 indoor and outdoor exhibits including weaponry, embalmed birds and animals, historical photographs, burial urns (Muthumakkal Thazhi) and stone idols, the museum was attracting around 1,500 people per month. Idols as old from 10th century are housed here. In phase II, authorities will revamp the showcases where the exhibits are displayed. Modern showcases with better lighting arrangements and attractive descriptions will be provided. “By March 2021, the renovation work would be completed,” the curator (in-charge) added. Meanwhile, the formation of the new ASI circle in Trichy is likely to benefit the museum as the sculptures discovered in the district during archaeological expeditions will be handed over to the museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/renovation-work-on-at-trichy-govt-museum/articleshow/77840316.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 31, 2020||Shimla||Quarantine rules for tourists eased in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: With tourism activity in Himachal Pradesh set to resume from September 1 with certain conditions, the state executive committee has amended its July 31 order to relax the quarantine rules for the tourists. According to the revised norms, now those coming with valid bookings for a duration not less than 2 nights either at a single location or multiple locations, and having been tested negative for Covid-19 through RT-PCR, TrueNat or CBNAAT by an ICMR-accredited or approved laboratory not more than 96 hours prior to entering the state borders, have been exempted from the requirement of quarantine. An order to this effect has been issued by the chairman of the state executive committee to all departments, district magistrates, police officers and local authorities to ensure strict implementation. Order stated that children under the age of 10 would not need any Covid-19 test if the accompanying adults have a negative report. However, they would have to take adequate precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/quarantine-rules-for-tourists-eased/articleshow/77841429.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mumbai||All RPG sales staff can now work-from-home permanently||MUMBAI: In a breakaway from traditional norms, RPG Enterprises has become the first Indian diversified conglomerate to do a permanent reset in its workplace policy around the work-from-home practice. The $4 billion group, which has a presence in tyres, IT, health, energy, infrastructure and plantations, has framed a new policy wherein all its sales people will permanently work remotely, whileother employees would WFH 50% of the time. For office-based staff, this can extend to 75% in special cases. In a month, an office-based employee can work two weeks from home, and in special cases, he/she can work remotely for three weeks. At present, office-based staff awork entirely from home due to the pandemic, with the group unanimously keeping all its offices shut. The new ‘RPG Remote Working Policy’, which is effective prospectively from September 1, is location- and workplace- agnostic. It is applicable to RPG’s global operations as well, and also covers factories and plantations for those workers who don’t work on machines. Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises, told TOI: “Our new work from home policy shatters the notion of traditional workspace and productivity and has turned it on its head. Employees who are not operating machines in our manufacturing businesses or do not have a client obligation in our technology services business, can work from ‘anywhere’ even after the pandemic is behind us. It aligns with our vision tenet of ‘touching lives’ and brand promise of ‘happiness’.” In a note to its 30,000 employees across the world, across companies like CEAT, RPG Life Sciences, KEC International, Harrisons Malayalam, RPG Enterprises said it is imperative for the conglomerate to encourage employees to adopt new and contemporary methods of working that improve their quality of life, productivity and also optimize the group companies’ operating expenses. “Empowering employees by giving them a choice to work remotely from home or another location for a significant number of days in a month, will enhance employee efficiency and business output,” it said in the note. S ‘Venky’ Venkatesh, president group HR, and member, group management board, RPG Enterprises, said: “We have seen that employee productivity has only increased during the past few months, and our early investments in building digital capabilities has given us the confidence to roll out this path breaking policy for perpetuity. What is noteworthy and unique is this policy is industry-agnostic and covers employees in all our group companies in all geographies around the world, including CEOs and senior leadership. We would be the first diversified conglomerate to effect such a far reaching policy as a long term option beyond the Covid-19 phase.” The lockdown period helped the group comprehend the benefits of remote working. To operationalize WFH, it set up a task-force comprising a young team which directly presented its recommendations to the group management board. The board then set up a sub-committee to take it forward and frame a policy. Venkatesh said the policy looks at remote working as a long-term and on-going new normal, even in the post-Covid world. “Today, due to Covid, all our offices are anyway 100% closed, but our factories/project sites/plantations are working. We have categorized employees into four groups by the nature of their work and basis that it would be decided who can work remotely and to what extent. A security officer, for instance, will need to be present at the office premises. An employee at the shop floor will need to be present at the factory. In case of Zensar Technologies, the business model is such that everybody can work from home. Exceptions in IT will be those who need to work from SEZ/client locations or mandated by contractual obligations with clients to work from company locations,” said Venkatesh. Until now, the group’s policy allowed only office-based employees to work from anywhere up to a few days in a month. The new policy has expanded the scope across our manufacturing and plantations locations. The new policy will help the group rationalise its office real estate space and enable hot desking. The move could trigger a similar thinking among other large conglomerates and groups. In India, CavinKare shut down its corporate office and moved to a WFH platform in June. Globally, Twitter allowed employees to choose to WFH as long as they wished to, while Facebook and Google have extended the flexibility to their employees to work remotely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/all-rpg-sales-staff-can-now-wfh-permanently/articleshow/77841893.cms||Namrata Singh
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana got 44% excess rainfall in 3 months||HYDERABAD: After a month of intense rains, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, forecast reduction in rainfall activity from September. It, however, has issued a thunderstorm warning for September 1 and 2 in various districts. “Rainfall may not be as intense as August. The rainfall activity will be largely normal. We are expecting one or two intense spells in western and central Telangana,” said Naga Ratna, director, IMD, Hyderabad. As per IMD data, the state has received 44 per cent excess rainfall between June 1 and August 30. The state has received 849.1 mm rainfall as against the normal of 588.7 mm during this period. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society figures up to 8.30am on Sunday, Chityal in Jayashanker-Bhupalpally received the highest rainfall of up to 42.8 mm during the wee hours of Saturday, followed by 42.5 mm of rain in Mogullapally in Jayashanker Bhupalpally. “Under the influence of a well-marked low pressure over west Madhya Pradesh and adjoining East Rajasthan and a trough over north coastal Tamil Nadu to Comorin area that runs over Rayalaseema, many districts in Telangana received moderate rains,” reads a weather report by IMD, Hyderabad. The weather in the city has been relatively dry resulting in a slight rise in the maximum temperature. The maximum temperature increased by 1.3 degree Celsius below normal to 31.6 degree Celsius on Sunday. Maximum temperature in other districts also increased by one to two degree Celsius above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-got-44-excess-rainfall-in-3-months/articleshow/77840313.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon revives, Met warns of more rain in 24 hours in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After a lull, monsoon revived across the state and entered its sixth and last phase on Sunday. Many places witnessed heavy rainfall while mild to moderate showers were recorded at other places. Several places in Udaipur, Dungarpur, Ajmer, Jaisalmer and Bikaner witnessed heavy rain. Aaspur (Sirohi) received 360mm, the highest in the state. Attributing the revival of monsoon to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, the Jaipur Met office said heavy rainfall is likely at many places in Udaipur division on Monday while Jaipur is likely to get heavy rainfall on Wednesday. People in Jaipur woke up amid drizzles, which continued throughout the day. The city clocked a maximum temperature of 28°C and recorded 10mm rain. As Rajasthan has witnessed good fourth and fifth spells of monsoon, the rainfall deficit in the state is now merely 6%. Except for Churu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, majority of the districts have witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall in this season so far. On Sunday, many places in Udaipur and Bikaner division witnessed moderate to heavy showers. Dungarpur, Banswara, Udaipur and Chittorgarh received heavy rainfall. On the other hand, Ajmer, Bikaner and Nagaur got mild showers. Aaspur (Sirohi) was followed by Sabla (Dungarpur) where a rainfall of 202mm was recorded, Kotada (Udaipur) 108mm, followed by Salumbar (Udaipur) which witnessed 105mm rain. Many places witnessed rainfall varying from 100mm to 10mm. Meanwhile, good rainfall has elevated the water level of various dams and reservoirs in the state. Many dams in Kota and Udaipur are almost filled to capacity. However, Bisalpur Dam in Tonk that caters to the drinking water needs of Jaipur, Kota and Ajmer is yet to reach its full capacity level. Jaipur Met office has forecast moderate to heavy showers at many places in the state in the next 24 hours. Jaipur is likely to witness mild showers on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-revives-met-warns-of-more-rain-in-24-hrs-in-raj/articleshow/77841437.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad records dip in weekly cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday added 1,272 positive cases, taking the total to 95,155. It was the state’s third consecutive day of recording 1,200-plus daily cases. Over the past three days, the state has added 3,826 new cases. The fresh cases include 257 from Surat, 169 from Ahmedabad, 128 from Vadodara, 119 from Rajkot, and 106 from Jamnagar. Vadodara’s total cases crossed 8,000, reaching 8,069. The cumulative cases for Ahmedabad and Surat are 31,431 and 20,326 respectively. The state also recorded 17 deaths, taking the toll to 3,008. Gujarat became the eighth state in India to cross the 3,000-deaths mark. The deaths included five from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara and Bhavnagar, and one each from Amreli, Banaskantha, Jamnagar, and Sabarkantha. Weekly analysis of Covid-19 cases and deaths reveals that among the four major districts, Ahmedabad was the only one to record a decrease in cases. Surat was the only one to show a decline in deaths. Compared to 1,193 cases from August 16 to 23, Ahmedabad recorded 1,149 cases, clocking a decrease of 4%. In the same period, deaths in Surat decreased from 40 to 31, registering a decline of 22%. In all, 1,095 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 76,757. The discharges include 164 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Vadodara, 142 from Surat, and 98 from Jamnagar. With the update, the number of active patients rose to 15,390, which is 16.2% of the cumulative cases. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are 80.7% and 3.1% respectively. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 84 patients on ventilators. In 24 hours, the state carried out 69,488 tests, taking the total to 22.65 lakh. The state health department said that the testing rate is 1,069 per day per million population. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 4.99 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 471 were in facility quarantine and the rest under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-records-dip-in-weekly-cases/articleshow/77840314.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Shopkeepers put up posters against even-odd system||Ludhiana: The resentment against the even-odd system for opening of the non-essentials’ shops is only growing. Though Sunday lockdown was observed and all shops dealing in non-essentials remained closed, shopkeepers took to a novel way to vent out their anger. Since Saturday, various shopkeepers in the city’s biggest market, Chaura Bazaar, pasted posters on their shutters, criticising the even-odd system. The poster said the rush being witnessed in the market was not due to customers, but due to the four-wheelers and commuters. Through posters, shopkeepers have demanded that they be allowed to open shops six days a week and Monday should be kept off.Speaking with the TOI on the issue, Manpreet Bunty, president of Akal Garh Market Association, said, “Sunday is the seventh day of the even-odd system in Ludhiana, but the cases of coronavirus have not decreased. So now the government and the administration must clarify why this system has failed to lower the number of cases. Reality is that they are least bothered about the sufferings of the poor shopkeepers, who are now forced to open their shops for only two days in a week. How will we be able to pay salaries to our staff and manage the needs of our families if we operate for only 10-12 days in a month? The government must cancel this order and allow us to open our shops for six days a week without restriction. Else thousands of shopkeepers will go bankrupt after a month.”Meanwhile, a Facebook video of advocate Amarjit Singh, president of Model Town Market Association, against the even-odd system has gone viral on social media in which he has fired a salvo at Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar. Singh said it’s very easy to take decisions sitting in a room without studying the ground realities. He asserted that keeping shops shut and implementing the even-odd system was not going to control coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shopkeepers-put-up-posters-against-even-odd-system/articleshow/77839279.cms||Mohit Behl
August 31, 2020||Kanpur||We need to conserve nature, says RSS chief||Kanpur: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat participated in ‘Prakriti Vandan,’ a programme organised on a virtual platform and delivered an online address on Sunday. The programme was organised by Hindu Adhyatmik and Sewa Foundation at Deen Dayal Inter College in the city on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, Bhagwat emphasised on the way of living followed by our ancestors who nurtured nature as an important part of their life. He said, “We are not here to only consume nature, as is being done in the present world, but we have to conserve it also. If the situation remains the same, then neither we will survive nor will this world survive.” “In order to overcome this problem, the concept of the Environment Day came into existence years ago,” Bhagwat said. “Our way of life was to respect all the elements of the nature, but misguided by the world’s way of living we forgot our old ways. Hence, today we have to remember all this by observing the Environment Day,” he said. Bhagwat also referred to Hindu festivals like ‘Nag Panchmi’, ‘Govardhan Puja’ and ‘Tulsi Vivah’, and said “all these should be celebrated and rejuvenated so that the new generation learns that we are part of nature and we need to nurture it and not just consume it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/we-need-to-conserve-nature-says-rss-chief/articleshow/77840011.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Police yet to arrest person accused of firing at shop owner||Jaipur: Bhankrota police are yet to arrest the accused who fired and injured a fodder shop owner on Friday. Police said the accused had shot at the shop owner with the intention to rob him after the store shut in the evening. The victim, identified as Ladulal Bagar, was admitted to a hospital. He sustained a bullet wound in his stomach. Bhankrota SHO Darshan Singh said, “The store owner had shut shop for the day and was getting on his vehicle along with the day’s collection of approximately Rs 25,000 when the accused came on a bike and tried to snatch the bag. When the victim resisted, the accused shot him in the stomach with a country-made weapon.” Officials claimed that the victim was out of danger and would be discharged out of the hospital soon. “There is high possibility that the crime was planned in advance though there are chances that it was a crime of opportunity as all the shops in that area were closed due to a festival and the victim’s store was the only one opened. We are looking at all possibilities in the matter”, the SHO added. Following the firing, other shop owners in the area staged a protest demanding swift arrest of the accused. Less than a week ago, a dairy booth collection agent was looted of approximately Rs 6.5 lakh on Tuesday while he was on his way to deposit the money in a bank in Shipra Path police station area. The victim claimed that three accused followed him on a bike, forcefully stopped him, attacked him with a pipe and decamped with the cash which he had collected from few booths in the area. Cops had arrested two of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-yet-to-arrest-person-accused-of-firing-at-shop-owner/articleshow/77841426.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Youth killed in attack, mom injured||Jaipur: A woman and her son were attacked by an unidentified assailant with an axe in Dausa on Saturday night when they were asleep in their room. The son succumbed to injuries while the woman was critically injured. The reason for the attack is yet to be determined. The woman was identified as 55-year-old Raju Devi who registered the case of murder at Abhaneri police station while her deceased son Mangilal was aged 23 years. Dausa ASP Anil Chauhan said, “The mother-son duo were attacked by an unidentified person in the middle of the night while they were asleep in a room. Her younger son sleeping outside. According to her statement, the family went to sleep after dinner around 9 pm and the attack occurred few hours later.” Raju Devi alleged that while the family was asleep, a person dressed in a white shirt and dark trousers entered her room. “The accused first killed Mangilal and then attacked Raju Devi who sustained injuries on her shoulder. Before anyone could react, the accused fled the scene,” the ASP said. In her statement, the woman said she stayed with her two sons while her husband resided elsewhere. Police are deliberating over two possibilities at this point- a relationship of Mangilal and property dispute of the woman with her husband. Chauhan said, “At this point, there are only two possibilities staring at us. It could be Mangilal was in a relationship which was not accepted by the girl’s family and oteh other reason was Raju Devi was not living with her husband who was living with his first wife.” Cops have also detained certain individuals though no one has been arrested yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-killed-in-attack-mom-injured/articleshow/77841428.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||Encephalitis will be wipedout in two years, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said encephalitis which had been causing numerous casualties in Gorakhpur and neighbouring districts in last 40 years is on the verge of eradication and will be wiped out in two years owing to the sustained drive against it. Speaking to reporters in Gorakhpur on Sunday, Yogi said, “The battle against encephalitis is in the last phase. The disease will be eradicated from the region in two years. We will also fight against Covid-19 in similar way.” The death rate of encephalitis in east UP has fallen by up to 95% after 2016, the CM said while sharing statistics. He presented district wise data of AES and JE incidence in Gorakhpur, Kushinagar, Maharajganj and Deoria in last four years showing huge dip in number of cases and death rate. “Uttar Pradesh is conducting the highest number of corona tests every day among all the states in the country. The number of coronavirus cases per day in UP is still less than many other big states,” the CM added. “We have to take all precautions as prevention is the only way to tackle Covid till we have a vaccine. We observe lockdown on Saturday and Sunday so that we get time for sanitation and sanitisation,” Yogi said. Yogi praised PM Narendra Modi’s initiatives against Covid-19 and said, “Due to timely decisions taken about Covid-19 by PM Modi, the situation in India on basis of population, Covid cases and death rate is much better comparatively than in America and Brazil.” “Swachh Bharat campaign also played a leading role in saving us from corona infection and other vector-borne diseases as toilets were constructed in large numbers and created awareness with concerted efforts of administration, sanitation and health departments,” he said. In Uttar Pradesh, three crore toilets have been constructed so far, out of which 2 crore 61 lakh were built in the last two years, Yogi added. The CM also thanked the media for spreading awareness and triggering action by giving good coverage to encephalitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/encephalitis-will-be-wipedout-in-two-years-says-cm/articleshow/77839876.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Goa’s date with amended MV Act delayed once again||PANAJI: The implementation of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, in the state may be further delayed. Though the act was out last year, the file was kept pending in Goa to decide whether to reduce some of the fines. “Everything is ready. We have decided the new rates for fines. However, due to the pandemic the matter was kept on hold,” a transport official said. Just when the state directorate of transport was planning to implement the act from October 1 after notifying the new rates, the government decided to extend the validity of documents. “The validity of documents which was extended to September 30 has now been further extended to December 31. This has changed the situation. The notification to implement the act is therefore delayed,” he said. Validity of documents like driving licences, permits, registrations and fitness certificates that expired since February 1 are being treated as valid till December 31 owing to the pandemic. These are documents whose validity could not be extended or is not likely to be processed due to lockdown restrictions. “Even if we publish the notification saying the act is to be implemented from October and there are more changes in other areas of the department, we will have to issue a fresh notification saying the implementation has been kept in abeyance. Instead, we have kept the notification itself on hold. When it is decided to implement it, we will immediately notify it,” he said. The new act came into force from September 1, 2019, and states across the country were supposed to implement it. However, after some states raised concerns regarding some of the hiked fines, they were permitted to impose lower penalties for certain traffic violations. Taking cue from a few other states, the Goa government also decided to reduce the penalties for some of the offences and the enforcement of the amended MV Act was postponed to January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-date-with-amended-mv-act-delayed-once-again/articleshow/77841941.cms||Nida Sayed
August 31, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Bike picture on Facebook leads cops to 3 students who robbed lensman||GREATER NOIDA: A week after three youths on a bike stopped two wildlife photographers travelling in a car in Dhanauri wetlands and robbed them of an expensive camera with lens, Greater Noida police arrested the accused on Sunday. The police said a picture of the bike posted on Facebook by one of the accused helped them narrow down their search. The camera with the lens was also recovered from the arrested youths. The accused have been identified as Deepak Pawar, Pramod and Dipendra alias Deepanshu — all undergraduate students and residents of Bulandshahr. Another accomplice, a resident of Dhanauri village, is absconding. Narinder Kohli was in the car with his uncle when the three men accosted them and snatched their camera. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP said, “Three teams scanned over 100 Apache bikes in the area,” he said. He added that the bike was finally spotted on one of the suspect’s Facebook profiles. “Subsequently, we picked up the suspect. He confessed to the robbery and revealed his accomplices,” said Pandey.  Meanwhile, police claimed a reward of Rs 50,000 for arresting the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bike-pic-on-fb-leads-cops-to-3-students-who-robbed-lensman/articleshow/77841431.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Men more vulnerable to Covid-19? 70% +ve patients in UP are males||LUCKNOW: In a peculiar gender dimension to coronavirus pandemic, trends have shown that men are more prone to get afflicted with the virus than women. In UP, the pattern shows that 70% of the people infected by the virus are men, additional chief secretary (medical and health), Amit Mohan Prasad said. According to experts, the reasons for this may be higher immunity level in women, higher number of women moving out of their homes and the higher tendency in men to break Covid protocol. “Trends show that more than 50% of the people affected by infection are under home isolation. Figures show that as against 54,666 active cases, at least 27,364 are in home isolation,” Prasad. “This number is not only more than those admitted to government Covid hospitals, but is also way ahead of the figure of 2,463 people undergoing treatment at private hospitals. Only 256 patients are recuperating in semi-paid category,” Prasad said. “People under home isolation should monitor their status and ensure they are adequately equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers. People may face problems in the absence of facilities at homes,” Prasad said, adding that people should opt for Covid hospitals as soon as possible for speedy recovery. He said the recovery rate in UP was more than 74% and the fatality rate was 1.51% “People should provide their health update to the integrated command and control centres which have been set up in every district. As many as 62,809 Covid helpdesks have been set up through which more than 7 lakh people have been detected for infection,” he said. Prasad said in the month of August, Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria and Kushinagar districts recorded high positivity rate. Additional chief secretary, information and home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the state had as many as 16,461 containment zones covering 85.22 lakh people. These containment zones have as many as 40,658 Covid-19 cases. Districts having more containment zones include Prayagraj, Barabanki, Kanpur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/men-more-prone-to-covid-risk-70-patients-in-up-are-males/articleshow/77841913.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Real test for West Bengal colleges as online fee payment starts tomorrow||KOLKATA: The online admission to under-graduate courses has been smooth so far, barring names of adult film actors sneaking into the list of a couple of colleges. But the principals feel the real test will begin on Tuesday when candidates start paying their fees online. Due to the pandemic, the state government shifted the entire admission process to UG courses of Calcutta University online so that candidates do not have to visit the colleges or the banks to pay the fees. “The entire admission process was shifted online this year due to the spread of the novel coronavirus. Even the admission fees will be received online. the students can pay using debit cards, credit cards, net banking and the UPI. Till now the entire process has been smooth,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University chapter of the All Bengal Principals’ Council. Principals said they had made all back-end arrangements to make the payment procedure smooth, but they are more concerned about thousands of candidates from the semi-urban and rural areas where the net connectivity may not be as good. “Bulk of colleges are in the suburbs and rural areas from where thousands of candidates apply every year. Earlier, they could either pay the money at the bank or at the colleges but this year the admission fees will be collected online completely. In many areas the net connectivity may not be as good as the city. We do not want any student to miss out on admission for bad connectivity or a technical glitch. We hope students will not wait for the eleventh hour and complete the process immediately,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college. Almost all colleges have published a detailed schedule about the dates on which merit lists will be out and when the students can clear their admission fees. Others have arranged for helpline numbers where students can contact the authorities if they have any doubt. The candidates will get 48 to 36 hours to complete the entire procedure after the merit list is published. There will be multiple merit lists by most colleges and after every list is published those who get admission will have to complete the process within the stipulated time. “The students must visit the website and double check when merit lists will be published and how much time they will have to pay fees after the publication of the merit list,” said an official of the admission committee of Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/real-test-for-colleges-as-online-fee-payment-starts-tomorrow/articleshow/77842018.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Colleges, univs may hold occasional classes after Sept 20||Kolkata: Research scholars, doctoral students and those from outside containment zones, studying laboratory-based subjects, are likely to attend occasional classes, as and when required, after September 20. The green signal has been given as per the circular by the Ministry of Home Affairs under Unlock 4. But, as the classes in Bengal have been suspended till September 20, the resumption is likely to take place after that.College administrators indicated the modalities will also hinge on terminal semester guidelines. “We are waiting for a decision at the meeting of VCs with minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday. If terminal semester exams are to be conducted in early October then teachers will have to start preparations along with college authorities,” said principal of Vivekananda College, Tapan Poddar.Most colleges in Kolkata opined that they will be waiting for further instructions from higher education department and the state who are likely to draw up a list of activities which will be permitted at educational institutions from the end of September. “There is serious problem with the research scholars, doctoral candidates and even undergraduate and postgraduate students who have been missing classes ever since the beginning of lockdown,” said a teacher of science faculty in Jadavpur University.“Virtual laboratory is an option which is being adopted by some of the departments in both science and engineering as they are heavily reliant on laboratory work. But, it is hardly a compensation for the hands-on learning at the state of art laboratories,” added an engineering department teacher in JU.At Calcutta University, too, mostly the postgraduate departments have taken the effort to send across materials through email and other social media platforms. But, in the UG classes, apart from some of the well-known colleges, others are well behind, particularly on the outskirts and periphery of Kolkata where students have rare access to the internet.The state is, however, in no mood to begin physical classes at higher education institutes till September 20, after which a decision is likely to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-univs-may-hold-occasional-classes-after-sept-20/articleshow/77842014.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||3,000 students in Secunderabad Cantonment to miss e-classes||SECUNDERABAD: Despite the claims of state education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy that 95% of students in the state can have easy access to online classes, due to poor infrastructure, around 3,000 government high school students in Secunderabad Cantonment may miss these classes. Most of these schools are still functioning from the British-era buildings which are in a dilapidated state and other schools are only having basic infrastructure. With these impediments, it’s unlikely that Cantonment schools can catch up with the rest as teaching switches to online and digital mode at least for the next few months. Another startling fact is that, of the ten primary, upper primary and high schools in Cantonment, a few don’t even have electricity. After the recent roof-collapse incident at an old government school near Tivoli junction, teachers and parents are worried over the safety of children. Due to the incident, training classes for the teachers have been delayed at the school. The Lakshmi Ramalingam Mudaliar Government School and Intermediate College, that is spread over a sprawling five-acre area, is also in a bad shape at Bollarum. The school, which has 20 classrooms, was built in 1929 and 15 rooms are in a dilapidated state. Though the education department had constructed additional classrooms adjacent to the school auditorium, they are too congested to accommodate all the students. Proposal to construct additional rooms has hit a financial hurdle, said a teacher. Meanwhile, the education department said they have made all arrangements for smooth conduct of the digital classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3k-students-in-cantt-to-miss-e-classes/articleshow/77840321.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 31, 2020||Kanpur||Men more vulnerable to Covid-19? 70% +ve patients in UP are males||LUCKNOW: In a peculiar gender dimension to coronavirus pandemic, trends have shown that men are more prone to get afflicted with the virus than women. In UP, the pattern shows that 70% of the people infected by the virus are men, additional chief secretary (medical and health), Amit Mohan Prasad said. According to experts, the reasons for this may be higher immunity level in women, higher number of women moving out of their homes and the higher tendency in men to break Covid protocol. “Trends show that more than 50% of the people affected by infection are under home isolation. Figures show that as against 54,666 active cases, at least 27,364 are in home isolation,” Prasad. “This number is not only more than those admitted to government Covid hospitals, but is also way ahead of the figure of 2,463 people undergoing treatment at private hospitals. Only 256 patients are recuperating in semi-paid category,” Prasad said. “People under home isolation should monitor their status and ensure they are adequately equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers. People may face problems in the absence of facilities at homes,” Prasad said, adding that people should opt for Covid hospitals as soon as possible for speedy recovery. He said the recovery rate in UP was more than 74% and the fatality rate was 1.51% “People should provide their health update to the integrated command and control centres which have been set up in every district. As many as 62,809 Covid helpdesks have been set up through which more than 7 lakh people have been detected for infection,” he said. Prasad said in the month of August, Lucknow, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Deoria and Kushinagar districts recorded high positivity rate. Additional chief secretary, information and home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the state had as many as 16,461 containment zones covering 85.22 lakh people. These containment zones have as many as 40,658 Covid-19 cases. Districts having more containment zones include Prayagraj, Barabanki, Kanpur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/men-more-prone-to-covid-risk-70-patients-in-up-are-males/articleshow/77844469.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kanpur||National Sugar Institute produces value added product from bagasse||Kanpur: National Sugar Institute, Kanpur was successful in deriving a value added product from bagasse which is a fibrous material obtained as a result of sugarcane crushing. Every year, Indian sugar industry produces about 80-90 million metric tonnes of bagasse which is used mostly as fuel in boilers. For making sugar industry economically sustainable, there is greater need for reducing dependency on income from sugar and to increase income from other sources through innovations, said director of National Sugar Institute, professor Narendra Mohan. “We were working on the project from the last two years and have finally achieved success in producing a value added product: a derivative of levulinic acid, methyl levulinate, directly from bagasse which has diverse application in transport sector, medical, agriculture and food industry,” said Prof Mohan. “Apart from having anti-freezing properties at high altitude or very cold climatic conditions, it is used as fuel additive in bio-diesel and also as food flavouring agent in the food industry. It is also used as insecticide, herbicide, plant growth regulator in agriculture, as localizing agent, as photodynamic therapy in cancer and as plasticizing agent in many other applications,” he added. “At present, methyl levulinate is produced from levulinic acid. Since the market price of levulinic acid is Rs. 500-800 per kg, the cost of production of methyl levulinate is also quite high. We were trying to explore possibilities of developing a techno-economic process using abundantly available cheap raw material. So, we explored the possibilities of using bagasse as raw material which is sold at Rs 2-3 per kg only,” said Dr Vishnu Prabhakar Srivastava, assistant professor of organic chemistry and project supervisor. “Bagasse is composed of cellulose, hemi-cellulose and lignin. We have utilized only the cellulosic part, and thus, remaining fractions may be used for other purposes. We adopted selective alcoholysis of bagasse-derived cellulose using acid catalyst under autoclave conditions,” said Tushar Mishra, research scholar, and Dr Chitra Yadav, research assistant of the project. Product characterization has been carried out through mass spectroscopy, NMR spectroscopy, gas chromatography, FT-IR spectroscopy and thin layer chromatography. The same has been found to be comparable with commercially available methyl levulinate produced from other raw materials. Considering the growing market, availability of cheap raw material and yield of methyl levulinate being about 5% of the raw material (bagasse), we expect that it would be possible to reduce the cost of production significantly. This way, the desired utilization may be made by different sectors,” said Prof Mohan. “We will scale up the experiments to get a better idea about the yields and cost of production. A patent shall also be filed shortly by the institute,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/national-sugar-institute-produces-value-added-product-from-bagasse/articleshow/77839972.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Trichy residents lower guard as Covid cases continue to dip||Trichy: Even as fresh Covid-19 infections have dropped by 54% and and active cases by 49% in a month indicating that Trichy city may be on the recovery path, residents have been lowering their guard. People as well as commercial establishments have been ignoring the standard operating procedures (SOP) prescribed for resuming normal life. Poor enforcement of the usage of face masks and maintaining social distancing at public places has only emboldened them.Active cases which were lingering around 900 in August first week have come down to 450 in recent days. Similarly, fresh infections are down from 100 a day to around 45. With more people venturing out now, shops also have been gradually seeing a surge in sales. However, compared to the diligence shown in following preventive measures in the initial days of lockdown in April and May, they are persistently being ignored in recent weeks. It is mandatory for all shops to sanitise their customers before allowing them in, but this is followed the least. Face masks violation is rampant in the commercial streets with even workers in grocery stores refraining from covering their face. “People and shopkeepers seem to believe that Covid-19 has been rooted out. This will certainly worsen the situation if authorities delay enforcement,” Ejaz Ahamed, a resident of Thillai Nagar, adds.While usage of air-conditioners is prohibited, a section of ATM rooms and pharmacies are keeping their AC on. Until June, Trichy corporation had collected a penalty of Rs 5 lakh from residents and shops for not adhering to the SOPs. However, from July, the penalisation drive had slowed down. With face masks and social distancing going to be the new normal and the infection still active, it is feared that the lapses will impact the positivity rate adversely in the city. When contacted, Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said that the penalisation drive will be intensified from the ensuing week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-residents-lower-guard-as-covid-cases-continue-to-dip/articleshow/77840337.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Firecracker blinded one eye; 17 years on, compensation in sight||AHMEDABAD: After 14 years of litigation, a local court has ordered revelling members of a wedding procession to pay compensation to a person, who had lost his eye as a minor when a firecracker was hurled in a negligent manner. The judge at the city civil court, Tarun Ahuja, has asked the fathers of the bride and the groom, Hiralal Sharma and Radheshyam Sharma, as well as a party reveller Vijaybhai Barad, who had lighted and hurled the firecracker, to pay Rs 5.16 lakh with 8% interest rate since 2003, when the incident had happened. In this case, a minor Aryan Vyas, who was walking with her mother Hetalben, on a street in Sabarmati area on February 10, 2003, was suddenly hit by a firecracker, hurled from a wedding procession passing by. The boy sustained severe injuries in his right eye. It could not be treated and ultimately the eye was removed because of deformity. Vyas, who is in his twenties now, is living with an artificial eyeball, which needs to be replaced every 2-3 years. After medical treatment could not save Aryan’s eye, the Vyas family, who later shifted to Maninagar from Sabarmati, sued the fathers of the bride and the groom, and Barad, who was identified as the one who had lighted the cracker. The suit was filed in 2006 for Rs 7.1 lakh compensation. The case lasted for a good 17 years. During the trial, Hiralal and Radheshyam Sharma appeared before the court and they even cross-examined the witnesses. Barad never came before the court after the summons. The defenders, both the Sharmas, claimed that they were not responsible for the untoward incident, but it was Aryan’s mother who was responsible for his injuries. They even termed the incident as an Act of God. After the stage of evidence, the defendants stopped coming for the trial and the court went ahead with ex-parte proceedings and order, which was passed on August 18. The court held the three responsible for the negligent action and liable to pay compensation. The court computed Rs 3 lakh for the loss of an eye by taking into consideration the central government norm that loss of one eye amounts to 30% disability for a person. The court also considered that the defendants should pay Rs 50,000 for the loss of business that the victim’s parents had to suffer due to this incident. The court held the revellers of the wedding procession responsible also because they did not have a valid permission from the city police commissioner to take out the procession on public streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/firecracker-blinded-one-eye-17-years-on-compensation-in-sight/articleshow/77840343.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||NMC earmarks Rs 25 crore for fight against Covid-19||Nashik: The civic administration has earmarked Rs 25 crore for the effective management of Covid-19 in the city. The funds will be spent for arranging more beds, procuring medicines and other medical equipment, and providing salaries to over 600 contract medical staff who have been appointed on a contractual basis for six months to treat Covid-19 patients. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already spent Rs 10 crore so far. The city had recorded the first Covid-19 patient from Govind Nagar area of the city on April 6 and there were only 48 cases till May 19. But there has been a spike in Covid-19 case thereafter. “Accordingly, we started arranging for more beds in various hospitals and creating more Covid care centres at various locations across the city,” said NMC official. “There is still no let up in the Covid-19 cases and cases are still rising. Hence, we have earmarked Rs 25 crore for which we have got the administrative approval. So far, we have spent 40% of the total amount,” said officials. “We don’t know how long the Covid-19 outbreak will continue in the city. We are increasing the bed capacity at the Bytco and the Zakir Hussain hospital. We have planned more Covid care centres. We will increase the financial provision for the effective management of Covid as per the requirement,” said a senior NMC official. “We have recruited over 600 medical and other paramedical staff on a temporary basis for six months. Their contracts will be extended if the Covid-19 outbreak continues even after the termination of their tenures. Increasing the salary structure of the contractual employees has put additional financial burden on the NMC,” said the official. “The revenue generated by NMC through property tax, various taxes through town planning department and other taxes have declined. The grant of Rs 80 crore per month against the GST from the state government is the only relief,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-earmarks-rs-25-crore-for-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/77839256.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Designs of 27 location-based theme parks shortlisted||Hyderabad: Of the 50 theme parks that will dot the city, designs of 27 theme parks were shortlisted on Sunday. Architects who designed the parks said that the parks’ location was taken into consideration while designing the parks. “For instance, around the Knowledge Park, there are several schools. Students will get an idea of aerodynamics, satellite technology, waste management system and solar energy when they visit the park. There will be life-sized prototypes (sculptures, murals and displays) of science experiments. All the parks are designed as per world-class standards,” said AR Sowjanya Kothwar, principal architect at Vivogue Design Studio. Similarly, the Interactive Park at Patrika Nagar in Madhapur is situated in close vicinity to several offices. The park will cater to the employees and will have an amphitheatre, outboard room and an exclusive area marked as fitness zone. The Woman’s Park at Sachivalaya Nagar in Vanasthalipuram will be themed around women’s safety. Further, the Topiary Garden at LB Nagar will have a maze developed with topiary plantations and the animal kingdom theme park will be adorned with various sculptures of animals. Officials said that the Smart Park will display the schemes implemented by the state government. Basic amenities such as walking and jogging track, seating area and washrooms will be provided in the parks. “The aim is provide physical and mental fitness. Parks are designed for everyone including people with special needs and senior citizens who depend on wheelchair,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/designs-of-27-location-based-theme-parks-shortlisted/articleshow/77840339.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 31, 2020||Noida||Three arrested for raping Greater Noida resident||GREATER NOIDA: Three men were arrested for allegedly raping a 24-year-old woman in Delhi on Saturday. According to police, the woman, a resident of Knowledge Park based village, reported the matter after she was dropped back to her house. Greater Noida police tracked the accused and helped the woman to lodge a case with Delhi police as the crime took place in their jurisdiction. “The woman lived in the accused man’s house on rent in Gulawali village in Knowledge Park area. He allegedly asked her to meet him and after convincing her over phone, the man picked her up from her house and took her to a hotel in South Delhi’s Sunlight Colony,” a police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-arrested-for-raping-greater-noida-resident/articleshow/77841438.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Colleges start academic year online tomorrow||PANAJI: Colleges offering general stream programmes across the state are geared up to begin the new academic year 2020-21 amidst the pandemic from Tuesday. As classes will be held online, institutes have developed their own e-content and e-resources, using which the teaching sessions will begin. Most institutes will use a combination of online and offline methods to teach. Due to many days of the academic year being lost to the pandemic, Goa University has provided colleges with a new schedule for the year. As per this schedule, there will be 75 days available for general stream degree programmes during the first semester of the year 2020-21, and 92 days will be available to the postgraduate programmes to complete the portion. “We have drawn up a schedule only for the first 15 days, as only once classes begin we will know the internet connectivity available to students,” said Purnakala Samant, principal of Government College, Khandola. “As of now, the plan is to deliver six live lectures a day of 35 minutes each for degree students of arts and commerce. There will be a gap between lectures for students. For science stream, teachers will tackle the theory part first and practicals are planned to be held in late October or early November in batches of 10 students each.” She also said that an arrangement has been made in which students can email their requirement of reference books, and can pick them at an assigned time from the college gate itself. Teaching will begin for students of second and third year of the degree programmes on Tuesday. Since the second round of admissions to first year degree programmes are still on, classes for this batch are scheduled to begin from September 7. Similarly, Goa University is also in the process of declaring final year results for the last academic year, and based on these, admission lists for postgraduate programmes will be confirmed. Accordingly, classes for postgraduate programmes will also begin in the second week or middle of September. “For all subjects offered in our college for first, second and third year degree programmes, we have prepared e-resources and a minimum of six recorded lectures,” said principal of Shree Mallikarjun College, Canacona, Manoj Kamat. “The recorded lectures will be delivered to students through different platforms like Whatsapp and Youtube, and they can hear them at their convenience. We have also uploaded them on our systems in the computer lab, and those who have no access to the internet can come to college and take them home on a pendrive.” Kamat said that e-resources prepared include powerpoint presentations, question banks and links to Youtube videos on subject. “We have prepared such content for the first two units,” Kamat said. “Over the next one-and-a-half month, similar recorded videos and e-resources will be prepared for the other two units in all subjects. We have prepared an academic schedule for each day, which the faculty members will follow.” Meanwhile, the directorate of higher education is preparing for the launch of its own dedicated Youtube channel and has recorded around 2,500 lecture videos on different subjects taught in colleges across Goa. According to sources, this channel is expected to be launched for students by October 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colleges-start-academic-year-online-tomorrow/articleshow/77841927.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Rajasthan caseload now over 80,000||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases breached the 80,000 mark in the state on Sunday riding on 1,450 fresh infections. In the last 24 hours, 13 new deaths were reported taking the casualty count to 1,043. The state capital saw 241 positive cases taking its cumulative count to 10,501. Attributing the rise in cases to intensified random sampling in rural areas, health officials said the recovery rate was also increasing. However, officials warned that people were still not serious enough in Jaipur and many are very casual about the idea of social distancing, sanitisation and other SOPs. “The state’s latest caseload stands at 80,227. Of these, there are 14,091 active cases and as many as 63,997 people so far been cured and discharged from hospitals. Now, police and law enforcement agencies should continue to be strict against violators as many people are not following the SOPs. We are also into massive sampling as detection of cases is very necessary,” said a senior officer of the health department. Bhilwara, which was in news for its containment model saw just five positive cases taking its total infection count to 2,142. “In Bhilwara, we have 333 active cases and 14 deaths,” said a senior officer of CMHO Bhilwara office. With 241 fresh cases, Jaipur’s total count now stands at 10,501. “Two deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its death count to 273,” said an officer. In Jaipur, cases were reported from posh colonies like Bani Park, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Sodala, Tilak Nagar and other areas. “The areas including Jhotwara, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar continued to witness more than 20 cases,” said an officer. As per data released by the medical and health department, of the 13 deaths, two were reported from Jaipur while one death each was reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Tonk and Udaipur. Kota, Jhalawar and Jodhpur also saw spike in cases. In Kota, 200 cases were detected, followed by Jodhpur (143) and Jhalawar (123). Meanwhile, 1736 patients got discharged from various hospitals across the state. “Of the total 80,227 cases we now only have 14,901active cases,” said an officer. Transport minister Khachariyawas positive State’s transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas tested Covid positive on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and senior Congress leaders sent their wishes for his speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-caseload-now-over-80k/articleshow/77843556.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: Rajasthan caseload now over 80,000||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases breached the 80,000 mark in the state on Sunday riding on 1,450 fresh infections. In the last 24 hours, 13 new deaths were reported taking the casualty count to 1,043. The state capital saw 241 positive cases taking its cumulative count to 10,501. Attributing the rise in cases to intensified random sampling in rural areas, health officials said the recovery rate was also increasing. However, officials warned that people were still not serious enough in Jaipur and many are very casual about the idea of social distancing, sanitisation and other SOPs. “The state’s latest caseload stands at 80,227. Of these, there are 14,091 active cases and as many as 63,997 people so far been cured and discharged from hospitals. Now, police and law enforcement agencies should continue to be strict against violators as many people are not following the SOPs. We are also into massive sampling as detection of cases is very necessary,” said a senior officer of the health department. Bhilwara, which was in news for its containment model saw just five positive cases taking its total infection count to 2,142. “In Bhilwara, we have 333 active cases and 14 deaths,” said a senior officer of CMHO Bhilwara office. With 241 fresh cases, Jaipur’s total count now stands at 10,501. “Two deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its death count to 273,” said an officer. In Jaipur, cases were reported from posh colonies like Bani Park, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Sodala, Tilak Nagar and other areas. “The areas including Jhotwara, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar continued to witness more than 20 cases,” said an officer. As per data released by the medical and health department, of the 13 deaths, two were reported from Jaipur while one death each was reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Tonk and Udaipur. Kota, Jhalawar and Jodhpur also saw spike in cases. In Kota, 200 cases were detected, followed by Jodhpur (143) and Jhalawar (123). Meanwhile, 1736 patients got discharged from various hospitals across the state. “Of the total 80,227 cases we now only have 14,901active cases,” said an officer. Transport minister Khachariyawas positive State’s transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas tested Covid positive on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and senior Congress leaders sent their wishes for his speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-caseload-now-over-80k/articleshow/77843559.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan caseload now over 80,000||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases breached the 80,000 mark in the state on Sunday riding on 1,450 fresh infections. In the last 24 hours, 13 new deaths were reported taking the casualty count to 1,043. The state capital saw 241 positive cases taking its cumulative count to 10,501. Attributing the rise in cases to intensified random sampling in rural areas, health officials said the recovery rate was also increasing. However, officials warned that people were still not serious enough in Jaipur and many are very casual about the idea of social distancing, sanitisation and other SOPs. “The state’s latest caseload stands at 80,227. Of these, there are 14,091 active cases and as many as 63,997 people so far been cured and discharged from hospitals. Now, police and law enforcement agencies should continue to be strict against violators as many people are not following the SOPs. We are also into massive sampling as detection of cases is very necessary,” said a senior officer of the health department. Bhilwara, which was in news for its containment model saw just five positive cases taking its total infection count to 2,142. “In Bhilwara, we have 333 active cases and 14 deaths,” said a senior officer of CMHO Bhilwara office. With 241 fresh cases, Jaipur’s total count now stands at 10,501. “Two deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its death count to 273,” said an officer. In Jaipur, cases were reported from posh colonies like Bani Park, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Sodala, Tilak Nagar and other areas. “The areas including Jhotwara, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar continued to witness more than 20 cases,” said an officer. As per data released by the medical and health department, of the 13 deaths, two were reported from Jaipur while one death each was reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Tonk and Udaipur. Kota, Jhalawar and Jodhpur also saw spike in cases. In Kota, 200 cases were detected, followed by Jodhpur (143) and Jhalawar (123). Meanwhile, 1736 patients got discharged from various hospitals across the state. “Of the total 80,227 cases we now only have 14,901active cases,” said an officer. Transport minister Khachariyawas positive State’s transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas tested Covid positive on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and senior Congress leaders sent their wishes for his speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-caseload-now-over-80k/articleshow/77843557.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 lakh RTE applicants scramble for 96,000 seats||AHMEDABAD: At a time when government and school authorities are still at war regarding tuition fees at self-financed schools, the number of parents who have filed applications for enlisting their wards under the Right to Education (RTE) Act has shot up. Against 96,000 available seats more than 2 lakh admission applications have been filed under RTE. The filled forms will be examined at the district level on Monday. Private schools across the state have to reserve 25% of total seats in Class I for students in RTE category. The city of Ahmedabad and rural areas have about 22,000 RTE seats for which more than 40,000 applications have been received. The verification process will be completed by September 7, when the allocation of seats will be decided, sources said. The list for the first round of admission will be announced on September 11. Last year, 1.89 lakh candidates had applied for RTE admission against 1.2 lakh, available seats. This year, seats are less, but the number of applicants has gone up. The high number of RTE applications bear testimony to the fact that a many parents have suffered financial setback due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said sources in the education department. Job cuts, business losses or the overall economic slowdown may have pushed more parents into the low-income group that qualifies for RTE. The process for admission to RTE seats started very late this year. Every year, the process is initiated in April. This year, due to the pandemic, parents were given time till August 29 to fill forms online. The Gujarat government had earlier directed all self-financed schools in the state not to collect tuition fees for the period the schools remained shut due to Covid-19. This was challenged in the Gujarat high court by the school authorities. Following the court’s interim order, the state education department held a meeting with the school authorities which remained inconclusive. While the government had proposed a fee cut for all students in that meeting earlier this month, the schools had refused, and said they were open to considering relaxation in fees on a case-to-case basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2l-rte-applicants-scramble-for-96k-seats/articleshow/77840345.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Traders welcome TN govt’s move to ease lockdown restrictions||Madurai: The state government’s move to restart public transport and do away with complete lockdown on Sundays has been welcomed by traders and business organisations.Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N Jegatheesan said they were awaiting the chief Minister’s announcement at the end of this month. Though the authorities claim cargo transport is allowed, there are problems in procurement of flowers and vegetables from farmers. “As most of the shopping for festive and marriage season takes place on Sundays, the announcement was much awaited and would help all sectors. Doing away with e-passes for intra-state travel is a big relief while there should be no restriction on people moving to other states on their own transport,” he said.Madurai Textile Merchants Association secretary Ashraf Tayub said that people are now aware of the dangers of Covid-19. “They do not come into crowded shops and we too exert caution. Unlike in wine shops where people are unaware of the danger, people who come for textile shopping are very cautious,” he said. “Payments are pending and in Surat the production has dropped down to just 20%. Doing away with lockdown measures will only help revive many trades and industries that are connected to each other,” he said, adding that restarting public transport was a dream come true for traders.Not less than 15 tonnes of flowers is what the Madurai flower market would have sold during Onam festival, as locals buy them in bulk for decoration at their homes. “We sell about two to three tonnes of flowers per day during the Onam festival as Keralites residing in Madurai and institutions celebrate the festival. This year we have not even sold a tonne as today was a complete lockdown. This year’s sales can be put at zero,” said Madurai Flower Market Associations coordinator S Ramachandran. He said that flower farmers and traders were elated by the government’s announcement.The vegetable markets at Matuthavani and Paravai in Madurai had planned in advance and transported 100 loads of vegetables to Kerala on Saturday and smaller quantities throughout the week. “As it was complete lockdown on Sunday we did this on Saturday, a reason for the hike in vegetable prices last week. Usually people come from Kerala to Madurai and purchase ten times what we sent this year,” said Madurai Matuthavani entral market vegetable market president P S Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-welcome-tn-govts-move-to-ease-lockdown-restrictions/articleshow/77841919.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||62 detained under goonda Act so far in Tuticorin dist||Madurai: The Tuticorin district police have detained 62 rowdy elements under Goondas act so far this year for their involvement in anti-social activities. Around 20 of them were detained under the act in the last two months alone, according to police.Stringent action is being taken against ganja peddling. So far 30 cases have been registered against ganja smuggling and 39 people were arrested. A much as 52 kilos of ganja has been seized from them. Similarly, 54 cases have been registered against those selling tobacco banned by the state government. 56 people have been arrested on these charges and 3,063 kilos of banned tobacco items have been seized.As complete lockdown was in place on Sunday, the district superintendent of police, S Jayakumar, conducted inspections at various places to check whether the rule is being adhered to strictly. He said that vehicle checking was carried out at 200 places throughout the district and at 26 places in the city alone. Around 2,000 police personnel were involved in vehicle checking. The SP urged people not to come out of their houses unnecessarily. When they come out for unavoidable reasons, they should observe social distancing and wash their hands frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/62-detained-under-goonda-act-so-far-in-tuticorin-dist/articleshow/77841914.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan caseload now over 80,000||JAIPUR: Covid-19 cases breached the 80,000 mark in the state on Sunday riding on 1,450 fresh infections. In the last 24 hours, 13 new deaths were reported taking the casualty count to 1,043. The state capital saw 241 positive cases taking its cumulative count to 10,501. Attributing the rise in cases to intensified random sampling in rural areas, health officials said the recovery rate was also increasing. However, officials warned that people were still not serious enough in Jaipur and many are very casual about the idea of social distancing, sanitisation and other SOPs. “The state’s latest caseload stands at 80,227. Of these, there are 14,091 active cases and as many as 63,997 people so far been cured and discharged from hospitals. Now, police and law enforcement agencies should continue to be strict against violators as many people are not following the SOPs. We are also into massive sampling as detection of cases is very necessary,” said a senior officer of the health department. Bhilwara, which was in news for its containment model saw just five positive cases taking its total infection count to 2,142. “In Bhilwara, we have 333 active cases and 14 deaths,” said a senior officer of CMHO Bhilwara office. With 241 fresh cases, Jaipur’s total count now stands at 10,501. “Two deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its death count to 273,” said an officer. In Jaipur, cases were reported from posh colonies like Bani Park, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jhotwara, Sodala, Tilak Nagar and other areas. “The areas including Jhotwara, Sodala and Vaishali Nagar continued to witness more than 20 cases,” said an officer. As per data released by the medical and health department, of the 13 deaths, two were reported from Jaipur while one death each was reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Tonk and Udaipur. Kota, Jhalawar and Jodhpur also saw spike in cases. In Kota, 200 cases were detected, followed by Jodhpur (143) and Jhalawar (123). Meanwhile, 1736 patients got discharged from various hospitals across the state. “Of the total 80,227 cases we now only have 14,901active cases,” said an officer. Transport minister Khachariyawas positive State’s transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas tested Covid positive on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and senior Congress leaders sent their wishes for his speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-caseload-now-over-80k/articleshow/77841434.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Trial runs for weekly markets extended till September 6 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Weekly markets in the capital, which were allowed to operate on a trial basis for a week till August 30, have been granted another week’s extension by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. DDMA had, on August 21, allowed one weekly market per day per zone in areas under the three municipal corporations, NDMC and Delhi Cantonment Board on a trial basis from August 24 to 30. The markets, which were to operate from 4pm till 10 pm, were allowed in all areas except containment zones. On Sunday, the authority extended the functioning of these markets on a trial basis till September 6. District authorities would have to ensure strict implementation of social distancing measures and mandatory usage of face mask. In an order issued on August 30, state acting chief secretary Satya Gopal noted that after reviewing the current Covid-19 situation in the city, it was decided that one weekly market per day per zone will be allowed to function on a trial basis further for a week till September 6. The government order notes that not more than two buyers would be allowed to deal at any stall at a given time. Weekly markets have been closed since March 23 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trial-runs-for-weekly-mkts-extended-till-september-6/articleshow/77841922.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger on prowl in Telangana's Bhupalpally forest||BHUPALPALLY: A tiger, which is likely to have strayed into the state from Indravati tiger reserve in Chhattisgarh or from Tadoba tiger reserve in Maharashtra, is on prowl in Nimmagudem forest area of Mahamuttaram mandal in Jayashankar-Bhupalpally. Locals from surrounding villages in the grip of fear said that the animal killed a cow late on Friday night. The villagers alerted the forest staff about the presence of a tiger in the region after they found pug marks that appeared to be of a tiger. District forest officer (DFO) K Purushottam along with other forest officials visited the village on Sunday and confirmed that a tiger was sighted in Nimmagudem forest on Sunday. The DFO cautioned the villagers to not venture into the forest area for cattle grazing. The officials also warned villagers not to come out of their houses and create man-animal conflict if they spot the tiger. The DFO said that two camera traps have been installed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-on-prowl-in-bhupalpally-forest/articleshow/77840346.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Rs 10,000-Rs 15,000: Car fare worry for JEE and NEET candidates in West Bengal||KOLKATA: A large section of JEE and NEET UG examinees are staring at an uncertainty over reaching the examination venues. In absence of train services, they need to cough up as high as Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 to private car owners, which is beyond the reach for many. The examinees residing in the rural Bengal are worst hit by the transport problem. With no train service available, they are wondering how to reach the examination centres. While in many areas the car operators are unwilling to ferry them, in other places they are demanding an exorbitant fare, which many examinees cannot afford. Moreover, the car operators are unwilling to carry take more than two-three people in the cars due to social distancing protocol. “The situation is grim for me,” said Imtiaj Ali of Mayapur in Nadia, whose centre is in Beliaghata’s RCC Institute. Car operators have asking for Rs 12,000 from him. “I had tried to plead that I am a student going to appear for my examination and it is beyond my capacity. I urged them to help after which some have revised the fare to Rs 10,000, but it is still beyond my capacity,” said Imtiaj, son of a para-teacher. “I am looking for other examinees with whom I can share the fare,” Imtiaj said. He said that two of his friends, Ibadat Shiekh and Russel Biswas, are also clueless on how to reach their centres at Barasat and New Town. Similar is the situation for Suman Das of Dhubulia whose father recently passed away. He doesn’t know how he will reach his examination centre at Dhulagarh. He has been asked by the private car operator to pay Rs 10,000 and that is not feasible for him. However, Shyani Mondal of Dhubulia is a lucky as her father is a gynaecologist and the family owns a car that will help her reach her centre at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Joka. But the teenager is worried about her friends. She said: “I have contacted the local Trinamool leaders to help me reach the exam centre.” She added that one of her friends, Anurbha Mondal of Bethuadahari, has been allotted a centre at Durgapur, even though he had opted for Burdwan. “Now the car owners are asking for Rs 15,000 for taking him to the centre,” Mondal said. Saddam Mirza, a biology teacher of Al Amen Academy of Ankurhati, Howrah, too, said that they had 63 NEET examinees, who used to stay in their hostel. Ever since the area came under containment zone, examinees started leaving the hostel. Most of the students are reportedly from Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and Malda and they have been asked by car operators to shell out Rs 15,000 or more to reach their centres in Howrah. “So they are facing a lot of problem in reaching their centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/konar-neet-jee-private-car-fares/articleshow/77842034.cms||Debashis Konar
August 31, 2020||Rajkot||Learn about cow breeding in your mobile||Rajkot: Fed up of commercial impurities and thinking of starting your own milk and ghee business, but don’t know whom to ask? Fret not. Soon, there will be an online tutorial that will teach all about cow breeding in your mobile phone itself.A few youngsters in Gondal’s Gau Shala is preparing the content and design for the mobile app which will be launched in 12 different languages. This will help people who want to own their livestock and sell pure ghee too. This opportunity to learn all about cow breeding online has been facilitated by Gir cow care organization of Gondal town in Rajkot district. After providing practical training with Vaidik rituals at their cowshed, it is now coming up with the mobile application designed to reach to greater mass. Founder of the organization, Ramesh Ruparelia said, “There are numerous online videos that teach about cow breeding. But all these have been prepared by vets who have little knowledge about practical difficulties in cow breeding. We, therefore, decided to make our own online content which is based on practical experience.”The organization has 150 Gir cows and provide training to people from various walks of life, including foreigners.The team is preparing the content in 12 Indian languages including Gujarati, Hindi, English, Marathi, Punjabi, Oriya, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, Sanskrit, Tamil, and Bengali. The content preparation and design of the mobile application is being done inside the Gaushala in Gondal. The app will provide text, pictures, and videos of Gir cow breeding including advice on how to take care of cows, especially when they are pregnant and also tips on how bovines react when they are sick. It will also have advice on how to give primary treatment until the vet arrives. “Demand for online training has risen during the Covid times which made us think of creating the app. Also, many youngsters have lost their livelihood in the city. If they have roots in the villages and have basic knowledge about cattle breeding, they can learn everything from this app,” Ruparelia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/learn-about-cow-breeding-in-your-mobile/articleshow/77839356.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 31, 2020||Varanasi||‘Start 50-bed facility at BRD Med College’||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the number of Covid tests per day should be ramped up and more beds should be made available in Covid hospitals. During a meeting with officials in Gorakhpur on Sunday, the CM instructed the district magistrate and CMO to hold meetings every morning and evening with regard to the Covid-19 situation. He said that Nyay Panchatvar, SDM/CO should patrol their areas regularly. “We have to win the war against the ongoing pandemic at any cost,” said Yogi. He also instructed officials to make available a Covid hospital in Bal Sansthan at BRD Medical College. “After the oxygen plant is activated in old super specialty building of BRD Medical College, start the 50-bed facility as soon as possible,” he directed. CM Yogi asked to carry out regular supervision of Covid infected patients from integrated control rooms, and enquire about their condition on phone at least twice a day. If a person is detected with severe symptoms, they should be immediately transferred to the Covid hospital, added Yogi. He also instructed officials to ensure action against private hospitals if they charge more than the rate set by the government. “Covid patients who come under categories of pregnant women, elderly, children and those suffering from comorbidity must not be given permission for home isolation,” said the CM. He directed authorities to ensure at least 4,000 Covid tests are conducted per day after suspected patients are identified through door-to-door surveys. He also said that markets should be opened and closed as per schedule and massive awareness should be created about the importance of two-feet-distance and necessity of wearing a mask in public places. CM Yogi then asked Gorakhpur development authority and municipal corporation to come up with a proper drainage system so that waterlogging could be avoided. He further said surveys of waterlogging-prone areas should be conducted and a project report should be submitted within a week. The CM also asked the municipal corporation to ensure water drainage with the help of pumping set until a permanent arrangement is ready, so that water does not flow on roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/start-50-bed-facility-at-brd-med-college/articleshow/77839856.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Man held on charge of murdering wife||Trichy: A 30-year-old man from Trichy district was arrested on charges of murdering his 26-year-old wife he recently married. According to police, the accused pushed her into the Kollidam river on Sunday morning allegedly for refusing to have sex with him. J Arulraj, a native of Vazhavanthanpuram near Number 1 tollgate, was remanded under judicial custody after being produced before the court. The body of his wife, A Christy Helen Rani, who went out to relieve herself around 4 am on Sunday, was found floating on the river. A gold chain and rings weighing seven sovereigns were also found missing from the deceased. Kollidam police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry, during which Arulraj, a labourer at a private company in Andhra Pradesh, told police that she had gone out to attend nature’s call, but did not return for hours. His relative found her naked body floating in the water. Superintendent of police T Jayachandran ordered a special team headed by Lalgudi superintendent of police R Radhakrishnan to probe the incident. As Arulraj gave conflicting statements, it came to light that he committed the murder, police said. Due to Covid-19 lockdown, Arulraj returned to Trichy three months ago. The couple got married on July 10 but had frequent fights as Rani allegedly refused to have sex with him. During the interrogation, the accused told police that on Sunday morning, they picked up a quarrel on the matter following which he murdered her by pushing her into the river. He took her jewellery to make it look like murder for gain and hid the ornaments near his house. Based on information given by him, the police recovered the gold ornaments. Police sent the body to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-on-charge-of-murdering-wife/articleshow/77840352.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Surat||2,465 recover in Surat Covid care centre||Surat: Around 2,465 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Samaras Hostel in Surat city till date. According to officials, 2,782 patients have been admitted to CCC so far, of whom 2,465 have been discharged. At present, 186 are under treatment. “CCC was set up with 600 bed capacity to provide treatment to mild and symptomatic Covid-19 patients in the city. These patients were referred here from New Civil Hospital as well as Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital,” said V K Sabad, nodal officer. Sabad further said that the CCC has 15 doctors, 18 nurses, 14 paramedical staff, 40 ward boys and other staff to manage the centre and patients are given treatment round-the-clock. Initially, this hostel building was started as a government quarantine centre, but on April 23 it was converted into fullcare centre. Meanwhile, Surat city reported 174 new cases and three deaths on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, highest was reported in Athwa with 42, followed by 41 in Rander zone. Around 128 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of discharged patients to 13,474 in the city. In Surat district, 55 fresh cases were reported on Sunday taking tally to 4,463 in the district. Two more deaths took the toll to 197 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2465-recover-in-surat-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77839362.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn plans to extend walking tracks on Uyyakondan canal||Trichy: As the patronage of the walking track on Anna Nagar Link Road along the Uyyakondan canal is growing, Trichy Corporation under smart cities mission has planned to extend the platform further. Since the other bank of the canal is also chosen for developing walking tracks, users have sought a minor pedestrian bridge across the canal to connect the walking tracks on both sides of the canal near the district court.At an estimated cost of Rs 95 lakhs, the civic body has proposed to develop walking tracks along the left bank of the Uyyakondan canal (Uzhavar Sandhai ground side). Similarly, the corporation in another proposal has planned to extend the walking track towards Alwarthope along the Kulimikkarai Road. While welcoming the proposals, a section of people sought to install a minor pedestrian bridge across the canal connecting the pavements. “Such a pedestrian bridge will get good patronage. Right now, only one bank is used widely,” S Saravanan, a resident of Anna Nagar, said.The proposals are a part of the riverfront development project that is underway behind the Raja Colony locality, officials said. As the stormwater drain running parallel to the walking track (along the district court campus) remains uncovered, the civic body has proposed to cover the drain to serve as a pedestrian platform. “The open drains will be covered with RCC slabs and paver blocks. A tender has been floated, soon the work will commence,” an official with Trichy Corporation added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-plans-to-extend-walking-tracks-on-uyyakondan-canal/articleshow/77840342.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver beats wife to death||Hyderabad: An auto driver beat his wife to death with a stick after a heated argument in Gandhari mandal of Kamareddy district on Saturday night. According to police,at the time of the marriage, Savitha’s family members gave an auto to Hanumanthu after paying the initial instalment. However, as he did not have enough money, Hanumanthu used to force Savitha to seek money from her parents so that they could clear the loan. “There were frequent arguments between them as Savitha refused to ask her parents for money. After an argument over money on Saturday, Hanumanthu took his wife to their field and attacked her,” said Gandhari SI S Srikanth. Hanumanthu later informed about the incident to her parents, who rushed Savitha to the Banswada hospital. She was declared brought dead. Based on the complaint lodged by Savitha’s family, police registered a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-beats-wife-to-death/articleshow/77840348.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||No. of active patients doubles in 11 days||Nashik: The number of active cases in the city has doubled in just 11 days — from 1,816 on August 20 to 4,184 on August 30 — with around 70% of them being asymptomatic. According to an official from the Nashik Municipal Corporation , the number of cases have gone up as the civic body has increased the number of tests being carried out for identifying those infected. “The cases are doubling rapidly because we have increased the rate of testing. Around 14,000 tests, including 85% rapid antigen tests, have been conducted in the city in the last five days,” he said, adding that 3,987 people tested positive for the contagion in the last five days. “Of the total 4,184 active cases, around 70% are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. They have been asked to remain quarantined in their homes. We are increasing the number of tests in a bid to break the chain. We are taking all the efforts to find every suspect in the city,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-of-active-patients-doubles-in-11-days/articleshow/77839275.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Confident that mosques will be built at same places: Asad||Hyderabad: MIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday expressed confidence that the demolished mosques would be built at the same place where they had existed, when the new secretariat is built. Addressing an online rally late on Saturday, Owaisi slammed BJP and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad. “Two mosques were demolished at the secretariat, the mosques will be built at the same places. There was a mosque in ‘C’ block and another one in ‘D’ block. The mosques will be built at the same place. We have approached the state government on the issue and the outcome is positive,” he said. Training guns at BJP, he said that the Centre has failed the people regarding the Covid-19 crisis. “Around 1.8 crore people are not getting salaries. Eight crore daily wage workers have been rendered jobless... Modi imposed an unplanned and unconstitutional lockdown and welcomed this disaster,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/confident-that-mosques-will-be-built-at-same-places-asad/articleshow/77840355.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 31, 2020||Vadodara||Man booked for concealing religion to sell his property in Gujarat||VADODARA: A resident of Vasna Road was booked under the Disturbed Areas Act, cheating and forging documents, to sell his property to a person from a different religion. The act formally known as Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Eviction from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act prohibits sale of property in an area covered under the act to a person from different religion without permission from the district collector. According to the offence registered at JP Road police station on Sunday, the accused Feroze Contractor allegedly concealed his religion and forged documents to sell his plot in Samarpan Society on Vasna Road to one Feroze Patel, his mother Hanifa and brother Sabir Patel. The offence was registered based on the complaint given by Manish Malhotra, the president of the society. Malhotra has alleged that Contractor was a Parsi which he did not reveal while applying for permission from the district administration to sell the plot to Patel. Malhotra told police that by concealing his religious identity, Contractor tried to create an impression that he and Patel follow the same religion. Contractor has also been accused of mentioning his address as Tandalja even as he does not live there. The society residents alleged that Contractor knows the process of sale of property under the act as he too had undergone the process while purchasing the plot from the previous owner Dashrathlal Panchal. The sale deed between Contractor and Patel took place in June last year and Malhotra alleged that Contractor did not let anyone know about the deal. The controversy had recently erupted when Patel started construction on the plot and the residents learnt that the current owner was Patel. The residents had suddenly closed one of the gates of the society towards Tandalja and later met police commissioner to complain against Contractor. Police said that Contractor is yet to be arrested as they are collecting documentary evidence against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-booked-for-concealing-religion-to-sell-his-property/articleshow/77838485.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||3 Nashik temples lose around Rs 310 crore due to pandemic||Nashik: The trusts of Shirdi, Saptshringi and Trimbakeshwar temples have collectively lost aroun Rs 310 crore during the past five months — from March 24 till August 29 — owing to the lockdown imposed by the state government due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Though the central government has allowed opening of the temples by following all the safety-related norms, the Maharashtra government has not given its nod for opening the temples across the state. The Shirdi Sai Sansthan Trust in Shirdi has an average income of Rs 50 crore per month through donations and various other means, including lodging and boarding facilities. “Since people are not allowed to come, collection of over Rs 300 crore during the past five months has been lost. The trust, however, continued the payment of Rs 20 crore per month to its employees other than contributing Rs 51 crore to the state government, besides running hospital and prasadalay for the poor,” a member of the trust said. Similar is the case of Saptshringi and Trimbakeshwar temples wherein they have lost a collection of Rs 6 crore and Rs 4 crore, respectively, in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-nashik-temples-lose-around-rs-310-crore-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/77839292.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital telemedicine facility in a fortnight||NEW DELHI: Patients would be able to consult some of the top specialists of Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital from the second week of September. Lok Nayak, which is Delhi’s biggest dedicated Covid-19 hospital, is going to start telemedicine services for non-Covid patients. TOI was the first to report that Delhi government is planning to start telemedicine services at its hospitals, beginning with Lok Nayak hospital. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, told TOI that the facilities would start from the second week of September and to begin with, those suffering from seasonal ailments such as dengue, chikungunya, malaria etc. would receive treatment and gradually more would be added. The 2,000-bedded hospital is arguably the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the country and also the biggest one catering to patients from the nearby walled city, other areas of central Delhi along with patients from neighbouring states. With the hospital becoming a dedicated Covid-19 facility, the thousands of patients who thronged it daily for other diseases were finding it difficult to get treatment. Dr Kumar said that patients would be able to consult doctors at the hospital after registering themselves for online OPD. After consultation and diagnosis, patients will be sent e-prescriptions through WhatsApp. To begin with, the hospital has allocated 20 phone numbers for this facility, which will be published soon and a nodal officer has been deputed to ensure that the facility is run smoothly. It is also likely that Delhi government might come up with a mobile application to ensure the process of registering for online OPD and consultation becomes even smoother for patients. Delhi government already has a free Corona telemedicine helpline to provide medical advice to people during the pandemic and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also requested doctors to volunteer for the helpline. With the capital getting abundant rainfall in the ongoing monsoon, people are also facing the risk of seasonal diseases like dengue, chikungunya, malaria etc. Many big Delhi government-run hospitals that catered to huge areas of the city have been unable to treat non-Covid patients for five months now. A meeting was recently held with senior doctors of government hospitals on the issue, where many senior doctors had suggested that hospitals could begin with telemedicine facilities first, so that non-Covid patients don’t get infected while coming for treatment to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-nayak-telemedicine-facility-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/77841929.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 31, 2020||Nashik||1,170 new cases in Nashik dist||Nashik: A total of 1,170 new cases of Covid-19, including 797 from Nashik city, were reported across the district on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 36,490. According to a health official, the district also reported six deaths, out of which one was from Nashik city. “The death toll currently stands at 862, including 486 cases from the city,” the official said. “As many as 534 patients were discharged from across the district, of which 434 patients were from Nashik city alone. Currently, the district has 7,116 active cases and most of them (4,184) are from the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1170-new-cases-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77839322.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Congress in-charge Ajay Maken begins tour of Rajasthan, lauds CM loyalists||ALWAR: AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, who is on a visit to the state after being appointed the state in-charge, lauded the unity of 102 MLAs under the leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday. Maken, who was on his way to Jaipur, was speaking after being welcomed at Shahjahanpur by Congress workers and minister Tikaram Jully. “At least 102 MLAs bravely resisted all allurements and threats by the BJP which wanted to topple the state’s Congress government,” he said. The 102 MLAs are the lawmakers who remained loyal to Gehlot during the recent crisis after ex-deputy CM Sachin Pilot revolted with 18 Congress and three Independent MLAs last month. He said the unity proved that BJP had failed in its conspiracy to topple the government in the state. Significantly, he did not mention anything about dissenters who had camped at Manesar along with Pilot. Terming the 102 MLAs as "bahadur" (brave), Maken said that to save democracy, these MLAs remained united amid the misuse of money and agencies such as CBI and enforcement directorate. “Their contribution to save democracy in Rajasthan is remarkable. BJP has been successful in toppling the government in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and Manipur, but in Rajasthan they were defeated,” Maken said. Maken is part of the three-member committee, appointed by the Congress central leadership, to address the issues raised by Pilot and 18 MLAs during the political crisis. The group had forced Gehlot to prove his government’s majority in the assembly on August 14. He further urged the MLAs and Congress workers to remain united in future too. “We have won one battle, so far. I would urge you to be united as attacks on democracy will continue by the BJP and we will have to face it bravely,” he said. He will meet Congress leaders at the PCC headquarters in Jaipur on Monday. He will be in the state till Wednesday. During his stay, Maken will meet party leaders and workers at the block level too for feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-in-charge-maken-begins-tour-of-raj-lauds-cm-loyalists/articleshow/77841441.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Glimmer of hope as district records fewer Covid cases in a week||Ludhiana: Finally, there is some good news from Ludhiana on the Covid-19 front, as fewer cases were registered during the week ending August 29 in the district compared to the count in the preceding seven days. Besides, there is also improvement in the recovery rate.As per the state’s Covid-19 bulletin released on Saturday evening, the number of new cases in Ludhiana district for the last seven days was 1,581, down 792 from 2,373 in the previous week ending on August 22. However, the district still occupies the top slot among the districts of the state, with Patiala at second position with 1,156 cases and Jalandhar third with 1,037 cases. A week before, Patiala had recorded 1,131 cases and Jalandhar 1,284.An analysis of the data for the recent weeks suggests that during the week closing on August 15, Ludhiana had added 1,673 new cases to the state’s tally, while in the week prior to that, the district had recorded 1,511 new cases.As per the latest bulletin, the number of active cases has also witnessed a decline in the district, from 3,867 during the week closing on August 22 to 2,552 last week. Another parameter that shows improvement in the Covid-19 scenario in the district is the recovery percentage, which stood at 72% on Saturday as against 53% a week back. On August 15, the cured percentage was 66% and on August 8, 63%.However, even as there is improvement on some parameters, the district still continues to witness a high number of fatalities. In the last seven days, 76 patients succumbed to the infection, which is equal to the count of fatalities in the week before. The case fatality rate (CFS), which is the proportion of deaths from a disease compared to the number of people diagnosed with it for a particular period, is also on the higher side and it stood at 3.6% on Saturday evening, whereas it was 3.4% on August 22.With some visible improvement in Covid scenario in Ludhiana, health department officials said things would further look up in the days ahead. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they are doing maximum sampling and carrying out intensive contact tracing, which has started showing results.WEEKLY CORONA STATWeek ending Aug 29District - New cases - Active cases - Total - DeathsLudhiana – 1,581 – 2,552 – 10,509 - 76 Jalandhar – 1,037 – 2,043 – 6,094 - 26Patiala – 1,156 – 1,423 – 5,864 - 51Amritsar - 598 - 672 – 3,808 - 27SAS Naga - 897 – 1,536 – 3,470 - 25Week ending Aug 22District - New cases - Active cases - Total - DeathsLudhiana – 2,373 – 3,867 – 8,932 - 76Jalandhar – 1,284 – 1,829 – 5,057 - 29Patiala – 1,131 – 1,629 – 4,708 - 33Amritsar - 473 - 564 – 3,201 - 16SAS Nagar - 841 – 1,405 – 2,573 - 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/glimmer-of-hope-as-district-records-fewer-covid-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/77839378.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Over 120 Vande flights to Trichy in September||Trichy: Air India Express will operate 64 special flights from Trichy under Vande Bharat Mission in September to bring home Tamils stranded in other countries, mostly East Asia. Sources said 59 of these outbound flights will also be carrying people here who want to return to work. Air India has also scheduled two repatriation flights between Dubai and Trichy. September would be the busiest month for rescue operations undertaken by the ministry of external affairs as Trichy international airport will be handling 123 services altogether. The airport has handled 151 flights in the last five months bringing back 25,000 passengers. The long-pending demand to operate a flight from Kuwait under Vande Bharat mission came true on Saturday when an Air India Express flight arrived at Trichy with 158 passengers as per the schedule announced last week. Airport sources said the carrier will operate some more Vande Bharat mission services in the Kuwait – Trichy sector next month. This was because of the continuous representations made by various Tamil associations to the Union government. Meanwhile, the two repatriation flights of Air India will arrive from Dubai on September 5 and 19. Meanwhile, the total number of daily domestic services from the airport will go up from six to eight from September 1 with additional flights to Hyderabad and Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-120-vande-flights-to-trichy-in-september/articleshow/77840386.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad sees no procession due to coronavirus pandemic this year||Aurangabad: No mourning procession was observed by the followers of Shia sect of Islam in Aurangabad on Sunday in view of the guidelines issued due to Covid-19 pandemic.This year, the state as well as the respective district administrations have imposed a ban on any kind of social, political or religious gathering.Adhering to it, Shia community leaders appealed to the people to follow the rules and regulations and observed the mourning as well as other rituals at their respective homes. A small section of sunni sect of Muslims who install savariya, too, kept it a low affair and observed it without any procession.Alam Bardar Committee that has been working for bringing people from different faiths and sects together for the past five decades, said that this is for the first time that processions by Sunni and Shia sects were not observed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-sees-no-procession-due-to-coronavirus-pandemic-this-year/articleshow/77839342.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Tharoor: PV had good ties with neighbours||Hyderabad: Congress MP and former Union minister of state for external affairs Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao knew the art of maintaining good relations with neighbouring countries and his government’s foreign policy put India in a position wherein it was seen as a country that will give more than it takes. The MP was delivering a virtual talk on ‘India’s Foreign Policy-Former PM P V Narasimha Rao’ organised by the state Congress as part of PV Narasimha Rao’s year-long birth centenary celebrations. He said the reason things are bad at present was due to divisive, and ideologically-driven politics, adding that the difference between the present leadership compared to Rao’s government is the arrogance of the current leadership compared to Rao’s humble approach. “During India’s most difficult periods in 1991, the country was blessed with a statesman and visionary in Rao, whose bold economic reforms fundamentally changed India. Rao achieved all this despite leading a minority government. The foreign policy of India moved decisively away from Nehruvian idealism to more pragmatic pursuits of national interest,” Tharoor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tharoor-pv-had-good-ties-with-neighbours/articleshow/77840387.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Sonia’s remarks are out of frustration, says BJP||Hyderabad: The outburst of Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi against BJP appeared to be the result of frustration as she failed in her mission to transfer power within Gandhi dynasty, NV Subhash, state BJP leader said on Sunday. “It is a usual practice of the Congress leaders to use terms like ‘threat to democracy and Constitution’, ‘spreading poison of hate’, ‘killing freedom of expression’ and ‘democracy is being destroyed’ whenever they find themselves in uncomfortable situations in the politics,” he said. Refuting the remarks made by her, Subhash said, “She just vented out her ire ‘out of frustration’ as her party landed in a piquant situation never seen before in history. Our ancestors, including Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and BR Ambedkar, have never imagined that Indian politics will stoop to such low-level of ethical values. The opposition parties have to play a constructive role in strengthening democracy, but the 74-year Congress leader is still struggling to give life to dynasty politics.” On the government’s decision to hold NEET and JEE exams, he said responsible political parties have to practice politics with care and integrity. They should curtail political activities in matters such as education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sonias-remarks-are-out-of-frustration-says-bjp/articleshow/77840368.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Rajkot||Fire breaks out at KASEZ unit||Rajkot: A major fire broke out at a garment factory in Kandla Special Economic Zone in Kutch district on Saturday night. The fire, that started at 10 pm, was finally brought under control at 3 pm on Sunday. Eight fire tenders from Kandala Port Trust and Gandhidham were pressed into service. “Our preliminary investigation indicates that the fire was caused by a short circuit,” said Deepak Gadhvi, fire officer from Kandala Port Trust. “We have called forensic experts to ascertain the cause of the fire,” said Naran Gadhvi, a fire officer from Gandhidham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fire-breaks-out-at-kasez-unit/articleshow/77839399.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Udaipur||Two children die in school building collapse at Banswara||UDAIPUR: Two children were killed and six injured after a school building collapsed in Kushalgarh of Banswara following heavy rains on Sunday. The two children, aged 14 and 13 years, had gone to graze cattle and taken shelter inisde the dilapidated school building when a portion of the roof fell on them and eight others who had also taken shelter. While the condition of two of the injured is said to be serious, four others have sustained minor injuries. Since Saturday night, heavy rains have caused flood-like situations in several villages in Banswara and Dungarpur districts. In Dungarpur’s Aaspur block, many fields were inundated after water from Kharodia talab overflowed due to excessive rain. Udaipur district received moderate to heavy rains throughout the day. Chhota Madar talab overflowed while the water level in major lakes and rivers increased significantly. The Banswara-Udaipur main road too was blocked after water overflowed over the Lasada bridge near Paloda, connecting the districts. Travel was hit as vehicles had to wait for the water to recede. Several villages located near the Mahi Dam in Chhoti Sarvan area saw waterlogging. Farmers were worried as many fields have been completely submerged under flood waters. On Sunday morning, 14 gates of the Mahi Dam were opened four metres each, while the remaining two were opened half metre each. Water gushing out from the Mahi Dam submerged many village roads connecting Banswara and Dungarpur. Beneshwar Dham situated at the border was transformed into an island for the second time in a week after the opening of sluice gates of the dam. In Galiyakot-Mahi Kadana area, roads were completely under water due to incessant rains since Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/two-children-die-in-schoolbldg-collapse-at-banswara/articleshow/77843296.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Two children die in school building collapse at Banswara||UDAIPUR: Two children were killed and six injured after a school building collapsed in Kushalgarh of Banswara following heavy rains on Sunday. The two children, aged 14 and 13 years, had gone to graze cattle and taken shelter inisde the dilapidated school building when a portion of the roof fell on them and eight others who had also taken shelter. While the condition of two of the injured is said to be serious, four others have sustained minor injuries. Since Saturday night, heavy rains have caused flood-like situations in several villages in Banswara and Dungarpur districts. In Dungarpur’s Aaspur block, many fields were inundated after water from Kharodia talab overflowed due to excessive rain. Udaipur district received moderate to heavy rains throughout the day. Chhota Madar talab overflowed while the water level in major lakes and rivers increased significantly. The Banswara-Udaipur main road too was blocked after water overflowed over the Lasada bridge near Paloda, connecting the districts. Travel was hit as vehicles had to wait for the water to recede. Several villages located near the Mahi Dam in Chhoti Sarvan area saw waterlogging. Farmers were worried as many fields have been completely submerged under flood waters. On Sunday morning, 14 gates of the Mahi Dam were opened four metres each, while the remaining two were opened half metre each. Water gushing out from the Mahi Dam submerged many village roads connecting Banswara and Dungarpur. Beneshwar Dham situated at the border was transformed into an island for the second time in a week after the opening of sluice gates of the dam. In Galiyakot-Mahi Kadana area, roads were completely under water due to incessant rains since Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-children-die-in-schoolbldg-collapse-at-banswara/articleshow/77841446.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Bridging gap between plasma donors and patients in need||COVID-19 IT WARRIORS Ludhiana: A former student of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Gill Park, along with his childhood friend has made a website www.getplasma.in to bridge the gap between plasma donors and Covid-19 positive patients. The software engineer friends, Jaswinder Singh and Vidhur Tickoo, both 24, are working with different IT companies and hail from Srinagar. Sharing information about this website on its official Facebook page, GNDE College has asked people to join their cause. Jaswinder had completed his graduation from GNDE College in 2018. Speaking with the TOI, Jaswinder said, “I am working for an IT company in Chandigarh. During the initial days of lockdown, my uncle tested positive for Covid-19. He was in need in Srinagar and I was in Chandigarh and unable to help him. In the past few months, we have seen several messages on social media where people ask for plasma donation. So, I decided to come up with a platform to arrange plasma donors for the needy all across the country. I discussed the idea with my friend Vidhur and we made this website www.getplasma.in. It is a non-profit platform developed exclusively as a go-to destination for those who have recovered from Covid-19 and would like to help people in need of plasma therapy. On the website, there will be no involvement of third parties, including the unofficial, untrustworthy groups of social media.”Jaswinder said, “The intent is to reach those in need irrespective of their location. Also, considering the network facility in Jammu & Kashmir, the portal will be accessible even in areas of 2G network.” The website was launched on August 16 and since then 10 donors and 30 patients from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Delhi, and Jammu and Kashmir have already registered on it and about 3,600 people have visited the website. Jaswinder and Vidhur are also planning to rope in volunteers for awareness of the website and for plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bridging-gap-between-plasma-donors-and-patients-in-need/articleshow/77839392.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Thousands bid tearful adieu to Vasanthakumar||Kanyakumari: Businessman-turned-politician H Vasanthakumar was laid to rest in his native village of Agastheeswaram here on Sunday as thousands gathered to pay their respects to the late member of parliament, all the while flouting social distancing norms. The sitting Kanyakumari MP, Vasanthakumar had tested positive for Covid-19 on Aug ust 10 and died two days ago. As he had tested negative when he died, his body was handed over to his family. It was kept at his house in Chennai on Saturday and brought to Kanyakumari the same evening in an ambulance. Congress cadres stood along the road at many places on the route to pay their respects to him. Cadres including Congress youth wing leader P Varadharajan, advocate Needhi Rajaram, Muthupandi, Muthukumar, among others stood on the ring road in Madurai and paid their respects to their leader when the ambulance crossed Madurai on Saturday evening. In Sattur in Virudhunagar district, people stood on the roadside late on Saturday night and waved the Congress flag and showered flowers on the passing ambulance. His body was kept at his house in Agastheeswaram where leaders like former union minister Pon Radhakrishnan, Kanyakumari district collector Prashant M Wadnere, Tamil Nadu government special representative in New Delhi Thalavai Sundaram and Congress cadres and functionaries including national general secretary K C Venugopal and locals paid their respects to the late leader. The funeral procession had many people participating in it and the body was laid to rest in the family burial ground where Vasanthakumar’s parents were also buried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thousands-bid-tearful-adieu-to-vasanthakumar/articleshow/77841931.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Crocodile rescued from Trichy city||Trichy: A five-feet-long crocodile was rescued from Rettaivaikal in Renga Nagar in Trichy city on Saturday night after it was spotted by residents, who in turn alerted the fire service department. After the information was passed on to the forest department, a team rushed to the spot and rescued the crocodile loitering near Rettaivaikal banks. Forest officials said that the crocodile was safely released into Kallanai Vennaru river. A five-feet crocodile loitering in Renga Nagar in Trichy city on Saturday night was rescued by forest personnel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crocodile-rescued-from-trichy-city/articleshow/77840393.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||Plasma bank opened in Thanjavur district||Thanjavur: As Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise in Thanjavur district with 6,494 people testing positive ever since the beginning of the outbreak, a plasma bank has been set up at the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Thanjavur. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated the plasma bank on Friday during his visit to the district to review the Covid-19 situation in the district. Meanwhile, district collector M Govinda Rao has appealed to the people who had recovered from Covid-19 to come forward to donate plasma. “We have started plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients in the district. I appeal to those who have recovered from the virus to voluntarily come forward and donate plasma. Around 36 lakh people including those in the neighboring districts can also be benefited from the centre, the collector told TOI. With 117 fresh cases on Sunday, Thanjavur district has reported a total of 6,494 cases so far. Covid-19 patients, who have recovered and are willing to help other patients, can voluntarily donate their plasma for the treatment after a stipulated waiting period of four weeks after they tested negative. Those recovered from the virus infection can donate their blood after 28 days and before 90 days of their infection. Those who are interested to donate plasma should be between 18 and 55 years of age. Both the men and women with weight not less than 55kg can donate plasma. If anyone willing to donate blood for a second time, they do it after a gap of 28 days, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plasma-bank-opened-in-thanjavur-district/articleshow/77840388.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Under stress, Covid patient attempts suicide||Times News NetworkLudhiana: A 43-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly tried ending his life by jumping off the first floor of a private hospital in Daresi area on Sunday, the police said. The condition of the patient is stated to be serious.Police officials said the man was admitted to a charitable hospital in Daresi area a few days back with liver problems and pneumonia. Two days ago, his Covid report came that showed him positive for the virus, and ever since he was under mental stress. Apparently due to the stress, he jumped off the hospital's first floor and suffered multiple injuries, the police said. As his condition was serious, he was referred to the civil hospital.A shop owner Surinder Kumar, who was a witness to the incident, said people tried stopping him before he took the jump, but he did not stop. He added that those who took him inside the hospital did not know that he was Covid-positive.A video of the incident shot by a passerby went viral on social media, in which the man is seen jumping off the hospital's first floor and onlookers trying to stop him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/under-stress-covid-patient-attempts-suicide/articleshow/77839401.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||HP man found hanging in hotel room||Times News Network Ludhiana: A Himachal Pradesh resident was found hanging in a hotel room near bus stand on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Sushil Kumar, 35.According to the hotel staff, Sushil checked in on Saturday. On Sunday morning, he did not come out of the room. The hotel staff knocked his door many a time, but got no response.They then sounded the police. Division 5 police station ASI Juj Singh said, “A suicide note was found in the room. In it, he has accused a man and a woman of harassing and blackmailing him. However, there is no clear reason for it. We have asked his family to reach the city. Further action will be taken after recording their statement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hp-man-found-hanging-in-hotel-room/articleshow/77839393.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Nurse alleges rape by doctor||Hyderabad: A doctor has allegedly raped a 28-year old nurse of a state-run hospital in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in Telangana, police said on Sunday. Though the offence took place on August 24, it came to light on Saturday night after the victim lodged a complaint with Bhadrachalam police. The nurse alleged that the doctor raped her at her house. The accused (33), who recently joined the hospital on contract basis, reportedly resigned three days ago. Bhadrachalam inspector B Vinod said that a rape case was registered and a manhunt has been launched to nab the absconding accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nurse-alleges-rape-by-doctor/articleshow/77840389.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||CII discusses ways to drive industry efficiency||Aurangabad: Over 200 captains of different industries attended the virtual leadership meet recently organised by Marathwada Council of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) to discuss the way forward amid the ongoing pandemic. Director at Persistent System Pradeep Bhargava said industries need to improve efficiency, reduce waste, and carry out cost reduction to tide over the pandemic. “While taking such actions, different compliances, including those related to commitment towards environment, should not be ignored,” he said. Sunil Mathur, managing director at Siemens India, said industries need to go closer to customers. M S Unnikrishnan, managing director at Thermax, said, “Leaders will have to be very transparent in their communication with the team and need to have frequent dialogues with employees to build their trust.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cii-discusses-ways-to-drive-industry-efficiency/articleshow/77837029.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Restaurateurs among those booked||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police registered six FIRs against the violators of pandemic rules on Saturday.Dugri ASI Balwinder Singh said, “Sukhwinder Singh of Mohalla Jhujhar Nagar, Shimlapuri, was booked as he was selling utensils at his stall at Phullanwal Chowk. He was not even wearing a mask.”Cases were also registered against Lakshman Singh, who works at Republic Chicken, as well as the owner of Baba Chicken, both in Phase 1, Dugri, for keeping the restaurants open past the permissible time limit. The FIRs were lodged under sections 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act. PAU police booked Irfan, owner of a hair salon, and Deepak, who runs a mobile shop, on Hambran Road for opening their shops on Saturday. Only shops providing essential commodities can open on Saturday and Sunday. Division 5 police booked Mahinder Singh and Harjinder Singh, owners of Yellow Chillies, Sarabha Nagar, for keeping their restaurant open after the permitted time.Division 8 police registered a case against the owner of Micky Chicken Shop, Gol Market, for keeping it open past the permissible time. Model Town police booked Ekjot Singh of Kartar Nagar, Model Gram, for violating curfew orders by roaming around on his bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restaurateurs-among-those-booked/articleshow/77839421.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Man critically hurt in 7-vehicle crash||Times News Network Ludhiana: A man was grievously injured in a seven-vehicle collision on Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway, near Sherpur flyover, around 9.30pm on Saturday. Subhash Singh, 50, of Kalgidhar Road, Shimlapuri, has been referred to PGI, Chandigarh. His brother Kehar Singh said, “Subhash works at a factory in Sherpur. He was on way home on his cycle when the accident took place. A call from the hospital he was admitted to apprised me of the incident.”Sherpur police post in-charge ASI Kapil Kumar said, “First, a tempo turned over while trying to save a cyclist crossing the road. Then, a pickup van coming from the same direction could not jam on the brakes in time and ran into the cycle, two autos and two bikes. The van dragged the vehicles from the main road to the slip-road.” The passersby rushed Subhash to SPS Hospital, Sherpur Chowk. On Sunday, the doctors referred him to PGI, Chandigarh. His condition is stated to be critical. The others received minor injuries.“The pickup van driver was arrested at the spot. He has been identified as Imteyaz Khan, of Baramulla, Jammu & Kashmir. A case has been registered,” the ASI added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-critically-hurt-in-7-vehicle-crash/articleshow/77839417.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Rajkot||Rape accused tests Covid-19 positive in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A man, detained for the rape of a minor girl on Sunday, tested Covid-19 positive in Patanvav village of Dhoraji taluka in Rajkot district. Police said the accused, Amrutlal Ranava (58), had allegedly raped a 17-year-old Dalit girl several times. “The survivor was raped earlier by another accused. In that case, Ranava approached the survivor and promised to get her compensation as she was a Dalit. He also promised to get her a job,” said Y B Rana, sub-inspector with Patanvav police station. Ranava allegedly abducted the survivor on July 17 and took her to Jetpur. “When the survivor’s father tried to approach the police, Ranava threatened him that he would prove before the cops that he and his daughter used to run a prostitution racket,” said Rana. However, the survivor’s father finally lodged a police complaint, following which the police rescued the survivor from Jetpur and arrested Ranava. “When we made Ranava undergo the Covid-19 test, he tested positive, following which he was admitted to the Rajkot Civil Hospital,” added Rana. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-accused-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77839428.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Southern, central districts report 13 deaths each||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts reported 953 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the number of active cases to 8,734, as Madurai crossed 14,000 cases. The region also reported 13 deaths pushing the toll to 1,580 in the ten districts. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded its second highest single-day spike of 754 fresh cases taking the tally to 31,416, which include 5,492 active cases. The region also reported 13 casualties pushing the toll to 481. Theni reported the highest of 176 cases among the southern districts on Sunday. As many as 239 samples were tested on Sunday in Theni. Madurai continued to report more than 100 cases for the third consecutive day with 134 cases. This took the district’s tally to 14,030. The district now has 860 active cases and three deaths taking the toll to 357. Tirunelveli reported 139 new cases, which took its total cases to 7,981 and it has 1,284 active cases. Two people died of Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. Kanyakumari reported 122 new cases. The central region’s record single-day spike was 763 cases on August 7 ever since the beginning of the outbreak. The region continued to report 600-plus cases every other day. While Trichy registered four deaths, Nagappattinam, Pudukottai and Thanjavur recorded three deaths each. Trichy district surpassed Thanjavur and Pudukottai in terms of fresh cases with 135 new cases, keeping top position with 7,380 cases among the eight districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-central-districts-report-13-deaths-each/articleshow/77841936.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mumbai||Only 27 of 961 cyber crimes in Mumbai from January to May solved||MUMBAI: Cases of financial cyber crime have increased during Covid-19, but detection remains worryingly low: 6% in Maharashtra and 3% in Mumbai. From January to May, 1,488 cases were registered in the state, of which the police claimed to solved 88, making just 96 arrests. The figures for Mumbai are 961, 27 and 62. Mumbai accounts for 56% of the state’s caseload and fraud linked to e-payment makes for the maximum cases in the city, followed by card fraud. Though e-payment fraud is newer than card fraud, its detection rate is slightly better. TimesViewRecent trends call out for a dedicated force within the department to deal with the rising menace of cybercrime. In Mumbai and other metros, given the levels of education and access to technology, law enforcement has to be as much about investing in tools and training for cyber space as it is about tackling offences in the field. The low detection rate and dearth of skilled personnel will rub off on the reputation of the police unless fund allocations are hiked and more qualified staff recruited.Special IG (state cyber cell) Yashasvi Yadav said the detection rate of all cybercrime in the state is nearly 7%, “on a par with that of normal theft cases”. Experts are worried about the low detection rate of financial cybercrime in Mumbai and the rest of the state, especially during Covid-19 when such cases are on the rise because of increased use of e-payment apps so as to follow social distancing norms. This is particularly true for Mumbai, which accounts for much over half the state’s financial cybercrime case load. Cyber lawyer Prashant Mali said low conviction makes the problem even worse. “This is the result of an absence of a special cybercrime court with qualified tech officers, a special cyber cadre, and specially trained public prosecutors. Also, currently, big internet companies do not cooperate to share evidence,” he said. Special IG (state cyber cell) Yashasvi Yadav said the state’s low detection rate is due to inadequate training of police personnel. “Training also needs to be updated, but this is impossible as cyber cell personnel get transferred often,” he said. “Another problem is obtaining information from foreign locations, in the absence of which money trails are lost as digital footprints cannot be traced because of proxy servers, the darknet and other factors. These are lacunae that need to be dealt with.” Cyber lawyer Vicky Shah said that with the proliferation of digital initiatives, the problem will only become worse if no precautions are taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/only-27-of-961-cyber-crimes-in-city-from-jan-to-may-solved/articleshow/77841942.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
August 31, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC asks mandals to donate idols||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has appealed to the Ganesh mandals to register for donating idols, following which the tractors and trucks will arrive at the mandals to take the idols for immersion. The KMC has banned immersion in lakes and Panchaganga river. The mandals have been advised not to take the idols to the Irani Quarry and instead hand them over to the KMC staff, who will immerse it in the quarry. Processions have been banned for immersion and not more than three people of the mandals are allowed to accompany the idol for immersion.. Mallinath Kalshetti, the civic chief said, “We have 40 vehicles ready to take the idols from the mandals to the immersion site. This time, no immersion will be allowed in any of the lakes and Panchganga river. The mandals have to register with the local office for the transport service. We are taking all precautions at the Irani Quarry to ensure social distancing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-asks-mandals-to-donate-idols/articleshow/77839360.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Two brothers hurt after fight over petty issue in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two brothers were grievously injured following a fight between two families over a petty issue in South-East Delhi’s Jamia Nagar area on Saturday night. They had gone to ask a neighbour to lend them utensils for a feast when an altercation took place between the two families and the situation turned ugly in no time. While one of the victims sustained a gunshot wound on his head, the other was thrashed by the accused men. Police have arrested two of the accused. According to police, a call about a woman being shot at was received from slum areas in Jamia Nagar. But when the cops reached the location, it came to fore that two men had sustained injuries and were rushed to a hospital. “Inquiry from the locals revealed that there was a quarrel between two families. On one side was Sirajuddin’s family and on the other was Khurshid’s family. A police team was rushed to the hospital to record the statements of the victims,” said RP Meena, DCP, South-East. At the hospital, Khurshid and his brother, Shahid, were undergoing treatment. The duo had sustained severe head injuries. Khurshid told the cops that they wanted to prepare a meal and asked his brothers, Shahid and Arshad, to get some utensils from Sirajuddin. Sirajuddin along with his sons, Ashraf, Asad and Adbul, however, allegedly started misbehaving with them and even beat them up. Khurshid, meanwhile, also reached the spot. Ashraf fired at Khurshid and he started bleeding from his head. Khurshid and Shahid had to be taken to the hospital. “A case under sections of attempt to murder and arms act has been registered at the Jamia Nagar police station. Sirajuddin and Ashraf have been arrested and efforts are being made to nab the remaining accused,” added Meena. Police said that the accused fired .12 bore from an old style country made pistol, which has also been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-brothers-hurt-after-fight-over-petty-issue/articleshow/77841938.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Trichy||21-year-old medical student drowns in river||Thanjavur: A 21-year-old medical student drowned in Arasalaru river near Kumbakonam. He had entered the river to take bath in it. The victim was identified as S Poovarasan, a native of Valluvar Street in Ammapettai near Kumbakonam. Poovarasan was a fourth year MBBS student in China. He had come to India in the month of March after the Covid-19 outbreak in China. He had gone to Arasalaru river to take bath on Saturday evening. He drowned after a strong current consumed him. Noticing this, people taking bath in the river attempted to rescue him but their efforts went in vain. The fire and rescue department personnel reached the spot on being alerted and conducted a search for the youth. They could not proceed with the search operation for long as it was getting dark. The search resumed on Sunday morning when the body was found. They retrieved the body and sent it to Kumbakonam government hospital for post mortem. Kumbakonam taluk police registered a case and are further inquiries are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/21-year-old-medical-student-drowns-in-river/articleshow/77840409.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Despite age, Achilles and company dig their heels in against all odds||LUCKNOW: Even as Prime Minister Modi in his 'Maan ki baat' lauded about vital role played by dogs in executing successful rescue missions and protecting various establishments, over here at Amausi airport a pack of five canines for over eight years have not allowed even a single terror activity to harm airport or the flights and passengers. The team comprises Achilles, Aldo, Arya, Molly and Lee. The company of these Labrador breeds is set to retire in a next couple of years in a phase-wise manner, but for an uncertain future. According to their handlers, the dogs have gone old and weak, but no miscreant has the guts to pass these canines with explosives in an airplane or around terminal premises as they have super sniffing capability and alert guards on time. The dogs’ handler said that the pack never loses its calm and can sniff explosives from a metre away“Even at the age close to retirement Molly and Arya participated in the Republic Day parade in Delhi last year. They were given a commendation for their smart marchpast. Among the five Aldo is the youngest and he is seven years nine months. Their everyday routine comprises 45-minute exercise and training, home-made diet and four hours of duty before heading back to their AC rooms,” said constable Pradeep Kumar who has been associated with the pack for the last eight years as their handler. “They have turned weak and old, but each one of them is still best in their job, which is sniffing out explosives. Till date, not a single miscreant has ever dared to enter the airport premises with explosives,” he added. Constable Tarun Kumar, who has been handler of the canine for the past two-years, said, “This pack of five led by Achilles never lose their focus and calmness no matter how chaotic the situation is. Sometimes they are called for an explosive examination by the UP BDS team as well.” The pack can sniff explosives from one meter away. Once found they sit at the spot to alert their handler about the presence of suspicious inflammable and combustible items. To double ensure if the suspected item is explosive, the second canine also is made to sniff out the object. However, he/she does not indicate any sign of worry, then the BDS team of UP police is called to detect the item. CISF senior commandant of Amausi, PP Singh said, “Our canine team and their handlers have been excellent in their duties over the years. Not once they have ever failed.” According to CISF canine handlers, big airports like Delhi and Mumbai have not only sniffers, but trackers and guard dogs also. For instance at Delhi, cocker spaniel is used in flights to sniff explosives, as this breed is small and looks friendly to passengers, while golden retriever and labrador are used as sniffers in terminal areas. German shepherds and doberman are used to guard the entry and exits. According to dog veterinary, since last year the defence forces have started working on Indian breeds as well. Speaking to TOI, Dr L N Gupta, a veterinarian, said, “Indian breeds like Mudhol hound, who are intelligent and have good sniffing and tracking capabilities have been trained by Indian armed forces since last year. Indian breeds like Rajapalayam, Bhotia and Mudhol hound are best as they are resistant to diseases and other issues in Indian conditions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/despite-age-achilles-co-dig-their-heels-in-against-all-odds/articleshow/77841943.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 31, 2020||Vadodara||MSU schedules 2nd round of mock tests||Vadodara: After kicking off phase -1 of online final examination of nine faculties/ colleges, M S University has declared the schedule of conducting second round of online mock test for students of four faculties. The university has decided to conduct online mock test 2 on two days – September 4 and September 5. The online mock test will be held for students of four faculties including faculty of science, faculty of law, faculty of management studies and faculty of technology and engineering. Students of faculty of science will appear in three time slots on September 4. While 900 students each will appear for the mock test in first and second time slot, 738 students will appear in the third time slot. Around 200 students of faculty of management studies will be appearing for the mock test on the same day. Students of faculty of law and faculty of technology and engineering will be appearing for the mock round in two time slots on September 5. According to university officials, all the students who are supposed to appear for the mock test will receive a sms with their login credentials by September 3. At the same time, the university has also issued notification for 10th PhD Entrance Test (PET) which will be conducted online. PET will be held on October 3. Interested candidates will have to submit online fees and application to appear for PET by September 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-schedules-2nd-round-of-mock-tests/articleshow/77838522.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||15 from dist lose fight with Covid, 273 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Sixteen persons, including 15 from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Sunday, when 273 from the district and 27 from outside tested positive. As per the local media bulletin, the deceased from Ludhiana included a 66-year-old man from Civil Lines with hypertension, a 50-year-old man from Major Sukhdev Road, Civil Lines, a 63-year-old woman from Harikrishan Nagar, Shimlapuri, a 73-year-old man from Sunet, a 59-year-old woman from Tagore Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Nandpur Sahnewal, a 60-year-old man from Giaspur, a 67-year-old man from Raman Enclave, a 53-year-old woman from GTB Nagar, a 69-year-old man from Atam Nagar, a 70-year-old woman from Chandra Nagar, a 64-year-old man from Lajpat Nagar, a 57-year-old man from Sherpur Kalan and a 55-year-old man from Apple Villa Ladowal. A 47-year-old man from Mundiyan Kalan with diabetes and coronary artery disease died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Ludhiana’s death toll has risen to 393 and 91 outsiders have died here so far.He said of the patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 80 were from the flu corner, 23 were positive cases’ contacts, 43 from OPD, two police officials, 10 healthcare workers, three domestic and international travellers, 51 from tracing process, and one severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) case.Local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count has reached 10,039 and that of outsiders stood at 1,052.The civil surgeon said on Sunday, 1,782 samples were sent for testing and till now 7,929 patients have recovered in Ludhiana, which constitutes 78.96% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,715 active patients in the district at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/15-from-dist-lose-fight-with-covid-273-test-ve/articleshow/77839448.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Charitable group provides soft skills training to transsexuals||Madurai: Young artists association of music (YAAM), a charitable group based in Madurai, has been conducting online skill development program for transgender people for the last five months to help them get suitable jobs. Lack of education forces many transgender people to beg or get involved in sex work and this program has been designed to help them develop soft skills and secure a suitable job, said the members of Yaam.Around 15 transsexuals from various social and educational backgrounds have been attending the classes for the past five months. Apart from soft skill, there is a proposal to train them in various arts after identifying their talents.S Shah Rukh Khan, a soft skill trainer at Yaam, said that the organization has been conducting musical events and the money collected through them goes as a contribution to people in need. The soft skill training is meant to uplift the transgender community. “We were planning to conduct soft skill classes in person and had got a hall and other facilities ready. But lockdown forced us to do it through mobile phones. Spoken English, social skills, personality development and time management are the focus of the program,” he said.The organization is also planning to conduct courses for transgender people in stage drama, playing musical equipment and help them clear tests to get certifications issued by government.Khan said that although, many of the transgender people are school dropouts, it should not hamper them from picking up new skills. “All of them are quick learners and are showing good results. While we started with more than 20 members from various parts of the states, now we have 15 regulars,” said.C Karthik Priya, a transsexual from Vellakoil in Tirupur said she is a yoga instructor. She used to face difficulty in teaching yoga to non-Tamil speaking people. Now, she has gained the confidence of teaching in English. Apart from her spoken English skills, her confidence has also increased, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/charitable-group-provides-soft-skills-training-to-transsexuals/articleshow/77841950.cms||V Devanathan
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||2 held for sodomising Class VII boy||TNNLudhiana: The police on Sunday arrested two men for sexually assaulting a minor boy and making the video of the act viral.One of the accused is around 33-year-old and the other is about 18-year-old. The two as well as the boy, 13, belong to the same village in Ludhiana district. The boy’s 70-year-old grandfather said in his police complaint, “My son is in Dubai and my daughter-in-law and two grandchildren live here with me. When I came to know about the video, I asked my grandson about it.” His grandson broke down and narrated the incident. “He said that the 33-year-old accused deceitfully took him to his house and intimidated him. The two accused then sexually assaulted him. The second accused filmed the act and threatened to make the video viral if he spoke about the incident. Scared, my grandson remained mum. But the video was uploaded on social media. The incident had taken place in April-end or first week of May,” the elderly man added. On receiving the complaint, police booked the accused under sections 377 (unnatural sex) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and the Information Technology Act. Investigating officer inspector Rajesh Thakur said, “The accused were arrested from Sidhwan Bet on Sunday.” Police said the accused knew the boy as they lived in the same village.  Previous casesAugust 8: Ludhiana (rural) police arrested two youths for sodomising a juvenile with learning disabilities in the district January 9: Two arrested for sexually assaulting a 21-year-old job aspirant in a vehicleJuly 7, 2018: A 16-year-old boy sodomised a three-year-old in his rented accommodation in a village here||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-held-for-sodomising-class-vii-boy/articleshow/77839438.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Case against Facebook: House panel calls witnesses||NEW DELHI: Delhi Legislative Assembly’s peace and harmony panel has decided to call upon some witnesses on Monday to further determine the veracity of the serious allegations against Facebook. Chairman of the committee, Raghav Chadha, had received multiple complaints on alleged instances of intentional and deliberate inaction on the part of social media platform to enforce its policies against inflammatory and hateful content. A formal notice for appearance before the committee on August 31 has been sent to four senior journalists and an advocate. On August 25, the committee thoroughly examined its key witnesses including co-author of the book The Real Face of Facebook in India, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta. A statement from the committee stated that in his deposition, Thakurta alleged that there is sufficient circumstantial evidence to show an unholy nexus between the ruling dispensation and Facebook. He highlighted the alleged complicity of Facebook in forwarding a certain narrative at the cost of allegedly suppressing contrasting narratives. The statement mentioned Thakurta had also affirmed a free and fair investigation must be conducted by an independent investigating agency to ascertain if there was any complicity of Facebook officials in the alleged deliberate inaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/case-against-fb-house-panel-calls-witnesses/articleshow/77841946.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Hospitalised farmer alleges torture by Sathankulam cops||TUTICORIN: Sathankulam police in Tuticorin district are facing yet another charge of torture, this time from a 43-year-old farmer of the village in connection with a dispute with a former ward councillor and his relative. The man said he suffered scrapes on his palm and knees and is undergoing treatment in a government hospital. However, the Tuticorin superintendent of police denied torture by the police and claimed that the man suffered injuries while trying to escape from police. The injured, C Martin of Sathankulam, said he had a dispute with one Moideen Meeran from the village in connection with a money transaction. As Moideen pressured him to return the money he had taken from him, Martin scolded him over phone. Babu Sulthan, relative of Moideen and an ex-councillor, lodged a police complaint in this regard on August 23. Martin said he was picked up by a police team on August 23 night and taken to police quarters instead of the station. There, inspector Fernad Xavier, sub-inspector Raja and two constables beat him up with their fists and legs for an hour. Thereafter, he was tied up and kept there for over 12 hours before being taken to hospital the next morning around 11 am. “The skin got peeled off on one of my palms and both my knees in the police torture. After three days of treatment in Tuticorin government hospital, I got myself admitted to Sathankulam government hospital. I have not fully recovered from the injuries,” Martin said. His advocate A P Suresh said Martin was booked under sections 294 (b)- using obscene words and 506 (ii) – criminal intimidation. On Sunday night, soon after police picked him up, he appealed to the Sathankulam judicial magistrate to look into the arrest and ensure the safety of his client. The JM visited the station, but police lied that they were yet to arrest him. Later, the police made it appear as if he was arrested from somewhere else the next morning. When they produced Martin before Srivaikundam judicial magistrate a couple of days later, he was granted bail. “We have sent a petition against the Sathankulam police to the registrar of Madras high court, higher police officials and state government officials. We will move the court seeking its intervention soon,” Suresh added. Denying the accusations, Tuticorin SP S Jayakumar said Martin was a moneylender and involved in multiple criminal activities. So far, eight cases have been registered against him including woman harassment and damaging of property. “Martin was arrested only on August 24 morning. When the police team tried to arrest him, he tried to escape. He fell on the road and suffered injuries on his hand and knees. He is using his influence to extend his stay in hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hospitalised-farmer-alleges-torture-by-sathankulam-cops/articleshow/77841945.cms||V Devanathan
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Covid-19 death toll crosses 3,000-mark||AHMEDABAD: With the deaths of 17 patients in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday, Gujarat’s total death toll in Covid-19 pandemic crossed 3,000-mark at 3,008. The analysis of the deaths reveals that from its peak mortality rate of 6.6% in May, it has come down to 1.7% in August against the overall average of 3.1%. Ahmedabad and Surat accounted for 2,334 or 77.6% of the total deaths – meaning close to eight out of every 10 Covid-19 deaths are from these two districts. However, the analysis of each three of the 1,000 deaths reveal that the share of Ahmedabad gradually went down from 81.6% to 56.9% from first to third 1,000 deaths. In the same period, Surat’s share rose from 6.6% to 20.7%. In all, four districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot – accounted for 85% of the deaths. Only two districts of Gujarat – Narmada and Dangs – have not recorded any deaths of Covid-19 patients so far. State-based epidemiologists and public health experts rued the lack of data related to Covid-19 mortality. “For long, the state health department has stopped issuing details such as age, gender and co-morbidity. It not only hampers the understanding of the disease, but also prevents exhaustive study on factors leading to mortality,” said a city-based public health expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-3000-mark/articleshow/77842138.cms||Parth Shastri
August 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Married woman, man found dead in Naugachia village||BHAGALPUR: A 25-year old married woman and a man in his early 20s were found murdered under mysterious circumstances at Abhiya village under the Gopalpur police station area in the Naugachia police district on Sunday morning. Both were neighbours. The deceased, identified as Shilpi Kumari and Rahul Kumar, had bullet injuries on their bodies. They were found dead in the woman’s toilet in the backyard of her house. Shilpi’s husband Subodh Kumar Bharti alias Subodh Mandal is a BSF jawan posted at Ahmedabad in Gujarat. They have three children. She was living with her in-laws. Shilpi’s mother found the toilet locked from inside in the morning and no one responded. Then she called her husband and they broke open the door to find the two dead. Naugachia SP Swapna G Meshram said a countrymade pistol was also found at the spot. There were forced entry marks in the toilet. The family members of both the deceased as well as local people were being interrogated, the SP said. No one from either of the two families has accused anyone. When asked, the SP did not rule out love angle or some serious family dispute. Forensic science experts were called and the postmortem report was awaited, the SP said. Rahul alias Sintu Mandal was unmarried and had reportedly qualified the written examination recently for recruitment in Bihar police. He was preparing for the physical test in the village. Rahul’s father Pramod Mandal is in Bihar police and posted in Banka. Both the families were not on good terms, sources said. It seems they were murdered inside the toilet on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, village sources said. Her husband has been informed and he is likely to reach Naugachia on Monday. After receiving the news, SP Meshram, SDPO Dilip Kumar and police teams from Gopalpur, Parbatta, Ismailpur and other police stations reached the spot and started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-man-found-killed-in-naugachia/articleshow/77840452.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Shortage of dietary supplements in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Shortage of dietary supplements like vitamins, especially those fortified with zinc that are being touted as anti-Covid, has hit the city markets again. Shops across the city have zero stock of multivitamins while others are rationing the number of strips sold to individuals. “There is a huge gap between demand and supply and that is worrying. Last week, a company had sent 1 lakh strips of multivitamins for Kolkata and the entire stock got exhausted in a few days,” said Sajal Ganguly, general secretary of Bengal Chemists and Druggists’ association. “We are raising the issue with the manufacturers, but it will take time for the new shipment to arrive,” he added. TimesViewToo many disruptions in the supply chain, especially where essentials are involved, can inconvenience people severely. This has been a season of sudden spikes in demand, especially in the medicine sector, and the trade should ideally be able to anticipate them to preempt the disruptions.The shortage has hit even the large retailers like Frank Ross Pharmacy. “Consumption has increased by 10 times while the supply has not been stepped up to cater to such rise in demand. There is a huge shortage, especially multivitamins with zinc,” said Gautam Jatia, chief executive official of Frank Ross. The trouble started since lockdown following a scramble to buy the drugs found to boost immune system. The pharmacies tried to salvage the situation by getting hold of lesser known brands of these medicines and dietary supplements to cater to the growing demand. Prasanta Pal, a retailer in Mall Road, Dum Dum, said he has not got any stock for the multivitamins, vitamin C or zinc supplements. “We have been facing shortages earlier as well. This time, it is acute and we are rationing the number of medicines being sold to individuals,” he said. “The shortage can be witnessed at the wholesale points as well,” said Somnath Ghosh of Metro Pharma. “We are distributors for certain brands of multivitamins with Zinc. As of now, there is zero stock in our own outlets,” he added. Pharmacies that have procured Vitamins A, B complex with folic acid, C, D3 and zinc supplements last week have no stocks left now. Pinaki Dey, consultant physician with the ILS Hospital feels that having vitamins or dietary supplement for two to three weeks is not a problem. “But if anyone is planning to have vitamins for a long period, s/he should consult a doctor. Studies have shown that Low Vitamin D level can aggravate Covid-19 conditions. On the other hand, there is no study that conclusively shows efficacy of vitamins in boosting the immunity system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shortage-of-dietary-supplements-in-kol/articleshow/77840407.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||First verify with cops then employ, says bizman robbed by maid servant||Ludhiana: Hosiery businessman, Harish Jindal of Sector 39, who has lost Rs 2 lakh cash and gold jewellery to the recently hired domestic help, is now urging other city residents to be extra cautious while hiring domestic help. On August 24, their domestic help Sunita, hired two days ago, gave the family food laced with sedatives and escaped with gold and cash. Jindal has uploaded a video on his Facebook page, asking residents to be cautious while hiring domestic help and also shared the entire story of how the family fell prey to the accused. Harish Jindal said, “Due to Covid-19 outbreak, we did not allow any domestic help in the house for a few months and my wife was doing all the chores. She was unwell from some time now. We needed somebody to help us. Taking precautions due to Covid-19, we decided to hire a permanent and full-time domestic help. We had a car washer in the house, associated with us for over 15 years. We trusted him and asked him to arrange someone help for us.” “On August 22, Sunita came to our house. My wife asked for an ID proof, however Sunita said it’s with her brother and she would ask him to bring it. Next day, when I asked for ID proof, Sunita said the mobile of her brother was switched off and asked for some time to contact him. On August 24, I along with my both sons were in the factory. Usually, we get our lunch delivered at the factory but that day my elder son Saransh told us to go home for lunch, as my wife was alone at home. So, I and my younger son Yuvraj came home for lunch. I and my wife were having lunch in our bedroom while Yuvraj was in another room. After having food my wife fell asleep. I noticed my younger son was also sleeping and did not realise that they both are unconscious. I sat in the lobby and started doing office work. I started feeling unwell so I asked Sunita to get me tea. Sunita again gave a tea laced with sedatives and I got unconscious.” At around 9pm, Saransh returned home to find his family members unconscious, house ransacked and Sunita missing. The police were called. Jindal also said he could regain consciousness after 48 hours and his wife and younger son after 24 hours. Jindal said, “I was aware that I have to get Sunita’s ID proof and get her police verifications done. I but it all happened in just two-three days. I did not realise that she was making excuses for not having her ID proof. Moreover, I had trust in our car washer also. I don’t know if he is also involved in this theft or not. I would only request all city residents to not allow any help in the house until they get their ID proof or their police verification done.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “The only way to stop such incidents is to be vigilant. Do not hire anyone without getting police verification done. Even after verification, do not trust blindly anybody, keep your cash and jewellery in a safe place and under surveillance of CCTVs.” Agarwal added, “Applying for domestic verification is quite easy, the form is available online ludhianapolice.in.” Beware of fraud agencies In August 2019, Ludhiana had busted a gang that was running fake domestic help providing company. Police arrested Ajit Soring (48) and Lal Mukhiya (37) of Baba Mohanram Colony, Mukandpur, Delhi, Karan Kumar Jha (22) of Bheem Colony, Aali village of New Delhi and Yogita Hagorika (22) of Basant Kunj, Kishangarh, Delhi, who run an online service for providing domestic helps and duped people of cash. They used to provide domestic helps and before verification they would escape from the house with gold and cash||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-verify-with-cops-then-employ-says-bizman-robbed-by-maid-servant/articleshow/77841468.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Firozepur division makes record 17.13cr in a day by transporting goods||Ludhiana: At a time when railway ministry is facing huge financial losses after suspension of all major long route trains in the last six months owing to the outbreak of Covid-19, Firozpur division of northern railway has turned the table on the trend. It has generated over Rs 17.13 crore revenue in a single day by transporting raw material and essential goods through 35 different goods and parcel containing trains(passing through Ludhiana railway station) on August 29. This is for the first time in the history of the division it has generated such a huge amount of revenue. Earlier, Firozpur division had generated its all time highest revenue on July 22 after running 34 freight trains containing 1,568 wagons fully loaded with essential goods and raw material. Moreover, railway authorities have improved the speed of all trains containing goods and parcels, which played an important role in attracting many exporters from Ludhiana. To encourage the staff to continue giving exemplary service, the divisional railway manager has announced a cash award of Rs 5,000 to them. Divisional railway manager of Firozpur division, Rajesh Aggarwal said, “After the work of passenger train affected due to outbreak of Covid-19, railway authorities have given their 100% focus on increasing revenue through railway transportation service, and make use of huge railway infrastructure to counter any financial losses. This development is the result of effectively executing all policies of the business development unit at grass-root level in tough conditions of unlock.” Aggarwal also said as Ludhiana is an industrial hub of northern India, railways is getting effortless support from big industrial houses. Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar said, “We have appointed a team of seven members in the city railway station who are responsible for generating revenue.” Railway authorities will soon launch an e-portal for goods trains to track of the movement of goods being supplied to different states through fast moving goods train, added the station director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/firozepur-division-makes-record-17-13cr-in-a-day-by-transporting-goods/articleshow/77841470.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Corona claims another KMC health official||Kolkata: A Kolkata Municipal Corporation executive health official, Raqibuddin Ahmed, posted at Garden Reach (borough XV), died of coronavirus on Saturday, taking the civic body’s Covid toll to six in the past two months. Among the six civic body’s employees, who succumbed to the virus, four were frontline workers associated with its Covid- combat team. Ahmed was the second KMC medical professional in the Garden Reach area to have died of the virus in the past 10 days. On August 21, the virus had claimed the life of Dibakar Das, a medical official posted at the KMC’s ward clinic in Garden Reach. “After the death of two key persons in the borough health department at Garden Reach in such a short time, some of our health department employees working as the frontline medical professionals against the virus are scared. Now, we need to arrange tests or any kind of medical relief, including hospitalization for those who may fall sick,” said a senior KMC health department official. Sources in the KMC health department said Ahmed (62) had been coordinating with the civic body’s Covid-response team in Garden Reach-Metiabruz belt that has seen multiple positive cases and several deaths in the past two and a half months. “He was a dedicated medical professional whom we saw working tirelessly for the patients living in the Garden Reach-Metiabruz belt in times of need without fearing for his life,” said a KMC medical officer. The civic body needs to depute a senior official to coordinate with the Covid-response team and local police in the Garden Reach-Metiabruz belt, a corona-sensitive zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-claims-another-kmc-health-official/articleshow/77840416.cms||Saikat Ray
August 31, 2020||Surat||Gujarati women in UK campaign for Shushant Singh Rajput||SURAT: NRG women in London have started a campaign — both online as well on the streets — on Sunday demanding justice for late Bollywood actor Shushant Singh Rajput. Displaying huge posters of the late actor on LCD screens on vans, the group also collected £900 through online donation from Indians residing in the UK. The group comprises Neha Thaker, Suranjita Bhagwati, Susmita Bahinipati and Purva Vaidya is being widely supported by Indians and others on social media. Thaker, a homemaker and womenpreneur Bhagwati hail from Ahmedabad, while Vaidya is from Mumbai and have all settled in the UK. Thaker initially started a page on Facebook titled ‘UK fights for Shushant Singh Rajput’ and was joined by more than 550 people, mostly from the UK. The group later planned a campaign on road at multiple locations in London at places like Southall, Hillingdon, Uxbridge, Wembley, Madame Tussauds, Baker Street, Buckingham Palace, Trafalgar Square, London Eye, Big Ben and Westminster Square. “I was pained to learn about the labyrinthine process of justice, which is almost non-existent for ordinary people. Also, as there are no influential people supporting SSR’s cause, we are demanding justice for him,” Thaker told TOI. For Bhagwati, the case is a platform for modern India to show the world that justice is accessible to all regardless of their name, position and status. “We are trying to create a global awareness about the case. This will also tell investigators that the whole world is keeping an eye on them,” Bhagwati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarati-women-in-uk-campaign-for-ssr/articleshow/77839505.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 31, 2020||India||Gulzar’s TOI poem gets 18 million views in 4 days||The enduring magic of Gulzar’s poetry is that he takes your innermost thoughts and deepest feelings and captures them in words. And what words! Simple, everyday language mysteriously transforms into haunting, powerful imagery. True to form, he creates multiple goosebump-inducing moments in a poem written for The Times of India, which celebrates readers’ eternal romance with their favourite newspaper, and the sense of longing they feel when deprived of it. Newspapers don’t just bring us news and views every morning, they empower us to create opinions. To some it's a com… https://t.co/1ppWvHEN4c— The Times Of India (@timesofindia) 1598415478000Read by Gulzar himself in his unmistakable baritone, the poem is accompanied by evocative visuals that perfectly capture the mood created by the words. You find yourself nodding, as Gulzar begins, “Bina akbhar ke, chai subah ki adhoori lagti hain…na din chadhta hain poora, na poori aankh khulti hain” (Without the newspaper, the morning tea feels incomplete… the day doesn’t really begin, your eyes don’t fully open). You can’t help but smile as he intones,“Degree kahan rakhi hain, kisko yaad rehta hain? Jahan tasveer chapi thee magar, akhbar rakha hain” (Who remembers where the degree is kept? But the paper in which your photo appears is preserved) even as the video depicts a doting father cutting a clipping about his daughter’s selection in a football team and framing it. You sigh wistfully as the poem concludes, “Bina akhbaar… tabiyat thodi kuch udaas rehti hain, bina akhbaar din bhar pyaas rehti hain” (Without the newspaper, you feel a little downcast, there is a sense of thirst throughout the day). Released on the night of August 26, the 1.47-minute long film has already gathered over 18 million views across social media and digital platforms, with viewers raving about it. Gulshan Bagga posted, “One realised its importance specially during lockdown...SPOT ON!!!” Pramod N wrote, “TOI is an integral part of day to day life”, and Neelam Katoch commented, “Beautiful depiction of newspaper...without newspaper even I feel incomplete and lost”. In case you haven’t seen the film yet, you can search for it with the hashtag #NewspaperMornings. Or you could just scan the attached QR code. Go ahead, make your day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gulzars-toi-poem-gets-18-million-views-in-4-days/articleshow/77842139.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dhanvantari Rath to halt virus juggernaut in Jammu and Kashmir||AHMEDABAD: Dhanvantari Raths or mobile medical vans providing healthcare at people’s doorsteps in Ahmedabad will soon offer a healing hand to the people of Srinagar. The raths reportedly made a significant contribution to the war against Covid-19 in the city. Top officials said that following the recommendations of NITI Aayog, the policy think-tank of the Government of India, a customized model for controlling Covid in the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir has been prepared. “Ahmedabad, spread over 450 sq km, deploys 125 Dhanvantari Raths which treat on average 10,000 people daily,” said additional chief secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta who is in charge of the Covid-control mission in Ahmedabad. “Srinagar with 294 sq km area and an estimated population of 12 lakh living across the valley and hilly terrain will need at least 50 raths,” Gupta said. “These can take care of 200 locations daily spending two hours at each location.” Gupta said that the raths help in addressing challenging situations, such as some people’s reluctance to consult a doctor fearing stigma or isolation. “The Dhanvantari raths worked very well in the central zone of Ahmedabad which was the epicenter of Covid in the city,” Gupta said. “Similarly, it will help gain control over the virus in Srinagar as medical help will reach people’s doorsteps.” Till August 30, J&K has recorded 37,000 cases and 694 deaths. Ahmedabad has recorded 31,000 cases and 1,712 deaths so far. Ahmedabad, however, has assumed considerable control over Covid. From gaining notoriety as one of the Top10 Covid hotspots in India averaging 22-26 deaths daily from mid-May to mid-June, the city now records an average of 3-5 mortalities daily. While designating private hospitals for Covid treatment helped, the role of Dhanvantari raths was vital in early case detection. The famed Ahmedabad model of Covid control has been appreciated by the Supreme Court, NITI Aayog, and even the World Health Organization. Dr Vinod Paul, a member of the Aayog, had visited Gujarat in mid-July. Dr Paul had said: “The measures taken by Ahmedabad and Gujarat will be recommended by us to other parts of India.” Dr Paul was part of a four-member panel comprising Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, and Arti Ahuja, joint secretary of Union health and family welfare ministry. The panel had visited Surat and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-dhanvantari-rath-to-halt-virus-juggernaut-in-jammu-and-kashmir/articleshow/77842208.cms||Radha Sharma
August 31, 2020||Madurai||Surgeries resume, but just 50% turn up in Madurai hospitals||MADURAI: Even as all types of surgeries, including elective and semi-emergency surgeries, are being resumed, hospitals are still seeing less than 50% of usual patients. Carrying out surgeries safely is still a challenge for doctors amid Covid-19 pandemic in the absence of clear guidelines from the government in this regard, especially on carrying out Covid-19 testing for all surgery patients. “With precautions, all surgeries are being resumed for the welfare of patients. The best way is for patients to be tested for Covid-19 and then surgery performed,” said Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Madurai. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), emergency surgeries are being carried out but elective and semi-emergency surgeries are being postponed if possible. “However, we are not turning any patient away. Elective and semi-emergency surgeries are being done based on the insistence of patients,” added a GRH doctor. In private multi-specialty hospitals, though all surgeries have been resumed, only less than 50% of surgery patients are turning up. “We are getting around 60-70% of the emergency trauma cases, mainly road accident victims. However, we are seeing only 30% of usual patients for elective surgeries. Elective surgeries are being postponed if possible,” said Dr Dr Satish Devadoss, medical director, Devadoss Hospitals. For Covid patients who require surgeries, the risk of complications is more and hence if possible, surgeries are put off until patient recovers. “We are seeing only 25% of surgery patients coming to our hospital. We developed our own guidelines to ensure safety even in post-operative wards. We completely restricted attenders and strictly maintain the wards aseptic just like an operation theatre,” said Dr B Kannan, medical administrator, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/surgeries-resume-but-fear-lack-of-guidelines-keep-patients-away/articleshow/77841957.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Malayalis celebrate Thiru Onam a day before lockdown||KOLKATA: Anjali Nair (24) is just married and this is her first Onam, but she is being forced to celebrate it without her husband who works in Mumbai. They got married in Kerala, but her husband had to return to his workplace and got stuck there because of the lockdown. She managed to return to Kolkata with her parents and is waiting for things to become normal so that she can join her husband in Mumbai. She made Pookkalam and sent pictures to her husband as ‘Good Morning’ message. “This year, my mother had offered to cook since we are celebrating the festival on Sunday. Thiru Onam falls on August 31 (Monday), a lock down day. But I decided to give her some rest and we had got elaborate Sadya thalis home-delivered,” said Nair said. This year, the Covid situation did not allow any community programme or feasting. Some social groups like the Kolkata Kairali Samajam organised the grand finale of their ongoing online Onam celebrations on Sunday. While Sadya, a vegetarian Onam platter, is mostly cooked and served at home, young members of the community mostly choose to eat out or order from restaurants on the days when they don’t dine at their respective social groups like the Kolkata Kairali Samajam and the Calcutta Malayali Association. “ Though the final day is a lockdown day, none can stop us from wearing new clothes and spending time on video chats,” said a homemaker, Geetha Gopalan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-malayalis-celebrate-thiru-onam-a-day-before-lockdown/articleshow/77840450.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops widen net, team in K’taka to hunt down runaway jailbirds||Hyderabad: A police team has gone to Karnataka in search of four fugitives who escaped from Gandhi Hospital’s Covid-19 prisoner’s ward on August 27. Special teams have been scouring for the four fugitives — Mohammed Javed, 35, Mohammed Abdul Arbaz, 21, P Narasimha, 44, and Soma Sundar, 19. They had reached Vemulagattu village in Medak district where Narasimha’s native place is located as per his prison records.  However, they were told by the villagers that his family does not live there. Cops then collected the prison mulaqat details of all the accused and started analysing phone call details of the people who met the accused to see if they have been in contact with any new numbers after the break out from Gandhi Hospital prisoner’s ward. “So far, we have not been able to locate the four fugitives. They have not contacted the family members and did not try to reach home,” a cop, who is part of the investigation, said. A police team has been dispatched to Gulbarga in Karnataka, where some of the accused had taken shelter at places of worship in the past after committing crimes to evade the police dragnet. As all the four are Covid-19 patients, police teams are taking all necessary precautions while searching for them. Police had earlier expected the fugitives to seek assistance from their family and friends as none of them had any money. Since they escaped in the wee hours, the cameras in the hospital were unable to capture their movement. At the time of the escape, all the prisoners were in civilian clothes. They were part of a group of 16 prisoners receiving Covid-19 treatment in the special ward at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-widen-net-team-in-ktaka-to-hunt-down-runaway-jailbirds/articleshow/77840481.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Artistes hail open-air auditorium breather||Kolkata: Theatre owners had been looking forward to getting reopening permits in September. However, the ministry of home affairs allowed only open-air theatres to resume operations from September 21. Meanwhile, some organizers are roping in city artistes for recitals at empty auditoriums that are being recorded and shown as part of paid online concerts. Kolkata currently has less than 10 open-air theatres, including Uttirna, EZCC, Swabhumi and the ones at Jadavpur University and Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute. Artistes have welcomed the government’s move to allow programmes there. “Lockdown has come as a cruel blow to the artist fraternity. Reopening of open-air theatres is a relief,” said Pandit Tanmoy Bose. Singer Lopamudra Mitra says that artistes have suffered a suffered a bodyblow due to the pandemic. She will participate in a paid concert at Swabhumi in September. “I am eagerly waiting for concerts to begin. On Sunday, I also sought permission for hosting a show at Deshapriya Park,” Mitra said. Pt Tanmoy BoseAccording to sarod player Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar, “Listeners still haven’t got over the fear of having to sit with strangers in closed auditoria. In that context, it is a good move to start with reopening of open-air theatres.” Fossils manager Rupsha Dasgupta said, “We don’t know how we can negotiate the issue of maintaining social distancing at venues. But if some organiser can think of ways to do a proper open-air theatre show, we might do it.” However, the bigger worry is if people will indeed spend money and flock to such shows by September-end. “Listening to concerts fall under non-essential requirements. People have lost their jobs. At least 25 students have discontinued from my classes because they couldn’t afford the fees. Before the pandemic, they were the ones who would have brought their parents along for our concerts. I doubt if they can pay and come for shows now. Besides, some of these concerts end quite late. With transportation still not normal, many will also worry about conveyance issues for attending programmes,” Bose said. Lopamudra MitraWhat is also worrying is the habit of getting used to free entertainment shows online. Since March, many musicians have been performing online for free. “They might have thought this will make them overnight stars during lockdown but I doubt if that’s the case. This might have worked fine for amateurs but many insist that it hasn’t done any good to professionals who rely solely on concerts to keep their kitchen fire burning,” Bose added. Mitra also seconded this view, saying, "Doing free online concerts has done a huge damage to musicians. Artistes have been sitting idle for months. How can someone come and ask to perform for free?" In September, Bose will accompany Majumdar at empty-auditorium concert that is being organized by Arati Music Foundation. According to sitarist Kalyanjit Das, who is assisting his father and guru Pandit Kushal Das in organizing this series, “We are organizing sound, lights and cameras for the recording. All Covid safety protocols, including social distancing, are being maintained.” The recordings are edited and then beamed. “We have aired episodes with Omkar Dadarkar, Pt Anindo Chatterjee, Debanjan Bhattacharjee and Ustad Rashid Khan. In the pipeline is a concert with Kaushiki Chakraborty and myself. Artistes are getting paid according to the total amount of tickets sold,” Das added. Pt Tejendra Narayan MajumdarAccording to Majumdar, “Pt Kumar Bose, Pt Anindo Chatterjee, Subhankar (Banerjee), Kaushiki (Chakraborty), Bickram (Ghosh), Indrani (Mukherjee), some others and I have already performed at an audience-free concert. Earlier when we entered an auditorium for a concert, we would be greeted with chandan tikas. Now, we are greeted with thermal guns,” said Majumdar. Chatterjee is very happy with his experience of performing at two such empty-auditorium concerts. “I did two empty-auditorium concerts organized by Talchakra and Arati Music Foundation. State-of-the-art camera setups, proper sound, lights and monitors were given. Though the wah-wahs from the audience were missing, performing in empty theatres is a spiritual experience. It felt as if I was performing for the Almighty. I am happy that a start has been made and am optimistic about the future,” Chatterjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/artistes-hail-open-air-auditorium-breather/articleshow/77840422.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Degree student arrested in rape and murder case||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old degree student has been arrested for his role in the rape and murder of a 25-year-old divorcee in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district. The victim used to run a grocery store at Katepally village of Motakondur mandal. According to police, she was in a relationship with one M Ravi, 28, an electrician from Golenpally village in Valigonda mandal. “Ravi had an affair with the woman and he financially helped her. But, recently he started suspecting that she became close to other men and decided to eliminate her. He sought help of Ch Ravi Teja, a degree student from Golenpally, and hatched a plan to kill her,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Bhuvanagiri, K Narayana Reddy said. As per the plan, Ravi called the victim on August 18 morning and asked her to meet him at Vali Pasha Hillock in neighbouring Lingarapally village. Around 1 pm, the victim met the accused atop the hillock and Ravi introduced her to Raviteja as his friend. “Subsequently, both the accused raped the victim and then strangled her with her stole,” the DCP said. The duo covered the body with branches and got down from the hillock. Ravi left the place on his bike, while Raviteja rode the victim’s scooter to Uppal and parked at his brother’s residence. On August 19, the victim’s family lodged a missing complaint and while police were trying to trace her, Ravi ended his life by consuming pesticide at an open land in Nagireddypally village near Bhongir on August 20. By analysing call data of the victim and Ravi, Rachakonda police zeroed in on Raviteja on Saturday and, based on his confession, recovered the putrefied body of the victim from the hillock. Police registered a case under Sections 376, 302, 201 of the IPC and the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as the victim was from an SC community, while Ravi was from a BC community. Raviteja also belongs to the SC community. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-student-arrested-in-rape-and-murder-case/articleshow/77841951.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Case of the non-existent socialist, secular ideas||By K ChandruIt is a strange coincidence that both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party adopted the socialist tag in the national conferences they convened at Chennai years apart.In 1950, the Congress desperately wanted to project an ideological face and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru at the All India Congress Committee meeting (1955) at Chennai passed a resolution to form a "socialist pattern of society". Asked for a precise definition, Nehru said it was to have a welfare state.At that time, C N Annadurai wrote in the DMK organ: "Like paper roses having no fragrance, the Congress socialism will have no flavour". The Congress did not mind these repartees, but waited for opportunities to amend laws by which it could arm-twist other parties.The DMK, which defeated the Congress and formed a government in Tamil Nadu in 1967, within a few years entered into an electoral alliance with the Congress which had split. To bolster her progressive image, Indira Gandhi brought in bank nationalisation and abolished privy purses. But within a short time she had to face the combined opposition of the political parties, ranging from extreme right to left, when she imposed the Emergency and locked up all opposition leaders under the draconian Internal Security Act. She conceived amending the Constitution and brought in the 42nd Amendment Act (1977). She wanted to have cosmetic changes in the Preamble to the Constitution by adding the words ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’. The question of whether ‘socialism’ should be included in the Constitution was already debated in the constituent assembly. During an exchange with K T Shah, B R Ambedkar said the Constitution was just a mechanism to regulate the work of the various arms of state. He also said "what should be the policy of the state, how society should be organised in its social and economic side are matters which must be decided by the people themselves according to time and circumstances". At that time, there was not much opposition to the inclusion of the word ‘secular’.The mega coalition, Janata Party, formed the government in 1978. The party which wanted to undo misdeeds of the Congress during the Emergency, including repealing amendments made to the Constitution, brought 44th amendment (1979) and did not choose to remove ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’ from the Preamble.The Congress, to further compel other political opponents, amended the Representation of People Act (June 1989) and introduced Part IV (A) by which political parties are to compulsorily register with the Election Commission and subscribe to the constitutional values. Sub-section 5 of Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act (RP Act), 1951, requires parties to give an undertaking declaring their "true faith and allegiance to the Constitution and to the principles of socialism, secularism and democracy.More than a decade later, a larger bench of the Supreme Court in S R Bommai’s case (1994) declared that ‘secularism’ was a basic feature of the Constitution. It held that the Preamble embodies the republic’s founding values and provided a reference point to interpret the Constitution. Articles of the Constitution as well as the spirit of the preamble underscore the spirit of socialism and secularism.The BJP-led government headed by A B Vajpayee either during his short tenure in 1996 or in 1998-2004 did not amend the RP Act, as its amendment was a dilemma. It could amend its party constitution or go before the court. However, the party’s constitution was amended in its National Council Meeting at Chennai (1999). It declared that "the party (BJP) shall bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India and to the principles of socialism, secularism and democracy".For the Congress and the BJP, ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’ are merely catchwords. Liberalisation and disinvestment of the public sector do not have a dividing line, and on secularism —from Babri Masjid demolition till Ram Mandir’s bhoomi puja — they have not exhibited any different ideological positions. When an NGO tried to challenge the addition to the Preamble, the Supreme Court (2008) was advised: "Why do you take socialism in a narrow sense defined by (the) Communists. In a broader sense, it means welfare measures for the citizens. It is a facet of democracy."Both the national parties knew it was unnecessary to have an ideological war on such issues. A BJP Rajya Sabha member (Rakesh Sinha) moved a resolution for removal of the word ‘socialist’. Now, two advocates have moved the Supreme Court challenging amendment of the Preamble and also the RP Act. But the two parties know dilution of such concepts will be taken care of by courts. After all, it is not what is written in the Constitution that is important, but it is what the judges say. When Shiv Sena made Hindutva its political plank and contested elections, the Supreme Court said: "Hindutva/ Hinduism is a way of life of the people in the sub-continent and is a state of mind — not a religion" (1996). There went secularism. On socialism, even in late 1970s, Supreme Court said: "So long as private ownership of an industry is recognised and governs an overwhelmingly large proportion of our economic structure, is it possible to say that principles of socialism and social justice can be pushed to such an extreme so as to ignore completely or to a very large extent the interests of another section of the public namely the private owners of the undertakings?". Thus socialism was buried deep. It will be unnecessary for either of the two parties to make attempts to erase these principles, as they are only standing monuments to the hollowness of the political parties.(The writer is a former judge of the Madras high court)Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/case-of-the-non-existent-socialist-secular-ideas/articleshow/77841476.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Rly pitches for 50 CCTV cameras in its yard to prevent burglary||Ludhiana: After getting reports of copper wires being stolen from unused electric engines parked in railway yard due to the suspension of trains, the railway authorities have decided to tighten security by installing 50 high-definition closed circuit (CCTV) cameras in the next few days. A proposal has been sent to the high command of railway board for its sanction. Anil Kumar, in charge of railway protection force RPF (Ludhiana), said, “We need modern CCTV cameras inside railway yard because several electric engine are parked inside ever since railway suspended passenger train service. As there are no proper check points at entry side of railways yard, it has become difficult to stop miscreants from sneaking in.” Kumar said it is expected that railway will approve the project before the start of the festival season and in the next few weeks, tender will be floated. Sources in the railway department said a few days ago, RPF arrested three men for stealing copper wires from the electric engines parked inside railway yard. “After which RPF pushed for cameras around the yard to tighten security cover as in the next few months, foggy season will begin and will make detecting such crimes more difficult,” added the sources. Now, the city station have 20 CCTVs cameras, of which six to seven are not functioning and some were even stolen during late night hours, said sources. “Presently, only 10 to 12 cameras are working which is not enough to maintain the safety and security of passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rly-pitches-for-50-cctv-cameras-in-its-yard-to-prevent-burglary/articleshow/77841477.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Edu dept conducts meeting to discuss PAS||Ludhiana: Education department conducted a meeting with school heads, block primary education officers and cluster head trainers regarding Punjab Achievement Surveys (PAS). Educators have come up with many suggestions for PAS. One such was that in every block there should be a group of teachers who need to be identified by CMTs, BMTs and BMs to make question paper on PAS programme, which can be shared with the teachers in the clusters and blocks. It has also been highlighted in the meeting that every teacher should attempt making question paper as was done during mission 100%. The educators were also informed that ID of the students have been created, which can be used in google form but the same are yet to be shared with the primary school teachers.They were also told from next time question papers will also be given in the PDF format for those students who do not have smartphones. Education department has also been told to identify groups of young people who are willing to volunteer to help the department in villages. Krishan Kumar, secretary of school education, said, “Appreciation letters should be issued to all schools where students participate 100% in quiz. Internal competition among students should be encouraged by making buddy groups. All districts should try to make buddy groups within a school.” The educators were also told to take the help of the old students to get the students complete quizzes and principals and head masters, BPEOs and the CHTs may send the audio messages to teachers and students and motivate them. DEOs has been instructed to take meetings through video conferences specifically on PAS to motivate the teachers. Notably, syllabus has to be divided into chapters and after completing a chapter, a quiz in the format of PAS should be given to the students as practice. “This is the practice for classes XI and XII,” said Kumar. For analysis of the data, the principals and the headmasters have been told to identify one or two teachers who can be trained by the head office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/edu-dept-conducts-meeting-to-discuss-pas/articleshow/77841481.cms||Mehak Jain
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, call Childline for emergency ration during weekend lockdowns||Ludhiana: The Childline team of Ludhiana railway station has started delivering ration to people calling on their helpline number 2701098 during weekend lockdowns. The members of the team will distribute basic amenities like essential commodities as well as baby food, sanitisers, masks, shoes and clothes to needy families that contact the toll free number. Kulwinder Singh,in charge of Childline (Ludhiana team), said, “The weekend lockdown is taking a toll on the poor and so we have decided to what we can. There will be a team of seven people here — comprising three members of Childline Ludhiana, three volunteers, one part-time counsellor and one full time co-coordinator.” Singh said Childline service will continue to take care of all minor children who get separated from their family members while travelling in trains. “Moreover, Childline will ensure women passengers get baby food on board the train for their children,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-call-childline-for-emergency-ration-during-weekend-lockdowns/articleshow/77841483.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 31, 2020||Noida||107 found +ve in Noida, Ghaziabad reports 180||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 107 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday while 98 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of confirmed cases in the district now stands at 7,834. According to the state report, there are 1,009 active cases (13%) in the district while 45 patients (0.6%) have died due to the virus. In total, 6,780 patients (87% ) have recovered in the district. The district administration also released a new list of 306 containment zones on Sunday. While 279 containment zones are in Category 1, the rest are in Category 2. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad reported 180 new Covid cases on Sunday. The district’s tally now stands at 8,212. Besides, 145 patients were discharged on Sunday. As many as 6,756 persons have been discharged so far and 68 patients have died. Currently, 1,388 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals and home isolation in the district. Minister of state for health Atul Garg has been discharged from the hospital and sent to home isolation. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 82.2% while the fatality rate is 0.82%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/107-found-ve-in-noida-gzb-reports-180/articleshow/77841490.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||107 found +ve in Noida, Ghaziabad reports 180||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 107 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday while 98 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of confirmed cases in the district now stands at 7,834. According to the state report, there are 1,009 active cases (13%) in the district while 45 patients (0.6%) have died due to the virus. In total, 6,780 patients (87% ) have recovered in the district. The district administration also released a new list of 306 containment zones on Sunday. While 279 containment zones are in Category 1, the rest are in Category 2. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad reported 180 new Covid cases on Sunday. The district’s tally now stands at 8,212. Besides, 145 patients were discharged on Sunday. As many as 6,756 persons have been discharged so far and 68 patients have died. Currently, 1,388 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals and home isolation in the district. Minister of state for health Atul Garg has been discharged from the hospital and sent to home isolation. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 82.2% while the fatality rate is 0.82%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/107-found-ve-in-noida-gzb-reports-180/articleshow/77843572.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Confined indoors, many turn home chefs to beat Covid blues||KOLKATA: The pandemic and prolonged lockdown have inspired many people to become explorers in kitchens and their interests in cooking have turned them into home chefs organizing quarantine pop-ups and catering to several orders from their kin and friends on social media. They are exploring various cuisines, from Bengali to Iranian, Asian to American, that prove to be tempting the tastebuds of those whom they serve. The home chefs post their menus for the weekend on social media and stop taking orders a few days before it. For each item they accept limited orders to ensure that there is no wastage of food. They deliver the food through a delivery person, delivery app or their customers also pick up the food. Avilasha Ghosh, a research scholar at IIT Delhi, has always had a passion for cooking. “During the lockdown, I found people posting on social media that they are feeling depressed indoors as they cannot go out or dine out. So, I thought that I should cook good food and send it across to them to make them happy. That’s how the idea of Moody’s Cookbook was conceived,” said Ghosh, who has organized six weekend pop-ups so far in one and a half months. Sreeparna Basu and her sister-in-law Reema Basu from Kankurgachi have launched Open Oven on July 12 and they are doing regular pop-ups on Sundays. “Within a short span of time we have received a positive response because we make authentic Bengali dishes with a fusion that makes the food tasty. While we never compromise with the quality and quantity, the price is also within the afforability of everyone,”said Sreeparna. Both of them manage everything for the service, from buying vegetables, selecting pieces of fish to cooking Bhetki Kanta Chochhori, Chitol Muithya, Kochur Shak, Lau Patay Chingri, Lonka Porra Chicken and Badami fish. Another home chef Rina De, a resident of Bidhan Sarani, who loves to feed people her ‘Hather Ranna’ said the demand for home-made food has increased as people are not going out much.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/confined-indoors-many-turn-home-chefs-to-beat-cov-blues/articleshow/77840487.cms||Dipawali Mitra
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite MC promises, water still pools in Rahon road||Ludhiana:Despite an ultimatum given by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal to solve the problem of water logging at Rahon road in four days, the problem still persists. Due to recent rainfall, the ongoing sewerage laying work there is a mess and it has become difficult for the commuters to pass through here. The MC commissioner had visited Rahon Road on August 25 and four days were given to drain out stagnant water. Though officials tried to clear the water but due to frequent rainfall it could not be resolved. The officials claimed that problem will not come to end unless the disposal pump will start functioning. The disposal pump will take water from Rahon Road to Bhattian sewerage plant, they said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-mc-promises-water-still-pools-in-rahon-road/articleshow/77841488.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vadodara||Barodians wake up to rain fury||Vadodara: Barodians woke up to a thunderous spell of heavy rain that was accompanied by strong winds with several roads and underpasses getting deluged in 100mm rainfall between 6am and 12 noon. Within an hour of downpour, the Sayajigunj underpass that connects eastern and western parts of the city got submerged and the vehicle movement was hampered for a few hours. Commuters had to take the Jetalpur over-bridge. Many localities including the residential colonies witnessed waterlogging by Sunday afternoon. From Raopura and Dandia Bazaar Road to Mandvi, Lehripura and Gendigate, many roads in the old city were inundated for several hours. If Sardar Estate Road and Waghodia Road got water-logged in the eastern areas, the posh colonies in Akota and Alkapuri too bore the brunt of heavy rain. “Every time it rains heavily, our locality gets waterlogged for hours. Sometimes water even enters my shop. We have to suffer loss in business as the authorities haven’t been able to solve this problem during monsoons,” said Hemant Dabgar, who owns a shop on Gendigate Road in the walled city. The civic authorities are also keeping a close eye on Vishwamitri River whose level has been increasing gradually. From seven foot at 10am, the water swelled to 16 foot by 6 pm on Sunday. But the river is still flowing 10 foot below the danger mark. The Ajwa Dam is flowing at 212 foot but if the rains continue for the next 24 hours, it may start overflowing. In district areas, three villages in Dabhoi and 11 each in Karjan and Shinor have been put on alert after nine lakh cusecs of water was released from Sardar Sarovar Dam. In all, 28 people from three villages in Dabhoi and 14 from Karjan taluka were shifted .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-wake-up-to-rain-fury/articleshow/77838541.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Surat||2,465 recover in Surat Covid care centre||Surat: Around 2,465 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Samaras Hostel in Surat city till date. According to officials, 2,782 patients have been admitted to CCC so far, of whom 2,465 have been discharged. At present, 186 are under treatment. “CCC was set up with 600 bed capacity to provide treatment to mild and symptomatic Covid-19 patients in the city. These patients were referred here from New Civil Hospital as well as Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital,” said V K Sabad, nodal officer. Sabad further said that the CCC has 15 doctors, 18 nurses, 14 paramedical staff, 40 ward boys and other staff to manage the centre and patients are given treatment round-the-clock. Initially, this hostel building was started as a government quarantine centre, but on April 23 it was converted into fullcare centre. Meanwhile, Surat city reported 174 new cases and three deaths on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, highest was reported in Athwa with 42, followed by 41 in Rander zone. Around 128 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of discharged patients to 13,474 in the city. In Surat district, 55 fresh cases were reported on Sunday taking tally to 4,463 in the district. Two more deaths took the toll to 197 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2465-recover-in-surat-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77839565.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||58-year-old kidnaps newborn, held||New Delhi: A 25-day-old boy, who was asleep next to his mother on a foothpath in Lahori Gate, was kidnapped on Monday morning. A 58-year-old woman was later arrested, who told the cops that her daughter could not conceive and she kidnapped the child to make her happy. On Monday morning, the child’s mother approached the cops sayings she was sleeping when she lost her newborn. “The mother woke up around 2am and found both her sons next to her, but when she woke up around 4am, the infant was missing. She looked for the child and asked locals, but when she could not find him, she reached the police station and a case of kidnapping was registered,” said a police officer. A police team scanned through the CCTV footage and found a woman fleeing with the child. She was identified and later arrested. The 58-year old accused revealed that she had two married daughters and an unmarried son. One of her daughters could not have a child after two years of wedding and was living with her. She noticed the newborn on the footpath and decided to steal the boy for her daughter. On Monday, the woman took the child to her residence but did not tell her family. Police are also questioning the husband to ascertain if he knew of the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/58-year-old-kidnaps-newborn-held/articleshow/77860024.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Degree student arrested in rape and murder case||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old degree student has been arrested for his role in the rape and murder of a 25-year-old divorcee in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district. The victim used to run a grocery store at Katepally village of Motakondur mandal. According to police, she was in a relationship with one M Ravi, 28, an electrician from Golenpally village in Valigonda mandal. “Ravi had an affair with the woman and he financially helped her. But, recently he started suspecting that she became close to other men and decided to eliminate her. He sought help of Ch Ravi Teja, a degree student from Golenpally, and hatched a plan to kill her,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Bhuvanagiri, K Narayana Reddy said. As per the plan, Ravi called the victim on August 18 morning and asked her to meet him at Vali Pasha Hillock in neighbouring Lingarapally village. Around 1 pm, the victim met the accused atop the hillock and Ravi introduced her to Raviteja as his friend. “Subsequently, both the accused raped the victim and then strangled her with her stole,” the DCP said. The duo covered the body with branches and got down from the hillock. Ravi left the place on his bike, while Raviteja rode the victim’s scooter to Uppal and parked at his brother’s residence. On August 19, the victim’s family lodged a missing complaint and while police were trying to trace her, Ravi ended his life by consuming pesticide at an open land in Nagireddypally village near Bhuvanagiri on August 20. By analysing call data of the victim and Ravi, Rachakonda police zeroed in on Raviteja on Saturday and, based on his confession, recovered the putrefied body of the victim from the hillock. Police registered a case under Sections 376, 302, 201 of the IPC and the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as the victim was from an SC community, while Ravi was from a BC community. Raviteja also belongs to the SC community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-student-arrested-in-rape-and-murder-case/articleshow/77840500.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Noida||Man falls in open drain, Noida to build wall||NOIDA: After several protests by residents who were demanding a culvert wall on an open drain in Sector 51, Rajeev Tyagi general manager of Noida Authority on Sunday afternoon sent a team to construct a peripheral wall around the drain.The move comes after a rickshaw driver fell in the drain with his rickshaw on Sunday near gate number 10. A few days ago, a motorcycle rider had fallen in the same drain a few days ago. Even as the rickshaw driver, who was allegedly drunk, was pulled out by passers by and guards stationed at gate number 10, residents of the Sector demanded that a culvert wall should be constructed at the earliest to avoid a major accident. Also, residents of Sectors 92, 93B, 93A, Express View, Silver City apartments etc. have demanded a cover on the large irrigation drain that flows along Sector 92. In Sector 92, the large irrigation drain has become a big concern for residents of the area especially Sectors 93B, 93A, Express View and Silver City apartments etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/man-falls-in-open-drain-noida-to-build-wall/articleshow/77841499.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation preparations up for dengue battle||CHENNAI: Even as Covid-19 cases continue to spike in the city, Greater Chennai Corporation has formulated a multi-pronged strategy to counter dengue given that it has started to rain regularly and heavily. Starting next week, corporation’s entomologists will survey last year’s dengue hotspots to ensure that the dengue-spreading mosquitoes do not breed. Unlike the malaria mosquito, dengue causing mosquitoes breed in fresh water. One such hotspot was found to be in an area near Madhavaram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Ambattur, a corporation source said. Last year, the corporation had recorded 640 cases of dengue. This year, it has found around 20 cases. “However, we are not complacent as many cases may not have been recorded due to hospitals not functioning fully,” sources an official. Last week, corporation commissioner G Prakash chaired a meeting outlining the plan. Drones are likely to be pressed into service for spraying larvicide. The corporation will clean vacant plots in the city. There are around 26,000 such vacant plots in the city, Prakash said. “If these are found to be dirty, the corporation will clean them up and then the charges will be attached to the property tax for the owners to pay. We have already incorporated this in our systems,” he said. A senior official said vacant plots were “a major source of headache” as rain would collect on garbage become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and affecting residents in the neighbourhood. The corporation will start levying fines on commercial establishments and government bodies if mosquitoes are found breeding on their premises. “Last year, we collected up to Rs 3 crore in penalty. Some were fined even Rs 10 lakh,” Prakash said. Door-to-door survey workers will check households to ensure that water is not collected in drums or in the defrost container of refrigerators, said a senior official. While Covid-19 is risky for those in the 50+ age group, dengue is dangerous for young children. In case people have high fever for a few days, they should get themselves tested for Covid-19 and check their platelet count, corporation officials said. “If the platelet count falls below 1.5 lakh, then it may be dengue. They should visit the nearest primary health centre immediately to ascertain this,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corpnpreps-up-for-dengue-battle/articleshow/77840569.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||No Krishna water supply in some areas on Sept 2||Hyderabad: There will be no Krishna water supply in certain areas of the city and Greater Hyderabad periphery areas from 6 am on September 2 to 6 am on September 3 due to junctions work. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) will take up junction work on existing 1,400 mm diameter of Krishna drinking water supply phase-II between Mailardevpally and Tolichowki to facilitate the construction of the proposed down ramp of PVNR Expressway at pillar number 160 & 169. As a result, the water board has proposed a 24-hour power shutdown to attend to the work. Hence, there will be no water supply/short water supply in the following areas: Mehdipatnam, Karwan, Langer House, Kakatiya Nagar, Humayan Nagar, Talagadda, Asifnagar, MES, Shaikpet, OU Colony, Tolichowki, Mallepally, Vijay Nagar Colony, Bhojagutta, Ziaguda, Red Hills, Secretariat, Old MLA Quarters, Allabanda under O&M Div-IV, Gagan Mahal, Himayath Nagar, Budvel, Hyderguda, Rajendranagar, Upperpally, Suleman Nagar, M M Pahadi, Attapur, Chintalmet, Kishanbagh, Manikonda, Gandhamguda, Narsing, and Kismathpur. The water board authorities have appealed to the consumers to use water conservatively and avoid inconvenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-krishna-water-supply-in-some-areas-on-sept-2/articleshow/77840549.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bareilly||Youth booked for attempt to rape minor girl in UP's Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 22-year-old youth, identified as Rohit Yadav, was booked by Pilibhit police on Saturday evening for allegedly attempting to rape a 16-year-old girl of his village. The girl has been sent to the district women hospital at Pilibhit for a medical examination. The accused is on the run, police said. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, Kotwali police station, sections of POCSO Act would be added to the FIR after the girl's age is verified by doctors. As of now, the youth has been booked under IPC section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504, (intentional insult to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). In her complaint, the girl's mother alleged that the accused abused and beat her up for putting up a fight. He threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the assault. He fled the spot when her daughter started to scream for help. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-booked-for-attempt-to-rape-minor-girl-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77838620.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Wager on life: Cycling to work fraught with danger for the poor||NEW DELHI: When daily wager Mahendra Singh lost his job five months ago, he was unsure of how his family of five would survive in Delhi. His first instinct was to return to his village in Uttar Pradesh, but lack of funds got in the way. After months of surviving on government subsidies, Singh finally found employment as a public toilet cleaner — but the 9-km distance between home in Dakshinpuri and work in Khelgaon was a daily hurdle. “This daily commute wasn’t possible, so the only option available to me was to borrow money from relatives to buy a bicycle,” Singh, 38, told TOI near Chirag Dilli, where he had stopped for a short break on his way home. Times ViewMany European cities have embraced cycles, a zero-carbon footprint way of commuting. But in fume-filled Delhi, where millions exist at the subsistence level, the need to encourage cyclists is even more. In these pandemic times, when public transport is hugely restricted, the cycle is the only available transport for thousands nowadays. We must offer them a safe passage to work and back. That's the least we can do.For thousands of daily wagers, domestic workers, gardeners and clerks, limited mobility due to restrictions on buses and the non-functioning of Delhi Metro is an everyday challenge. So, some bought and others rented and borrowed the only means of transport available to them: bicycles. But though the humble cycle bridged the distance between their homes and workplaces, the lack of dedicated cycling lanes has made them vulnerable to accidents. “There is a gap in infrastructure when it comes to planning the city. We do not follow a human-centric approach, but focus on increasing motorable roads because that counts as development,” remarked Rajendra Ravi, director of The Institute of Democracy and Sustainability, which has been on the forefront demanding separate lanes for livelihood cyclists. “A city is made of its citizens, and the citizens’ habits depend on the public places. India has failed to make its cities livable for the marginalised.” Although the number of cycle users in Delhi has not been accurately determined, reports suggest 11 lakh people depend on bicycles for their commute. The number, they say, has risen with the Covid-19 pandemic hitting public transport. Buses are plying, but social distancing rules mean they can only carry a third of passenger capacity, forcing many to opt for cycles. Sree Ram is someone who has plumped for a bicycle. The 61-year-old, set to retire soon, is a gardener at a government residence waon Krishna Menon Marg and cycles to and from his home in Badarpur, a 3-hour journey of over 40km. It's not the distance he minds but the speeding vehicles, which he feels will knock him down someday. “Initially it was easy because there were fewer vehicles on the road,” Ram said. “But over the last month or so, traffic has increased and I constantly fear an accident. But the worry is a small price to pay because my job ensures food for the family.” According to Sarika Panda, co-founder of Raahgiri Foundation, an NGO that promotes road safety and sustainable transport, the percentage of people in Delhi who own cars and those who own cycles is ironically the same at 13-15%. The big difference is in the infrastructure. “We still don't have infrastructure for cyclists because the labour class does not exist in the public imagination,” said Panda. “They may be the backbone of society, but since they are part of invisible India, it's easy to dismiss their needs.” Delhi, she pointed out, had barely 100 km of cycling lanes, much of which is encroached upon and turned into parking spaces. Raahgiri Foundation and other organisations started an online addressed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal calling for the implementation of a non-motorised transport policy, which prioritises cycling lanes and allow everyone access to cycling as a Covid-proof mode of transport. Petition starter Mudra is a 53-year-old woman who lost her job because she had trouble travelling between her home and the various places where she worked as a domestic help. She is a member of Shehri Mahila Kamgari Union, a collective focused on problems of women in the informal economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wager-on-life-cycling-to-work-fraught-with-danger-for-the-poor/articleshow/77840602.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Ahead of session, Telangana cabinet to discuss new Revenue Act||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will convene a cabinet meeting this week to seek approval for the draft of the new revenue act and discuss the strategy to be adopted in the assembly sessions. The government anticipates onslaught from the opposition — Congress and BJP — regarding the demolition of a temple and two mosques at the old secretariat complex, Covid-19 situation among others. While the ruling TRS has been countering the opposition campaign against the government’s alleged failure in controlling the spread of coronavirus cases, it will be crucial for the ruling party to drive home the right message to the people. Both the Congress and the BJP have decided to corner the TRS government on the demolition of places of worship, structurally-fit secretariat buildings, low number of Covid-19 tests, alarming increase in positive cases, concealing actual number of Covid-19 deaths, and most importantly Andhra Pradesh’s attempt to divert Telangana’s share of river water by taking up Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, conducting entrance tests and exams in the state. Congress floor leader in the assembly Bhatti Vikramarka is already touring government hospitals across the state to exert pressure on the government. Highlighting the large number of vacancies in the medical department, Bhatti said that KCR failed to check the spread of the coronavirus in the state. “KCR has plunged the state into a debt trap and is on a borrowing spree,” Bhatti said. The government needs the cabinet’s approval for the draft of the new revenue bill and re-organisation of the irrigation department into the water resources department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ahead-of-session-cabinet-to-discuss-new-revenue-act/articleshow/77840579.cms||Roushan Ali
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Unlock 4.0: L&T ready to run Metro service, awaits Telangana’s nod||HYDERABAD: L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad is ready to resume Metro services, but awaiting the green signal from the state government. If it gets the nod, Metro services in the city may resume from September 7 as per the Centre’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines. “We are absolutely ready to resume the services whenever we get a nod from the state government. More delay in resuming services will aggravate the losses. Things were looking bright for the Hyderabad Metro before the pandemic hit the state. We achieved a break-even operationally within a short period,” an HMRL official said. L&T, which built and operates Hyderabad Metro Rail project, was making operating profits, carrying close to 4.5 lakh passengers a day before the lockdown. However, due to suspension of commercial operations from March 22 on account of the pandemic, it was estimated that the project was losing close to Rs 45 crore a month. According to official sources, even if the government provides a financial relief for the massive loss incurred during the last five months, it could take nearly two years for the project to break even. L&T Metro Rail’s latest audit report states the company generated a revenue of Rs 590 crore during the last financial year solely from the operation of the Metro service. The report also states that L&T Metro Rail-Hyderabad had already submitted the project cost overrun details to the state for Rs 3,756 crore and has been pursuing the matter for relief. The Metro rail is also incurring expenditure of maintenance and trial runs during the lockdown. Meanwhile, HMRL has begun taking precautionary measures as the Union government announced Unlock 4.0 guidelines, permitting the operation of Metro services. Apart from regular sanitisation of railings and elevators and ensuring social distancing, HMRL and L&T officials have informed that they would follow guidelines to be announced by the Centre once the services resume in the twin cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unlock-4-0-lt-ready-to-run-metro-serivce-awaits-ts-nod/articleshow/77840572.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||HC holds spl sitting to hear custody case of US-born child, asks boy to stay with dad till Dec citing Covid flight risk||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court held a special sitting on Sunday to hear the petition filed by a US woman seeking the custody of her seven-year-old son who was allegedly separated from her and brought to India by her husband in a ‘deceitful manner’. After hearing both the couple and the child, and giving them a day’s time to reach a consensus, the court ordered that the boy should stay with his father till December citing that it would be too dangerous for the seven-year-old to take a flight to the US amid the Covid-19 crisis. During the hearing on Saturday, the child had expressed his wish to stay with both parents. Hence, the court said that the father should make efforts to facilitate daily virtual calls for the boy to speak with his mother, if not, at least two online meetings a week mandatorily. During the special sitting, a division bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Alok Kumar Verma noted that the arrangement has been arrived at with the mutual consent of both the parties keeping in mind the best interests and safety of the child. A lawyer present at the hearing said, “Both the couple and the child appeared before the court through video-conferencing. Based on mutual understanding, it was decided that the child will stay in India till December. The hearing will continue when his mother, who is leaving India either on Monday or Tuesday, comes back in December for Christmas.” The court had said on Saturday that the special sitting was being held “purely in the interest of justice”. In a petition filed before the HC, the woman had stated that she married an Indian in 2012 after which they first moved to the US and then to Thailand. She alleged that they were in Thailand when the boy was taken away by her husband in a ‘deceitful manner’ and brought to India last October. Unsatisfied with the petitioner’s counsel’s reply to whether the stay of a child with his father can be termed ‘illegal detention’, the court directed the chief judicial magistrate of Dehradun to ensure the presence of both the child and father before it through video conferencing on Saturday. The boy then told the court that he is fond of both the parents and wants them together. In an attempt to reach an amicable solution, the division bench asked the child to spend the night with his mother, and also directed the couple to stay in the same guesthouse overnight and try to work out a solution. It then posted the matter for a special hearing on Sunday considering the urgency of the situation. When TOI spoke to the couple on Sunday, they said that all three of them were happy with the interim arrangement but did not wish to comment further as the matter is subjudice. Meanwhile, the lawyers thanked both the judges for holding a hearing on an off day. One of the lawyers said that the special sitting “showed the magnanimity of the court and its commitment to ensure justice to citizens”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-holds-spl-sitting-to-hear-custody-case-of-us-born-child-asks-boy-to-stay-with-dad-till-dec-citing-covid-flight-risk/articleshow/77838652.cms||Prashant Jha
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Builders had left phones home to hide location: Cops||Ahmedabad: Even as city police made every possible bid to prove that the promoter of Popular Builders, Raman Patel, and his son Monang Patel had gone out of Gujarat and stayed at different places to evade arrest, the cops have been finding it difficult to establish their locations during the period. According to police, they left their cellphones at their home to avoid being traced by the cops. A case of attempt to murder and assault has been filed by the builder’s daughter-in-law Fizu Patel. Police needed to know about their whereabouts to establish a stronger case of prosecution against them. An officer of Vastrapur police said that Raman and Monang Patel fled the city a day after Fizu Patel filed a complaint against them, her mother-in-law, and her father for alleged domestic violence and molestation. “We had made four teams to nab them but they might have fled the state,” said a police officer. He said that the father-son duo surrendered before police after Raman’s brother Dashrath and nephew Virendra were caught by police for allegedly confining Fizu. “We started questioning them on Saturday evening but they did not cooperate with us. They just reiterated their innocence saying that they did not do anything wrong to Fizu and kept dodging our questions,” said a police officer.The police on Sunday produced them before a local court seeking remand for six days but it was rejected and the accused were sent to judicial custody. Fizu had on August 12 filed a complaint of domestic violence and assault with Vastrapur police, alleging that Monang, who she married in 2011, his father Raman Patel and mother Mayurika harassed her and beat her very frequently. She also alleged that Monang had attacked her and her mother Janki Patel on August 1, after being provoked by her father, Mukesh Patel, who is a co-accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/builders-had-left-phones-home-to-hide-location-cops/articleshow/77840583.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Patna||Minor girl gang-raped, one arrested in Bihar||ARA: One person has been arrested for alleged involvement in the gang rape of a Class 9 student on August 19, Bhojpur SP Har Kishore Rai said on Sunday. Three other accused were absconding. The minor girl had lodged an FIR at the Ara SC/ST police station on Thursday only after the accused made her video viral. The girl alleged that the perpetrators of the crime had made a video of the heinous crime and threatened her to make it viral if she revealed the incident to anybody. That’s why she kept mum for over a fortnight. The victim said she was returning from her Mausi’s house in a village under the Jagdishpur block after collecting some books when four men dragged her to a bush and gang-raped her. According to the FIR, when the girl’s family members came to know about the viral video and the incident, the victim lodged a formal complaint against two named and two unknown persons on Thursday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minor-girl-gang-raped-one-arrested/articleshow/77967363.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bareilly||SP functionary who tested Covid +ve 'kills self' after fleeing Bareilly hosp||Bareilly: A functionary of Samajwadi Party's (SP) Bareilly unit, who tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to SRMS medical college for treatment, allegedly fled from the hospital on Saturday night, and his body was recovered from under a flyover on the Bareilly-Nainital Highway in Bhojipura area on Sunday. Police suspect that the 50-year-old had killed himself by jumping from the bridge. The Covid patient had reportedly called his brother after leaving the hospital and said that he was "feeling depressed". He was at the L2 facility of the hospital since August 25 and "used to remain tense".Dr RP Singh, medical superintendent of the private hospital, said, “We checked the CCTV footage after finding a patient missing from the L2 ward. We found that the patient had tried to climb up to the hospital's fourth floor, but was turned away by a guard. Thereafter, he went out of the hospital through a side gate." Singh added, "In the morning, we came to know that he had passed away. He was like a member of our medical college family. He used to run a canteen inside the campus.”District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The deceased was missing since Saturday night. Hospital staff informed us that he was restless during treatment. However, his condition was not serious. He had mild symptoms.”The SP functionary's body was cremated later on Sunday following Covid guidelines. His family didn’t lodge any formal complaint. An official, on the condition of anonymity, told TOI, “It looks like a case of suicide as the deceased also broke the glass on the fourth floor. He later went to a nearby flyover to jump from there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-functionary-who-tested-covid-ve-kills-self-after-fleeing-bareilly-hosp/articleshow/77838685.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation faces big challenge as roads return to pre-pandemic normal||CHENNAI: In the past five months, Chennai residents could have parked a vehicle anywhere – people stayed indoors, there was no traffic and one would have found a parking lot in T Nagar if not fresh vegetables. But with businesses reopening and people flocking to the commercial districts, resident V S Jayaraman is a worried man. He knows that the city’s perennial battle with parking has resumed. “T Nagar is a place where even a small number of vehicles, haphazardly parked, chokes streets and lanes,” he said. And with the pandemic halting the Greater Chennai Corporation’s ambitious app-based street parking project, Jayaraman’s fears are confirmed — lack of parking space has returned to its pre-Covid normalcy. A visit to pedestrian plaza on T Nagar showed that vehicles were parked on the designated spots for a long time for free. Triplicane, Purasaiwalkam and Anna Nagar, where the project was supposed to have been launched, are no different. The parking system would have earned the corporation up to Rs 3 crore a month. “The project was implemented in 600-700 slots from December 2019 up to March 2020. It was to be slowly expanded to around 12,000 slots in the city,” said a senior corporation official. But there are road bumps. One of the issues faced by the contractor is that a majority of attenders who guide vehicles into the slots live in the neighbouring districts. Lack of public transport and customs in local villages during the Aadi-Avani months have stopped them from returning to Chennai, an official said. These attenders guide vehicles to a slot called equivalent car space (ECS), the space required to park one car or three two-wheelers. Parking charges were fixed at Rs 20 on ‘normal’ roads and Rs 40 on ‘premium’ roads such as Khadar Nawas Khan Road in T Nagar. In the three months, total revenue earned was around Rs 12 lakh. Compared to this, the other contractor deployed with a regular token system earned only around Rs 10,000, said a corporation source. A month before the lockdown, corporation commissioner G Prakash, during the launch of the mega streets project, had detailed how monetising parking would be a major source of funds for every civic body in the state. He exhorted other civic body chiefs in the audience to launch such projects. “Covid-19 has dealt a body blow to our plans. Chennai is the first city in the country to have such an app-based parking project on its roads,” said a senior corporation official. Last week, corporation officials held meetings with the contractor and the project is likely to restart from September. However, it will remain restricted to spots around Panagal Park and Pondy Bazaar in T Nagar, Anna Nagar, Purasaiwalkam and Wallajah Road in Triplicane. Parking on the Marina and Besant Nagar beach will be started but only after the beaches are opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-faces-big-challenge-as-roads-return-to-pre-pandemic-normal/articleshow/77840622.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court denies bail to accused||Ahmedabad: A magisterial court at the Mirzapur rural court campus on Sunday refused bail to owners of Popular builder in connection with the charges of attempt to murder, domestic violence and illegal detention. All four accused persons – Monang Patel, his father Raman Patel, uncle Dashrath Patel and one Virendra Patel — were produced before the court after completion of their remand period. The accused sought bail under provisions of section 437 of the CrPC requesting the court to consider that the FIR was filed because of domestic dispute by Monang’s wife, Fizu. However, the court considered gravity of offence, which included charge of attempt to murder. The court refused to grant bail to them with observation that prima facie offence was made out in the FIR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-denies-bail-to-accused/articleshow/77840619.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||GST made states more dependent on Centre: Shreehari Aney||NAGPUR: Former advocate General Shreehari Aney on Saturday said states’ dependency on Centre for revenue had increased after introduction of GST. Speaking at a webinar organized by High Court Bar Association (HCBA) on ‘The journey of Federalism under Indian Constitution from 1950 to 2020’, Aney said, “If same party has governments at Centre and state, it becomes easier for the latter to get their revenue share. States like Maharashtra, where opposition parties are ruling, are made to wait.” The senior counsel explained how the successive governments had amended the Constitution. “In 1977, when the Janata Party was in government, the hen law minister Shanti Bhushan, father of Prashant Bhushan, wrote to nine states dissolving their assemblies and holding mid-term polls stating people had lost faith in Congress,” he said, adding that all parties heading successive governments were at fault for not following Constitution. On use of Article 371(2), the veteran lawyer, who restarted movement for Vidarbha’s statehood, said it dealt with formation of statutory development boards for underdeveloped regions. “Using this Article, Vidarbha region that was part of erstwhile Central Provinces and Berar state was annexed into the State of Bombay. The development boards were constituted to ensure equitable distribution of employment opportunities and seats in educational institutes. However over the years, the dilution of this Article took place which was contrary to federalism,” he said. Advising the lawyers to study history and politics if they wanted to argue the Constitutional matters, he said the Constitution was the first law of the land and that shouldn’t be altered by the Centre and states. He said confrontation between judiciary and executive was old but an independent judiciary was most important for federal structure. Changes in the Constitution over the years had made more unitary, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-made-states-more-dependent-on-centre-aney/articleshow/77841521.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Security concerns keep users away from online banking||AHMEDABAD: While multiple quarters have stressed on cashless transactions in the wake of Covid-19 epidemic, a study carried out by a faculty of Ahmedabad University (AU) has revealed that a large section of the banking services’ users has still not shifted to online mode. The primary reasons for the reluctance comprise security concerns and apprehensions about technology, the study has revealed. The study by Jinal Parikh, assistant professor in marketing at AMSOM of AU, has indicated that Indian urban consumers still prefer a blend of online and offline banking services. “In several instances, we found that the customers maintained two accounts – one for online transactions with limited balance. The perception of insecurity in online banking is reflected among both younger and older respondents,” she said, adding that the human touch was still preferred by many customers. The factors that become decisive in adopting online services include convenience, simplicity and security and they are heavily influenced by demographic factors such as age, income and gender. “Factors such as ‘perceived usefulness’ and ‘perceived ease of use’ considered in the Technology Acceptance Model in western countries were found to be statistically insignificant in the study,” said Parikh, adding that the finding reflected diversity of Indian consumers. Of the total respondents, 62% of men and 38% of women stated that they were using online banking services. Expectedly, customers in the 25-36 years age bracket were the most active in using online services. Industry experts said that after demonetization, the online banking sector has witnessed a huge surge along with rise in cashless transactions. “But shifting to cashless economy is not a simple issue – it involves multiple stakeholders. It may take a few more years,” said a city-based banking official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/security-concerns-keep-users-away-from-online-banking/articleshow/77840628.cms||Parth Shastri
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||2 women die after being hit by tractor||Hyderabad: Two women died and one person suffered injuries in a road accident in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district on Sunday. The victim’s were identified as D Swaroopa, 27, and K Sathemma, 35, from Vikarabad district. Swaroopa and Sathemma were road construction workers with a private firm. The incident took place at Vangapally village near Yadgirigutta, when a truck proceeding towards Warangal hit them on Sunday afternoon. The victims were unloading sand from a tractor trolley on the road side. According to police, Swaroopa, who was pregnant, died on the spot and Sathemma succumbed while undergoing treatment at a nearby government hospital. The tractor driver, Narsimha, escaped with injuries. Narsimha has been taken into custody and his blood samples were sent for alcohol analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-women-die-after-being-hit-by-tractor/articleshow/77840580.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Surat||146mm rain batters Mangrol in 10 hours, Ukai swells||Surat: Mangrol taluka of Surat district received 146 mm rainfall between 6 am to 4 pm when heavy rains pounded the region on Sunday. According to flood control room officials, heavy rains continued in parts of Surat district on Sunday.With 74 mm rainfall on Sunday, Umarpada taluka so far received 3,224mm rainfall this season, the highest in the district. Olpad got 45 mm, Mahuva received 33 mm and Bardoli received 32 mm rainfall on Sunday. In Surat city, Varachha (A) received highest rainfall with 21 mm followed by 16 mm Varachha (B) zone.Due to heavy rainfall in the catchment area of Ukai dam, the dam authority is releasing 1.59 lakh cusecs of water into Tapi river as on Sunday evening. Surat city and district administration is closely watching the outflow of water into Tapi river which passes through Surat city.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), the city received 1,908 mm rainfall this monsoon, the highest since 2013.“Surat city received 1,908 mm rainfall, which is the highest in seven years. In 2013, Surat city had received 2,135 mm rainfall,” an SMC official said.Heavy rainfall across South Gujarat has filled the dams with fresh water. According to Narmada Water Resources department data, average water in all 13 dams of South Gujarat is 87.06 percent as on Sunday and increasing. Moreover, nine of 13 dams in the region are overflowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/146mm-rain-batters-mangrol-in-10-hours-ukai-swells/articleshow/77839632.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why awareness about hepatitis is essential now||NEW DELHI: Hepatitis is a silent killer that claims more lives than HIV, malaria and dengue combined — and yet the awareness about it remains low. Even those suffering from it don’t know about it until the symptoms turn serious, leading to a high mortality rate, say doctors. Hepatitis is caused by five main hepatitis viruses, types A, B, C, D and E, of which B and C have the most serious consequences. Hepatitis B, C and D spread through contact with the blood of an infected person. It can be through transfusion of infected blood, sharing of contaminated needles or injection material. Hepatitis B and C can be transmitted from a mother to the baby and through sexual contact. Types A and E viruses are spread through faeco-oral transmission, and are most often transmitted through consumption of contaminated water or food. “Hepatitis A is more common in children and hepatitis E in adults. We are seeing a lot of cases of both these days,” said Dr Anil Arora, chairperson of gastroenterology department at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “People, especially pregnant women who are at a higher risk of morbidity and mortality due to hepatitis E, should take all hygienic precautions.” Public health specialists say hygienic handling of food and water, preventive vaccination and mass awareness about the symptoms are needed to reduce the burden. A vaccine is available for hepatitis B, and all infants should get a shot as soon as possible after birth, preferably within 24 hours. The vaccine, however, can be taken at any age, a doctor at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said. There is no vaccine for hepatitis C, a major cause of liver cancer. “There is a huge demand for a Covid-19 vaccine. On the other hand, a vaccine for hepatitis B, which claims thousands of lives every year, is available at a nominal cost, but is not universally administered,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, paediatric gastroenterologist and group medical director at Indraprastha Apollo hospitals. Urging careful usage of needles and blood products, Dr Arora said, “People should not share personal items such as toothbrushes, razors and nail clippers with an infected person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-awareness-about-hepatitis-is-essential-now/articleshow/77840642.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||2 accused of raising Khalistani flag held||Bathinda/New Delhi: Two youths from a village in Punjab’s Moga district, accused of raising a Khalistani flag atop the Moga deputy commissioner office complex and desecrating the national flag on August 14, have been arrested by the special cell of Delhi Police. The third accused, Akashdeep Singh, was arrested in Punjab on August 20. The duo, who belong to Rauli village in Moga district, was intercepted at GT Karnal Road in Delhi before they could flee to Pakistan via Nepal for training, Delhi Police DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said. Their handler had directed them to go to Delhi and also wire transferred Rs 20,000 for the journey. They were planning to cross over to Nepal and reach Pakistan for training but were apprehended while in the process of arranging their escape. Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh said the three men were lured by the offer of easy money by Sikhs for Justice (SFJ)’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannun who had asked people to hoist Khalistani flags on government buildings and get rewarded. Inderjit Singh Gill did odd jobs. Jaspal, whose father is an inspector in Punjab Police, was running a small internet café in the village and Akashdeep was pursuing ITI diploma in motor welding. Jaspal and Inderjit are friends and Akashdeep is Jaspal’s cousin. A police team from Moga, which had production warrants to secure custody of the two arrested youths, got their custody on Sunday evening. In initial interrogation, according to Moga police, Inderjit revealed that he is a Class X dropout and worked as a driver at Angitha Sahib in Rauli. He had also worked for an MNC at Jalandhar in 2012. Since his early years, he was influenced by the Khalistan movement. On August 8, 2020, his maternal brother Jagga persuaded him to listen to a banned YouTube channel, namely ‘Sikhs for Justice,’ owned by a proscribed group of the same name run by US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun. Inderjit told the cops that there were anti-India lectures on the YouTube channel and the speakers exhorted Sikh youth to build Khalistan, hoist Khalistani flag and tear Indian flag on August 14, 15 and 16. The speakers had announced a reward of $2,500 for hoisting the Khalistani flag and tearing the Indian flag from government buildings and a reward of $1,25,000 for doing the same at the Red Fort and other historical buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-accused-of-raising-khalistani-flag-held/articleshow/77840644.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Convocations graduate into e-events||Ahmedabad: Coronavirus has not only changed the way students are taught at schools and colleges, it is also transforming graduation rituals. No longer can one find university students dressed in grand robes, waiting for their turn to be awarded degrees by the guest of honour. Even bidding adieu to batch mates is now a remote experience, literally. For instance, Gujarat University (GU) will hold its annual convocation on September 1 as an online event. As many as 10,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students will be awarded degrees in absentia at the e-function. “Only the vice-chancellor, the registrar, and faculty members will attend the online convocation,” said an official of the GU examination department. He said that managing such a large number of students online was not possible. The virtual convocation will be held at 3pm and the deans will announce the names of the graduating students. The degrees will be given at a later date. GU vice-chancellor Himanshu Pandya will deliver the inaugural speech at the online event, said sources. GU has about 350 affiliated colleges and holds convocation ceremonies twice a year. Usually the annual convocation’s invitee list includes all faculty members, a chief guest, the state governor, and students among others. The second event has sparse attendance and the vice-chancellor and the provost hand over the degrees to students. Colleges and universities have been closed since mid-March due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/convocations-graduate-into-e-events/articleshow/77840638.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Dist crosses 1,000 Covid deaths; 100 in 141 days, 900 in 32||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district crossed 1,000 on Sunday. The first 100 deaths were registered in 141 days, and last 900 have died in the last 32 days. The district’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 3.56%, which is above the world average (3.39%), India (1.79%) and state (3.15%). As per data of district civil surgeon (CS), the district registered 32 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday taking the total number of fatalities to 1,011. The district had recorded 109 deaths in 141 days between March 11 and July 29, and 902 deaths in 32 days from July 30 to August 30. The data shows total coronavirus cases in the district were 28,328 as on Sunday for CFR of 3.56%. The CFR was 2.27% when the district crossed 100 deaths on July 29. The CFR will be higher if one considers all data from CS, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP). As reported by TOI on August 26, CS, nodal officer for pandemic, does not consider data provided by NMC. The office of CS sends its own data to the state government on daily basis. If the collective data of CS, NMC and ZP is considered, the number of deaths will be 1,146. As per data of CS, number of deaths were 765 in city as on Sunday, whereas they were 919 as per NMC. Remaining deaths are from Nagpur Rural and other districts. Similarly, the number of positive cases was 31,939. Thus, CFR comes to 3.64%. Also, if we consider this data, 1,049 deceased are from the district itself. Among 35 districts in the state, the district is 4th to cross 1,000 deaths, after Mumbai, Thane and Pune. The district was at 12th position when it crossed 100 deaths on July 29. In Vidarbha, the district was second after Akola to cross 100 deaths. When the district crossed 1,000 deaths, Akola has 151 fatalities. As per analysis of deaths by NMC, 82% of total deceased had comorbidities. Still, 60% of the deceased reported to Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) after 6-9 or more days of symptoms. In city, highest number of fatalities are from Ashi Nagar zone followed by Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Mangalwari, Lakadganj, Nehru Nagar, Hanuman Nagar, Dharampeth and Laxmi Nagar. In Nagpur Rural, Kamptee tehsil has highest deaths among 13 tehsils, followed by Nagpur, Hingna, Saoner, Parsheoni, Katol, Umred, Mauda, Kalmeshwar, Narkhed, Ramtek, Bhivapur and Kuhi. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar along with NMC and collector office has started door-to-door survey of suspected patients and their screening by taking oxygen saturation level to control high growth of deaths. Guardian minister Nitin Raut plans to take advice of Mumbai commissioner Iqbal Chahal and experts from the capital, who are set to visit the city on September 4. He has also proposed jumbo Covid-19 hospital with 1,000 beds at Mankapur. Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja said, “District crossing 1,000 deaths raises a big question on the entire system. There is a need to study the reason behind late reporting by patients. GMCH and IGGMCH are finding it difficult to save some patients brought in critical condition. These two hospitals are facing serious staff crunch which needs to be resolved. Private hospitals need to increase beds along with giving facility of ICU, operation theatres, kidney dialysis etc. Need of the hour is to admit all asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) under the observation of non-Covid private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-crosses-1000-covid-deaths-100-in-141-days-900-in-32/articleshow/77840624.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Court employee accuses wife, lover of assault||AHMEDABAD: Nipam Ghavri, a resident of Vadaj, has lodged a complaint against his wife and her alleged lover for assault with Vadaj police. He claimed that he was attacked when he found about their illicit relationship. Ghavri works as nazir with principal civil court in Dehgam. According to his complaint with Vadaj police, on April 25, his wife had left home on pretext of getting medicine from their residence in Akhbarnagar. On suspicion, Ghavri followed her and found her with a man, later identified as Nitin Dutt, a resident of Nava Vadaj. “When he confronted the two, he was reportedly rebuffed. The duo confessed love for each other and asked Ghavri to divorce her. On the same day, his wife asked him to leave the residence. Ever since, he lives with his parents in Madhavpura,” said an official, adding that attempts of reconciliation with his in-laws also did not yield any result as they refused to mediate. Another attempt of talks on June 28 also failed when Ghavri was allegedly attacked by his wife, her parents and Dutt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-employee-accuses-wife-lover-of-assault/articleshow/77840649.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR launches competition to increase green cover in ULBs||Hyderabad: MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday announced an annual competition for urban local bodies to increase the green cover in their respective areas, based on which, awards would be given to them. Launching the ‘Green Space Index’ for urban areas, KTR said 85% weightage would be given to over all green cover improvement in the municipality, 5% to innovative methods adopted to do it and 10% for designs. The competitive programme will continue for four years. The state government will record the present extent and status of greenery in every urban local body through GIS and satellite imagery. The initiative is in tune with the guidelines issued by the Union housing and urban affairs department in “green cover-open space” category. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-launches-competition-to-increase-green-cover-in-ulbs/articleshow/77840616.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Floods hit 55,000 in Vidarbha, Wainganga breaches banks||NAGPUR: The flood that receded in Nagpur district as rains subsided continued its fury further in Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadhiroli districts. Almost entire Bhandara town was marooned with the deluge extending in rural areas also. Food packets had to be air dropped from helicopter at Shingardeep village in Parseoni Taluka of Nagpur district where 250 persons were stranded. It may take another day for the floods to completely recede it if does not rain any more, said officials. Over 1,300 persons remained stranded at Ladaj village in Chandrapur district as efforts to evacuate them through helicopter failed. The IAF chopper had to abort an attempt as there was no space to land. The rising water levels prevented boats from reaching the village, said the district collector Ajay Gulhane. The IAF had sent a single chopper on request of the district administration, he said. IAF choppers also flew from the base at Nagpur saving people in Balaghat district of neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. Compiling data from different district collectorates indicates that not less than 55,000 persons have been estimated to be affected by the deluge in nearly 200 villages of the five districts of Vidarbha. Of these, nearly 30,000 had to be rescued to safer places with the help of National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF), State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF), Army and also the Indian Air Force (IAF). In Nagpur district alone, more than 26,000 stranded persons had to be evacuated. As it stopped raining in Madhya Pradesh, the flow of water from the Chaurai dam that had caused the deluge in Maharashtra, reduced by 90% to 400 cubic metres per second (cumecs). With this, the flow from downstream Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi dams on the Maharashtra side of Pench river reduced to 4,000 cumecs as against 6,600 cumecs a day ago. However, the impact on Gosikhurd reservoir continued. The flow of water released from here increased to 28,000 from 21,000 cumecs on Friday. This affected the Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gondia districts. Roads leading to Chhattisgarh remained shut, said sources. Apart from it, 10 internal roads connecting remote parts of the Gadchiroli district were also cut off. Nagpur: Despite the relief, Nagpur district continued to remain the most affected in terms of persons. According to a note shared by the district collectorate 48 villages in four talukas-- Mouda, Kamptee, Parseoni, and Kuhi— were affected by the floods. More than 26,000 persons from 4,500 families had to be evacuated to safer locations. Contingents of NDRF, SDRF, NMC, army and local rescue teams were pressed into action. Among those rescued, 5,188 persons have been kept in dedicated shelter homes set up in schools and government buildings, said a press note by the district administration. A contingent of the army has been deployed at Kuhi. “At the shelter homes, is its being ensured that Covid distancing is maintained so that it does not lead to spread of infection. There is enough food and water for the distressed persons,” said an official handling the disaster management in Nagpur. Bhandara: Almost entire Bhandara town remained marooned since Friday. “We were completely taken by surprise almost entire city now remains marooned. Areas like bus stand, Gram Sevak ward and other localities have been inundated. Families had to spend night on the terraces,” said a local resident. According to a note shared by the district collector Sandeep Kadam, 67 villages in six talukas – Bhandara, Pavni, Tumsar Mohadi, Sakoli, Kalhni and Lakhandur— have been affected. The floods have disrupted 2,600 families. This translates to around 8,000 to 10,000 persons. Water from Totladoh on Pench and Sanjay Sarovar dam on Bag Nadi in Madhya Pradesh has resulted in Wainganga breaching its banks. This has led to an unprecedented situation. Boats have been deployed to rescue persons. Chandrapur: The meteorological department has issued a heavy rain warning for the next 24 hours also. Meanwhile lives of 1,300 persons of Ladaj village remained in danger even as rescue efforts by NDRF and SDRF teams continued. The state’s disaster management minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who is also the MLA from Bramhpuri assembly constituency in the district, said if needed helicopters will be requisitioned again. According to data gathered from different government officials, more than 3,000 persons are expected to be affected by the floods. So far around 500 persons have been rescued. Gadchiroli: District collector Deepak Singla said the situation was expected to normalize soon as there were no rains in Gadchiroli for the last two days. If it remains dry, the water will soon recede. The floods had, however, cut off Gadchiroli from the national highway. Roads leading to Nagpur, Chamorshi and Chandrapur were cut off. Rescue teams evacuated 384 persons in district. Gondia: Over 1,700 persons were affected due to the floods in 50 villages out of which 1,000 persons had be shifted. Even as their villages was encircled with water, the rest could remain there safely, said a district administration official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/floods-hit-55000-in-vidarbha-wainganga-breaches-banks/articleshow/77841575.cms||Shishir Arya
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||DRDO chief bats for self-reliance in bio-med technology||HYDERABAD: Brace up for technologies that can detect Covid-19 with a voice test. “Technologies that are being developed in India can come up with this. We are close to that,” DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy said at IIT-Hyderabad’s 12th Foundation Day on Sunday. During his virtual address, Satheesh Reddy, who is also secretary of department of defence, R&D, said DRDO has come out with at least 75 Covid-related products. He said the Indian industry with indigenous technology has come out with products which were need of the hour. “We have seen technologies through which Covid-19 or pneumonia can be detected from an X-ray making use of an app in just 30 seconds. This will get even more simple,” he said. Citing an example, he said if one were to speak a few words like ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, that should suffice to detect if a person has Covid-19 or not. “The need of the hour is to come up with bio medical technologies. This is an area the country is lacking in. We have the capabilities and we should concentrate on developing our own technologies. In the Covid context, while in a year 47,000 PPE kits were being produced, because of the emergency situation, six lakh PPE kits are being produced every day and the infrastructure we have can deliver another 10 lakh PPE kits a day,” he said. “The concept of Atma Nirbhar is to develop our own technologies. It does not mean indigenous production, which has been happening for a long time,” the top scientist added. IIT Hyderabad director Prof B S Murthy said IIT-Hyderabad had come up with 50 research projects to fight Covid. “We share a special bond with Japan and I am pleased to share that we have approval for Phase-2 of friendship which will support academic, research and infrastructure development at IIT-H,” he added. Asian Institute of Gasteroenterology chairman Dr D Nageshwara Rao, IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan and IIT-H chairman Dr BRV Mohan Reddy also spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-chief-bats-for-self-reliance-in-bio-med-tech/articleshow/77840640.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||20-year-old drowns while taking selfie||Dehradun: A 20-year-old man drowned in a swollen local river after his feet slipped while taking a selfie in the Maldevta area of Dehradun on Sunday afternoon. The deceased, whose body was later recovered, was believed to be part of a procession to immerse Ganesh idol in the river. The victim, identified as Shubham, resident of Clement Town area, entered the river for taking a selfie and was swept away. Upon receiving the information of the accident, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) led by head constable Hridyesh Parihar reached the spot and launched search and rescue operation that lasted for a couple of hours before the body was recovered almost 2 km downstream from the spot where he slipped into the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/20-year-old-drowns-while-taking-selfie/articleshow/77838718.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Satkar Committee returns Bir taken away from former Khalsa college principal||Hoshiarpur: The Bir of Guru Granth Sahib taken away by Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee from the residence of former Khalsa College principal in Bassi Jalal village near Tanda has been returned. Satkar Committee members themselves brought the Bir back to principal Jaswant Singh Sandhu’s residence on Saturday after matter was amicably resolved in a meeting held by Tanda DSP Daljit Singh Khakh on Wednesday. He also remained present when the Bir was brought back to the house. The Bir was taken away by Amritsar-based Satkar Committee, led by Balbir Singh Muchhal, in the evening of August 9 from house of Sandhu, an Amritdhari, on the ground that meat and eggs were cooked and consumed in the house. After TOI reported the matter on August 11, the issue triggered a strong debate in the community and Akal Takht jathedar Harpreet Singh issued a direction that no organisation had the authority to forcibly take away Bir from a place without approval from the takht. In this debate, many Sikh activists and netizens pointed out that there was no bar on consuming meat or eggs in Sikh code of conduct and only halal was barred for Sikhs. Sandhu, 78, who served in two SGPC-controlled colleges – first as a lecturer and then as a principal, said he was relieved and happy. He has been having the Parkash of Guru Granth Sahib at his home since 1976 and reciting Gurbani from it has been his daily routine, he said. He stuck to the point that he would get back the same Bir. Apart from giving a complaint to the police, he had also sent a complaint to Akal Takht jathedar. Jalandhar-based Satkar Committee leader Sukhjit Singh Khose was also part of negotiations and helped resolved the matter. After this incident, a Jalandhar-based family also reported that the Satkar Committee had taken away a handwritten Bir of Guru Granth Sahib from their home in 2016 and never returned it. This Bir was returned to them on August 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/satkar-committee-returns-bir-taken-away-from-former-khalsa-college-principal/articleshow/77840651.cms||IP Singh
August 31, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked for forging documents of lover’s husband||Pilibhit: Late night on Saturday, police booked Sandeep Singh of village Dandwa Piparia under Puranpur Kotwali police station, for fraudulently obtaining a passport by impersonating one Gurdev Singh of village Damgarhi under Gajraula police station and forging his documents, following orders of superintendent of police, Jai Prakash Yadav. The wife of Gurdev Singh, who had an illicit relationship with the fraudster, has also been booked as accomplice in the fraud and criminal conspiracy. Notably, both accused had gone to Australia in January this year, showing their relationship as husband and wife.SP Yadav has also promised necessary action against those police personnel, who were responsible for carrying out Sandeep Singh's verification, based on which the passport was approved.In his complaint, Gurdev Singh stated that Sandeep Singh, in collusion with Kulwant Kaur, had labelled his photo on all documents of the former, to obtain a passport in the latter's name.Copies of the doctored documents, with photographs of Sandeep Singh on his documents, were provided to him by passport authorities at Bareilly, when he applied for a fresh passport on August 24 to substantiate his suspicion that it was Sandeep who had forged his documents. He provided copies of the doctored documents to police as evidence, Gurdev Singh said.He told TOI that after reaching Australia, his wife and Sandeep went separate ways as she visited their son, Narayan Singh. Even after reaching Pilibhit on August 24, she stayed away from their home, he said.SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the accused duo was booked under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forging a document), 468 (committing forgery for cheating), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine any document or electronic record) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC.The police force were kept busy with Muharram duties on Sunday, due to which the accused could not be nabbed. They will be arrested soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-forging-documents-of-lovers-husband/articleshow/77837188.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||The heart doctor with a big heart passes away||By: Dr O P YadavaBorn on June 20, 1917 in the dusty town of Magwe in central British Burma, the young Sivaramakrishna Iyer Padmavati was one of the brightest students at the Rangoon Medical College, graduating MBBS ‘magna cum laude’. However, Japan’s invasion of Burma in 1942 and forced Padmavati, her mother and sisters to flee Magwe for Coimbatore, leaving the menfolk behind. After three agonising years of no news of the men, the family was reunited in 1945 when the war ended. It’s probably these experiences and her indomitable spirit that went on to shape her career in cardiology, a field that hardly existed in India at the time. Such was her contribution that it earned her sobriquet of the ‘Godmother of Cardiology’, and many will mourn her death on Saturday at the age of 103. Padmavati did her post graduate studies in London and acquired Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Edinburgh. After a stint in Sweden under Gustav Nylin and Gunnat Bjorck at the Sodersjukhuset hospital, she headed for the mecca of cardiology -- John Hopkins in Baltimore -- and later to the Harvard Medical School, Boston, where she trained with the legendary Helen Taussig and Paul Dudley White. On her return to India, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, the then Union Health Minister, appointed her to the faculty at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi. Subsequently she was elevated to professor and head of the Department of Medicine. She went on to establish North India’s first Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in 1954. Besides her clinical responsibilities, she also did valuable epidemiological research. In 1967, she took over as director-principal of Maulana Azad Medical College and associated Irwin and G B Pant Hospitals. It was here that she introduced the first DM course in cardiology, the first coronary care unit and the first coronary care van in India. Dr S Padmavati founded the All India Heart Foundation in 1962, and the National Heart Institute in 1981, developing it into a modern heart hospital in Delhi with the first cardiac catheterisation laboratory in the private sector in the southern hemisphere. Awards and accolades came fast and furious, including the Padma Bhushan in 1967 and Padma Vibhushan in 1992. But having seen her as a rookie medical student, as a resident doctor, as a consultant cardiac surgeon and as the chief executive officer of National Heart Institute, one can testify to the fact that there was never a trace of arrogance. Instead, she was quiet, firm and ever-graceful in her silk sarees. On a lighter note, she was quite the sports freak, lapping 20-30 lengths of the pool well into her 90s. Spartan in diet, she did enjoy her glass of port every evening with a 30-minute dose of ‘BBC News’. You will be missed, Paddy madam. Dr Yadava is chief cardiac surgeon & chief executive officer, National Heart Institute (Friends, colleagues and admirers who wish to pay tribute to Dr S I Padmavati can do so on www.toi.in)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-heart-doctor-with-a-big-heart-passes-away/articleshow/77840664.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha surpasses 1,500 Covid-19 deaths, 1,000 in Nagpur dist alone||NAGPUR: Vidarbha surpassed the 1,500-mark of Covid-19 deaths after registering 44 fatalities on Sunday. Alarmingly, out of the total 1,542 deaths in the region, 1,011 have been in Nagpur district alone. These include 765 from Nagpur city, 149 from Nagpur rural and 97 from other states/regions that happened in Nagpur district. The case fatality rate of the region is over 2.7%. Nagpur district reported 32 deaths on Sunday, with 23 coming from city, seven from rural and two from other regions/states. Yavatmal and Buldhana reported three deaths each and Gondia two fatalities. Chandrapur, Bhandara, Amravati and Washim reported one death each. A total of 2,021 fresh positive cases were added to the region’s tally on Sunday. They came from Nagpur (1,054), Chandrapur (270), Amravati (152), Yavatmal (121), Bhandara (106), Akola (106), Buldhana (88), Washim (54), Wardha (32), Gondia (26), and Gadchiroli (12). The regions caseload reached 56,578 on Sunday. Five out of the 11 districts reported more than 100 cases, with Chandrapur seeing its highest single-day spike of 270 cases. The day also saw 1,744 patients recovering from the disease. In Nagpur 1,054 patients recovered while Yavatmal reported highest single-day recovery of 239 patients. Amravati saw 127 patients recovering, Bhandara 116, Chandrapur 48, Gondia 45, Washim 31, Wardha 29, Akola 25, Buldhana 18 and Gadchiroli (12), taking the total number of recovered patients to 35,538. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is improving by the day and reached nearly 63% on Sunday. Still, it has a long way to go to catch up with state’s recovery rate of 72% and national average of 76%. YAVATMAL: Record 239 patients recovered in a day in the district on Sunday. The day also Covid claiming three more lives, taking death toll of Yavatmal to 84. Two of them are men, both aged 55, from Yavatmal tehsil. The third deceased is a 70-year-old woman from Yavatmal city. Out of the total deaths, 58 have been registered in August. The district registered 121 fresh cases (78 men and 43 women) on Sunday. Yavatmal city alone reported 47 patients (25 men and 22 women), its highest single-day count so far. Now, Yavatmal has 3,288 total cases, After 2,462 recoveries and 84 deaths, 742 patients are under treatment. According to the district administration, results of 2,271 samples are awaited . AMRAVATI: The district reported one death and 152 fresh cases on Sunday, taking its toll to 128 and Covid count to 5,592. The civil surgeon’s office reported that the deceased was a 46-year-old man from Sai Nagar. The day also saw 127 patients recovering to took the total to 4,151. There are 1,313 active cases, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 297 in home isolation, the office stated. The rural belt accounted for 36 cases to take its count to 1,634. Shirala reported six cases while Anjangaon Surji and Paratwada reported five each. Chikhaldara and Daryapur reported four each while Anjangaon Bari near Amravati reported three. Two cases came from Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil. A case each came from seven rural places while four patients came from outside the district. The remaining 92 cases were reported from the city. Dastur Nagar and Camp reported seven cases each while Yashoda Nagar, Parvati Nagar and Nawathe Nagar accounted for six cases each. Four cases each were reported from Balaji Nagar, Badnera, Pundlikbaba Colony while two cases each came from Krushna Nagar, Rajapeth, Saroj Colony, Hamalpura, Dastur Nagar, Masanganj, Rahul Nagar, Narayan Nagar, Ganesh Colony, Kanwar Nagar, Amba Gate, Bhagyodaya Colony and Govind Nagar. A case each was reported from 39 other localities. BULDHANA: A 68-year-old man from Jagdari in Buldhana tehsil and a 65-year-old woman from Jambhora in Chikhli tehsil died during treatment on Sunday. A woman patient had died on Saturday in Buldhana. The death toll of district has reached 48. With 88 fresh cases, Buldhana’s Covid count surpassed the 3,000-mark to reach 3071. On the other hand, 18 patients recovered on Sunday, taking total recoveries to 2,124. Buldhana has 899 patients under treatment. GONDIA: The district reported 26 new cases and 45 recoveries. A 72-year-old patient from Chirchalbandh in Amgaon tehsil died during treatment at a government medical college on Saturday while a 60-year-old patient from Amgaon died on Sunday, taking the district’s toll to 19. Now, Gondia has 1,393 cases, with 920 of them recovered and 454 under treatment. WASHIM: A 65-year-old man from Khadki village in Risod tehsil died during treatment on Sunday, taking the district’s toll to 31. Washim also reported 54 new cases while 31 patients recovered on Sunday. Now, the district has total 1,722 cases while 1,255 of them have recovered. The recovery rate is around 73%. A total of 436 patients are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: The district registered record 270 patients in a day, taking its caseload to 2,344 on Sunday. Out of the new patients, 71 are prisoners and an officer from the district jail. A 76-year-old woman from Navegaon in Mul tehsil died during treatment at GMCH on Saturday night. The new patients include 166 from Chandrapur and suburbs. Nagbhid reported 21 cases, Bramhapuri 24, Warora 13, Korpana 14, Mul 9, Chimur 1, Rajura 8, Bhadrawati 2, Saoli 5, Ballarpur 5 and Gondipipri 2. The day also saw 48 recoveries, taking the total recovery to 1,224 in district. Now, 1,094 active patients are under treatment. Apart from declaring seven-day total lockdown from September 3, the administration has launched door-to-door screening of people aged above 50 years. BHANDARA: Record 116 patients recovered in Bhandara district on Sunday. On the other hand, 106 new patients were detected. A patient died during treatment, taking the district’s toll to 22. Now, Bhandara has 2,141 cases, with 726 of them recovered, 22 dead and 1,393 under treatment. AKOLA: After recording decline in Covid cases for three weeks, Akola registered 106 cases on Sunday, taking the caseload to 3,942. With 25 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered patients reached 3,169. Recovery rate of Akola had touched 85% last week but reduced to 80% on Sunday. Total 622 patients are under treatment in the district. GADCHIROLI: The district reported 12 new patients on Sunday while 12 recovered and got discharge. New patients include six from Gadchiroli, three from Sironcha and three from Armori. The caseload reached 1,099, with 866 of them recovered. With one death reported earlier, Gadchiroli has 232 patients under treatment. WARDHA: The Covid count of district reached 947 after 32 fresh cases (19 male and 13 female) were reported on Sunday. The day also saw 29 patients getting discharge after recovery. A total of 278 test reports were received on Sunday. Cases came from Wardha (14), Hinganghat (12), Ashti (3), and one each from Pulgaon, Arvi and Karanja. A total of 620 patients have recovered while 21 died due to Covid-19, leaving 306 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-surpasses-1500-covid-19-deaths-1k-in-nagpur-dist-alone/articleshow/77841450.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘Spike in Aug mainly due to no contact tracing, testing’||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), which had earlier adopted mass quarantine strategy to contain the spread of Covid-19, has allegedly given up tracing and testing of high-risk contacts of positive patients. It is one of the major reasons behind rapid spread of infection in the city in August, as per corporators and experts. As per the NMC’s data, the city has reported 24,529 Covid-19 positive patients against 1,24,595 tests done till August 29. Out of the 89,050 tests done in 29 days of August, 20,884 have reported positive. Of the total 89,050 persons tested, some were symptomatic patients who were not high-risk contacts of earlier positive patients. If 89,050 tests are considered, 4.26 tests were conducted behind every positive person in 29 days of August. In July end, the civic body had kept target of tracing and testing minimum 20 persons against one positive patient to contain spread of the disease. Also, guardian minister Nitin Raut had announced 4-T programme — tracking, tracing, testing and treatment in July end. In May, epidemiologist Dr Sanjay Zodpey had stressed NMC should continue tracing and testing high-risk contacts of positive persons and quarantine them by scaling up infrastructure after full lockdown is eased. From March 11, when city’s first case was detected, to mid July, the NMC adopted mass quarantine system which was considered a major reason behind fewer cases and deaths. Over 1,500 persons were traced and tested, leading to detection of 80 cases in Satranjipura, 402 in Mominpura and 355 in Naik Talao-Bangladesh. In July end, the civic body implemented home isolation for asymptomatic positive patients and home quarantine for high-risk contacts. The city had registered 3,645 cases till July 31. TOI had reported immediate family members of some Covid-19 positive shopkeepers were not tested and still running the shops. It also came to fore that family members had no option but to take care of positive patients in Covid-19 isolation ward of GMCH. Ideally, they should have been tested and advised 14-day home quarantine. Corporator Dayashankar Tiwari told TOI, “Tracing and testing of contacts of positive patients is now a distant dream for the NMC. There is no monitoring of positive patients. These issues, coupled with few more reasons, are responsible for widespread of disease in the city. People are getting tests done on their own if they are in need of treatment or symptomatic or high-risk contacts,” he said. Tiwari said even if corporators inform the NMC officials and staffers, they are not tracing and testing contacts. “A positive person’s address was given in Gandhibagh zone instead of Mangalwari zone. Despite alerting officials of Mangalwari Zone, no contact tracing and testing was done. After eight days, five more from his family tested positive, and nobody from NMC had visited the house,” he said. “NMC could have monitored majority of asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients by admitting them to Covid care centres. It would have helped in tracing, testing and monitoring high-risk contacts,” he said. Another corporator on condition of anonymity said, “A two-member team for each ward visits house of some positive patients, inquires about their health and returns after asking the close contacts to get tests done. NMC control room follows up by calling up mobile number of positive patients. Can this prevent spread of the disease?” he said. The corporator also said, “There is no ambulance service at doorsteps. Contacts have no option but to take symptomatic patients for admission to hospitals apart from getting day-to-day essentials,” he said. NMC zone officials cited staff shortage for not tracing and testing contacts. People can get tests done at the 34 centres opened for the purpose, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spike-in-aug-mainly-due-to-no-contact-tracing-testing/articleshow/77840636.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Disparity in rain data has experts puzzled||IDUKKI: Two separate data paint a different picture of the extent of the downpour linked to the landslide at Pettimudi, Idukki, in the early hours of August 7. Sixty-five persons have been confirmed dead in the tragedy. As per data released by Kanan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP), which owns the land where the disaster occurred, the region received 61.2cm of rainfall the day before. The company, which issued a statement explaining the events of the day, said that on August 6 it rained 610mm. A total of 159cm of rainfall lashed the region over the preceding 96 hours. It was one of the highest precipitations Munnar has seen since 1924, KDHP said. However, state disaster management authority (SDMA) officials are not impressed. “The IMD weather station in Munnar recorded 226mm on August 6,” Fahad Marzook, hazard analyst (meteorology) with SDMA told TOI. “When a place receives over 200mm within a day it is considered extremely heavy rainfall,” he said. According to KDHP data, the area received over 300cm rain every day from August 3. Initial data issued by the company recorded 242mm rainfall on August 6 at Pettimudi, SDMA sources said. “The 610mm figure is improbable. Furthermore, the data shows that from August 3 onwards the area received an average of 30cm rainfall daily. If the area received so much rain over repeated days the landslide should have occurred earlier,” they said. “If 610mm was indeed received on August 6, we need to study details of the same to attribute reasons,” another source said. “Millimetre (mm) has become the standard rainfall measurement. IMD should monitor the rain stations in private estates to avoid rain data-related confusion in future,” said climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil. Meanwhile, a joint search operation by forest department officials and natives in Pettimudi led to the discovery of the body of another landslide victim in Poothakkuzhi, over 14km from the site of the disaster. “The body was found beneath a rock in the river and will be recovered on Monday,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. “The importance of IMD rain stations in Munnar will be included in my report to the government,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/disparity-in-rain-data-has-experts-puzzled/articleshow/77839667.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 pandemic has renewed interest in ayurveda: DyCM||Ahmedabad: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Sunday that outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has renewed worldwide interest in ayurveda, which has been pioneered in India. Patel was speaking at the dedication of a government ayurveda college at Mehsana, at a cost of Rs 5 crore. He also dedicated a railway overbridge at Ambliyasan which has been constructed at a cost of Rs 45 crore and another railway overbridge which has been constructed at a cost of Rs 34 crore at Navi Sodhavi. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-pandemic-has-renewed-interest-in-ayurveda-dycm/articleshow/77840663.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||Rain lashes Doon, Met predicts more showers on Monday||Dehradun: Intermittent light-to-moderate showers were witnessed in Dehradun and in several other parts of Uttarakhand on Sunday. Dehradun recorded 4 mm rainfall with showers continuing till night. The districts in Kumaon region received moderate-to-heavy rainfall with Kaladhungi in Nainital district receiving the maximum of 70 mm rain. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre has predicted light-to-moderate rain/thunderstorms at a few places in Uttarkashi, Dehradun, Tehri, Pauri and Nainital district on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-lashes-doon-met-predicts-more-showers-on-monday/articleshow/77838730.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vadodara||Man gets 10-years jail for raping Class X girl||VADODARA: A 20-year-old man has been sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment after being convicted of abducting and raping a Class X girl in January 2018. The court of special POCSO (protection of children from sexual offences) judge M K Chauhan also fined the convict Amit Prajapati of Rs 30,000. According to the case details, on January 15 in 2018, Prajapati, a resident of Khodiyarnagar on New VIP Road, had abducted the then 14-year-old girl and took her to Pavagadh where he raped her. A day before the abduction, Prajapati had also called the girl’s father and threatened to kill him if he would not get the girl married to him. At Pavagadh, Prajapati threatened the girl of either killing her father or of killing himself. The convict was nabbed by the girl’s family members when he was returning with her the same evening. Later, he was taken to Sama police station where an offence of rape, abduction, criminal intimidation and violation of POCSO Act and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. During the trial, the additional public prosecutor J M Kansara submitted forensic and medical evidence against Prajapati. “The statements given by witnesses and material witnesses were also upheld by the court for convicting Prajapati,” Kansara said. Of the Rs 30,000 fine slapped on Prajapati, the court has asked that Rs 15,000 be awarded to the rape-survivor as compensation for her rehabilitation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-gets-10-years-jail-for-raping-class-x-girl/articleshow/77838560.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Outstation JEE students won’t face travel problems: Authorities||Nagpur: Outstation students appearing for JEE won’t be inconvenienced regarding entry and movement in Nagpur, according to the district collectorate. There were concerns over whether those coming from other districts or states would face any issue regarding entry and if any restriction will be placed upon their movements. Exams start from September 1 and will go on till September 6. According to resident district collector Ravindra Khajanchi, there is no requirement of e-pass. “Students can come, appear for the exam and even go back the same day,” he said. With public transport not back to full strength, compounded by restrictions on number of people who can travel in private taxis, there are other concerns about how students will reach centres. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a JEE centre in-charge said the bigger problem was now about candidates being able to reach at all. “Due to flooding in and around our district, candidates are struggling to travel even with their own vehicles. Candidates from Bhandara will especially face a problem because of traffic getting blocked due to overflowing nullahs and rivulets,” said the in-charge. Political leaders too are now getting involved in trying to ensure that candidates do not face travel problems. BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe on Sunday appealed to his party’s Maharashtra unit to help students. On Twitter, Sahasrabuddhe reached out to the state unit and said that help should be provided to students and their parents to not only reach the exam centres but also to find a place to stay, if need be. A coaching institute owner said the exam conducting body, National Testing Agency (NTA), should have shown leniency. “First of all the exam should not have been held till all transportation facilities become operational. Right now we have a situation where it is tilted more towards those with money. A student from rural areas won’t be able to afford a private taxi to reach here. Due to social distancing, the private taxi driver can’t pack many people which will increase the fare,” the owner said. He added that it’s best to allow students a chance for re-scheduling exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/outstation-jee-students-wont-face-travel-problems-authorities/articleshow/77840647.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 31, 2020||Kochi||Youth’s death: PSC, govt face flak as protest rages||Thiruvananthapuram: The capital on Sunday witnessed a series of protests after a 28-year-old PSC rank holder, Anu S, ended his life over not getting a job as the rank list got expired last month. Members of various political outfits, including Youth Congress, KSU, Youth League, Yuvamorcha and ABVP took out protest marches to the secretariat, which turned violent when the police blocked them from barging into the compound. A total of six cases were registered in connection with the agitations. Two women activists of Youth Congress Advocate Veena Nair and Riji Rasheed were arrested for jumping the barricade and entering the secretariat premises. Another case was registered by Museum police against workers of BJP for staging a protest in front of the Cliff House with the body of the deceased. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the chief minister was passing the buck in this case too as he had done in all recent exposes against the government. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the chief minister and the PSC chairman must be booked for abetting the youth’s suicide. He also demanded the government to give employment to Anu’s brother as compensation. Ramachandran will be observing a hunger strike at Indira Bhavan on Monday, on the Thiruvonam day, as a mark of protest. Congress leader V M Sudheeran said that Anu’s suicide was a reflection of the disappointment among youths who have been denied jobs despite making it to rank list. In a letter to the chief minister, Sudheeran also said that he should take into account the public criticism being raging over the decision of the PSC to debar two candidates. “The chief minister should have advised the PSC chairman on such lapses which have eroded the credibility of the agency. It is meaningless to blame the society instead,” Sudheeran said. BJP state president K Surendran said that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and PSC chairman M K Sakeer should be booked for homicide. “Anu was a victim of the hostile stand of the PSC against the youth of the state,” Surendran said. Meanwhile, AIYF, the youth wing of CPI, demanded that the PSC should revoke its decision to debar two candidates for allegedly trying to malign it in public. “PSC has the liberty to correct and take proper action in case false news is propagated against it. However, it has no right to debar candidates. PSC can’t act like a court,” said AIYF state president R Sajilal and secretary Mahesh Kakkath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youths-death-psc-govt-face-flak-as-protest-rages/articleshow/77839711.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Bed shortage: Symptomatic patients being sent home in a day||Nagpur: The ongoing bed shortage across government, trust-run and private hospitals has led to many symptomatic patients being discharged within a day or two. On Sunday, relatives of several patients complained to TOI that they were handed identical discharge cards and were asked to vacate beds though they were suffering from high fever, cough, loose motions and other health issues. As per the civil surgeon’s data, it appears that the latest move has freed up lot of beds in government and trust-run hospitals. The three government hospitals’s combined capacity is 1,260 while the trust-run hospitals have around 800 beds. Around 750 patients were there in GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. Akhil bhagat, a 43-year-old photographer from Kukde Layout, said he was appalled by the GMCH doctors who first transferred around 50 of them to Shalinitai Meghe Hospital and Research Centre (SMHRC), which too sent them home in a day. SMHRC officials didn’t answer TOI’s calls and messages. Bhagat said they were surprised to see that all their recordings of parameters like SPO2 level, body temperature, were same on the discharge card. He said responding to administration’s call, people are getting tested and reaching hospital on their own only to be sent back. Bhagat was running 104F fever beside coughing. On August 24, he had got tested at an NMC testing centre. “I walked in to GMCH as no one from NMC came to my home. I wasn’t asked for a Rapid Antigen test report but they accepted my verbal submission that I was positive and admitted me in Ward 49,” he said. Bhagat claimed he wasn’t given any medicine and food. “I had to insist for medicine and food. I wasn’t feeling well. But the staff told me to move to SMHRC. Around 50 of us were taken in an NMC bus to SMHRC where anyone occupied bed as per his or her like,” he said, adding that SMHRC too discharged them the next day. On Sunday, Bhagat called up NMC officials but they told him to stay at home. “The NMC bus dropped me and other elderly patients on squares. We had to walk up to our homes,” he said. GMCH officials said they are preparing a list of all such patients which they “deem fit” for home isolation. “There is intense pressure for beds. Patient flow has drastically increased,” they said. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent (corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey said only those who are willing to go home and stable for 48 hours under observation are being sent. “Symptomatic patients showing normal parameters in baseline investigation are sent home. They are tested for oxygen saturation, blood cell count (CBC), liver and kidney function. This move helps make beds available, he said. Sources said some patients become fearful after seeing deaths on neighbouring beds and insist on being sent home. Info Covid hosps, health and care centres | 37 Total admissions | 2,091 Waiting | 1,313 Hospitals ------------------ admitted ---------------- discharged------ home isolated GMCH ------------------ 346----------- ------------------1,959---------- 815 IGGMCH -----------------292----------- ---------------1,006------ 973 AIIMS ———————- 32 ----------- ---------------441------ 130 SMHRC ------------------114--------------------------------- 624------ 0 (Data as per civil surgeon’s record)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bed-shortage-symptomatic-patients-being-sent-home-in-a-day/articleshow/77840653.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||Thousands of RTE seats remain vacant in U’khand||Dehradun: Thousands of RTE (Right to Education) seats remain vacant in the private schools of Uttarakhand even as the online admission procedure concluded on Saturday. The RTE seats are meant for students from weak financial backgrounds and they get to study for free in private schools. Online procedure for RTE admissions was available in six districts — Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, Almora, Chamoli and Nainital. The private schools in remaining districts will conduct RTE admissions through offline mode which will take place at a later date. However, the education department has assured that the remaining RTE seats will be filled at a later date, once the schools reopen. More than 20,000 seats are reserved under RTE Act in Uttarakhand for the current academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thousands-of-rte-seats-remain-vacant-in-ukhand/articleshow/77838737.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Man loses Rs 2.5L cash from hostel||Hyderabad: A person from Krishna district who came to Hyderabad to attend to his ailing mother lost Rs 2.5 lakh in cash that was kept in a shelf at a hostel in Raidurgam. The complainant had brought Rs 3 lakh cash to the city and started residing in a boys’ hostel while his mother was admitted in a hospital. He kept the cash in a cupboard and went out to have lunch. By the time he returned Rs 2.5 lakh was missing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-loses-rs-2-5l-cash-from-hostel/articleshow/77840654.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Lucknow records biggest jump on Sunday, Indiranagar worst-hit||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus is threatening to cut loose in the city as nearly 1,000 people tested Covid-19 positive in the past 24 hours till Sunday evening, highest in a day since the outbreak in March. On an average, the virus infected 41 people every hour on Sunday, taking the city’s caseload to 26,856. Of these, 18,678 (69.5%) cases have been reported in August at the average of 622 cases every day. Of the total cases, 19,342 (72%) patients, including 587 on Sunday, have recovered. However, 346 (1.2%) could not survive, which means 12 persons out of every 1,000 Covid-19 patients have lost their lives. According to experts, monsoon is conducive to the transmission of virus and when people – mainly 80% patients who are asymptomatic till they are detected with infection – don’t follow required precautions, they end up spreading infection. Delay in contact tracing and laxity in enforcement of safety protocol is contributing to the spike, they added. “The curve can be flattened if we all wear masks and follow distancing. People must realise that even if only 1.2% patients are dying, high incidence means more deaths. Blood will be on their hands if somebody dies due to their laxity. In fact, people ignoring norms may themselves or their family members fall victim to the virus,” a senior KGMU professor said. Another KGMU faculty said besides awareness campaigns, negligence should be highlighted prominently. “Three families in my locality in Gomtinagar got infected because of the laxity of a person in their respective households. People will understand, if such case studies are highlighted, but authorities are not providing details to the media. There is no need to panic, but a little anxiety is essential to make people realise the threat,” he said. Officials of the district administration said about 3,953 samples were collected on Sunday through contact tracing and random sampling, while the control room inquired about the health status of 5,129 patients in home isolation. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash directed labs to upload details of asymptomatic and symptomatic patients along with the information through whom they got infected on the centralised portal by the evening for better monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-lucknow-records-biggest-jump-on-sunday-indiranagar-worst-hit/articleshow/77841550.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Former SHO of Barkhera booked for registering ‘wrong FIR’ in Dalit girl’s rape||PILIBHIT: A former station house officer (SHO) of Barkhera police station Umesh Kumar Solanki, who is presently posted as inspection in crime branch at Pilibhit, has been booked for allegedly converting a rape case into the attempt to rape. Additionally, while the incident had taken place on May 23, Solanki had lodged the FIR only on June 1. The action followed orders of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and subsequent directions of SP Jai Prakash Yadav, after the matter was raised with NHRC by the girl’s father. According to the Dalit girl’s father, a resident of a village under Barkhera police station, his 18-year-old daughter had been raped by two men, Vikram and Raja Babu, of the same village, on May 23, while she had gone to answer the nature’s call in the early morning hours. Despite the timely filing of a written complaint in the matter to Solanki, the FIR was lodged by him under Section 354 (force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC and appropriate sections of the SC/ST Act, instead of Section 376, that too late by a week. His daughter was also not sent for medical examination, the father alleged. Later, the then CO of Puranpur circle, Yogendra Kumar, who was appointed as an investigating officer in the matter, added Section 376 (rape) to the FIR in first week of July, during the course of investigation. But before that, the victim’s father had filed a written complaint to NHRC, taking cognisance of which, the Pilibhit SP ordered legal action against the SHO. SP Yadav confirmed to TOI that the FIR against Umesh Kumar Solanki was lodged on Saturday night following NHRC's orders, and that the investigation in the matter had been assigned to Puranpur CO Uttam Singh. The present SHO of Barkhera police station, Kamal Singh Yadav, said Solanki was booked under Section 166A (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person) of IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/former-sho-of-barkhera-booked-for-registering-wrong-fir-in-dalit-girls-rape/articleshow/77838742.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad gets 27mm rainfall||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad city received an average of 27 mm rains on Sunday. It also rained heavy in the west zone and the eastern part of the city. The city has so far received 839 mm of rains against its average seasonal rainfall of 798 mm. The west zone areas of Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi and Vasna received the maximum of 38 mm of rains during the day. The rainfall received in all the seven zones of the city included north zone (59 mm) and Kotarpur, Naroda, Memco and Odhav (35 mm in one hour between 12 noon and 1 pm). The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) control room said that Kotarpur area in the north zone received 59 mm in one hour from 12 and Naroda received 54 mm during the same period. The heavy rains led to water logging in several areas and at least at three places, the AMC was forced to send its team to drain out water. Even on the Ring Road there was water logging. The control room also received two complaints of tree uprooting from the west zone of the city. Two cave-ins occurred in Naroda Patiya area, which was barricaded by the AMC. The AMC officials said that the work on Vejalpur and Vadaj cave-ins was also going on. The India Meteorological department said that on Monday the city may receive intermittent spells of light to moderate and heavy rains. On Sunday the city reported the maximum temperature of 28 degree which was 4.3 degree below normal, while the minimum temperature was 25.7 degree which was nearly one degree above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-gets-27mm-rainfall/articleshow/77840771.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘Visarjan Rath’ in Ytl curbs crowds and pollution too||Nagpur: Aiming to prevent crowds of devotees during Ganesh idol immersion amid Covid pandemic and also protecting environment, Yavatmal police have launched a unique ‘Visarjan Rath’ (immersion chariot) to collect idols from the homes of residents and other venues to take them to artificial tanks. The district police, led by superintendent of police M Rajkumar, and the civic body have jointly started the initiative to ensure there is less crowding on city roads which would also mean reduced exposure to citizens and cops alike to Covid-19. As the idols will be immersed in artificial tanks, water bodies will also be less polluted. Rajkumar said police vehicle visits localities for patrolling and also makes announcements regarding availability of the ‘Visarjan Rath’. “The raths are decked up and the idols are carried after following all rituals. Our vehicles are serving the dual purpose of patrolling and collecting idols. This has reduced the crowds of devotees as well as the need for more personnel to be deployed on bundobust,” he said. The municipal corporation has helped with a vehicle and in many cases citizens have also volunteered to give their privately owned ones for the purpose, said Rajkumar. “Because of the prevailing pandemic conditions, the number of mandals installing Ganesh idols at public places has come down by nearly 70%. This year, there are 179 mandals at public places and 610 have converted their celebration into an indoor affair,” he said. Senior inspector Vaibhav Jadhav of Wani police station said there is tremendous response to ‘Visarjan Raths’ in the area under his jurisdiction as several people are coming forward to use the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/visarjan-rath-in-ytl-curbs-crowds-and-pollution-too/articleshow/77840682.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab plans to shift brick kilns from coal to CNG||Chandigarh: Tandrust Punjab Mission director Kahan Singh Pannu has said the state government will explore the possibilities to shift brick kilns from coal to compressed natural gas (CNG) to check air pollution. There are around 2,200 active brick kilns in Punjab. Pannu said the state government had earlier succeeded in shifting most of the active brick kilns to the approved design of high draught zigzag technology, which uses lesser coal as compared to the traditional brick kiln firing system. “But, technological advancement in combustion systems has now made it possible to convert even the coal-based brick kilns into CNG-based kilns without much change in their design,” he said. Therefore, under the Tandrust Punjab Mission, the state government intends to explore the possibilities of shifting brick kilns from coal to CNG, said Pannu. Brick kilns in Punjab use about 16 lakh tonnes of coal to produce about 1,100 crore bricks every year. Although the improved zigzag technology requires lesser coal, still a lot of coal is used for firing the kilns, which is a source of pollution. It was in this context that the Punjab State Council of Science and Technology had been requested to come up with a technology that would replace coal in the brick kilns with CNG, Pannu said, adding that the Punjab Pollution Control Board could also provide necessary assistance in the process. CNG is now amply available in Punjab and a large number of coal-based industrial units are shifting to gas-based units. The shift of brick kilns to CNG would not only help reduce the cost of production of bricks, but also substantially reduce the air pollution load caused by coal-fired kilns, Pannu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-plans-to-shift-brick-kilns-from-coal-to-cng/articleshow/77840720.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE (Main) at 27 centres from Sept 1||Hyderabad: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Main) will be conducted for 67,319 registered candidates from the state at 27 test centres from September 1 to September 6. The admit cards for the entrance exams are available for download on the website https://jeemain.nta.nic.in/. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, candidates appearing for the exam must give a self-declaration stating they are not Covid-19 positive. Candidates are also advised to carry a transparent ballpoint pen, additional photograph, personal hand sanitiser, transparent water bottle and original identity proof to the exam centre. No candidate will be allowed inside the centre without an admit card and valid identity proof. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-main-at-27-centres-from-sept-1/articleshow/77840668.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dharoi 80% full; downstream villages alerted||AHMEDABAD: With the water level in Dharoi reaching 80%, the flood control department has issued a warning to Ahmedabad city and the district collector to alert the villages in the downstream of Sabarmati River. The department said that the income of water in Dharoi was 46k cusec and the level of the dam was 80%. The authorities said that about 15k cusec was released from Dharoi at 6 pm. Since the Sant Sarovar on the up stream of the river was full, the authorities would have to release water form Vasna barrage, and hence the villages in the downstream should be alerted. The officials said that if the flow continued, there was a possibility that more water would be released from Dharoi dam. However, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials said that the release of 10k cusec to 15k cusec was not a worry for the city as initially the water would seep in the ground in the river which is dry. However, if the flow increased to around 50k cusec, the city might face some issues of water logging in the low lying areas along the river because the gutters would start overflowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dharoi-80-full-downstream-villages-alerted/articleshow/77840780.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 132 RWAs get notice for not segregating waste||NEW DELHI: A poor performance in Swachh Survekshan 2020 has prompted South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to issue show-cause notices to Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWA) to nudge them towards segregation of waste at source, a key concern red-flagged by experts. Data from SDMC’s sanitation department showed that the notices were issued to around 100 RWAs in south zone, 22 in west zone and 10 in central zone. No such notices were issued in Najafgarh zone. The RWAs were asked why a penalty of Rs 10,000 should not be imposed on them for failure to comply with the municipal waste bylaws. A senior official from department of environment management services said in the first phase, WhatsApp groups were formed around a month ago for select colonies in 37 wards to raise awareness and enforce municipal bylaws on segregation at source. “It’s difficult to suddenly start waste segregation in the entire region. In each of the 37 wards, 6-7 colonies were chosen for the purpose. Awareness messages were sent regularly to the residents and a deadline was fixed for each colony. We gave a 10-day grace period before issuing the notices,” the official added. The notices were issued in wards number 2, 5, 10 and 15 to colonies in Hari Nagar, Janakpuri, Punjabi Bagh, Hauz Khas and Green Park, among other places. “The process will result in improvement in sanitation levels, reduction of load on landfill sites and a better performance in Swachh Survekshan next year. We can no longer keep accepting the argument that people are not aware of it,” said the official. The awareness messages gave details about managing bins and what constituted dry and wet waste. They also apprised about the solid waste management bylaws making waste segregation mandatory and imposition of a fine of Rs 10,000 per month on RWAs and Rs 200 per day on individual houses for defaulting on the rules. The show-cause notice issued by an executive engineer-level officer stated that the field staff had informed that only a few residents were giving segregated waste. “You are hereby requested to reply to the show-cause notice within three working days as to why a fine of Rs 10,000 should not be imposed on your RWA under SWM Rules, 2017,” it added. Dinesh Jain, general secretary of Hari Nagar DB-Block RWA, said they also wanted waste segregation to become successful, but due to lack of authority they needed the help of the corporation to enforce it. “SDMC will have to increase awareness and take people in confidence. Many residents don’t even listen to us. Officials should deal with them directly. RWA members cannot go to each house. We should not be penalised,” he added. Ranked 31 out of 47 cities, SDMC areas produce 3,600 metric tonnes of garbage every day. Most of the garbage either ends at the Okhla landfill site or the waste-to-energy plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/132-rwas-get-notice-for-not-segregating-waste/articleshow/77841569.cms||Paras Singh
August 31, 2020||Goa||Former information commissioner calls for online filing of complaints under RTI||PANAJI: Ex-state information commissioner Juino De Souza said that for transparency in governance and proper use of Right to Information (RTI) Act, there is need to allow citizens to file applications and appeals online. He also called for having information storage management in every department. Speaking to TOI, De Souza, who retired recently, emphasised the need for amendments to the act to benefit citizens. “It is a long time since the RTI Act was enacted in 2005, and between then and now we have witnessed a huge change in governance and administration. Hence, there is dire need to take a relook at some other sections of the RTI Act, which also need to be overhauled and amended in tune with the changing times so as to make the implementation of the act more effective,” he said. He also called for stricter laws against applicants who abuse the provision of the act with “frivolous applications”. He said that there is no provisions to penalise RTI applicants who file “voluminous and vexatious applications with the sole motive to settle personal scores and for personal gains”. Such applicants, De Souza said, should be penalised for abusing the act and for causing a drain on the public exchequer. Asked about the public information officers (PIO) furnishing information late, De Souza said that due to lack of proper file storage system in most government departments, it has become difficult for the PIOs to retrieve information timely within 30 days, single-handedly. Besides, the same PIO is occupied with other important office works, which poses a bottleneck in the implementation of the act. He said while the act holds the PIO responsible for furnishing information in a time bound manner, the first appellate authority escapes punishment as the commission has no powers to penalise them. Penalty and disciplinary action for delaying or denying information is applicable only against the PIO. He also said that as everyone has a smartphone and access to internet, there is a need to have the RTI online so that citizens can file applications as well as first and second appeals and complaints from the comfort of their home. In a democracy, De Souza said people have the right to know and should be able to voice their opinion on the functioning of government and its decision-making and in this context there is low public awareness. It is therefore necessary to organise regular training programmes for PIOs and the first appellate authority for an in-depth understanding of the RTI Act so as to discharge their duties efficiently. Regarding the issue of access to official information, De Souza said that there is an urgent need for improving government websites so that all information as laid down under Section s 4(I) (a) and 4 (I) (b) of the act is available in the public domain To a question on chief information commissioner (CIC) or state information commissioner (SIC) claiming pension, De Souza said that the payment of pension and gratuity to retired CIC or SIC is the prerogative of the state government. The cost to the government on a CIC/SIC is approximately Rs 4 lakh a month, which includes basic salary and DA, HRA and other perks. A SIC is equivalent in rank to that of chief secretary of a state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-information-commissioner-calls-for-online-filing-of-complaints-under-rti/articleshow/77841567.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kochi||Police gift ‘Onakodi’ to ‘responsible’ citizens||Alappuzha: To promote responsible Onam celebrations, the Mararikulam police are gifting ‘Onakodi’ (new clothes) to members of the public who adhere to Covid safety instructions. Every day the cops distribute ‘Onakodi’ to 25 people in the station limits, including customers out shopping for the festival and shopkeepers that ensure the safety of their patrons. The police have said that they will continue gifting responsible citizens throughout the festival period. “Mararikulam police station limit covers villages. We realised that such novel initiatives can easily create awareness among the villagers about the importance of social distancing at public places,” said Mararikulam police inspector S Rajesh. The cops decided to act after witnessing rush in public places in the build-up to the festival. “Though people wear masks, they are not maintaining social distancing while shopping or when they are out in the public for various other purposes,” Rajesh said. A special team was formed to patrol public places to identify those eligible for the ‘Onakodi’. “Even responsible shopkeepers get gifts,” said the inspector. The Mararikulam police have but not gone soft on violations and they continue to register cases. “If we find people not maintaining social distancing or without masks we register cases,” Rajesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-gift-onakodi-to-responsible-citizens/articleshow/77839757.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested for spreading rumours||Patiala: Patiala police have booked and arrested two persons for allegedly spreading rumors about the Covid-19 pandemic and health workers through social media. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said a case had been registered at Tripuri police station against Greesh Bhatt, a resident of Ranjit Nagar, for allegedly uploading a video on Instagram in which he spread rumours about the virus, and doctors and workers who were on Covid duty. Police have arrested him and confiscated his mobile phone, he said. Bhatt has been charged with Section 188 of the IPC and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act. Duggal said they had registered the second case at Civil Lines police station, against Sarabjot Singh Sonu, a resident of Gobind Nagar, for allegedly spreading rumours by posting a message in a Facebook group regarding testing of Covid-19 in villages and creating misconceptions about health department teams who are going on the field. He has been charged with same offences as Bhatt. Both the cases are being investigated by DSP Sourav Jindal. Duggal appealed to people to refrain from creating any kind of misconception or confusion among people. He said they were keeping an eye on rumour mongerers. So far, district police have registered six FIRs over rumours on Covid, including the FIR over an attack on doctors, and arrested five persons.  Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal asked residents to inform them about people spreaidng rumours on the Whatsapp number 96468-00112. For doubts, he said, people could call helpline numbers 0175-2350550 and 62843-57500, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/77840777.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Coimbatore||40 sovereigns, Rs 1 lakh stolen from Covid victim’s house||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with 40 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs 1 lakh from the house of a woman, who died on Covid-19, at Kaveri Nagar in Ramanathapuram here.The city corporation had turned the locality into a containment zone after 55-year-old Lakshmi died due to Covid-19 at the ESI Hospital on Saturday. The house was also cordoned off.Lakshmi’s son Shanmugaraj, a goldsmith, informed the Ramanathapuram police about the burglary on Saturday evening. He told police that the valuables were stolen from a steel bureau and said a neighbour could have stolen them.Police sources said there was a dispute between Shanmugaraj and his brother. They are planning to question the brothers and the neighbour.“We cannot inspect the place as the deceased had tested positive for Covid-19. We have asked the family to visit the police station on Monday,” an officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/40-sovereigns-rs-1-lakh-stolen-from-covid-victims-house/articleshow/77840784.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Coimbatore||15 shops sealed for flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms||Coimbatore: Revenue department officials sealed more than 15 shops that were open on Sunday, the total lockdown day, at Karumathampatti and Somanur.The Karumathampatti police and a team of revenue department staff led by revenue inspector Muthumanickam sealed bakeries, meat shops and grocery shops.The shops had also flouted the lockdown norms by staying open beyond 8pm, officials said.Revenue department sources said the sealed shops will be opened on Monday as the state government has relaxed the lockdown. If they continue to function beyond 8pm, police will book the owners.The Karumathampatti police registered cases against some shopkeepers for doing business on Sunday.Sulur tahsildar Meenakumari said some shops that were open on Sunday were sealed after receiving complaints from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15-shops-sealed-for-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-norms/articleshow/77840781.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka’s fatality rate below national average||BENGALURU: Although Karnataka has been seeing record spikes in Covid-19 deaths in August — the toll crossed the 5,000 mark this month — the state’s overall case fatality rate has consistently stayed below 2%, even as a delay in acknowledging fatalities has plagued reporting. As of Saturday (Aug 29), Karnataka had 5,483 deaths, accounting for 8.6% of the total fatalities in the country, but the case fatality rate (CFR) remained 1.7% — lower than the national average of 1.8%. “From early July, when the number of cases began to spike, the focus has been on reducing deaths. All efforts, including proactive treatment protocol, have paid off and we’ve managed to keep the CFR below 2%. That said, ideally, the CFR must be 1% or less, that’s our goal,” an official said. Nationally, Karnataka stands in the eighth position — along with Tamil Nadu — although its caseload puts it among the top four states that have more than 3 lakh cases. Gujarat and Maharashtra top the table, followed by Puducherry and Delhi. Government data shows that deaths in August have been the most for any month in Karnataka. The state ended March with just three deaths and it was under 50 even at the end of May. In June, the state saw a 400% increase ending the month with 246 deaths, which further increased to 2,314 by the end of July. However, in terms of deaths per million, the state compares poorly with the national average. Karnataka has 87.5 deaths per million people, while it is only 51.7 per million nationally. “This is a more sensitive indicator to review at the district level and states must focus on keep this under control, even as CFR may reduce with increased tests and enhanced detection,” Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, said. In this category, Delhi tops the table with 262 per million, followed by Maharashtra and Puducherry, and Karnataka stands in the eighth position. In Karnataka, most deaths have been reported in Bengaluru, which as on Saturday had 1,911 deaths, which is 35% of the total deaths in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-cfr-below-national-avg-but-deaths-per-million-is-higher/articleshow/77839762.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Niloufer medicos worried as virus spreads among staff||Hyderabad: Three staffers, dozens of doctors and patients have tested positive for the dreaded coronavirus at the state-run Niloufer Hospital, majority of them in the last two weeks as authorities battle to contain the virus from wreaking havoc in the facility. A junior assistant clerical cadre staff at Niloufer Hospital who had been undergoing treatment at the TIMS (Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences) Gachibowli for the last one week, succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. He is is the third staffer of the state-run hospital for women and children to succumb to the virus in recent weeks. Since the beginning of the pandemic, about 40 staffers, including doctors have tested positive for the virus, majority of them over the last two months, while an estimated 100 paediatric patients have tested positive till date. “So far 15 PG doctors and 5 faculty members have tested positive apart from other staff. Moreover, three deaths in a non-Covid hospital like ours is too high a number as compared to one death in Gandhi Hospital. One of the main reasons for the spread is uncontrolled movement of patient attendants. There are as many attendants for each patient as were in the pre-pandemic times,” said an insider. The office assistant, Suresh, who passed away on Saturday night worked at the office of the superintendent at the hospital, while two other staffers who succumbed previously included an EEG (electroencephalographic) technician and a 40-year--old sanitation staff. While doctors working in all government hospitals are currently being treated at the special block for Covid-19 treatment of healthcare workers set up at the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), other staff like administrative staff, lab technicians, nurses, sanitation workers, ambulance staff and security personnel who contract the virus are sent to Gandhi Hospital, King Koti or TIMS Gachibowli. Niloufer Hospital, meanwhile, admits paediatric cases and symptomatic cases are tested and then sent to the Gandhi Hospital if positive. “Since the hospital is a tertiary centre, patients are brought in from all corners of the state and often there are more than 3-4 members and many times entire families which come with the child. When there is a symptomatic case, the patient is tested and then sent to the Gandhi Hospital but with so many family members accompanying a positive patient, it can easily spread to others,” added a senior doctor speaking on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/niloufer-medicos-worried-as-virus-spreads-among-staff/articleshow/77840813.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rain expected in parts of Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Several parts of Gujarat experienced moderate to heavy rainfall on Sunday with several talukas of Saurashtra recording more than 100mm rainfall. India Meteorology Department (IMD) officials said that for next two days, several parts of the state could experience heavy to very heavy rainfall. The rainfall can reduce after September 2 onwards, said the forecast. ‘Heavy to very heavy rains with isolated extremely heavy rainfall likely in Banaskantha, Surat, Navsari, Jamnagar, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Kutch. Heavy rainfall expected in parts of Saurashtra, South Gujarat and Central Gujarat,’ mentioned the forecast for Monday. On Tuesday, heavy to very heavy rainfall expected in Banaskantha, Patan, Morbi and Kutch along with heavy rainfall in parts of central and north Gujarat along with a few spots in Saurashtra. On Sunday, Ahmedabad city received 27mm rain whereas Sanand, Mandal and Dhandhuka received 81, 44 and 32mm rain till 8pm. The rains are likely to continue on Monday. The State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) data revealed that till Sunday morning, Gujarat had received 941mm rainfall, which is 113% of the seasonal rain. Out of 251 talukas of the state, 82 have received more than 1,000mm rainfall, 140 501-1000 mm rainfall and 29 251-500 mm rainfall. The 29 days of August gave 590mm rainfall, which is 63% of the total rains so far. Region-wise analysis reveals that Kutch has received 241% of seasonal rain, followed by 149% in Saurashtra, 99% in South Gujarat, 97% in North Gujarat and 83% in East-central Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rain-expected-in-parts-of-state-for-two-days/articleshow/77840818.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Dalit panchayat president gets name board, finally||Coimbatore: The dalit woman president of J Krishnapuram panchayat finally got a name board for herself at her office.Social Justice Party (SJP) founder and president N Panneerselvam handed over the name board to K Saridha, 34, and a photo of Dr BR Ambedkar. She was threatened by Usilamani alias Balasubramanian, of the same village, not to keep a name board at her office. Balasubramanian, a non-dalit, allegedly abused and prevented Saridha from functioning independently. She lodged a complaint with the Negamam police against Balasubramanian for harassing her. On August 9, Balasubramanian used caste name against her on August 19. Based on the complaint, the Negamam police registered a case against Balasubramanian under sections 3 (1) (m,r,s) of the SC/ST (prevention of Atrocities) Act.Meanwhile, the state human rights commission (SHRC) issued a notice to district collector K Rajamani seeking a detailed report within three weeks over the discrimination.“Saridha was facing discrimination at the panchayat office and she was not allowed to sit on her seat at the office. She was not allowed to write her name on the name board of the panchayat office. So, we announced a protest and the rural police registered a case against Balasubramanian,” Panneerselvam said.Saridha said she would place the name board on her table on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dalit-panchayat-president-gets-name-board-finally/articleshow/77840795.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Lacklustre flower sales for Onam fest in Coimbatore||Coimbatore: This year has been one of the gloomiest for flower traders and growers in Coimbatore as the Onam sales has been the lowest in decades.Tonnes of flowers of various hues would be sent in truckloads ahead of Onam to Kerala while the large Malayalee population living in Coimbatore would also turn out in droves to buy flowers for the grand festival. This year on contrary neither the sale to Kerala was good nor it was in the city. Flower traders said that Onam sales would begin 10 days before the festival and peak two days prior to the celebration. “Usually 25 tonnes of flowers would be sent every day to Kerala on average for 10 days before Onam. On the last two days, the sales would go up to 75 tonnes a day,’’ said K Ayyappan, treasurer of Kovai District Flower Traders Association. “But this year we could manage only five tonnes a day. All the 10 days put together we could have made only 100 tonnes sale because of Covid restrictions,” he said. Traders said for the 10 days prior to Onam they would be too busy, sending flowers in trucks, vans and trains. Some of the traders from Coimbatore would directly go to Kerala and sell the flowers. After the Kerala floods two years back, the flower sales dropped a bit, but this year the sales has completely plummeted, say traders. This year not only have the traders took a hit, farmers too have lost their livelihood. Hundreds of farmers in Udumalpet grow ‘sendumalli’ exclusively for Onam pookolams. Like them, scores of farmers in Alandurai and Thondamuthur belt grow ‘vadamalli’ for the purpose. They could neither sell it nor store it as flowers are highly perishable. Farmers from as far as Hosur, Salem and even Nilakottai in Dindigul district send their flowers to Coimbatore during Onam for sale. However, vegetable traders did a brisk Onam business in Coimbatore. Prices of vegetables rose marginally on Saturday because of the increased demand. Vegetables traders said that a large number of Kerala traders had visited the wholesale vegetable yards in Mettupalayam on Saturday and procured about 70 % of the vegetables there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lacklustre-flower-sales-for-onam-fest-in-coimbatore/articleshow/77840812.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Two siblings drown in abandoned stone quarry in Tamil Nadu's Tirupur||TIRUPUR: A ten-year-old boy and his eight-year-old sister died after they drowned in an abandoned stone quarry filled with stagnated rain water in Tirupur on Saturday. Their bodies were fished out by fire and rescue services personnel after a long search on Sunday. The two children were identified as Saravanakumar, 10 and Rishini, 8 from Ammapalayam in Tirupur. According to police, their mother Easwari, a roadside flower vendor, had parted ways with her husband years ago and was living with the two children at Ramakrishna Nagar in Ammapalayam. While Saravanakumar was studying in Class V, Roshini was studying in Class IV in a nearby government school. Police said that on Saturday evening, the siblings, along with a few more children from the locality, went to take a bath in the stone quarry. A few people who saw the children bathing there scolded them and asked them to go home as it was dangerous. While other children left, Saravanakumar and Roshini remained there. Later in the evening, when they did not return home, their mother started searching for them. That’s when she was told that the two were spotted taking a bath in the quarry. A shocked Easwari went there along with other villagers and searched for the kids. Fires and rescue services personnel were also informed. The fire service personnel from Tirupur north division launched a search till late in the night but were unable to find them. Their bodies were found on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-siblings-drown-in-abandoned-stone-quarry/articleshow/77840820.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Surat||Surat’s Daliya Sheri Ganesha festival turns tepid this year||SURAT: It’s not the usual festive atmosphere in Daliya Sheri this Ganesha festival. The pandal of Mahidharpura Daliyasheri Pragati Mandal here has become a landmark with its glittering celebrations representing the glory of sparkling diamond business. What’s more, even Lord Ganesha is not wearing the traditional iconic diamond and precious metal jewelleries it is famous for! Devoid of specialised security arrangements, security guards and CCTV cameras the hustle and bustle in the narrow lane in Mahidharpura’s diamond hub is starkly missing this year, thanks to the subdued celebrations in Covid times. A much smaller idol has been installed and more so, it is installed in a private place where visitors are not allowed. Every year, the pandal installs a nearly nine feet tall idol adorned with synthetic diamond studded gold and silver jewellery. Over 1.5 lakh synthetic diamonds are studded in jewellery made of precious metal added with a silver mouse weighing two kilos. Around 25 security guards were employed to guard the pandal that was kept under CCTV surveillance round the clock on all 10 days. The organisers have earlier received an insurance cover as donation for over Rs 1.5 crore for the pandal, which witnessed gathering of more than 10,000 devotees daily. “This time there are no festivities and a small Ganesha idol is installed in the parking area of a building. Only a handful of people perform the prayers daily,” said Harshit Patel, one of the organisers. “We have to follow the government’s guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” said Gaurav Jariwala, one of the organisers who is under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-daliya-sheri-ganesha-festival-turns-tepid-this-year/articleshow/77839772.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 25 PGI, 40 RMLIMS health staff under coronavirus spell||LUCKNOW: Not just King George’s Medical University (KGMU), medical professionals at two other premiere institutes in the city – Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) – are also contracting coronavirus infection in the line of duty. At SGPGIMS, at least 25 health staff including medical suprintendent Dr AK Bhatt, faculty members, resident doctors, paramedics and lab personnel have been diagnosed with Covid-19 so far. Similarly, about 40 frontline health workers have tested positive at RMLIMS. While some of the personnel of both the institutes have recovered, others are recuperating. Dr Bhatt resides off the campus but has been involved in day-to-day management of Covid-19. He is under home quarantine after testing positive to coronavirus infection. Three faculty members of radiology department, who reside on the campus, are also currently in isolation after testing positive. At least 10 resident doctors and 10 personnel from Covid testing lab have also tested positive so far. The lab had to be closed for a day on July 31 after a data entry operator tested positive. Later, other data entry operators, a female resident doctor and two sample collectors were also found infected. SGPGI director Dr RK Dhiman said, “Dr Bhatt tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago. He is in quarantine. I am not sure of the exact number of employees who have tested positive for the virus but it is much lower as compared to other medical facilities.” He said the institute’s strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol, precautions and streamlined system helped in controlling the spread of the virus at SGPGIMS. Currently, two faculty members at RMLIMS – one each of urology and neurology departments – are Covid-19 positive and in isolation. RMLIMS spokesman Dr Shrikesh Singh said, “So far, around 40 RMLIMS employees, including faculty, staff and others, have tested Covid-19 positive. The insitute is taking all measures to ensure safety of employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/25-pgi-40-rmlims-health-staff-under-virus-spell/articleshow/77841580.cms||Yusra Husain
August 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Containment zones increased in Salem||Salem: Following an increase in positive cases, the Salem district administration on Sunday increased the number of containment zones from 100 to 126.The district logged 329 new cases on Sunday, pushing its Covid-19 tally to 10,583, including 405 imported cases. “We have 3,284 active cases in the district while 7,156 people have been discharged from hospitals,” said deputy director of health services Dr J Nirmalson. As far as the toll is concerned, 143 have died from the infection till date.Of the 329 cases, 177 are from Salem municipal corporation. Health department officials have tested 1.7 lakh people in the district till date. “The number of containment zones have been increased to 126 from 100 on Sunday,” the deputy director said, adding that nearly 20,153 people were housed in 5,028 houses in the 126 containment zones.Apart from this, the district administration has opened another swab testing lab at Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital on Saturday. Collector S A Raman, after inaugurating the lab, said the health department officials were testing nearly 3,000 people per day. “With the new swab testing lab, they can test an additional 1,500 cases a day,” he said.Neighbouring Erode district recorded 158 new cases while Krishnagiri district added up 69, Namakkal district 70 new case and Dharmapuri district logged 14 more to its tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/containment-zones-increased-in-salem/articleshow/77840838.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Naraina murder: Search for job ends in death||NEW DELHI: The four accused men, who had brutally beaten up a 23-year-old man in Naraina accusing him of theft, were suppliers of iron rods and construction material. They used rods from their own stock for the crime. As per the autopsy report of the victim, Rahul, he had multiple marks of iron rods all over his body. The blows with the iron rods resulted in internal bleeding and multiple fractures, which led to his death. Rahul’s wife said that he had left home on Thursday after an argument, promising to return only after getting a decent job. They were fed up with “frequent harassment by the cops.” Rahul was arrested eight times earlier on charges of theft and would be detained every time a burglary took place in the area, she claimed. “He said he would return only after getting a decent job. He didn’t come home that day. Since he was recently released from the jail on August 17, I thought the cops must have picked him up for some theft. When I reached the police station on Friday, the officers there informed me that he was murdered by four men,” added Pooja. Rahul was tied to a tree and thrashed to death by four men after they suspected him of stealing their mobile phone. The accused identified as Istihar (30), Mustaq Ahmed (32), Shiraj (28) and Anish (24) worked as truck drivers and supplied iron rods and construction material to different parts in Delhi-NCR. An officer privy to the investigation said: “It was Rahul’s associate who fled with the mobile phone but the accused caught hold of him and thrashed him. When he fell unconscious, they left him in the park and fled. The four have no previous involvement. We are trying to trace Rahul’s associate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/naraina-murder-search-for-job-ends-in-death/articleshow/77841583.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University finance department to review impact of giving 5% fee relief||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) finance department has been asked to review the implications of giving relief of 3% to 5% in fee across the board. This was proposed in a meeting PU vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar conducted with the officials on the campus on Sunday. Sources said the department tabled a report about the status of fee deposited by students — only 20% to 25% of first and second year students have paid the fee so far. The department said 70% to 75% students in small departments have paid the fee till Saturday, 50% in departments having more strength and only 25% of students of big departments like University Institute of Engineering and Technology, University Institute of Legal Studies, University Institute of Hotel Management and physics. Officials were asked to table a detailed report on the finances in a meeting to be held on Monday to decide the roadmap for the university. There is a viewpoint that the students should get relief of 3% to 5% in fee across the board considering the pandemic. The department feels the relief can be given if the salary cut of 15% to 20% is imposed till the financial condition of the university improves. The proposal was rejected by the faculty earlier when tabled in one of the committee meetings. The department projected that under the semester system, the university conducts two examinations and charges a fee for each semester separately. For one semester examination total fee would come to Rs 70 crore to Rs 75 crore and yearly fee would add up to Rs 150 crore to Rs 155 crore. Another crisis which the university is facing is that they have not received a second quarter grant. Punjab too has not paid its share of this fiscal year. The VC also asked to prepare a report on how much funds will be required to conduct the final year examination? Discussion also took place on how to chalk out the new proforma for needy students as the authorities will face the issue of how students will give proof for job loss during Covid-19 to avail the fee concession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-dept-to-review-impact-of-giving-5-fee-relief/articleshow/77839778.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||SDRF rescues 350 from Kuhi tehsil||Nagpur: Nearly 350 people were rescued by Team 2 of SDRF from Chinchghat and Chafegadi villages in Kuhi tehsil of Nagpur district. These people were stuck in the submerged villages surrounded by Gosikhurd backwaters from all sides. The SDRF started rescue operations around 5 in the morning and used three motor boats. Neelkant Shende (56), a resident of Chinchghat, said water entered the village, having a population of around 350, after a heavy spell of rain. “The teams reached our villages on Saturday but due to dim lights they started their operation early this morning and brought us to safer places with the help of motor boats.” Lilatai, a senior citizen, said that she witnessed such flooding for the third time in life but this time the water level is much more. She requested that the government should immediately resettle them in some other areas. Umred MLA Raju Parwe said that six villages had been affected. “People from two villages have been rescued while rescue operations were going on in other four,” he said. He added that around 600 people were marooned in Tekapar village and rescue operations were being carried out by NDRF teams but they had to face a lot of difficulties as roads connecting Mandal to Tekapar were submerged under Gosikhurd dam waters. “These teams took the help of motor boats and tractors to rescue people. The operation took much time as at one stage the water level on the submerged roads increased to such level that even tractors were not able to cross them,” he told TOI. Upasrao Tupkar said his father Bhojraj collapsed in Tekapar village but no one was injured. Satish Golhar, a volunteer who was seen helping the rescue teams, said that farms had been completely flooded. The roads connecting Mendha to Ambora were submerged by Gosikhurd waters. Thousands of people visited this place to get a glimpse of it. Boats were the only source of transport. Later in the day Army rescue teams were seen reaching the affected village by building mobile bridges. Following request from the district administration, the Army sent two rescue teams to Kuhi. The columns assisted civil administration in rescue of villagers. A 65-year-old man in Sonegaon Raja village of Kamptee Taluka who had gone to catch (teetar) quails in the thickets near the village was stranded for the entire night on Friday till the rescue team spotted him the next day. "The man was seen waving his shirt, but he was too far away to be heard," said an official in the district admisntation. Over 400 other persons were rescued from Kamptee. A note shared by the Orange City Water Pvt Ltd (OCW) spokesperson states that water supply will continue to be affected in parts of the city due to the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sdrf-rescues-350-from-kuhi-tehsil/articleshow/77841601.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||No help from CCPCR, man to shift daughter to govt school||Chandigarh: Not satisfied with the solution reached at by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) in a complaint of a Manimajra resident regarding removal of his ward from online classes due to non-payment of fees, the father of the child has now decided to shift his ward from the private school to a government school. The parent, whose ward is studying in a Manimajra-based private school, had stated in his complaint that he was under huge loan as his business had shut down and he was unable to pay the fees. However, the school principal stopped his daughter’s online classes due to non-payment of fees. The parent said he was not satisfied and decided to remove his ward from the school and shift him to a government school. “ I will get the school leaving certificate on Monday. It is disappointing that the commission did not act against the school,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-help-from-ccpcr-man-to-shift-daughter-to-govt-school/articleshow/77839781.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Family’s Covid +ve status leads to a happy start||LUCKNOW: His day starts early. By 7am, he is in the office and immediately gets down to answering phone calls from people in distress. Afflicted by Covid, they seek help and relief from him. All callers get a patient hearing. Meet Kapil Agarwal, an entrepreneur engaged in construction of highways in UP. But now, service to mankind gives him more satisfaction than procuring a big project. Until last month, business was his passion. But a sudden turn of events brought a drastic change in Agarwal’s pursuits and perspective. First, his son Udayan was infected with the novel coronavirus and then Agarwal’s wife Vandana also tested positive. But, thankfully, they recovered soon and the family heaved a sigh of relief that the virus had left their home. But their nightmare was about to begin.  A week later, the head of the family – Agarwal’s mother – fell ill. A doctor was consulted and he prescribed a Covid check-up. The lady of the house, who will turn 84 soon, had a bypass surgery a few years back and is living with the support of a pacemaker. Her Covid report came positive. As if it was not enough, Agarwal and his daughter Kavya and their two domestic helps also tested positive, pushing the entire family to a state of shock. A little solace was that the father-daughter duo was asymptomatic. Agarwal’s mother along with the domestic helps was admitted to a Covid hospital near IIM Lucknow. The hospital is managed by Dr Ajay Sharma. The family’s ordeal finally came to an end about a week later when Agarwal’s mother tested negative. The Covid episode proved to be a turning point in Agarwal’s life, and woke up the philanthropist in him. The emotional trauma he suffered during his family’s fight with Covid has now coaxed him to counsel and extend help to those facing similar situations. Almost daily he gets calls from people — some of them know him directly, while others approach him with reference of common friends. But, all of them get the right advice and help. His office has staff of over 1,000 and he has advised each one of them not to hesitate in calling him up, even during odd hours if any need arises. The battle against Covid is challenging and tedious. But there are courageous people who are not scared of the pandemic and their selfless zeal motivates many to emulate similar initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/familys-covid-ve-status-leads-to-a-happy-start/articleshow/77841593.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mortar shell found in waste dump in Makhan Majra||Chandigarh: Panic gripped residents of Makhan Majra village after one live mortar shell was found on Sunday afternoon. The UT police cordoned off the area and stopped movement of public within the 100-meter radius from where the mortar was recovered. A woman rag picker in Makhan Majra noticed the mortar in the garbage on the roadside and raised an alarm. People informed the police control room and a bomb disposal team, fire tenders, disaster management team and Army officials reached on the spot. The police then placed sacks of sand around the bomb to avoid any untoward incident. Zuldaan Singh, SHO of Mauli Jagran, along with police force also reached on the spot. The police said there are a number of go-downs of scrap dealers and the mortar might have reached in the area through scrap. The police are scrutinising the CCTV footage of the area to get a clue about the person who dumped the mortar shell in the area. Army officials from Chandimandir reached on the spot and took the shell from the area. On April 13, 2019, three live bombs were found in the vegetable ground of Ramdarbar by a resident. The resident saw the bombs lying in the vegetable waste in the ground and informed the police. A garbage collector spotted two live mortar shells at Khuda Ali Sher on August 11, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mortar-shell-found-in-waste-dump-in-makhan-majra/articleshow/77839784.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||19 cows found dead at Saketri cowshed||Panchkula: Eleven bull, two cows and six calves were found dead under mysterious circumstances at Shree Krishna Gaushala in Saketri on Sunday. Food positioning is stated to be the reason behind the deaths of the cattle. The post-mortem reports are awaited. The animal husbandry department is looking into the matter. On Saturday night, cows at the gaushala were found to be in pain. The gaushala authority then called veterinary doctors, but to no avail. On Sunday morning, 19 of them were found dead. The matter reached the animal husbandry department and the local cops also rushed to the spot. Officials of the animal husbandry department stated that during the preliminary investigation, it was found that the cattle died due to food poisoning. Bajra was served to all of them, which will be tested in the laboratory. The department of animal husbandry comes under the deputy commissioner (DC) and inquiry in the matter has been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-cows-found-dead-at-saketri-cowshed/articleshow/77839791.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Years of waiting to end, residents of Avadi to soon get piped water||CHENNAI: The long wait of residents in Avadi municipal corporation for piped drinking water and underground sewage connections may finally be over, say residents welfare associations. A Metrowater official said work on laying pipelines was over and residents on a couple of streets had begun receiving water in their homes more than 10 days ago. By September-end, a good number of residents will get piped water, he said. Providing sewage connections, the official said, will take at least another couple of months. Metrowater had commissioned a 4 million litres a day (MLD) sewage treatment plant in Muthapudupet and one with a 36MLD capacity is coming up at Paruthippatu, the official added. Secretary of Bharathiar Nagar Residents Welfare Association, Pattabiram, J Jayakumar, said, they were glad to hear water supply will be provided soon. “About sewage connection, there is not much information,” he said, adding that nearly 200 households in the area had each paid Rs 20,000 for water and sewage connections more than a decade ago. A Appasamy of Moderncity RWA said about 250 residents in his area had paid money for connections but were still buying drinking water as groundwater was saline. “We are eagerly awaiting the arrival of Metrowater,” he said. T Sadagopan, president of TN Progressive Consumer Centre, Pattabiram, said groundwater in many residential colonies within Avadi municipal corporation was contaminated. With no underground sewage connections, houses have septic tanks that overflow after heavy rain and sewage contaminates the groundwater table, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/years-of-waiting-to-end-residents-of-avadi-to-soon-get-piped-water/articleshow/77840897.cms||P Oppili
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University finance department to review impact of giving 5% fee relief||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) finance department has been asked to review the implications of giving relief of 3% to 5% in fee across the board. This was proposed in a meeting PU vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar conducted with the officials on the campus on Sunday. Sources said the department tabled a report about the status of fee deposited by students — only 20% to 25% of first and second year students have paid the fee so far. The department said 70% to 75% students in small departments have paid the fee till Saturday, 50% in departments having more strength and only 25% of students of big departments like University Institute of Engineering and Technology, University Institute of Legal Studies, University Institute of Hotel Management and physics. Officials were asked to table a detailed report on the finances in a meeting to be held on Monday to decide the roadmap for the university. There is a viewpoint that the students should get relief of 3% to 5% in fee across the board considering the pandemic. The department feels the relief can be given if the salary cut of 15% to 20% is imposed till the financial condition of the university improves. The proposal was rejected by the faculty earlier when tabled in one of the committee meetings. The department projected that under the semester system, the university conducts two examinations and charges a fee for each semester separately. For one semester examination total fee would come to Rs 70 crore to Rs 75 crore and yearly fee would add up to Rs 150 crore to Rs 155 crore. Another crisis which the university is facing is that they have not received a second quarter grant. Punjab too has not paid its share of this fiscal year. The VC also asked to prepare a report on how much funds will be required to conduct the final year examination? Discussion also took place on how to chalk out the new proforma for needy students as the authorities will face the issue of how students will give proof for job loss during Covid-19 to avail the fee concession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-dept-to-review-impact-of-giving-5-fee-relief/articleshow/77839800.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 31, 2020||Noida||Noida to restart trains on Aqua Line from Sept 7, no clarity on Gzb route||Noida: Shut since March 22, trains on the Aqua Line will resume on September 7. The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) announced the resumption of services soon after the Centre released Unlock 4 guidelines that allow metro rail services to start in a phased manner. NMRC chief Ritu Maheshwari said, “NMRC will be resuming services on the Aqua Line in a calibrated manner. Further details will be shared once the detailed SOPs are issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs the Uttar Pradesh government.” Social distancing protocols will have to be put in place before services resume. “Access restrictions, distance between commuters, opening of gates, boarding of passengers, train frequency – everything will be done with caution. We are not going full spree but just restarting it to slowly mobilise services,” said an NMRC official on Saturday. In Ghaziabad, there is still no directive on re-opening of the Red Line that extends up to New Bus Adda. DMRC has not offered any clarity about which routes metro services are likely to resume on yet. A DMRC spokesperson, however, said the state’s consent would be required before allowing resumption of metro services in Ghaziabad. “Unlock 4 guidelines have been released… but so far routes on which services will resume have not been announced and clarity will come only after SOPs and routes are not announced by the ministry of housing and urban affairs,” said the spokesperson. Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “Whether metro service resumes in Ghaziabad or not will be decided by the state government. We hope that before September 7, we will get a clear direction on this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-to-restart-trains-on-aqua-line-from-sept-7-no-clarity-on-gzb-route/articleshow/77835065.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body plans 20% cut in fuel expenses of office vehicles||CHANDIGARH: Going ahead with its austerity measures to tide over the financial crisis, the Chandigarh municipal corporation now proposes to effect a 20% cut on the fuel expenses of all office vehicles, including that of the mayor. Since around 150 vehicles of the corporation are in use by the officers and staff members of various wings, 20% reduction in fuel costs can save a sizeable amount for the corporation. The proposal will be discussed in the monthly general house meeting. A civic body official said although the exact savings from the move are yet to be worked out, it would certainly make a significant difference. According to him, since field works are mostly halted these days for want of money and only the maintenance works of critical nature are going on, the movement of field officers are also limited now. So, the authorities find the time right to impose the fuel cost cut. The civic body will also bring at the house meeting the agenda on waiver of fee for the night food shelters, located opposite the PGI, for discussion and approval. The kiosks owners of the Night Food Street had written to the municipal corporation to waive off their monthly rental fee, pleading that due to the curfew and lockdown, they had no business at all. There are a total of four kiosks at the city’s lone Night Food Street, located in Sector 14 facing the PGI. Out of them, three were given to successful bidders through a tendering process a few months back, and the fourth one is under litigation and lying closed. The monthly rent of each kiosk of the food street is over Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-plans-20-cut-in-fuel-expenses-of-office-vehicles/articleshow/77839796.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: This year, van replaces elephant in Bibi Ka Alam procession||HYDERABAD: Moving away from the tradition due to the pandemic, the historic ‘Bibi Ka Alam’ procession was taken out on a van instead of an elephant on Sunday. In fact, this is the first time that Muharram procession has been conducted in this manner in the Old City. Hundreds of Shia Muslims gathered to complete this annual ritual after the city police gave their nod for the procession late on Saturday. However, despite Covid-19 restrictions, mourners were on the streets since morning. The Alam procession started from the Bibi-Ka-Alawa at 11:30am from Dabeerpura and passed through Charminar, Gulzar Houz, Purani Havel, Aza Khane Zehra Darulshifa before concluding at Masjid-E-Ilahi, Chaderghat at 3pm. Every year, the procession is taken out on occasion of Youm-E-Ashura Ashura, the 10th day of Muharram. Mourners also performed ‘matam’ (self-flagellation). The police had made arrangements for the smooth conduct of this procession. After Telangana HC declined permission for the procession and directed police commissioner Anjani Kumar to consider the application of members of Shia community, top brass of city police convened a meeting with the heads of Shia Anjumans. Before permitting, they instructed community heads to adhere to MHA guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-year-van-replaces-elephant-in-bibi-ka-alam-procession/articleshow/77840898.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||No help from CCPCR, man to shift daughter to govt school||CHANDIGARH: Not satisfied with the solution reached at by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) in a complaint of a Manimajra resident regarding removal of his ward from online classes due to non-payment of fees, the father of the child has now decided to shift his ward from the private school to a government school. The parent, whose ward is studying in a Manimajra-based private school, had stated in his complaint that he was under huge loan as his business had shut down and he was unable to pay the fees. However, the school principal stopped his daughter’s online classes due to non-payment of fees. The parent said he was not satisfied and decided to remove his ward from the school and shift him to a government school. “ I will get the school leaving certificate on Monday. It is disappointing that the commission did not act against the school,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-help-from-ccpcr-man-to-shift-daughter-to-govt-school/articleshow/77839812.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Unlock 4.0: Instate, 50 can attend funerals from Sept 22||Jaipur: As part of Unlock 4.0, the state government on Sunday night decided to allow 50 persons to attend funerals from September 22, up from 20 allowed for such occasions earlier. For marriages, social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations, 50 people will be permitted from Sept 21. The Centre on Saturday had allowed 100 people for such occasions. The Metro rail will be allowed to operate from September 7 in a graded manner. In this regard, SOP will be issued by the Centre. The lockdown, however, shall remain in force in containment zones till September 30. The Unlock 4.0 guidelines were issued by principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till September 30. However, online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. It has also been decided that 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff can be called to schools for online teaching from September 21. “Students from classes 9 to 12 will be permitted to visit their schools, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from teachers. This will be subject to written consent of their parents/guardians,” it stated. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain closed. Open air theatres will be opened from September 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unlock-4-0-instate-50-can-attend-funerals-from-sept-22/articleshow/77841619.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mortar shell found in waste dump in Makhan Majra||Chandigarh: Panic gripped residents of Makhan Majra village after one live mortar shell was found on Sunday afternoon. The UT police cordoned off the area and stopped movement of public within the 100-meter radius from where the mortar was recovered. A woman rag picker in Makhan Majra noticed the mortar in the garbage on the roadside and raised an alarm. People informed the police control room and a bomb disposal team, fire tenders, disaster management team and Army officials reached on the spot. The police then placed sacks of sand around the bomb to avoid any untoward incident. Zuldaan Singh, SHO of Mauli Jagran, along with police force also reached on the spot. The police said there are a number of go-downs of scrap dealers and the mortar might have reached in the area through scrap. The police are scrutinising the CCTV footage of the area to get a clue about the person who dumped the mortar shell in the area. Army officials from Chandimandir reached on the spot and took the shell from the area. On April 13, 2019, three live bombs were found in the vegetable ground of Ramdarbar by a resident. The resident saw the bombs lying in the vegetable waste in the ground and informed the police. A garbage collector spotted two live mortar shells at Khuda Ali Sher on August 11, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mortar-shell-found-in-waste-dump-in-makhan-majra/articleshow/77839804.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||19 cows found dead at Saketri cowshed||Panchkula: Eleven bull, two cows and six calves were found dead under mysterious circumstances at Shree Krishna Gaushala in Saketri on Sunday. Food positioning is stated to be the reason behind the deaths of the cattle. The post-mortem reports are awaited. The animal husbandry department is looking into the matter. On Saturday night, cows at the gaushala were found to be in pain. The gaushala authority then called veterinary doctors, but to no avail. On Sunday morning, 19 of them were found dead. The matter reached the animal husbandry department and the local cops also rushed to the spot. Officials of the animal husbandry department stated that during the preliminary investigation, it was found that the cattle died due to food poisoning. Bajra was served to all of them, which will be tested in the laboratory. The department of animal husbandry comes under the deputy commissioner (DC) and inquiry in the matter has been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-cows-found-dead-at-saketri-cowshed/articleshow/77839820.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Six Chennai corporation schools to get fresh look in bid to boost smart learning||CHENNAI: Sri Priyan, a student from a corporation school, was stunned when he entered a private school for Neet coaching classes. He wondered why, among other things, the toilets in his school weren’t as clean. But that is all set to change. Boring classrooms and dirty spaces will be a thing of the past in six city corporation schools, as Greater Chennai Corporation plans a makeover in the coming months. The makeover is not just about repairs or repainting walls, explained Raj Cherubal, smart cities mission CEO. “An extensive study was undertaken in all the schools and half a dozen architects have been working on designing the campuses. Based on the requirements, each school will be renovated,” he said. While 46 schools in 28 campuses will be renovated, the first leg will see schools on Manikandan Street in Royauram, New Market, Kottur and Nesapakkam revamped. Architects have completed designs that the corporation commissioner will finalise this week. Tenders will be called for by the month end. The schools will be redone to include more classrooms, playgrounds, coaching facilities, accessible and clean toilets, place to eat, and laboratories, while ensuring better lighting, entry points and repainting the walls. The schools will see content makeover as well, with e-learning material, introduction of technology enabled learning, smart boards, storage facility, pin boards and interactive learning devices. The students will also get new uniforms. The third part includes holistic makeover where teachers are trained, software will evaluate each child’s strengths and weakness, and help make learning more interactive and fun. A education department official said the aim was to make schools the best places of learning. “We are sure our enrollment will increase this year.” The project is a part of the City Investments To Innovate, Integrate and Sustain programme managed by the National Institute of Urban Affairs and financed by the French Development Agency (AFD) and European Union (EU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/six-city-corpn-schools-to-get-fresh-look-in-bid-to-boost-smart-learning/articleshow/77840924.cms||Komal Gautham
August 31, 2020||Goa||Probe death of ex-DGP, says Congress||Panaji: Congress on Sunday alleged that BJP had pressurised former Goa DGP Pranab Nanda to stop an inquiry into Goa’s drug mafia. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput has also thrown light on Goa’s links with drug trade within the film industry. “It is to be probed whether BJP leader in the government or any other minister pressurised the late DGP to stop the inquiry since one former BJP MLA and top office bearers of BJP would have got exposed,” Chodankar said. Congress also said that a detailed investigation needs to be conducted into the alleged role of Rajput’s friend Sandeep Singh who produced Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s biopic. “His links with BJP top brass also needs to be probed thoroughly,” Chodankar said. Telephone records of chief minister Pramod Sawant and his cabinet ministers and Nanda could throw light on the case, Congress said as it alleged that Nanda’s death was linked to an investigation into drug trade in Goa. Nanda died in Delhi nine months ago “The BJP government pressurised DGP Nanda to go slow on the investigation but he refused to do so and continued with inquiry in which one of the influential police officer was indicted and was about to be suspended,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/probe-death-of-ex-dgp-says-congress/articleshow/77841622.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||BJMC students slam LU brass for delay in final year exams||Lucknow: Around 400 final year students of Bachelor in Journalism and Mass Communication (BJMC) in Lucknow University affiliated colleges are tensed as the varsity has not declared the examination schedule. The varsity has declared the examination schedule of all final year courses except BJMC. The students are making frequent calls to respective colleges to know when the examination dates will be out. Students said that the delay in declaration of the BJMC’s examination date might clash with the entrance exam for admission to postgraduate course in top institutes. “Students of other UG courses have begun preparation for their examination about 10 days back and we are still unaware whether our examination will be held or not. I am daily checking the website and making calls to the college to know about the examination date,” said BJMC student Tripti Kalra. Another student Yashi Singh said, “The top mass communication institutes have declared their entrance test date in September. I fear that the PG entrance test dates and the final year examination dates will clash.” Students said that they don’t want to give a surprise test. The varsity should have declared the examination date along with other courses. “Already we are stressed due to the academic loss because of the Covid-19 and this delay is only adding to our stress levels,” said Ayushi Sinha. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “The examination schedule will be shortly announced. The dates are being finalized and it will be uploaded on the LU website in a day or two.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjmc-students-slam-lu-brass-for-delay-in-final-year-exams/articleshow/77841609.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor trade rivarly: Man shot dead in public in Thanesar||Kurukshetra: Police have booked five persons for allegedly for shooting dead a man who was involved in the illicit liquor trade, and grievously injuring his friend, in Thanesar on Saturday night. The killing, said Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) Astha Modi, is said to be the fallout of rivalry in the illicit trade. Vinod Kumar ‘Boda’ (32) of Kirti Nagar, Thanesar, was shot in the head from pointblank range in Thanesar’s Kirti Nagar area. His friend Vikas Kumar ‘Vicky’ of Panipat district was stabbed in the neck. Though accused Sunty, Gaaga, Jaipal, Mukesh, and Deepu Pandit tried to chase him down, they had to flee as people started gatheirng on hearing the gunshot and the commotion which followed. The case was registered at Krishna Gate police station on Saturday night. Vinod’s elder brother Anil Kumar of Vashishth Colony, Thanesar, was standing at a distance and was witness to the murder. On a complaint by Anil, a case has been registered against the five under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly for common object), 302 (punishment for murder), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25-54-59 (punishment for certain offences and renewal of licenses) of the Arms Act. Anil said he was going to meet his brother when the murder took place. “Vikas and Vinod were talking to each other. Suddenly, Sunty and Mukesh of Kirti Nagar and Gaaga and Jaipal of Gandhi Nagar and two more youths came there. Sunty opened fire at Vinod and he fell on the road. Gaaga stabbed Vikas with a knife on the back of his neck. When Vikas ran, they chased him on their motorcycle. But, after hearing the gunshots, the public had gathered and all accused fled the spot with their weapons,” he said in the complaint. Vinod was declared brought dead to civil hospital, Kurukshetra. “Sunty and his friends kept a rivalry with us over Vinod’s liquor trade and Deepu Pandit is also involved in this conspiracy of murder,” said Anil. Modi said Vinod was active in the illicit trade for some time and cases had been registered against him. “Vikas is Vinod’s friend. His condition is fine and we have not found any criminal record. We are hopeful of making early arrests,” said Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-trade-rivarly-man-shot-dead-in-public-in-thanesar/articleshow/77840934.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Greens welcome state decision not to set up new coal plants||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut’s decision not to set up any new coal-fired power plants in the state has brought a sigh of relief from environmentalists across the country, who have been demanding an end to new investments in coal. Sunil Dahiya, analyst at the Centre for Research and Clean Air (CREA), said this is a lesson for the central government. “It is definitely a good move that the government is understanding the energy surplus situation as well as lack of need to invest any new money in coal based power plant development. Any investment in coal in today’s world is not just an environmental and climate disaster but an economic disaster as well,” he said. Stating that the central government should learn from the bold decision by Maharashtra government, Dahiya added, “The Centre should strictly say no to any new coal or related infrastructure development. The state as well as central governments should instead focus on utilizing the available resources efficiently and aggressive increase the renewable energy capacity to meet the growing demand.” Power expert RB Goenka of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) welcomed the minister’s decision. “It is a very good move. There is no need for any more thermal units in the state. Plenty of private power plants are lying closed and when demand rises, power can be purchased from them. More power plants lead to wastage of water and increase in pollution,” he said. Aarti Khosla, director at Climate Trends, stated that the shift coming from the ground, reflects the sentiments of investors, as well as industry. “With Covid-19 impact, and the demand for power likely to remain low for the next 5 years, it is an opportunity for the central government to make use of this demand slump and accelerate transition from now costly and polluting fossils to clean and more cost effective renewable energy,” she said. Adding that the state has surplus contracted electricity, Khosla said, “The decision has been made to cut down the revenue loss for the state. However, not building further coal will avoid future NPAs and also bring air quality benefits. As a next step, it is all the more necessary to take a look at old inefficient power plants, which are also adding to the pollution load, and make a plan for their accelerated shut down. No new coal is now obvious. The state must heed recommendations of power sector experts and retire ageing old plants which are also not able to comply with emission norms.” Environmentalist Kaustav Chatterjee of Green Vigil Foundation said that Vidarbha would benefit from the decision. “The pollution load in the region and especially around Nagpur will definitely reduce. The high level of suspended particulate matter (SPM) in the city is due to the thermal power plants in its vicinity. I, however, appeal to Raut to install flue gas desulphurisers and other pollution control equipments on the operating units,” he told TOI. However, BJP spokesperson Vishwas Pathak slammed the decision. “The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has apparently realized that the state is not going to progress under it. It has been giving false assurances only. So the power demand will not rise and no power plants will be required,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-welcome-state-decision-not-to-set-up-new-coal-plants/articleshow/77841626.cms||Ashish Roy
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Only 50% staff should be asked to attend schools, say teachers||Hyderabad: The Ministry of Human Affairs’ Unlock 4.0 guidelines permit states to call up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to the schools. Hence, teachers of government schools, who are attending duty from August 27, said that the state should also implement these guidelines. They said that instead of calling all teachers to schools every day, 50% of them should be given an option to work from home. “It is an unwise decision to send all teachers in our state to schools in these dire circumstances. We request the state to reconsider it’s earlier decision on schools in the wake of the increasing number of coronavirus cases and allow only 50% of teachers to attend duties,” said K Ramana, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation (TPTF). He added that as per the Central government’s latest orders, schools should not start until September 30. Teachers also demanded that the responsibility of arranging TVs for those students, who do not have one at their homes, should be given to local school management committees so that they can concentrate on academic activities. “Teachers will have to prepare worksheets, clear student queries or doubts over the phone and also handle admissions. So, surveying to find out whether students have the infrastructure to attend digital classes and providing them with necessary infrastructure should be allocated to local bodies/gram panchayats/NGOs,” said M Ravindar, a government teacher. They said that the state should only get the worksheets printed and distribute them to all students as it will not be possible for teachers to get them printed at school level and it would cost them about Rs 3,000 per day to get worksheets of classes 2 to 10 photocopied/printed. Teachers also said the state should take back its orders allocating sanitation work to gram panchayats as their staff might not be available every day to take care of all duties. They added that schools should be allowed to hire service personnel, like every year, to keep schools clean and sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-50-staff-should-be-asked-to-attend-schools-say-teachers/articleshow/77840973.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Travelling on Namma Metro sans mask may draw Rs 500 fine||BENGALURU: Now that Namma Metro has been given the green signal to resume services in a graded manner from September 7, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) plans to levy heavy fines on passengers violating Covid-19-induced rules. Sources say spitting and littering on trains and in stations, removing masks while in transit or in stations and sitting on seats meant to be vacant to ensure social distancing will entail hefty fines. While the SOP prepared by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs is likely to stipulate action against such passengers, BMRCL is mulling a fine of Rs 500 on those who remove masks while in stations or on trains. Depending on the nature of the violation, the Metro Railway (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002, stipulates that offenders may be fined between Rs 50 and Rs 5,000 and/or face imprisonment. “We will monitor passengers through CCTV cameras. Strict action will be taken against violators,” said a BMRCL official. Security guards will screen passengers’ body temperature and for masks and status on Aarogya Setu app before allowing them to enter stations. Stations too will have limited entry and exits to better monitor passengers, conduct thermal checks and ensure social distancing. “Stations with smaller crowds will have single exit and entry,” said an official. BMRCL has placed stickers on seats in trains and stations that are not to be used. It will also not issue tokens and only smart card users can travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/travelling-on-namma-metro-sans-mask-may-draw-rs-500-fine/articleshow/77839873.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to follow Centre rules, markets can function on all seven days now||GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH: The Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines have come as a huge relief for traders in the city, as the state government has now allowed markets and malls to remain open throughout the week. Last week, the Khattar government had announced that all markets and malls will be shut on weekends. But following protests by traders, the district administration changed the lockdown days to Mondays and Tuesdays. However, on Sunday morning, state home minister Anil Vij tweeted that as per the guidelines from the Union government, markets in non-containment zones will now be open on all days of the week. “The Union government has categorically barred the states from imposing lockdown of any kind in non-containment zones. Hence, orders related to regulating operations of markets stand withdrawn,” Vij said on Sunday. He, however, made it clear that other restrictions and penalties for violation of social distancing as well as other Covid safety norms will continue in an intensified manner. Traders have welcomed the move. “It is an extremely positive development as it will help revive businesses,” said Akash Oberoi, president, MGF Metropolitan Mall Association. “It is not just the traders who would be impacted by restrictions on commercial activity, but the economy overall will suffer. The announcement by the government sends a message that life has to go on with the virus,” he added. Many others who were worried about not being able to make the rent or pay their staff are also breathing a sigh of relief now. “Most of our business happens on weekends. Now we can run our shops on all seven days of the week, which will help in reviving the business,” said Neeraj Yadav, president of Galleria Market Association. However, restrictions announced under Unlock 4, especially related to educational institutions, shall remain in place, officials said. Meanwhile, with the Centre allowing resumption of metro services from September 7, the Rapid Metro is also likely to be functional soon. A meeting of all metro representatives in NCR is likely to be held on Monday about the SOPs and preparations required before the services are opened to the public, said an official of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. However, there is no confirmation on the city bus service running on all the routes yet. While the GMCBL buses are running at full capacity, not all the bus routes have been made functional yet. Also while a few inter-state routes of the Haryana Roadways buses are already running, other routes are also likely to be made functional in the coming weeks as Unlock 4.0 guidelines mention that all inter-state and intra-state travel will be allowed from September 1 without the requirement of a pass. Watch Unlock 4.0: Haryana to follow Centre rules, markets can function on all seven days now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-follow-centre-rules-markets-can-function-on-all-seven-days-now/articleshow/77841645.cms||Shubhra Pant
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||No e-classes, say television,film students||Rohtak: Expressing concern about their future, students of the film and television department of the State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak (SUPVA), have requested the varsity not to implement mandatory online classes. In an e-mail to the varsity, students pointed out that online classes may be a hit with other educational institutes but their course requires first-hand practical experience. “Online classes are not good for learning as many students live in remote rural areas where internet connectivity is shaky,” students said, adding that in the last semester, they were promoted despite the fact that their project was not completed. They said they do not want the same to happen again. Deepak Jain, a student of Film and TV, said some students, including those from FTII, Pune, have come out in their support and termed the SUPVA decision as highly unjust and unfair. “In these institutes, the session will start in January and they are not compromising on key projects of the course. We, at Rohtak Film & TV, want the same to be implemented so that real learning is not compromised,” Deepak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-e-classes-say-televisionfilm-students/articleshow/77840976.cms||Sat Singh
August 31, 2020||Pune||Temghar reservoir 91% full with another month to go||PUNE: The collective capacity of the four dams — Khadakwasla, Varasgaon and Panshet — was 28.8 TMC of the total 29.15 TMC till 9am on Sunday. The Temghar dam had reached 91% of its full capacity, said officials from the Khadakwasla irrigation circle. The Khadakwasla, Varasgaon and Panshet attained full water capacity on Friday, while the Meteorological Department has forecast light to moderate rain till September 2. Vijay Patil, the executive engineer of the circle, said, “The discharge of the water is in normal stage and it won’t affect life in the city in any form at all.” Patil said the Temghar dam would reach its full capacity in the next few days. “The full capacity of these dams will meet both the drinking and agriculture water requirement for the entire year. It’s a positive thing for us,” Patil added. The circle has also started releasing 3,000 cusec water from Pavana dam , which supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad on Sunday as it was full. The Khadakwasla discharge was increased up to 11,704 cusec at 11pm on Sunday. Meanwhile, on Sunday, the city received light spell of rainfall with overcast condition throughout the day. The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 1.5mm and 3.1mm rainfall, respectively. The day temperatures of Shivajinagar and Lohegaon were 27.6°C and 21.4°C, respectively. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the forecast division of IMD Pune, said, “From August 31 till September 2, the city is expected to get light rainfall. From September onwards the rainfall would be moderate.” “The low pressure system which is moving towards Rajasthan is causing light rainfall across the state at present,” Kashyapi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temghar-reservoir-91-full-with-another-month-to-go/articleshow/77840922.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangalore University revision classes from Sept 1, says VC||Bengaluru: Bangalore University announced it will hold revision classes from September 1 for final year students appearing for the exams. “These are not regular classes but only supplementary sessions. There is no compulsion for students to attend them,” said BU vice-chancellor K R Venugopal. The announced will assure students who are scared that classes will be cancelled again as guidelines from the Centre says colleges and schools will remain shut till September 30. “The government had promised us a month of regular classes before the exams are conducted. It then came down to 15 days and now 10 days. I hope it stays as our online classes have not reached all students. The worry is also about practicals,” said an undergraduate student in a BU-affiliated college. Colleges said they are well-prepared to receive students on campus from September 1. “There can be no exams without classes. We have made all preparations based on SOPs that were given to us by the university and we are confident of conducting classes,” said B G Satyaprakash of GT Group of Institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bangalore-university-revision-classes-from-sept-1-says-vc/articleshow/77839924.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Noida||Snag stalls GDA’s online map approvals, revenue hit||Ghaziabad: Online map approvals, a major source of income for the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), have been stalled for the past eight months because of a technical snag in the software. Many developers claimed that their plans for group housing societies were awaiting approvals for the past several months. GDA officials agreed that map approvals for larger societies had taken a hit, but claimed that the procedure had remained unaffected for smaller projects. They said they had written to the government about the snag in the software. The lack of approvals has cost the GDA Rs 45 lakh in revenue this year, source said. Builders, too, have been counting losses as their layouts are yet to be approved. “We have received 475 requests for map approvals so far this year. But we have been able to clear only 345 of them. The rate of online approvals is much lower than last year. Revenue has also taken a hit. We have been able to earn only Rs 80 lakh so far this year in comparison to the Rs 1.25 crore we could garner during the corresponding period in 2019,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, the chief architect and town planner. He attributed the losses to multiple reasons. “There is already a technical snag in the system. Plus the pandemic itself is creating hurdles and fewer builders are coming forward to get maps approved. Yes, online approvals for group housing societies have been stalled. But for buildings on plots measuring up to 300m, the process is working fine,” Shivpuri added. Builders said they were helpless unless their plans were approved. “It has been three months since I applied for map approvals, but I am yet to get any response. I have been told that there is some snag in the software. But since GDA is out of bounds now because of the pandemic, I am not being able to meet any official now,” said Sandeep Gupta, a builder. Gaurav Gupta, president of the Ghaziabad unit of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI), said, “Maps of buildings on plots of up to 300sqm are getting approved online. But there is a bit of a problem for bigger plots. We have been told that the problem is being looked into at the state level.” Asked about the snag, Shivpuri said, “We have written to the state government to get it solved at the earliest. The snag is affecting the approval system for larger plots.” Launched in September last year, the online map approval system requires building bylaws to be fed into the GDA’s system. If a map does not conform to the building bylaws, it is rejected automatically. The system has developed a problem since January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/snag-stalls-gdas-online-map-approvals-revenue-hit/articleshow/77835139.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 13,000 devotees take online darshan of Khairatabad Ganesh||HYDERABAD: Over 13,000 devotees, who registered their names through an online facility, have taken the blessings of the Khairatabad Ganesh thus far. A priest, sitting with laptop before the nine-foot tall ‘Dhanvanathari Narayana Maha Ganapati’ idol, reads every name and gothram of the devotee, who had registered through the Utsav Committee’s portal. Devotees, who enrolled their names online, can also view it through live stream. Pooja for online devotees starts every day at 5pm and continues up to 9pm. On the advice of police and state government, which has disallowed mass gatherings in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee, in a first, made an online facility.This is a first in the 66-year-long Ganesh celebrations in the city. As police did not make bandobast arrangements, the committee hired a private security agency personnel and checked devotees. A disinfection chamber is also set up and thermal screening of every devotee, who visits the idol, is being done. Only one queue has been arranged at the pandal and devotees are allowed darshan of Ganesh from a five feet distance. Apart from the online darshan, one lakh devotees have visited the pandal after taking all preventive measures, Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee organiser S Raj Kumar claimed. Last year, nearly 3.5 lakh to 5 lakh devotees had visited the pandal. Utsav Committee founder president S Sudershan told TOI, “The immersion of the Ganesh idol will be held on September 1 at Hussainsagar lake with a procession of 10 members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13000-devotees-take-online-darshan-of-khairatabad-ganesh/articleshow/77841002.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Hit by funds crunch, LMC and LDA may hike parking charges||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) are planning to increase the parking rates by Rs 5 for two-wheelers and four-wheelers in the lots under their jurisdiction in the city. If the proposal is approved by the decision making bodies of the two agencies, people will have to shell out Rs 15 for two-wheelers and Rs 25 for four-wheelers for four hours of parking. While the final decision in the LMC will be taken by the executive committee next month, LDA will put up the proposal before its board meeting scheduled in October. Officials of both the agencies said that the decision has been taken due to revenue losses during lockdown and decline in footfall due to the pandemic. The LMC is reeling under Rs 50 crore loss caused by the novel coronavirus induced lockdown from March 25-June 7 before unlock-1. To add to its financial woes, the LMC found no takers in the auction for the 72 parking lots at open spaces in the city . The civic body has also not been able to meet property tax targets. Revenue from ticketing of parks and fees for community centres too has declined. New rates will be applied in LMC’s eight underground and multi-storey lots. They will be applicable in the open lots as and once they are auctioned, said additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar. Similarly, LDA has suffered a loss of Rs 31 crores as there has been very little or no earning from parking, parks and rent from commercial units. Moreover, sales of housing units has also gone down. LDA secretary MP Singh said that new rates are expected to compensate for the revenue losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hit-by-funds-crunch-lmc-lda-may-hike-parking-charges/articleshow/77841636.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 3,800 citizens test positive, 73 succumb||PUNE: Seventy-three people succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, taking the death toll to 4,061, as per data released by the district health officer. The region, which recorded a single-day high of over 4,000 positive cases on Saturday, had 3,856 people test positive for the contagion on Sunday. This took the progressive case count (overall tally) for PMR to 1,68,381. According to the report, more than 23,000 new cases were added over the past week. During the same period, 18,438 patients were discharged, pushing the number of recoveries in the region to 1,29,629. On August 23, the region had 1,45,041 Covid-19 cases in total, with 1,10,291 people having been discharged till that point. On Sunday, 2,680 patients recovered from the contagion and were discharged. There are a total of 34,860 active cases. Of these, 19,728 are being treated in hospitals, while 15,708 are under home quarantine. Pune Municipal Corporation limits recorded nearly three times the number of positive cases compared to Pimpri Chinchwad — of 3,856 positive cases on Sunday, PMC limits 2,415 patients, while 854 people tested positive in Pimpri Chinchwad. Pune rural (482), cantonments (129) and municipal councils (181) made up the rest. Of the 73 fatalities on Sunday, 35 were from PMC limits. Fourteen people succumbed to the contagion in Pimpri Chinchwad, while 19 patients died in the rural areas. The cantonments and councils had one and four deaths, respectively. A daily report released by PMC on Sunday stated that 2,949 people were being treated on oxygenated beds in its limits. The report further added that the condition of 833 patients was critical, of whom, 507 were on ventilator support. The official report stated that the a majority of the patients who died on Sunday had underlying health problems, such as diabetes, high blood pressure and heart ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-3-8k-citizens-test-positive-73-succumb/articleshow/77840950.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three of 14 towns have 39% of Covid load||PUNE: Talegaon, Chakan and Rajgurunanagar, home to major industrial estates, account for nearly 39% of the total Covid-19 cases reported so far among the 14 municipal councils in Pune district. These civic bodies have recorded a recovery rate of 65% which is less than the district’s overall recovery rate (70%). Similarly, they have a higher death rate at 3.6 % as against 3% of the district. Zilla Parishad officials said these towns have large populations compared to the others. Most positive cases are among working professionals and those who travel outside daily for work. Collectively, the 14 civic councils have recorded 4,789 cases. Of these, 180 have succumbed to the virus, 3,184 have been discharged after recovery and 1,425 are active cases till August 29. Maval tehsildar Madhusudan Barge attributed the surge in Talegaon civic council area to the enhanced movement of people to and from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad limits after June 8. “The maximum positive cases are among working professionals here and most of them have got infected in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits,” Barge said. He said, “We have launched house-to-house surveys to identify high symptomatic patients. We will also carry rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests for identifying infected people at an early stage.” Talegaon Dabhade has a total of 739 cases since the outbreak. Of these, 31 have succumbed to the virus. In Chakan, crowding at vegetable and onion and potato markets has become a major issue, said chief officer Nanasaheb Kamthe. “People from various areas, including Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, come to these markets daily and we fear this may be contributing to the spread of the virus in Chakan town and neighbouring villages. We have deployed our teams to monitor social distancing norms and take action against violators. Also, about 40,000 residents go out daily for work in Chakan MIDC areas and Pimpri Chinchwad,” he added. Chakan has 707 progressive cases, of which, 27 have died, 494 have recovered and 186 are active cases. Rajgurunanagar, about 45km from the city, off the Nashik highway, was the only municipal town in Pune district where not a single Covid-19 case was reported till June 28. It recorded a surge in July. “As soon as movement of people started here, cases were reported in the town. We have a total of 409 cases in the last two months,” B B Gadve, taluka health officer of Khed tehsil, said. The town has recorded nine deaths, 266 Covid-19 patients discharged after recovery and 134 cases active till August 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-of-14-towns-have-39-of-covid-load/articleshow/77840925.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 31, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: No public transport yet, only bars to open||BHOPAL: Not much would change on September 1 for Bhopal with the heralding of Unlock-4 except for perhaps, opening of bars/restaurants with permission to serve liquor to their customers. "Most of the relaxations announced in the guidelines from the Union home ministry are effective from September 21, we shall wait for guidelines from the state government and SOPs decided by it. It may be issued on Monday and subsequently we shall decide our course of action," said an officer of district administration. When asked about opening of bars, which according to Central guidelines issued on Sunday, should happen on September 1, he said " I think it will be allowed as revenue is a major concern. I have a feeling that bars and restaurants could be allowed to operate on Sunday as well," he added. He, however, said that the Centre may have allowed metros to run from September 7, but city buses in Bhopal may not start operation soon. "Coronavirus cases in the city are still high. There are 198 new patients found today itself. In such a situation, allowing public transport may be risky," he said. On schools being allowed to call staff for guidance to students from class 9 to 10 from September 21, he said, "School managements would be expected not to allow overcrowding of students and rather give time slot to different group of students for the purpose. District collector has always consulted the stake holders before issuing guidelines or SOPs for different sections, be it places of worship or shopping malls, he will do it wherever necessary now as well but only after state government guidelines are issued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-public-transport-yet-only-bars-to-open/articleshow/77839911.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Unlock 4.0: Some Delhi Metro stations may stay shut||NEW DELHI: When Delhi Metro resumes operations after five months on September 7, not all its stations would open initially. Moreover, only government employees or certain categories of commuters would be allowed to travel, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday. “The operations will start with a few stations. This is the first time that Delhi Metro will be dealing with such a situation and will need some time to manage accordingly. Initially, only a limited number of people, such as government employees, will be allowed to travel to avoid crowding. Clarity will come on these aspects within a couple of days,” Gahlot said, adding that a list of stations where travel services were being restored was being prepared and would be made public soon. The minister said, “I’m glad that after a long wait, the people of Delhi will be able to travel by metro once again. We will ensure that all Covid-related protocols, including social distancing, thermal screening, digital or card-based ticketing, etc, are strictly adhered to. Delhi government will deploy civil defence volunteers at every station to ensure social distancing.” Thermal screening of passengers would be done at all the entry points. “Tokens will not be issued and commuters will only be allowed to use smart cards or other digital payment methods for purchasing tickets. We will ensure that the general public does not face any kind of difficulties,” Gahlot said. “Resumption of metro services will provide great relief to people. Just like plying of buses was started, we will restore metro services by strictly taking care of all protocols and precautions,” Gahlot said, adding that the mandatory one-metre distance between passengers would be maintained inside the trains and seats would be marked to ensure social distancing. While sanitisers would be provided at every station, wearing a mask would be mandatory. “Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials and policemen posted at the stations have been given the power to issue a challan to passengers violating the norms. Air-conditioning in the coaches will be operated as per new guidelines. A constant flow of fresh air will be maintained inside the trains,” said the minister. Gahlot said he would be meeting the DMRC managing director Mangu Singh to discuss the standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed when operations restart. A detailed SOP on metros is likely to be issued by Union ministry of housing and urban affairs in the next few days. DMRC and other metros in the country had been asked to discuss the SOPs provided by the ministry via videoconferencing on Tuesday and give their suggestions. “Once metro services resume from September 7, DMRC will try and facilitate all necessary measures and precautions within its premises to provide a safe travelling experience to commuters,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC. According to the SOPs provided by the ministry earlier, all metro rail corporations would have to ensure that their systems were in safe and healthy condition before resumption of revenue service, including those pertaining to electrical, signalling, civil, track, trains, traction, etc. As most of the trains had not been rigorously used for five months, a mandatory check would be required for safety certification even though it would not be possible to undertake this immediately as DMRC has 2,200 coaches. DMRC has started a social media campaign to inform commuters about the safety measures being undertaken, including sanitisation of trains and all human touch areas at stations. SOPs have also been put in place for sanitisation of different sections of stations at different intervals, ranging from once a day for the entire premises to every four hours for human contact areas, like handrails and elevator buttons. The stations would be disinfected thoroughly at night. The exercise would be carried out through the day at passenger movement areas, such as concourse, passages, platforms, stairs, etc, by DMRC’s 8,000-strong housekeeping staff. Trains would be cleaned and disinfected thoroughly at depots before the start of services. Human touch points inside trains would be cleaned at terminal stations after every trip. Sources said sanitisers, gloves and masks would be given to all DMRC personnel dealing with the public. They have also been sensitised to maintain social distancing in crew control areas, operations control rooms and station control rooms. Detailed instructions on dos and don’ts for staff would also be displayed at stations and depots. Watch Unlock 4.0: Some metro stations may stay shut in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unlock-4-0-some-metro-stations-may-stay-shut/articleshow/77841027.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 31, 2020||Goa||Goan farmers show interest in growing nutmeg||Panaji: Sachin Tendulkar, a farmer, is gathering other cultivators interested in cultivation of nutmeg to approach the ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR) in Kerala to assist them in procuring seeds, to avail subsidies and to cultivate the spice crop in Goa. “Nutmeg has good scope in Goa and there are many farmers that are interested to grow it. They are however not aware of where to source good quality planting material. The effort is therefore to ensure that we get good planting material through the ICAR-IISR,” Tendulkar said. By generating enough demand for the spice crop in Goa, the farmers intend to source at least 800-1000 grafts of nutmeg. Alternatively, the farmers are also preparing a plan B to connect with reputed plant nurseries in Kerala to source the planting material if ICAR-IISR doesn’t work out. “Either the ICAR can bring and sell it or Goa Bagaidar or the state directorate of agriculture itself. The quality of the planting material however must be of a higher standard since farmers will invest at least five to six years in growing the crop before it produces the nutmeg,” Tendulkar said. He is currently in the process of creating a list of farmers that are interested, following which, he will appeal to the ICAR-IISR to assist them. The freshly harvested crop comprises two components: the rind called javetri (pericarp) and the kernel called jaiphal (nutmeg). While the latter is used as a prominent spice, the pericarp is much more in biomass compared to the spice product; approximately 70% of the total fruit. Incidentally, the scientists at the Goa based ICAR-CCARI developed the pericarp taffy, which is candied pericarp, and a mouth freshener made of grated pericarp. The farmers therefore have a use of both components of the crop if they manage to successfully grow it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-farmers-show-interest-in-growing-nutmeg/articleshow/77841679.cms||Nida Sayed
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru schools mull staggered timings, appointments for their students||BENGALURU: With the Union government permitting students from class 9 to 12 to clear doubts with teachers on campus from September 21, city schools are looking at staggered timings and specific slots. The department of public instruction said they will soon issue standard operating procedure for these sessions. “Each student will have to make an appointment with the teacher concerned,” said Jayant Gauri, founder, Raintree schools. “Apart from consent, we will also obtain a declaration from parents on the health of their wards and family members before permitting students on campus.” This is besides standard procedures like sanitisers, masks, temperature checking and social distancing. Managements feel it’s time class 10 and 12 students, who will face board exams at the end of the academic year, get intensive coaching. “We can use this opportunity to help students grasp difficult portions, especially in Science and Maths. Many topics can be taught well online, but not all of it. We can have small groups of 4-5 students visiting the school at a time. Each group will be given a timetable to visit the campus,” said Tejaswi Ballari, principal, Poorna Prajna Education Centre, Sree Krishna Nagar. Gayatri Devi, principal, Little Flower Public School, believes this could be the start of a “hybrid mode of learning”. “Students can come in to submit internal works or projects. As a school, we are looking at using our open areas like playgrounds for classes,” she said. Some teachers believe small batches will help slow learners. “With online classes, we cannot gauge how much learning happens. Now, students can submit homework and classwork and teachers can assess them. This will ensure learning is on track,” said Parthasarathy Krishna Iyer, principal, Ganga International School. Some others feel this will help in practicals. Mansoor Ali Khan, secretary, Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association, wondered if students would come in at all, but D Sashi Kumar of Associated Managements of Private School in Karnataka (KAMS) was certain they would. “However, the concern is about the curriculum which the government had promised it will reduce. The government is yet to finalise on the curriculum even though it’s four months since the start of the academic year,” Kumar said. Some schools said they will teach the full portions as it will be needed in future classes. They say reduced portions only helps during exams. It may be recalled that the Karnataka Textbook Society had released a 30% reduced syllabus, but rolled it back after a controversy erupted over the Tipu Sultan content also being trimmed. The Karnataka Textbook Society said they submitted the reduced syllabus to the department of public instruction on Friday. “The final decision is with the government,” said Made Gowda, managing director, KTBS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/schools-mull-appointments-staggered-timings-for-students/articleshow/77839945.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||Lohaghat BJP MLA writes to JP Nadda over alleged corruption in road construction work||Dehradun: Lohaghat (Champawat) BJP MLA Puran Singh Fartyal wrote a letter to party’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda alleging corruption in road construction work between Tanakpur and Jauljibi. In the letter, written last week, the MLA alleged that officials are favouring one particular contractor, who is bagging the contracts of all development works in the region and that too, on fake documents. Puran Singh’s secretary Rakesh Kumar told TOI that MLA Fatyal, in his letter, maintained that the tender of the road construction work was given to the contractor during Congress government and it was found that he had forged many documents to grab the same. “The MLA maintained that people of the area are questioning him over BJP’s zero tolerance against corruption and asking why this forgery is still going-on? He sought immediate attention of the party on the matter,” said Kumar. Meanwhile, MLA Fartyal couldn’t be contacted to comment on the matter as his phone remained switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lohaghat-bjp-mla-writes-to-jp-nadda-over-alleged-corruption-in-road-construction-work/articleshow/77838893.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Oppn MLAs slam fund suspension||Shimla: The opposition in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday questioned the decision of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led government to suspend the MLA Local Area Development (MLALAD) Fund during the Covid-19 pandemic and alleged that the decision is a politically-motivated one. Leader of opposition in the state assembly Mukesh Agnihotri said while on one hand the government is not releasing the MLA fund, on the other, it is busy appointing chairmen and vice-chairmen in various boards and corporations amid the pandemic. In a statement issued here, Agnihotri alleged that with its decision to suspend the fund, the Thakur-led government has given a jolt to the self-respect of MLAs. He said the government should tell which other state has suspended such fund during the Covid period. When the government is creating a huge army of chairmen in the state and new appointments are being made every day, then how halting the funds of MLAs could be justified, he asked, adding that the government has even withdrawn the fund instalments already allocated to the legislators. Agnihotri further questioned the logic for stopping the MLA fund, citing that the government has created several nagar panchayats and municipal corporations in the state to suit it politically and crores of rupees would be spent on them. Under these circumstances, he said, reason eludes stopping the MLALAD Fund. He said since the MLA fund is spent for the development of villages, the legislators are facing problems in discharging their duties owing to the moratorium imposed by the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/oppn-mlas-slam-fund-suspension/articleshow/77841005.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,900 new Covid cases, 10 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 2,942 new cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload in the state to 1,23,090, even as 10 more deaths were recorded over the last 24 hours. While the total number of deaths so far in the state stands at 818, the number of active cases rose further to 31,284 on Saturday. So far, 90,988 patients have recovered from the novel coronavirus. With 61,148 samples tested in the state on Saturday, the total number of tests done until now have crossed 13,27,000 now. As the testing has been ramped up substantially over the last 15-20 days, the samples tested per million population has now reached 35,763. The case fatality rate in the state has fallen further, much below 1%, while the recovery rate now stands at 74%. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 461 cases on Saturday, while adjoining Rangareddy recorded 213 new cases, while seven other districts recorded between 100 and 185 cases. These include Khammam (181 cases), Karimnagar (172 cases), Nalgonda (171 cases), Medchal-Malkajgiri (153 cases), Nizamabad (140 cases), Suryapet (118 cases) and Warangal Urban (102 cases).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-2900-covid-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/77841207.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag all set to have a comprehensive district development plan||Hubballi: Even after 75 years of independence, the state is facing problems in sectors like health, poverty alleviation, urban development, social justice and education. Setting targets to improve these sectors is key to the growth of society. As part of a first-of-its-kind exercise, Gadag district will be the first district in the state to have Comprehensive District Development Plan (CDDP). This is a joint initiative of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University (Gadag) and Abdul Nazir Sab State Institute Of Rural Development (ANSSIRD, Mysuru). The exercise is about improving the indicators of the aforesaid sectors. So far, no district has this kind of CDDP. Under the district plan, the shortcomings of resources, agriculture and related sectors, water resources, basic amenities, environment and climate change, education, health, poverty alleviation, livelihood and skills, social security and social justice, women and child development and urban development will be assessed, and a plan to improve them will be prepared, said Dr G S Ganesh Prasad, coordinator of the exercise and also a faculty at the planning and research wing at ANSSIRD. Geeta Bangari, programme coordinator of MSW at RDPR University, said a working group has been formed for each sector, and these groups collect details of the progress. Based on their findings, a plan of development works that can be taken in the next five years will be prepared. Once the plan for Gadag district is completed, the project will be extended to other districts. When executed, each district will have its own CDDP. Geeta said the central government is also interested in this first-of-its-kind exercise. Gadag ZP CEO Dr Anandh K said the plan was necessitated for the overall development of the district. “We are happy that this kind of exercise is happening as a pilot for Gadag. The exercise could have completed by this time, but is being delayed due to the pandemic. The plan will be ready by next month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-all-set-to-have-a-comprehensive-district-development-plan/articleshow/77840502.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 31, 2020||Bhopal||Cooped up inside, kids face anxiety issues during pandemic: Experts||BHOPAL: If Covid-19 related lifestyle changes have been hard on adults, they have been even more difficult for teenagers. Not able to meet friends, play outdoors or pursue their hobbies and going to school or college, they have to make do with online classes and a strict curfew imposed at home on going out, has impacted them adversely. Experts claim that adolescents are becoming increasingly frustrated and showing symptoms of depression, being cooped up indoors for a long time. Psychiatrist Ruma Bhattacharya observed that there has been a rise in number of adolescent patients since the lockdown was enforced. “There has been a sudden and drastic change in the lives of students, and the parents are also observing behavioural changes in them. Too much exposure to screens and increase in online classes, watching web series etc have also led to many children developing mobile-phone addiction. All of a sudden a lot of teenagers are seeking counselling and therapy as they are unable to cope up with the situation. They are worried about their studies, many are also aware that their parents have lost their jobs and lack of one-to-one interaction with friends, has hit the adolescents hard,” she said. Another psychologist noted that the psycho-social development of teens, which is an important factor in personality building is being hampered due to lack of activities. “Being cooped up at home for so many months at a stretch has hampered the psycho-social development of adolescents, increased their anxiety levels and hiked dependency on alcohol, cigarettes etc in teenagers and well as young adults,” Anuj Satyavrat Dwivedi, a clinical psychologist said. “Adolescents are unable to hang out with friends. It is infuriating them and increasing their anxiety levels. I have seen a 20% rise in adolescent and teenage patients seeking counselling in the last few months,” psychologist Vinay Mishra said. Dwivedi suggested that parents be more upfront and have open communication with their children to stop further escalation in their anxiety levels. “Teenagers are very receptive and after the age of 16 they start thinking like adults, so parents also need to be more open with them and try to befriend them, especially in the current situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cooped-up-inside-kids-face-anxiety-issues-during-pandemic-experts/articleshow/77839944.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||City parks maintained by MDDA in poor condition since lockdown||Dehradun: The Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Park in Rajpur has been closed for the past four months and has now turned into a perfect habitat for reptiles as the park is full of unwanted plants. The staff at the park informed that the work has not resumed even after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. Rakesh Sharma, a resident of Rajpur, said, “This park is one of the main recreational places for residents in this area. It needs to get revamped soon so that whenever the government allows us to visit parks the facility is ready. This will particularly benefit the children who can play around for short duration as their physical activity has stopped completely.” Another resident Mamta Ghildyal said, “The park was closed for maintenance just around the time when the lockdown was announced. Now that the lockdown is over, the Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) officials must expedite the work at the park so that we can visit the place following the social distancing norms.” The Doon Vihar Centre Park in Jakhan is also crying for maintenance as wild growth has mushroomed in the entire park making it a hideout for insects, especially mosquitoes. Shruti Seth, a resident who lives close to the park, said, “We understand that the pandemic is yet not over but at least the public facilities like parks can be kept in good shape. The walking tracks around the parks have also broken and need repairing as a lot of people would want to return to the open spaces for their morning walks.” AR Joshi, MDDA’s horticulture officer, said, “The tender filing process to maintain the park in Rajpur has been completed and the work will be initiated within 15 days. The work got delayed due to shortage of labour. We will also start maintenance work in other parks of the city and it will be completed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/city-parks-maintained-by-mdda-in-poor-condition-since-lockdown/articleshow/77838902.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Malayalees in Hyderabad to give family visits a miss; Onam celebrations to be low-key||HYDERABAD: Malayalees living in Hyderabad are gearing up to celebrate Onam, the harvest festival, in a grand yet safe manner. Even though community gatherings and large families coming together form a huge part of the celebrations, the community members have said that the festival will be largely low-key this year. “I usually visit my hometown for Onam and attend family get togethers where we prepare the traditional feast that comprises 10 dishes and is serves on a banana leaf. But this year, it is going to be just me and my sister. Although, we will not be able to visit our family this year, we have decided that we will dress up in our traditional attire and cook all the dishes. We are also thinking of inviting our neighbours for lunch,” said Amulya Varghese, a resident of Gachibowli and member of Kerala Sangham. Representatives of a few apartment associations say that residents are not keen on celebrating the festival. “We have three Malayalee families in our apartment and our association used to host celebrations similar to other festivals that are celebrated in the city. But this year, due to Covid-19, we decided it is better to not host any programmes. Instead, we are planning to have a Zoom call where we all can meet virtually and wish each other,” said Arun Mathew, general secretary of Nagarjuna apartment in Sun City. Also, many restaurants in the city are featuring ‘Onam Sadhya’ prominently in their menus this week. Served on a banana leaf, the feast includes options such as thoran, aviyal, olan, kootu curry, steamed rice, ghee, sambar, appam, ada payasam, ari payasam and a host of other dishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/malayalees-in-city-to-give-family-visits-a-miss-onam-celebrations-to-be-low-key/articleshow/77841221.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Village with no Muslims observes Muharram||GADAG: A village in Gadag district in North Karnataka observes Muharram every year, and not one of its 2,500 residents of Hiremannur in Ron taluk is a Muslim. This has been a centuriesold syncretic tradition and ‘Ale Habba’ — as Muharram is known in local parlance — is observed along with the installation of ‘Panjas’ and entering of the fire. “We observe Ale Habba with devotion,” said Andappa Jigalur, an elder member in the village. Shivappa Olekar, another resident of the village, said the Covid-19 and the lockdown had resulted in the local economy suffering a huge setback. “As a result, only few of the residents could contribute towards Muharram this year. Each year, we collect funds from all households in the village. This year, despite the problems they are facing, the villagers are contributing what they can. Many of them are offering ‘Deergha Danda Namaskara’ at the Panjas,” said Olekar . Sources said clerics from neighbouring Hullur village are invited to perform Muharram rituals each year. “Clerics from Arahunasi and Belavanaki villages help us by informing us about when and how to observe Muharram. Moreover, all youngsters in our village are trained in rendering Rivayat songs, which are an integral part of Muharram,” the duo said. Ramesh Talwar and Kasheppa Jakkannavar, two other residents in the village, said there was no organisation or association entrusted with the responsibility of conducting events during Muharram. “A mosque was built in Hiremannur 50 years ago by our ancestors. But the mosque collapsed a few years ago. When we approached the Wakf Board for funds to rebuild it, we were told that having a registered organisation was mandatory. So, we have decided to reconstruct the mosque with contributions from the villagers,” Talwar and Jakkannavar said. Watch Watch: Village with no Muslims in Karnataka observes Muharram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/village-in-gadag-with-not-one-muslim-religiously-celebrates-muharram-each-year/articleshow/77840459.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Gang of minors burgled many shops||Aurangabad: The crime branch of the city police have zeroed in on a gang of minors for their alleged involvement in a series of burglaries committed last week. A number of shops in the Harsul, Begumpura, Satara and Osmanpura areas were burgled last week, leaving the city police red-faced with embarassment. The incident evoked serious questions on the city police’s ability to bring a check on the surge in the number of property offences. Even commissioner of Aurangabad police Chiranjeev Prasad pulled up the police station heads asking them to ensure strict night patrolling in their respective jurisdictions. Inspector of the crime branch Anil Gaikwad said that based on the footage captured in the CCTV cameras installed in some of the shops, many minors were seen involved in the burglaries of which two people have been identified and their houses searched. Police are yet to ascertain the identity of the other minors. Preliminary probe has revealed that of the two people who have been identified, one is a minor while the other is a suspected property offender on police record. “Some of the stolen articles, including a couple of mobile phones and readymade clothes, have been seized from their homes. Both the minor and the suspect on police record have gone underground,” said Gaikwad. Officers at the crime branch said that they have launched a manhunt for the duo on the run and would be able to take further action after they get hold of them or were able to identify the other minors. The crime branch has also nabbed a 35-year-old criminal on police record, Chandrakant Magre, on the charges of lifting a bike from the premises of the district and sessions court. In addition to this, the detection branch of Jinsi police station has nabbed three porters working in the Old Mondha area of the city. The suspects have been identified as Sagar Kharat (20), Suyog Jadhav (19), both from Osmanpur area, and Farooq Ahmed Shah (22) from Sanjaynagar area of the city. Police have also recovered valuables worth Rs 1 lakh from the suspects. Sources said that the suspects claimed that they were left jobless after the imposition of the lockdown and started targeting shops in different localities to feed their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gang-of-minors-burgled-many-shops/articleshow/77841069.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai airport sees most international flights since March||CHENNAI: The city airport has started to see more international flights, including Vande Bharat flights, over the past few days hinting that the state government is relaxing its restrictions on aircraft movement from abroad. Foreign airlines and Indian carriers have been flying a few services under the ‘air bubble’ scheme permitted by the ministry of civil aviation between cities. However, more flights are scheduled in the coming days, including a service to either Europe or the UK. On Wednesday, the airport saw its maximum number of international services since lockdown in March – 24 flights, including Vande Bharat, chartered and limited schedule flights, serving destinations like Jeddah, Muscat, Chicago, Kuala Lumpur, Colombo, Mattala, Doha and Kuwait. There were six flights the previous day. An airport official said international operations are looking up as restrictions are fewer and the Centre is also pushing for point-to-point ‘air bubble’ services. “Many travellers are flying out of the city on flights that return after bringing passengers from abroad,” he added. A majority of the flights that see leisure travellers are to the UAE, which has begun issuing tourist visas to Indian citizens. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said, “Maldives and Dubai have started to allow Indian travellers. We expect Colombo too to open soon. Sri Lanka has already started allowing visitors. The US is also open for visitors. We handle bookings of travellers who need to go to the US via Delhi and Mumbai.” An airline official said the Covid-19 scare is also waning slowly as none of the passengers who arrived by flights from abroad have been tested positive here since August 22. The airport has received at least three to five flights every day in the past 15 days. IndiGo, Go Air, SpiceJet, Emirates and Etihad Airways are already operating international flights. The airlines are expected to release a new schedule for September in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-airport-sees-most-intl-flights-since-march/articleshow/77841098.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Watering holes to welcome tipplers from Tuesday||BENGALURU: The fizz is set to return in the pub district of Bengaluru and elsewhere in Karnataka, with the state government deciding to follow the latest Union ministry of home affairs guidelines and allow bars and restaurants to serve liquor to customers on their premises from Tuesday (September 1). Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday, in-principle, approved consumption of alcohol at outlets licensed to serve liquor on their premises. The decision is in line with central government guidelines issued on Saturday for Unlock 4.0. The new guidelines relaxed restrictions on activities including Metro services from September 7, public congregations with a ceiling of 100 people and allowed open air theatres to function from September 21. Excise commissioner Lokesh M confirmed the decision to allow the sector to resume normal business and an order to this effect is expected on Monday. “The relaxation comes with strict norms including social distancing, which means outlets will function below full their seating capacity. The order will contain a detailed advisory for both vendors and consumers,” said Lokesh. It is said watering holes will be asked to thermalscreen customers, besides providing hand sanitisers and regulate air-conditioners to maintain a temperature in the 24-30 degree Celsius range and humidity at 40% to 70%. Outlets are expected to be allowed to operate at normal business hours mentioned in the licensing conditions — which means they can stay open for business between 10am and 11.30pm Despite the stifling norms, industry stakeholders including vendors and manufacturers have welcomed the decision given the Covid scare still persistent among general public and the fact that they expect a slow and tedious recovery. “It is heartening that liquor vends can resume normal business and along with the reopening of Metro service, it is a shot in the arm. With public transportation expected to improve further in the months ahead, we hope the liquor business will return to normalcy soon,” said B Govindraj Hegde, principal secretary of Karnataka Federation of Wine Merchants Association. With the new guidelines, pubs and bars will open for tipplers after a break of nearly six months as the state government closed them soon after Karnataka recorded the first Covid death on March 9. The Centre, after two nationwide lockdowns, allowed takeaway sales of liquor on May 4, when wine shops were allowed to reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pubs-bars-and-restaurants-to-welcome-tipplers-from-sept-1/articleshow/77839986.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Blood banks run dry in Andhra Pradesh as fear of coronavirus keeps donors away||VISAKHAPATNAM: The problem of blood shortage in the state has assumed worrying proportions amid the pandemic with less than 10% of the average 2.5 lakh units per annum available at blood banks, sources said. P Jaganmohana Rao, vice-chairman of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) for Andhra Pradesh said the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak has discouraged donors from voluntarily coming forward. “Apart from Covid-19, many patients with bone and kidney ailments are losing their lives due to non-avaailability of blood,” Jaganmohana Rao told TOI. The state has nearly 200 blood banks, including 72 blood banks under the IRCS, Rao said, adding that almost all blood banks are at present nearly empty. Some blood banks in Nellore and Krishna districts are able to meet demand through blood stored in sachets, while blood banks in other districts are running empty, Rao added. An employee of ICRS, Visakhapatnam unit, said even the kin or relatives of patients are not willing to donate blood on account of Covid-19 fears. “I personally experienced many cases of patients who did not get blood from their blood relations or friends as the donors did not dare to come to the blood banks to donate blood,” the blood bank employee told TOI. According to Jaganmohana Rao, there is high demand for O positive (+) blood, followed by B positive (+). While the number of donors for both blood groups is also high, availability of the two blood groups has plummeted compared to before the outbreak. “For certain rarer blood groups such as O negative (-), people should take care and ensure that they do not require a doctor’s visit or hospitalisation,” said Dr KV Ram Kumar, managing director of Lakshmi Gayatri Hospital at Akkayappalem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/blood-banks-run-dry-as-fear-of-virus-keeps-donors-away/articleshow/77844818.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 31, 2020||Amaravati||Blood banks run dry in Andhra Pradesh as fear of coronavirus keeps donors away||VISAKHAPATNAM: The problem of blood shortage in the state has assumed worrying proportions amid the pandemic with less than 10% of the average 2.5 lakh units per annum available at blood banks, sources said. P Jaganmohana Rao, vice-chairman of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) for Andhra Pradesh said the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak has discouraged donors from voluntarily coming forward. “Apart from Covid-19, many patients with bone and kidney ailments are losing their lives due to non-avaailability of blood,” Jaganmohana Rao told TOI. The state has nearly 200 blood banks, including 72 blood banks under the IRCS, Rao said, adding that almost all blood banks are at present nearly empty. Some blood banks in Nellore and Krishna districts are able to meet demand through blood stored in sachets, while blood banks in other districts are running empty, Rao added. An employee of ICRS, Visakhapatnam unit, said even the kin or relatives of patients are not willing to donate blood on account of Covid-19 fears. “I personally experienced many cases of patients who did not get blood from their blood relations or friends as the donors did not dare to come to the blood banks to donate blood,” the blood bank employee told TOI. According to Jaganmohana Rao, there is high demand for O positive (+) blood, followed by B positive (+). While the number of donors for both blood groups is also high, availability of the two blood groups has plummeted compared to before the outbreak. “For certain rarer blood groups such as O negative (-), people should take care and ensure that they do not require a doctor’s visit or hospitalisation,” said Dr KV Ram Kumar, managing director of Lakshmi Gayatri Hospital at Akkayappalem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/blood-banks-run-dry-as-fear-of-virus-keeps-donors-away/articleshow/77844817.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||Doon mayor used his clout not for development but to get her daughter a job: AAP||Dehradun: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), in a press conference on Sunday, accused Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama of indulging in nepotism rather than working to make the capital city better. The AAP leaders were referring to the controversy that erupted after Gama’s daughter got the contractual job of an accountant in Indian Medical Council through the state-run agency Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD), which functions under the Youth Welfare department of the state government. The issue came to light after an official letter, having names of four recommended candidates for different posts in Indian Medical Council, which included the name of Sunil Uniyal Gama’s daughter as well, started doing rounds on social media. Speaking to the media persons, Ravindra Anand, spokesperson of Uttarakhand AAP unit, said, “The state government has betrayed the government job aspirants who prepare rigorously for years to bag a job. Meanwhile, the powerful people of the ruling party are securing back-door entry for their children. We feel bad for those unemployed youngsters who have been waiting for the past 10-15 years to get employment through PRD.” In a similar vein, Uma Sisodia, AAP leader, claimed that “rather than cleaning the clogged drains and dirt in the capital city, Dehradun mayor seems busy using his power to adjust her ‘incompetent’ daughter at the post of an accountant through PRD. It is to be noted that there are thousands of unemployed youths listed with PRD.” AAP also threatened to intensify the protest until the daughter of Dehradun mayor resigns from the post and a deserving candidate gets the job in her place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-mayor-used-his-clout-not-for-development-but-to-get-her-daughter-a-job-aap/articleshow/77838928.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metrowater to crack down on illegal tapping||CHENNAI: There has been an increase in the number of incidents of people illegally drawing water from Metrowater mainlines using compact motor pumps and those found guilty of this violation will be severely punished, officials of the agency have warned. A Metrowater official said the problem was rampant in areas such as Perambur, Teynampet, Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Broadway, T Nagar, Kosapet, Triplicane, Mylapore and Washermenpet despite strict monitoring, with people in Perambur reporting three cases in August and three cases in July. K Chandrasekar, a resident of Mannady in north Chennai, said the occupant of a house on his street had been seen using a 0.5bhp motor to suck large quantities of water from the mainline. As a result, he said, the sump in his house remained half full even on days when water was released. He had made repeated complaints to the officials concerned but no action was initiated yet, Chandrasekar said. In several instances, the official said, residents tap water illegally because the houses concerned do not have space for constructing sumps to store water. There are also instances, particularly in crowded areas in the core city, where people resort to such tapping because there is very little gap between every two houses and the pressure in the pipeline reduces as it reaches tail-end areas, he said. The situation was particularly bad during the summer of 2018, when the city endured one of its worst-ever water crises, and Metrowater had to conduct periodical checks and take violators to task. In several cases, a resident found guilty of tapping water illegally had his/her supply disconnected and fined a large sum of money before the connection was restored after three months. Such action continued for a long time before the number of violations gradually came down, the official said. Currently, the Metrowater supply is good and most of the households with proper connections are getting it regularly. Despite this, people are continuing to resort to such violations, but none will be spared and all offenders will be penalised severely, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metrowater-to-crack-down-on-illegal-tapping/articleshow/77841053.cms||P Oppili
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Blood banks run dry in Andhra Pradesh as fear of coronavirus keeps donors away||VISAKHAPATNAM: The problem of blood shortage in the state has assumed worrying proportions amid the pandemic with less than 10% of the average 2.5 lakh units per annum available at blood banks, sources said. P Jaganmohana Rao, vice-chairman of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) for Andhra Pradesh said the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak has discouraged donors from voluntarily coming forward. “Apart from Covid-19, many patients with bone and kidney ailments are losing their lives due to non-avaailability of blood,” Jaganmohana Rao told TOI. The state has nearly 200 blood banks, including 72 blood banks under the IRCS, Rao said, adding that almost all blood banks are at present nearly empty. Some blood banks in Nellore and Krishna districts are able to meet demand through blood stored in sachets, while blood banks in other districts are running empty, Rao added. An employee of ICRS, Visakhapatnam unit, said even the kin or relatives of patients are not willing to donate blood on account of Covid-19 fears. “I personally experienced many cases of patients who did not get blood from their blood relations or friends as the donors did not dare to come to the blood banks to donate blood,” the blood bank employee told TOI. According to Jaganmohana Rao, there is high demand for O positive (+) blood, followed by B positive (+). While the number of donors for both blood groups is also high, availability of the two blood groups has plummeted compared to before the outbreak. “For certain rarer blood groups such as O negative (-), people should take care and ensure that they do not require a doctor’s visit or hospitalisation,” said Dr KV Ram Kumar, managing director of Lakshmi Gayatri Hospital at Akkayappalem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/blood-banks-run-dry-as-fear-of-virus-keeps-donors-away/articleshow/77838900.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Budgetary push for 20 ROBs, Rs 90cr released||Lucknow: Amid the gradual opening up of economic activity, the state government has given a fresh budgetary push to as many as 20 Railway Over Bridges worth nearly Rs 1,000 crores. The PWD department has released the final tranche of Rs 90 crores to UP Bridge Corporation to complete the construction of ROBs in various districts, including, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gautam Budh Nagar, Kannauj, Etawah, Kanpur, Aligarh, Prayagraj, Agra, Hathras, Jaunpur, Jalaun, Mathura and Firozabad. Earlier, the state government had released over Rs 800 crores. The fresh budgetary allocation comes even as the state government expedites construction of infrastructural facilities, which had hitherto come to a grinding halt following the pandemic. A senior PWD official said that most of these ROBs have been partially constructed. “The allocation would allow the department to complete the construction with the help of railways,” he said. In Varanasi, the ROBs are constructed in Varanasi-Ghazipur road, Babtpur, Bhadohi road, while in Gautam Budh Nagar, the ROB is constructed on Dadri-Surajpur road, Likewise, in Kanpur, the proposed ROBs are being constructed at Ganga Ghat and Govindpuri. In Lucknow, the ROB is being constructed on left bank of Kukrail culvert over Lucknow-Badshahnagar-Barabanki railway line and in Mauda Mohan road on Lucknow-Kanpur national highway. According to a government order issued by PWD, the spending of budget would be done as per budgetary manual and financial handbook of the state government. Under no circumstances, the budget would be diverted for any other purpose, the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/budgetary-push-for-20-robs-rs-90cr-released/articleshow/77841676.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Junior doctors to start plasma data bank||VISAKHAPATNAM: Junior doctors at Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (AMC-KGH) plan to begin a plasma data bank for the benefit of Covid-19 patients, especially those in the ICU. Through the data bank, medicos will maintain a list of junior doctors and other people in the district who have recovered from the virus. The list will also have the blood group and contact number of the recovered person and plasma will be collected from only those who volunteer to donate. President of AP Junior Doctors’ Association Dr N Deepchand said, “We want to initiate this plasma bank in Vizag by collecting relevant data from various medicos who have recovered. Contact and details of the donor will not be disclosed. Non-medicos are also welcome to donate plasma and register themselves at our data bank. Those interested can send theor details to 8886083456.” “Donors will be tested if their plasma is suitable enough to be utilised for Covid-19 patients. Usually, the success rate of plasma therapy is around 50-60%,” said Dr Deepchand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/medicos-to-start-plasma-data-bank/articleshow/77838924.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Drought-prone Osmanabad, Latur get new CADA office||Aurangabad: The state water resources department (WRD) has converted its Jayakwadi project circle (JPC) office at Aurangabad into Command Area Development Authority (CADA) for Latur and Osmanabad districts as part of restructuring within Godavari Marathwada Irrigation Development Corporation (GMIDC). The new facility is expected to serve as boon for farmers from these two districts which are considered as most drought-prone areas from Marathwada region. While two CADA offices already exist at Aurangabad and Beed, the latest establishment of new such government facility at Latur is expected to help in proper planning and execution of irrigation and other water needs. GMIDC assistant superintendent engineer Jaisingh Hire on Sunday said that farmers from Latur and Osmanabad districts would benefit in multiple ways due to new CADA office. “Besides hoping for proper irrigation in their areas, farmers from Latur and Osmanabad can now save time and energy that was earlier invested in visiting WRD facilities at Beed for different works,” he said. Hire said that the JPC office at Aurangabad was shouldered with the responsibility of accomplishing construction activities during its genesis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/drought-prone-osmanabad-latur-get-new-cada-office/articleshow/77841097.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, highest spike of 240 cases||Mohali: The district reported two Covid-19 deaths and the highest single-day spike of 240 cases on Sunday. One of the victims was a 40-year-old woman from Bhagomajra in PGI. She was suffering from liver disease, diabetes and hypertension. The second victim was a 55-year-old woman from Baltana. She died at GMCH, Patiala. The death toll is 73. Mohali city reported 92 cases, 38% of the total cases. Gharuan block saw the highest single-day spike of 56 cases. Forty-six cases were from Dhakoli in Zirakpur, 31 from Kharar, 10 from Lalru, 5 from Derabassi, and two from Kurali. The total count is 3,666, with 1,627 active cases. As many as 104 were discharged, taking the recovery count to 19,666||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-deaths-highest-spike-of-240-cases/articleshow/77839979.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Unpaid for 6 months, private school staff to protest over non-payment on Teachers’ Day||HYDERABAD: Private school teachers have decided to organise protests in front of the offices of education department across all the mandals and wear black badges on Teachers’ Day (September 5). The teachers are upset and enduring hardships as most of them did not receive salaries in the last six months. They said that they will also meet elected representatives and brief them about problems being faced by the private teachers and request them to take up their issues in the assembly. “While many have taken up menial jobs to earn a livelihood, few had even committed suicide. The state government, however, is least bothered about our problems. To show our dissent, we will be wearing black badges and are going to organise protest programmes on Teachers’ Day,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF), while speaking at a webinar organised to discuss issues of private teachers. They said, they will be staging protests on September 18 in front of camp offices of those MLA/MLCs who failed to address or raise the issues of private teachers in the assembly. TPTF said more than two lakh teachers in the state are suffering as managements are not paying them since March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unpaid-for-6-months-private-school-staff-to-protest-over-non-payment-on-teachers-day/articleshow/77841216.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Weekend lockdown on||MOHALI: The ‘Unlock 4’ has not empowered deputy commissioners of districts to extend relaxations while deciding on demands of people, implying traders will not get any relief from the weekend lockdown here. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “No relaxation has been announced by the state government and market associations will have to abide by the orders of the state government. The weekend curfew will be imposed as per the state orders in the district.” Sarabjit Singh, general secretary, Mohali Beopar Mandal, said, “The decision is antitraders and needs to be reviewed. We have already sustained huge losses due to the pandemic. This lockdown is ruining our businesses. We have decided to keep our shops open.” On the other hand, restaurant and hotel associations are also not happy with the decision of the state government to close the eateries by 6.30 pm. Mohali Hotel Association president D K Arora said, “Food business comes alive only during dinner time and we have to close by 6.30 pm. The food industry is already on the verge of closure and further lockdown will pull the shutters down.” Restaurant owners claimed they sustained 85% loss on a daily basis due to the lockdown. They said people are still scared and not comfortable to come out of their homes and have food in restaurants. They said re-employing cooks and waiters only for lunch will not be viable from business point of view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-relief-from-weekend-lockdown-in-mohali/articleshow/77839977.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 31, 2020||Bhopal||Outdoor auditoriums set to reopen, await guidelines||BHOPAL: As per the new guidelines of the HRD ministry, open-air auditoriums will be allowed to reopen from September 21 and this has sent a wave of happiness not only among the artistes, but also among the residents who have been longing for live performances and poetry recitals since the last five months. Museums and other open-air auditoriums are gearing up to open in the new normal. “We were hoping to reopen the outdoor galleries by September, but now will reopen the open-air auditorium as per the guidelines of the state government and district administration. We will have to make seating arrangements according to the new guidelines and ensure proper social distancing along with other precautions,” said PRO of Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalay, Ashok Sharma. Citizens of Bhopal have waiting for the reopening of the museums and art centres since a long time, which puts more pressure on the authorities of the art centres to ensure there is no overcrowding. “We are waiting for the guidelines of the state government and will ensure all safety measures before reopening the open-air auditorium. It will be a challenge to ensure social distancing as we have been getting calls from lots of people about the reopening of Bharat Bhavan, but we will have to ensure we put a cap on the number of visitors per day and sanitize the whole place every day,” said chief administrative officer of Bharat Bhavan, Prem Shankar Shukla. “I am so happy to know that at least the open-air theatres will reopen in the next few weeks,” said Anjali Mishra, an art teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/outdoor-auditoriums-set-to-reopen-await-guidelines/articleshow/77839997.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Noida||Jewar rehab plan faces protest hurdle||Noida: Going smoothly so far, the land acquisition process in the Jewar Bangar village to relocate over 3,600 people directly affected by the Jewar international airport project has now hit a roadblock, with 164 of the 224 plot owners raising objections. While four of them have been dubbed as genuine concerns pertaining to incorrect entry of birth record, value of assets such as borewell or boundary wall, the remaining are over the rate of compensation being awarded. Instead of Rs 2,680 for a sqm, these land owners are demanding a minimum of Rs 3,180 a sqm, citing the additional Rs 500 per sqm being given to the residents of six villages affected by the airport project. The development of a township over some 48 hectares in Jewar Bangar is the last task for the district administration in order to rehabilitate the 3,627 families affected by the airport project. In the absence of any resistance, the administration had declared the process of handing over award to the landholders on August 21 under the land acquisition act. Some 224 title holders were identified for compensation in lieu of land. But now 164 of them have raised objections. The logic behind this demand is proximity to the 48.1-hectare land in Jewar Bangar to the urbanised Azad Chowk, the sub-division’s commercial hub. Sarpanch of Gopalgarh village, Yogesh Talan, said, “The circle rate of Jewar Bangar area was last revised in 2013-14. Moreover, the prevailing market rates hover close to Rs 20,000 for a sqmt in Azad Chowk. Also we are entitled to additional compensation of at least Rs 500 per sqm. We will launch an agitation if the administration does not increase the amount by at least Rs 500 a sqm.”  “The government can only take a call on the additional Rs 500 per sqm. We have offered them the highest rate as per the norms,” additional DM (land acquisition) Balram Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/jewar-rehab-plan-faces-protest-hurdle/articleshow/77835183.cms||Shalabh
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Killed by their own: Three cases in three years in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The horror which unfolded in the Gautampalli residence of a senior railway officer in which his wife and son were shot by his own daughter is not without precedent. At least three such crimes took place in three years in the city in which blood relations turned bloody, albeit with different motives. In two cases, the accused owned up guilt and in the other, a family member lodged an FIR. On April 30, Ajay, 45, along with his son, Avinash, 20, slaughtered six family members over a property feud in Banthra. Ajay first killed his father, Amar Singh, 65, then mother Ram Dulari, 58, his younger brother, Arun, 40, and his wife Ram Sakhi, 36, and their children Saurabh, 9, and Sarika, 2. Both accused went to the police station and surrendered. Similarly, Meera Yadav, 45, wife of UP legislative Council chairman was arrested for killing her son, Abhjeet, 22, at Darul Shafa in October, 2018. Police claimed Abhjeet was an alcoholic and would often fight with his mother. On the fateful night, Meera strangled his son. The incident triggered mystery after a burnt stole was found and the involvement of a third person was probed. Likewise, in SGPGI police station area, a 28-year-old IAS aspirant Martina Gupta was shot by her father, Ramesh Gupta, at their residence in Eldeco on November 11, 2017. Later, the victim’s mother, Malti Devi, lodged a complaint against her husband. Police revealed Ramesh was tense as his daughter had a relationship with her brother-in-law. Barring the Banthra case, police recreated crime scenes at Darul Shafa and Eldeco. “In Abhjeet’s murder, there were only two persons present. Similarly, when Martina was shot in her room on the first floor, her mother, father and two brothers were the only ones present,” said an inspector of crime branch, who probed both cases. He also said in both these cases, the accused like in the murder of railway officer’s wife and son did not flee. “The resemblance only narrows down to SOS calls to police after the murder by a third party,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/killed-by-their-own-three-cases-in-three-years-in-city/articleshow/77841683.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||‘Man-eater’ leopard on prowl kills man in Tehri||Dehradun: A 25-year-old man, reported to be mentally unstable, was killed by a ‘man-eater’ leopard on prowl in Narendra Nagar forest division on Saturday night. The half-eaten body of the man was found in Dharmapur village of Devprayag by the villagers. Subsequently, the body was sent for postmortem to AIIMS Rishikesh by the police on Sunday. “The victim was often seen moving around in the area and according to locals, he was mentally unwell. The man was attacked on Saturday night near the forests of Dharampur. We are trying to find out his family details,” said Manoj Rawat, head constable of Devprayag police station. Incidentally, this is believed to be the same leopard who was caged by a rescue team in Maletha (25 kilometres away from Dharmapur village) after it had killed a 35-year-old woman by dragging her from her house. The big cat was then sent to Chidiyapur Rescue Centre but was later released as the staff found it to be a “fit animal sans any human imprint”. According to the foresters, the leopard was brought back to Tehri from Chidiyapur Rescue Centre and left into the wilds. Now, cages are being installed in Devprayag to trap the leopard. Notably, this is the third death recorded in human-leopard conflict in Tehi district in August this year. According to highly-placed sources, Uttarakhand has already lost around 15 lives to leopard attacks this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-leopard-on-prowl-kills-man-in-tehri/articleshow/77838960.cms||Shivani Azad
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Will organise procession for immersion: Committee||Hyderabad: The Khairatabad Ganesh ‘Shobha Yatra’ (Ganesh immersion) will be held on September 1. Earlier, the committee had announced that the nine-foot tall ‘Dhanvantari Maha Ganapathi’ idol, built with clay, will be immersed at the pandal itself. On Sunday, the Utsav Committee president, S Sudershan announced that the ‘Shobha Yatra’ will start from the pandal at 3pm and immersion will be completed by 5pm at Hussainsagar Lake. The committee also announced the route of the procession. After the pooja is performed to the idol, the procession will start from Khairatabad pandal and reach NTR Marg, through Telephone Bhavan and Telugu Talli flyover. Sudershan also said that the police has denied permission for the procession, but the committee assured they will ensure a peaceful procession with private security. A special trolley will be arranged to carry the idol for the 1.5km stretch to reach Hussainsagar Lake, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-organise-procession-for-immersion-committee/articleshow/77841213.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Buyers to get Rs 52 lakh refund, compensation for unfinished flat||CHENNAI: Coming to the rescue of two homebuyers who had booked an apartment in an unregistered housing project, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has directed the project developer to refund the customer’s payment with interest. The case pertains to a project titled “Aurum Pride Tower” at Padur, on the outskirts of Chennai, which the TNRERA order states is not registered. It is developed by Pacifica (Chennai) Infrastructure Co. Pvt. Ltd. In a recent order, TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravanan said documents furnished by homebuyers proved that the developer failed to complete the construction of the booked flat and handover its possession as promised. Therefore, the complainants (homebuyers) are entitled to get back the payment made with interest and compensation, it added. The developer concerned has been directed to refund the payment of Rs 52.2 lakh to the complainants with an interest of 10% per annum till the repayment is made. Besides, the homebuyers have also been awarded compensation of Rs 2.2 lakh towards mental agony and litigation expenses. The order is significant as it gives homebuyers who invested in such unregistered housing projects an opportunity to seek relief from the state’s realty regulator. Such projects, which commenced before the implementation of RERA Act, could not deliver apartments and also failed to register with the TNRERA, after the Tamil Nadu government notified rules for real estate Act in June 2017. The complainants said they had paid Rs 52.2 lakh of the Rs 53.9 lakh owed for booking the flat. After a sale agreement was entered between the homebuyer and builder in 2013, the developer executed a sale deed assuring to handover the flat in 2015. But, the construction was not completed and the (apartment) unit has not been handed over till date, the order added. Despite attempts, Pacifica (Chennai) Infrastructure Co. Pvt. Ltd. did not respond to TOI queries for reaction. The developer, in 2019, informed the homebuyers that construction of the block in which a unit was booked can’t be completed and urged them to shift the booking to another block. The complainants sought to cancel the booking and sought a refund of the amount paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buyers-to-get-rs-52-lakh-refund-compensation-for-unfinished-flat/articleshow/77841138.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation plans modifying STP to treat water for industrial use||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is modifying the 108 million litres per day (MLD) sewage treatment plant located in Narava to equip it with tertiary treatment technologies. The modification is being done keeping in view the ongoing hybrid underground drainage (UGD) project in Pendurthi, Malkapuram and Gajuwaka, and which will bring another 85,000 households under UGD cover. Once sewerage works are complete, they will be connected to the plant in Narava which will treat the water before supplying it to industries. The confirmed demand for treated sewage effluent by industries has been estimated at 77 MLD by the GVMC. While about 87 kilometre of pipelines have been laid in Pendurthi till date, 90 km of pipelines have been laid in Gajuwaka and Malkapuram, under the second phase. GVMC chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said the sewage treatment plant is being modified to produce about 79 MLD tertiary treated water. “The tertiary treated water can be utilised for industrial purposes. The underground drainage works in Pendurthi, Gajuwaka and Malkapuram are progressing at a good pace,” said Venkateswara Rao. Said to be the country’s largest hybrid sewerage project/green initiative, the project will provide sewerage infrastructure to areas that have for years remained outside the UGD network. According to GVMC officials, the project also has additional benefits, such as improvement of surface and groundwater quality, optimal utilisation of existing STP infrastructure and regulated collection of sewage. Moreover, supplying tertiary treated water to industries will bridge the growing demand-supply gap of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/civic-body-plans-modifying-stp-to-treat-water-for-industrial-use/articleshow/77838942.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||239 new cases, 5 deaths in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: With the addition of 239 patients, the tally of active coronavirus cases in the district reached 4,544 by Sunday evening. A total of 380 patients were also discharged from different Covid care facilities whereas five patients succumbed to the contagion on Sunday. The total cases of Covid 19 in the district since the beginning of the pandemic has increased to 23,150. The death toll of the district stands at 689. Of the recent cases, 96 were from reported rural areas, 56 from city limits and rest were from entry points for Aurangabad where testing drives are underway. In a measure to contain the spread of Covid 19, district administration on Sunday zeroed in on those undertaking morning walks without wearing masks and took ation against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/239-new-cases-5-deaths-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77841133.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula centre serves cockroaches with lunch||PANCHKULA: Despite nodal officers and members appointed for maintaining cleanliness and ensuring better facilities to patients at Covid care centres and hospitals, inmates of the Covid care facility in Sector 14 on Sunday shared shocking pictures of cockroaches in the packed lunch, bad shape of toilets and poor cleanliness at the centre, prompting the chief medical officer to mark an inquiry. The pictures showed five cockroaches in rice and white chana served to patients in a disposable plate. All patients in general ward refused to eat their food. There is no fixed timing for serving food, patients alleged The patients said the toilets were in a bad shape. “How can one use a toilet where water is dropping from everywhere and there is no cleanliness,” patients alleged. “The administration is least bothered about cleanliness in the facility,” they said. The photos went viral and reached CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur. She, after holding discussions with the deputy commissioner (DC), marked an inquiry in the matter and directed the officials to provide all required facilities to the patients. Residents of Panchkula alleged such poor facilities show lapses on part of government officials. Two days back, Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta who got admitted at the general ward of Sector 6 hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 levelled allegations of poor quality food and delayed delivery of food and other facility to patients. She also tweeted her complaint to the Haryana health minister. On August 9, as many as 25 patients admitted at Covid care ward at General Hospital, Sector 6 faced water crisis at their toilets for over 16 hours. One of the patients admitted at the ward made a video of the toilet, which went viral. The administration was forced to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/roaches-in-rice-chana-in-pkl-covid-centre/articleshow/77840037.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali recovery rate plunges from 72% to 56%, lowest in state||Mohali: The district has seen a decline in the recovery rate at 56% from the formidable 72% in July. According to cumulative test results, a total of 27,076 samples have been tested out of which 25,676 have tested negative at the rate of 94.85%. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the extensive sampling has led to spike in cases in the district but it has also led to detection of the hidden cases and quarantining or isloating them prevented community spread. In 60 days, the district has registered a rise of 3,062 cases at the rate of 91%. On July 1, Mohali recorded 280 positive cases, which have risen to 3,342 till August 29, which is 12 times. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the spurt in cases came after pilgrims from Sri Hazoor Sahib, overseas NRIs and residents stranded in other states started arriving to the district. He said, “Out of the recent rise in active cases, 90% are those who migrated from other states and their contacts and were asymptomatic. Just 10% are those who came on their own at flu corners and are symptomatic cases.” “We are facing rise in Covid19 cases because of outsiders arriving at Mohali. Their home quarantine is saving us from community spread and those cases being detected are direct contacts of positive cases,” said the DC. Dayalan said, “Learning from the worldwide pandemic spread, we expected the cases to surge at any given point of time. So, we prepared our COVID spike management plan well in time and have now put it into action.” BOX Mohali 3rd in state to keep patients in-home isolation Mohali district is the third in the state to keep Covid19 positive patients under home isolation. Mohali has 462 patients under home isolation and in seven days 156 patients have been discharged from home isolation facility, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. Ludhiana district is on top with 692 patients under home isolation and Patiala is at second place with 609 patients DATE JULY 1 JULY 10 JULY 20 JULY 30 AUG 1 AUG 10 AUG 20 AUG 29 TOTAL 280 361 551 822 894 1385 2270 3324 ACTIVE 73 98 177 312 351 649 1019 1491 CURED 203 256 362 496 528 715 1206 1862 RECOVERY RATE 72.5% 70.96% 65.69% 60.34% 59% 51.62% 53.12% 56% ACTIVE RATE 26% 27.14% 32.12% 38% 39.26% 46.85% 44.88% 44.8%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-recovery-rate-plunges-from-72-to-56-lowest-in-state/articleshow/77839998.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 31, 2020||Bhopal||Floods receeding, 7,000 people evacuated to safety: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Sunday that relief & rescue operations in flood-hit areas of the state are being carried out on war-footing and it was a matter of satisfaction for him that there has been no loss of life in the catastrophe, which hit the 12 districts of eastern and central MP in the past couple of days. He commended the agencies carrying out the relief & rescue operations including the Indian Army and the Air Force for ensuring that no life is lost in floods and said except for isolated incidents like someone swept away in swelling water or death of four children due to wall collapse, all the affected persons in the submerged areas have been safely evacuated. Addressing a press conference at CM House in the morning before he left for aerial survey of affected areas, Chouhan said that 7,000 people from 454 villages of 12 districts have been evacuated in the past couple of days, 170 relief camps set up where 2300 persons are lodged. Chief minister said that now the rains have stopped, water in submerged areas is receding, discharge of water from dams have also reduced but there was need to be alert because rain could begin again. Chouhan said he had talked to defence minister, Rajnath Singh on Saturday night and Prime Minister, Narendra Modi on Sunday morning to apprise him of the grim flood situation in MP and he has assured of all possible help to the state. He said the Air Force airlifted 6 persons in Chhindwara district on Saturday nightand 3 from Balaghat district on early Sunday morning. In a submerged village of Sehore district, where IG and commissioner, Bhopal had themselves gone on Saturday night to oversee evacuation villagers from boat, 62 more persons have been airlifted by a chopper of Indian Army. In Thoti village of Raisen district, a similar rescue operation is on and 10 persons have, so far, been airlifted. People will also be airlifted from Bamori and Pari villages, he added. Chouhan said that there could be possibility of airlifting people from 2-3 villages of Hoshangabad district also. He said that he, himself, sat through the night at the flood control room set up at the CM House and said the admimistrration, police, home guards, NDRF, SDRF, Indian Army and Air Force, everyone contributed their best to save the lives of affected persons and mitigate their sufferings. He said five persons were taken out of Kolar from boat at 2.30 am on Sunday. Chief minister said that among the companies provided by the Indian Army, 2 have been deployed in Raisen, 2 in Sehore while remaining are im Hoshangabad district. He said that the system, which played havoc in eastern and central MP for two days, has shifted to western MP and heavy rains are likely in Indore and other districts under its influence. People in flood-affected areas need to be alert though as rain may come back again and risk of diseases to people in flood-hit areas also increases once the water recedes. There has been massive loss to crops as well, he said, which would be promptly assessed and relief provided to affected farmers in addition to compensation received under crop insurance scheme. CM lauds SDRF team in HoshangabadIn the course of his press conference, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, referred to valiant effort of a SDRF team in Hoshangabad, which not only evacuated a family from a submerged village by boat amidst heavy rains but after reaching to safety, turned the boat upside down to save children of the family from heavy downpour, which they were not able to withstand. "I congratulate the team led by platoon commander, Rajkumar Katare, for their brave act but it is not the only example of this kind. Administration, police, home guards, Indian Army and Air Force have been involved in several such feats," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/floods-receeding-7000-people-evacuated-to-safety-says-cm/articleshow/77840051.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Nine-year-old among 7 die of Covid in a day in Chandigarh; 62% of deaths in August||CHANDIGARH: A day after highest single-day surge of 261 Covid-19 cases, the city registered seven deaths from the virus on Sunday, the highest so far that pushed the toll to 52. As many 170 people tested positive, raising the count to 4,155, with 1,805 active cases. A 52-year-old woman from Sector 30 suffering from cancer died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Another victim was a 43-year-old woman from Faidan suffering from lung disease, scleroderma with tubercular meningitis. A 45-year-old man from Manimajra with diabetes breathed his last at Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The youngest patient was a nineyear-old girl from Hallomajra. She had liver disease. The oldest victim was an 81-year-old woman from Sector 20. A 65-year-old man from Sector 43 died at a private hospital in Mohali and a 20-year-old man from Raipur Kalan was brought dead at General Hospital, Panchkula. As many as 48 patients were discharged, raising the recovery count to 2,296. The coronavirus curve has been rising from July. Though June had 144 cases, less than what was recorded in May (220 cases and four deaths), there has been a spike again. With the onset of September, when most models have predicted pan-India surge, it is expected that this might be the peak of the virus. Till date, 62% of the total Covid deaths in the city took place in August. One fourth of the total cases were detected in August. There were 576 cases and nine deaths in July. August has seen 996 cases and 28 deaths, the highest since March 18, when the first case was reported in the city. The sudden rise in the cases from July is due to the opening of the city and easing of restrictions. “We can see many people have become either casual or tired of wearing masks and hand hygiene. There is laxity and thus since July, there have been an upswing in Covid cases,” said an epidemiologist. Why were there more cases in May which declined in June? During May, there were cases from a cluster which was declared as hotspot— Bapu Dham Colony. Thereafter, as it was declared as containment zone and there were lockdowns, June saw fewer cases comparatively. Did the testing increase when the positivity rate increased to the present 33%? Tests per million was low in which Chandigarh was in the top 10 worse states and now it ranks in top 14 worse states in testing. The recovery rate was 65% in July and dropped to 56% in August. Also, the positivity rate rose from 6% to 7% in July, which has soared to 33% till date, the highest in the country. The rate of infection in July was increasing by 3% daily on an average, while in August it is rising by 6% daily on an average. Also, there is variation in symptoms in mild cases. “These cases are now coming with fatigue, fever and body aches. However, as most of the hospitals and post Covid-care facilities are fully occupied, home isolation is the first choice,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-year-old-among-7-die-of-covid-in-a-day-in-city-62-of-deaths-in-aug-alone/articleshow/77840049.cms||Shimona Kanwar
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Flickering lights to make Chennai's GST Road safer for motorists||CHENNAI: The St Thomas Mount police have begun installing blinker light posts on GST Road and parts of Mount-Poonamallee Road to enhance road safety and curb accidents reported at nights. The flickering lights, which were placed on the median, are now being installed at road curves and intersections to help motorists drive through safely. So far, 11 such lights have been installed around the Alandur metro station. The area around the Alandur Metro subway prone to accidents as vehicles converge here and get divert on to two routes – straight ahead towards Tambaram and steer left towards Adambakkam. In 2019, at least 23 accidents have taken place at this particular spot in Alandur. Many motorists have also rammed into the metro rail elevated corridor’s pillars. To caution them of the pillars that stand in between, blinker poles, which cost Rs 10,000 each, have been put up. The blinkers are 3ft high and include an amber light along with three strips of reflector to caution drivers of a median ahead. The concept was borrowed from median blinkers installed on highways, after a detailed study by the Greater Chennai Traffic Police found that most road accidents on the stretch occurred as there were no signs alerting about medians or pillars ahead. While the coat of paint on medians fades away, pillars are not visible during night time. On most roads, a speeding vehicle may not be able to see a median at night and this, sometimes, leads to fatal accidents. “Accident-prone spots on roads in the city were identified based on statistics, and these roads were given priority based on the time of the accidents,” a police officer said. “We consulted a few experts in the field who said the best solution could be including a warning signboard 300m ahead of medians,” said the officer. The next safety precautions would be on stretches mentioned by motorists in their feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flickering-lights-to-make-gst-road-safer-for-motorists/articleshow/77841129.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed police’s dog mentioned in Mann ki Baat||Aurangabad: Beed police’s sniffer dog Rocky, who passed away following a brief illness this month, was mentioned in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. The sniffer dog of Doberman breed has the credit of solving 365 cases, including murders, dacoities and robberies even those from neighbouring districts. “You might have witnessed a very emotional scene on television in which Beed police were seen paying last respects to their dog rocky. Rocky had helped Beed police in solving more than 300 cases,” said Modi. This was followed by several people, including cabinet minister for social justice and special assistance department Dhananjay Munde, taking to social media and appreciating Beed police for offering last respects alike that are offered for policeman that die in the line of duty. A video shot on August 15 showed ‘Shok Salami’ including firing of rounds, laying of wreath, salute offered to the deceased canine by senior officers and superintendent of police Harssh Poddar. The video attracted the attention of masses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-polices-dog-mentioned-in-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/77841142.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Waste produced in core Chennai areas twice that of added areas||CHENNAI: The city’s core zones generate twice as much waste as added areas, according to a field study by the private contractor set to take over its waste Urbeser-Sumeet collection and management. The study found daily per capita waste generation was 865 grams in Kodambakkam, Teynampet and Adyar zones, and 300-450 grams in Alandur, Valasaravakkam, Sholinganallur and Perungudi. This higher generation in the core areas was because the floating population was larger as there were more commercial establishments and offices than in the added areas. The waste generators are categorised into households, commercial, bulk generators (any building that generates more than 100kg), small industries, horticulture and inert (sand, mud on streets), and waste into wet, dry, hazardous, horticulture and inert. Some streets such as Royapettah High Road generated more wet waste, while horticulture waste was discarded largely by residents of Besant Nagar, CIT Nagar and Kotturpuram areas. Urbeser-Sumeet also studied market areas such as Ranganathan Stretet, Zam Bazaar, Saidapet market, Station Road to decide which type of waste collection vehicle would best suit them. In a month’s time, waste will be collected on battery-operated vehicles in Kodambakkam, Teynampet, Adyar, Alandur, Valasaravakkam, Sholinganallur and Perungudi zones. Residents of the seven zones will have to segregate dry, wet and hazardous waste. The first set of the battery-operated vehicles is ready. Each vehicle will have a route map and will cover 500 households a day. Residents will have to hand over wet, dry, contaminated and hazardous waste in separate covers or wrapped in paper. The overhaul will generate around 11,000 jobs and employees of Ramky enterprises, the present garbage collection agency, will also be included based on their performances. “These vehicles adhere to BS-6 norms (emission standards) and will be used in 92 wards in the seven zones. About 2,900 battery-operated vehicles, each with six bins of 100 litre capacity, 9,000 big roadside bins that are colour coded for wet and dry waste collection (each of 1,100 litres capacity), mechanical sweepers for 6m wide roads, smaller movable bins for internal roads, uniforms for the workers and about 300 trucks to pick up these roadside bins will be operational in a month’s time,” said a civic official. From January, roadside vendors, bakeries, tea shops and other eateries will not be allowed to dump waste in roadside bins; it will be collected at their doorsteps, said a civic official. “The idea is to ensure only 50% of the 5,400 tonnes of garbage Chennai generates enters the landfills,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/waste-produced-in-core-city-areas-twice-that-of-added-areas/articleshow/77841144.cms||Komal Gautham
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Unlock 4: Bars in Hyderabad get ready to recoup losses||HYDERABAD: The Central government’s guidelines on Unlock 4.0 has come as a breather for bars and restaurants across the city as they are allowed to serve alcohol from September 1 after shutdown of business for 170 days. With the Telangana government expected to issue a government order following the Central government norms this week, restaurants and bars in the city are gearing up to resume operations. Bars and restaurants in the city have been under severe financial stress as businesses remained shuttered since March. While many restaurants reopened for food deliveries, for others, liquor accounts for almost 80% of their business. “We are waiting to get standard operating procedures from the state government before we go ahead and reopen our shops. Considering it is Covid-19 time, we will no longer be able to accommodate as many consumers at one time as we used to. Maintaining social distancing and sanitisation protocol, we will be able to resume operations,” said Narsing Rao, owner of a chain of bars including Club 8, Begumpet and Club Rogue, Gachibowli in Hyderabad, hoping that the business will flourish by December. While the move is set to bring relief to bar owners, many have sought relaxation in terms of renewals of their licenses. “We have lost almost six months of our business. On September 30, our licenses are up for renewals. Considering we did not have cash flow for the last six months, we hope that the government will give us a blanket extension of six more months in order to concentrate on our operations and be able to recover our losses,” said Shaaz Mehmood, partner, Olive Group, Hyderabad. The move doesn’t seem so encouraging for star hotels as they said that unless travelling of corporates and tourists resume, serving of liquor will barely make any difference to the business. “Since wine shops are open, people still prefer to buy liquor bottles and drink at home. There would be hardly any consumers who would end up at a star hotel and indulge in liquor. Unless corporates and tourists come back to the hotels, this move may not bring much difference to our operations,” said Pradeep Dutt, vice-president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unlock-4-bars-in-city-get-ready-to-recoup-losses/articleshow/77841219.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 664 Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||Dehradun: With 664 fresh infections reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday, the Covid-19 case tally reached 19,231 in the state. Also, seven more deaths pushed the toll of the virus to 257 in the state. On the day, the state unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) postponed the meeting of its working committee that was expected to be attended by over 250 party functionaries and was scheduled for Monday. The decision came after the Congress launched an attack on the saffron party saying that BJP’s state president Bansidhar Bhagat was found infected with Covid-19 on Saturday after disregarding protocols and going ahead with organising large public gatherings at his residence and at the party office. BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin confirmed that the meeting was postponed but added that the decision had nothing to do with Congress attack. “We have postponed the meeting not because of the pressure. It was postponed because our state chief is ill and the meeting will not be possible without him. So, the meeting will be organised when Bansidhar Bhagat Ji will be discharged from the hospital,” said Bhasin. Sources from the health department confirmed that more than 200 BJP workers and other office bearers have been scanned since Saturday, the day when the party’s state chief and his son tested positive for coronavirus. Among the 664 fresh cases of coronavirus reported in the state on Sunday, the maximum of 183 were from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 126 from Haridwar, 120 from Dehradun, and 39 from Nainital. “For the second consecutive day, all 13 districts across Uttarakhand reported fresh cases. Among the hill districts, Uttarkashi reported the maximum of 46 cases, followed by 36 cases from Pithoragarh. Almora, Tehri, and Chamoli districts reported 27, 26, and 24 new Covid-19 cases respectively. Similarly, Pauri reported 20 new Covid-19 cases on the day, followed by eight cases from Rudraprayag, five from Champawat, and four from Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the seven deaths recorded on Sunday, three were reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, and two each were reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Meanwhile, 480 cases of recoveries were also reported in the state on Sunday. The total count of cured cases in the state crossed the 13,000 mark in the state on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-664-covid-19-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/77838997.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘Imam Hussain’s murder 1st martyrdom for democracy’||Nagpur: The Muslim community commemorated Ashura, 10th day of Islamic month Muharram, recalling the Prophet Muhammad’s grandson Imam Hussain’s “sacrifice for democracy”, with fasting and prayers for peace. In social messages and posts, intellectuals and scholars reminded the community about the battle of Karbala. “Hussain’s martyrdom reminds us how religion is used to usurp power,” they said. Lawyer Firdos Mirza said, “I see it as the first martyrdom in the history of humanity for democracy. Yazid wanted to legitimize his immoral regime through Hussain’s support when actually the Maaviya pact mandated nomination by shura (electoral college). Hussan refused and preferred to die for democracy.” Majid Parekh, regional secretary, Society for Communal Harmony, New Delhi, said Muharram is among four Islamic months when war is prohibited. “Hussain’s murder left an indelible mark on the Muslim world. History is replete with examples how religion is used to usurp power. Not just Hussain but also many children and women were massacred,” he said. There is another important lesson from Karbala, Parekh said. “The flow of Euphrates river and Tigris river, which passes from East Turkey through Syria and Iraq, was stopped to torture Hussain and his men. This was against Islamic teachings, which prescribe that any common resource can’t be denied to human beings even during war,” he said. Parekh added that for peace and harmony, Hussain laid his life fighting a tyrant. “Mahatma Gandhi’s fasting on Independence and his walk from Naukhali are similar examples of maintaining peace,” Parekh said. Islamic scholar and historian GS Khwaja said Imam Hussain is the force which kept on inspiring generations for last 13 centuries and a half, to fight for justice. “When Yazid bin Maaviya called Imam Hussain to Kufa for bai’at (referendum), he, in Medina, was warned against the evil plan of former but Hussain took a firm stand that ‘I wont recognize him as Caliph and also won’t sit quiet here. I will fight for the Haq (Truth)’.” He added, “The annual mourning reminds us that we are supporters of truth. I am proud of his martyrdom. He is an icon for both Shias and Sunnis.” Morris College’s associate professor Mazhar Alam Siddiqui said poet Allama Iqbal’s couplet on Karbala is worth more than a book. “Qatle Hussain asl mein marge Yazid hai, Islam zinda hota hai har Karbala ke baad (Islam is reborn after every Karbala, Hussain’s murder is actually death of Yazid),” he quotes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/imam-hussains-murder-1st-martyrdom-for-democracy/articleshow/77841692.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||ABVP asks colleges to return exam fees||Aurangabad: Amid the growing demand for return of exam fees by students pursuing higher education, student union Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has joined the chorus for giving back money to students except final year. In a memorandum submitted to the state government on Sunday, ABVP has sought immediate return of examination fees to students. “All students, except those who are in final year, have been promoted to next year as conduct of examinations was not possible due to outbreak of Covid-19. It is imperative upon the state universities, therefore, to return the money to such students at the earliest. The authorities concerned are deliberately tight lipped on the demand,” ABVP leader Swapnil Begade said. ABVP has also sought 30% reduction in fees by colleges for academic year 2020-21. “Besides reducing fees, institutes of higher learning must also allow payment of remaining 70% fees in instalments. Several parents have been facing financial crisis due to the current pandemic and, hence, relief must be given while paying fees,” Begade said. Among other demands, ABVP has demanded resignation of Maharashtra higher education minister Uday Samant for allegedly creating chaos in the matter of conduct of exams of final year students. “Despite loud and clear stand by UGC and other competent authorities in favour of conduct of exams for final year students, Samant and Yuva Sena took up the matter to the Supreme Court and wasted crucial time,” ABVP has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/abvp-asks-colleges-to-return-exam-fees/articleshow/77841145.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hubballi||Poachers kill three jackals in Chitradurga||Mysuru: Three jackals died after eating food filled with explosives in Chitradurga district. Foresters arrested a person in this connection. The incident happened on Saturday near Voddikere village in Hiriyuru. Poacher Bijju had kept meat with explosives in the forest area. As the jackals, a male and two females, bit the food, the explosives exploded, killing the animals on the spot. Foresters who got the information, arrested the accused within two hours and recovered the corpses of jackals. Chitradurga division DCF K Chandrashekar Nayak told TOI that the accused had prepared meat balls filled with explosives to hunt the jackals. “One person has been arrested. We are investigating to know whether there is any poaching gang behind the incident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/poachers-kill-three-jackals-in-chitradurga/articleshow/77839761.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Cops to subject man accused of planting IED at MIA to polygraph||Mangaluru: Mangaluru city police, as part of investigation, will conduct a polygraph test on Aditya Rao, 36, accused of planting an IED at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) on January 20. ACP (north) Belliappa K U, who heads the investigation, told TOI that it will be held at Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL, Bengaluru) on September 2. He said that as part of the investigation, police had requested a polygraph test on Rao, and the court granted the same. The test identification parade for accused Aditya, who is currently lodged at Mangaluru district jail, was held a few months ago. On June 11, Mangaluru police filed a 700-page chargesheet. According to the chargesheet, the bag that was placed near MIA entrance had a well-made real bomb, as per the FSL report. Aditya, an engineer and management graduate, had learnt bomb-making through online videos and had prepared it in less than two weeks. He had procured bomb raw material from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra through an e-commerce giant. He had also purchased cyanide from Tamil Nadu, while the other raw materials were locally sourced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cops-to-subject-man-accused-of-planting-ied-at-mia-to-polygraph/articleshow/77839541.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Dhannipur mosque trust opens 2 bank accounts for donations||AYODHYA: The mosque trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board, on Sunday released bank details for donations from a large cross-section of people, including non-Muslims for constructing a masjid, hospital, community kitchen and library on 5acre land in Dhannipur village in lieu of Babri mosque. The trust, Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, opened two current accounts in two leading private sector banks at branches in Hewett Road and Vibhuti Khand, Gomtinagar. Talking to TOI, Trust secretary, Athar Hussain, said, “We will accept donations from all communities to make the Dhannipur complex a unique example of communal harmony and a centre of healing, teaching and preaching.” “We decided to create a website and portal of the Trust with a gateway to receive donations as we are receiving numerous calls from those willing to donate,” he said. Funds for the Dhannipur complex will be raised from donations from all communities, he said. “We expect financial aid from government too. In fact, a member of Parliament from Assam, Abdul Khalique, has offered to donate and we are receiving messages from Muslims and Hindus, who are eager to provide funds for mosque and other facilities,” he said. The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation was formed with nine members and six more would be made trust members soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dhannipur-mosque-trust-opens-2-bank-a/cs-for-donations/articleshow/77841697.cms||Arshad Afzal Khan
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Around 750 snakes caught and released in forests||AJMER: In last five months, around 750 snakes — mostly cobras and Indian kraits — were caught and rehabilitated in the jungles of Ajmer and Pushkar regions. There can be lot more snakes that were killed or went unnoticed in the region. Experts said because of lockdown, hundreds of snakes ventured out of their holes. “I am catching average 5 to 7 snakes per day from April in Ajmer and in Pushkar regions,” said Vijay Yadav, a snake catcher who also deals with computers. He said experts and professors taught him how to catch snakes and he was using this knowledge to catch the reptiles and releasing those in the forests. In the first week of this month, Vijay got call from forest department requesting him to catch snakes. “I caught a viper in Naka Madar region and then a python in Kotra region on the same day,” Vijay added. The forest in the foothills of Aravillis has a lot of snakes, “During yearly census, a lot of snakes are identified but those surfaced in large numbers this time,” said Sayed Rab Nwaz, a retired forest officer. According to record available, in 95 snaked were caught in April, 148 (May), 134 (June), 172 (July) snakes and already more than 200 this month. “Generally cobra, rat snakes and common kraits are in good numbers in Ajmer and in its surrounding areas,” Vijay added. Vijay took training from experts, “I catch snake just to give message that we want to save them. It is important to understand the nature of the breed of snake as well as their behaviour,” added Vijay. He said common kraits is the most dangerous because it is a cold snake and usually comes at night and even sneaks into beds. photo caption- Vijay caching different types of snakes in Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/around-750-snakes-caught-and-released-in-forests/articleshow/77841320.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ajmer||Around 750 snakes caught and released in forests||AJMER: In last five months, around 750 snakes — mostly cobras and Indian kraits — were caught and rehabilitated in the jungles of Ajmer and Pushkar regions. There can be lot more snakes that were killed or went unnoticed in the region. Experts said because of lockdown, hundreds of snakes ventured out of their holes. “I am catching average 5 to 7 snakes per day from April in Ajmer and in Pushkar regions,” said Vijay Yadav, a snake catcher who also deals with computers. He said experts and professors taught him how to catch snakes and he was using this knowledge to catch the reptiles and releasing those in the forests. In the first week of this month, Vijay got call from forest department requesting him to catch snakes. “I caught a viper in Naka Madar region and then a python in Kotra region on the same day,” Vijay added. The forest in the foothills of Aravillis has a lot of snakes, “During yearly census, a lot of snakes are identified but those surfaced in large numbers this time,” said Sayed Rab Nwaz, a retired forest officer. According to record available, in 95 snaked were caught in April, 148 (May), 134 (June), 172 (July) snakes and already more than 200 this month. “Generally cobra, rat snakes and common kraits are in good numbers in Ajmer and in its surrounding areas,” Vijay added. Vijay took training from experts, “I catch snake just to give message that we want to save them. It is important to understand the nature of the breed of snake as well as their behaviour,” added Vijay. He said common kraits is the most dangerous because it is a cold snake and usually comes at night and even sneaks into beds. photo caption- Vijay caching different types of snakes in Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/around-750-snakes-caught-and-released-in-forests/articleshow/77847701.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||Patients complain of poor-quality food and sanitation facilities at Covid care centres in Haridwar||Haridwar: The inmates quarantined at Covid-19 care centres in Haridwar have complained that they are being served poor quality food and are made to stay in unhygienic conditions. Some of the inmates, including Covid-19 positive patients, have shared videos and pictures showcasing the poor condition of the Covid care centres. These inmates also allege that the patients with underlying conditions are not being served with a separate diet. A local BJP municipal councilor Vikas Kumar has also lodged a complaint with the health department and the district administration regarding poor hygiene of a Covid-19 facility. He made the complaint after members of a family, which live in his ward and had tested positive for Covid, were shifted to a hotel which is being used as a Covid care centre. The infected family members had shared with the BJP leader the images of the rooms where they were isolated. Plastic bottles and used utensils which were given to the patients isolated in those rooms prior to them could be seen scattered in the rooms in those pictures. Kumar submitted those pictures to the health department as a proof that proper sanitation and cleaning is not being undertaken in Covid-19 care centres. However, no steps have yet been taken in the case. Another local resident, who had tested Covid-19 positive, added, “There are only two toilets for more than 40 patients and even those are not cleaned properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/patients-complain-of-poor-quality-food-and-sanitation-facilities-at-covid-care-centres-in-haridwar/articleshow/77838990.cms||MS Nawaz
August 31, 2020||Chennai||Buses to run in Chennai half-full after 5 months||CHENNAI: Five months after the first lockdown was announced to handle the Covid-19 pandemic, city streets will regain life starting Tuesday as bus services will resume and malls, hotels will reopen. Offices have been permitted to function with 100% staff in attendance. Metro rail services will also resume on September 7 and Chennai will no longer be the city with the most restrictions in the country as only colleges, schools, cinemas and parks will remain closed. As the city continues to log more than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases daily, MTC authorities, malls and hotel managements will take precautions to ensure safety of patrons. Measures — a mix of technology and manual enforcement — will be taken to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing in buses, malls, hotels and metro trains. Anticipating a huge rush of commuters on the first day, MTC will run its entire fleet of 3,000 buses. A transport department official said due to social distancing restrictions, they will be running more buses. “We will first see the crowd, and based on that, we will increase services in the subsequent days.” Buses can take in only 50% passengers and none can travel standing, and everyone must wear masks. “Buses have 44 seats, so now only 22 passengers can board and only one person can sit in a two-seater, in order to maintain social distancing,” said a senior official from the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC). The crew will wear masks and gloves, and there will be a hands-free sanitiser dispenser stand at the entrance of every bus for the public to use. Until further government orders, MTC buses will not ply in Chengalpet, Arakkonam, and areas outside the corporation limits. Metro rail, which has already readied a standard operating procedure, is expected to finetune it based on fresh guidelines from the Centre. An official said issuing of tokens will be dispensed with and QR code-based ticketing will be introduced in addition to the smart cards to ensure contactless entry and exit at the stations. The services were suspended at the end of March. Sources said services may be stopped earlier than usual. “We are yet to take a decision on what all SOPs to follow,’ said an official. Making the most of the opportunity to resume business, star hotels have started to reassure its customers about their safety standards. Zubin Songadwala, general manager of ITC Grand Chola, said, “Our safe practices start with pre-arrival check-in, safe car ride, security personnel in PPE, hand sanitisers at touchpoints, luggage sanitisation, remodelled receptions with WelcomSeparators, deep-cleaned and sanitised room allotment.” He also said restaurants will follow contactless dining while food will be delivered to rooms on sanitised IRD trolleys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buses-to-run-half-full-after-5-months/articleshow/77841174.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Pub owner granted bail in three cases||NAGPUR: Pub owner-cum-money lender Tapan Jaiswal has been granted bail in all the three cases registered against him at RP Nagar and Bajaj Nagar police stations. After judicial magistrate of first class granted him bails in two cases, the sessions court, too, allowed his bail plea on August 25, observing the complaint was of ‘civil nature’ and delayed by at least five years. Tapan, his father Ramesh and others had serious allegations of extortion, forgery and other charges levelled against them as crime branch had started investigating into some complaints against them. During the probe, Tapan was arrested by the crime branch on July 27. During his stay in jail, Tapan was also diagnosed Covid-19 positive. The sessions court, supporting defence counsel Sameer Sonwane’s plea, observed that the complaint filed against Tapan and his aides at the Rana Pratap Nagar police station is based on transactions that ‘seem civil in nature’ but are serious. The court also pulled up the police and the complainant by stating that incidents took place in 2013 and 2015. It observed that ‘lodging of such belated reports creates doubts’ before releasing on executing a bond of Rs50,000 with one solvent surety of an equal amount apart from warning against tampering of evidence and threatening witnesses. Advocate Sonwane was supported by advocate Amit Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pub-owner-granted-bail-in-three-cases/articleshow/77841146.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati lawmaker reiterates call for release of Varavara Rao||Tirupati: Tirupati MLA and YSRC leader Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Sunday reiterated his demand for the release of poet and activist Varavara Rao, who remains jailed in Maharashtra. The MLA took BJP’s AP affairs in-charge Sunil Deodhar to task for his tweet asking chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to suspend him over his earlier request to set Varavara Rao free. Karunakar Reddy recently wrote tothe Vice-President seeking the 81-year-old Varavara Rao’s release, citing his age and medical conditions. In his tweet Deodhar had said: ‘‘While Jagan posted photos of his meeting with Narendra Modi, his party MLA Karunakar Reddy wrote a letter Venkaiah Naidu, seeking his intervention for Rao’s release. Jagan should apoligise to the public for what Reddy did and should take action against him.” In a letter to Deodhar, Karunakar Reddy found fault with the BJP leader for linking Jagan with the issue. “I wanted Vice-President to consider Rao’s case on humanitarian grounds. I was in jail along with Venkaiah Naidu and Rao 46 years ago. Many scholars and writers have written open letters, seeking Rao’s release, should they all be banished from the country?’ Reddy asked Deodhar. Rao was arrested by Maharashtra police on charges of involvement in Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case. along with other human right activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirupati-lawmaker-reiterates-call-for-release-of-varavara-rao/articleshow/77839011.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Submit electricity meter reading up to 5 days’||Aurangabad: Consumers can now submit reading of their electricity meter on their own within five days, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has said, adding that consumers will receive an alert about the self-submission. Earlier, people only had a day’s time for carrying out the necessary self-submission process through authorised mobile application and official website of the state power utility company. TOI had consistently highlighted the demand for increasing the time limit of submitting meter reading as the previous time limit was found to be highly inconvenient by many. While increasing the time limit concerned, MSEDCL has appealed to the consumers to take benefit of the self-submission in maximum numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/submit-electricity-meter-reading-up-to-5-days/articleshow/77841150.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Pandemic worsening friction in broken families, say lawyers||Hyderabad: For 17-year-old Praveen Kumar (name changed), the pandemic came as an added blow to his already broken family. Though he passed Class XI and was promoted to Class XII, instead of pursuing his dream of becoming an IAS officer, he has been reduced to working at a curry point since the pandemic broke out. The reason: His father is no longer sending the maintenance amount. Caught amid the divorce battle of his parents, this bright student who scored over 90% in Class X, now spends most of his waking hours at the shop. With regular functioning of family courts being hit with the onset of the pandemic, several men, women and children in the city are waiting with baited breath to be able to get their right. While payment of maintenance to women is being denied in many cases, visitation rights of fathers too have been kept on hold in a large number of cases using the lockdown as an excuse, say lawyers. The lockdown has made it difficult to remedy these problems and many are just waiting and dealing with heartburn in the meantime. There are others who are either running low on finances or are already reduced to borrowing money. “Since March, my husband stopped giving me maintenance money for our kids. I am not a regular employee. I am a researcher who gets fellowship money once in three months, this is making it difficult to manage our expenses. With online classes beginning for my kids (5 and 7 years old), it is difficult to manage everything. He is not sharing the burden of expenses and has not given any reason for his indifference so far,” said the 45-year-old mother of two, who has a divorce case underway at the Secunderabad family court. Previously, some parents were granted visitation rights on the court premises, but that too has stopped with regular courts not working. “When there is an objection from any of the parents, the other parent is allowed to meet their children from morning to evening at the visiting rooms in the courts, but because of the lockdown, we are not able to execute that. Even if the father is desperate to visit, courts are closed. In one case, when Skype meeting was decided upon, it became difficult as the mother started using it as an opportunity to verbally abuse the father. In such cases, even filing contempt cases is not being done in courts,” said Anita Salabh Jain, a family court lawyer. While denial of visitation rights and non-payment of maintenance is becoming commonplace, in a majority of cases non-cooperation is done on purpose. “In these kinds of cases, one party likes to harass the other party. Many are trying to take advantage of the current situation. In many cases, maintenance for childcare is withheld and many people are being forced to borrow money to make ends meet,” said Sudnyata Deepak, a lawyer who works on family and civil cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-worsening-friction-in-broken-families-say-lawyers/articleshow/77841176.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Goods train derails, inquiry ordered||LUCKNOW: Four wagons of Ghaziabad special goods train heading towards the national capital region with iron rods from Visakhapatnam derailed in Mathura district. No causality or injury was reported. The accident took place at around 10:10 am between Vrindavan road and Ajhai station of Mathura, which blocked all the three tracks. After the accident, railway authorities along with heavy machinery, crane and gas cutters reached the spot to restore the track and remove the derailedwagons. Meanwhile, the train guard and pilot were sent for medical examinations. Speaking to TOI, divisional commercial manager S K Srivasatav of Agra division said, “The train had consignment for Ballabgarh and Ghaziabad, but it got derailed. Following which 12 express and four parcel trains which were scheduled to pass via Mathura section have been diverted to an alternative route, while two express trains have been rescheduled.” “The exact cause of derailment is yet to be known. A probe has been called in the matter,” he added. Railway track passing via Mathura is one of the fastest in the country and caters semi-high speed Gatimaan, Shatabdi and several Rajdhanis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/goods-train-derails-inquiry-ordered/articleshow/77841723.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Agra||Goods train derails, inquiry ordered||LUCKNOW: Four wagons of Ghaziabad special goods train heading towards the national capital region with iron rods from Visakhapatnam derailed in Mathura district. No causality or injury was reported. The accident took place at around 10:10 am between Vrindavan road and Ajhai station of Mathura, which blocked all the three tracks. After the accident, railway authorities along with heavy machinery, crane and gas cutters reached the spot to restore the track and remove the derailedwagons. Meanwhile, the train guard and pilot were sent for medical examinations. Speaking to TOI, divisional commercial manager S K Srivasatav of Agra division said, “The train had consignment for Ballabgarh and Ghaziabad, but it got derailed. Following which 12 express and four parcel trains which were scheduled to pass via Mathura section have been diverted to an alternative route, while two express trains have been rescheduled.” “The exact cause of derailment is yet to be known. A probe has been called in the matter,” he added. Railway track passing via Mathura is one of the fastest in the country and caters semi-high speed Gatimaan, Shatabdi and several Rajdhanis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/goods-train-derails-inquiry-ordered/articleshow/77844792.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Anti-social elements make merry below flyover at Baina||VASCO: The Baina beach, the only recreational spot for the citizens of Vasco, of late has been gaining popularity for all the wrong reasons. The under-construction bridge and flyover connecting NH 17-B to the Mormugao port, which runs adjacent to the beach, has been attracting anti-social elements who have been giving sleepless nights to those staying in the vicinity. Rahim Saudagar, a senior citizen who resides close to the beach at Kattem-Baina, said, “Every night the area under the flyover is the meeting point of drunkards, substance abusers, gangs of anti-social elements. Pillars of the flyover have become notorious spots for migrants and local youth to hold liquor parties in the dark. Fights often break out, and these go unreported. All this nonsense disturbs our sleep at night and makes our lives miserable.” The situation is no better during the day. Peter Andrade, a local from Vasco, said he and his friends visit the beach during the day and “it’s so digusting to see the sight of people drinking liquor on the beach and under the flyover. “It is shocking to even see youngsters coming in groups and indulging in drinking. There is no fear at all. It is high time the Vasco police acts sternly and restores peace and safety in the area,” Andrade said. Babita Kumari, 50, who goes to the beach for a walk on the advise of doctors, said, “Sometimes, it is very scary when the men holding liquor bottles loiter on the beach and keep staring at you. Earlier, my daughters used to accompany me, but of late we stopped them from coming to the beach. The authorities should pay some attention to the unruly situation before it’s too late.” When contacted, Vasco police inspector Nilesh Rane said that the personnel posted at the outpost behind the Ravindra Bhavan in Baina undertake patrolling regularly. “We have been booking cases against those found indulging in anti-social activities. These days due to Covid-19 pandemic we avoid coming into physical contact, but definitely the police drive away those who are found suspicious. If cases are reported we do act upon them,” Rane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-social-elements-make-merry-below-flyover-at-baina/articleshow/77841729.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 31, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Man rushes to save pet from wall collapse, dies; dog lives||BHOPAL: A 60-year-old man died after part of a boundary wall collapsed on him in Bhopal’s Damkheda area on Sunday afternoon. Sources say Chanu, a daily wager, saw the wall begin to crumble and rushed to rescue his pet dog. The wall collapsed, crushing him to death. Sheltered by his body, the dog survived. Chanu is survived by his wife and two children. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh for Chanu’s family. Collector Avinash Lavania gave Rs 25,000 from Red Cross account immediately to help the family carry out the last rites. Around two months ago, on June 27, a portion of the same boundary wall had collapsed and three persons, including a woman, had sustained minor injuries. ASI Preetam Singh said Chanu and his family lived in a shanty next to the wall but shifted to another house in the same locality, as he felt the boundary wall was weak. Around 4pm on Sunday, Chanu spotted his pet dog going back to his old home. He took one look at the wall and fearing that it might collapse, sprinted to save the dog. Took an hour to rescue the 60-yr-old, dog savedUnfortunately, the wall collapsed just then, ASI Singh said. Locals began digging through the debris with their bare hands and dialed 100. A corporation team rushed to the spot with a JCB and began rescue work, said BMC fire safety officer Pankaj Khare. It took an hour to reach Chanu and the dog but by then the pet lover had died. “The dog was saved but by the time Chanu was rescued and taken to hospital, he was dead,” said Singh. CSP Habibganj Bhupendra Singh said investigation is underway in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-rushes-to-save-pet-from-wall-collapse-dies-dog-lives/articleshow/77840107.cms||Arun Singh
August 31, 2020||Aurangabad||300820 Catering bill of policemen deployed for PM visit bandbost in Beed pending for 10 months||AurangabadThe bill for the food supplied to the policemen deployed on 10-days long bandobast for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Parli of Beed district, has been pending since October 2019. After his plea with the senior police authorities including those who had hired his services have fell on deaf ears, the tiffin house owner has threatened to commit suicide. After making rounds of different offices and meeting additional SP Swami Bhor and SDPO Rahul Dhas multiple times, Sanjay Swami (50), a resident of Vidyanagar of Parli last shot the letter to Beed superintendent of police on August 6, but his issue remains unaddressed till date. When contacted, Poddar said, “He (cook) has been called to office on Tuesday by deputy superintendent of police (home). Will check why the bill is still pending.” Ahead of the assembly elections, PM Modi had been to Parli on October 17, 2019 for addressing a rally for party candidates including former minister Pankaja Munde. She lost the elections to her estranged cousin and NCP’s Dhananjay Munde, currently a minister in the incumbent Maharashtra government. For thousands of policemen deployed for the bandobast from October 15 to 20, 2019, Shri Gurukrupa tiffin house’s services were hired by the Beed police for supplying food to these policemen. “Senior police officers reached out to me asking to cook and provide food to the policemen on duty for PM bandobast. They had promised me to clear the bill within a month’s period, but it has been over 10 months and we are yet to get back our money,” said Swami. He said that in an attempt to get his bills cleared, he has made several rounds to Parli rural police station, additional SP Swati Bhor, SDPO Rahul Dhas and finally to SP, but in vain. Swami and his wife Shubhangi unanimously said that lockdown has caused havoc in their lives and if their bill of Rs 2.62 lakh is not cleared, they will be forced to commit suicide. The couple has also cited that the grocery as well as vegetables for fulfilling the order, were obtained on credit, and they are going tough for recovering the credit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/300820-catering-bill-of-policemen-deployed-for-pm-visit-bandbost-in-beed-pending-for-10-months/articleshow/77841201.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra extends free Covid treatment scheme to Oct 31, activists demand it stay for a year||PUNE: The period to avail free treatment for a host of ailments, including Covid-19, under the Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJY) has been extended by the state to October 31. Every resident of Maharashtra, irrespective of financial status, is eligible for the benefit. The government had earlier extended this scheme until July 31, but activists urged further extension saying scores in the state had suffered financially during the lockdowns. The losses, the activists said, warranted the need for free treatment for a host of illnesses, including Covid-19, at least for a year. “The GR (government resolution) issued on August 18 by the state clarifies that the free treatment benefit has been extended to all citizens of Maharashtra until October 31. But we want it to be extended for a year,” said health activist, Sanjay Dabhade. Officials from the state health ministry said the latest extension will provide free treatment cover all citizens, irrespective of financial status, and will be applicable to all listed diseases , including Covid-19. A total of 3,293 Covid-19 patients have so far claimed free treatment benefit at empanelled private hospitals across the Pune Metropolitan Region between May 23 and July 31. The low number of beneficiaries, when compared to the region’s caseload shows low adoption. For example, until July 31, the PMR had about 55,000 discharged Covid patients. That means only about 6% of those who needed hospitalisation claimed the benefit of free treatment in the PMR. Medical experts and health activists have now urged the state and civic health authorities to start popularising the scheme’s free treatment benefits using mass media tools and make more hospitals offer it to patients. A total of 100 private hospitals, including prominent trust facilities across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, have been authorised to offer MJPJY benefits to moderate and severely-ill patients, irrespective of financial status. “Most of the 1,556 patients who availed of free Covid-19 treatment until July 31, are the residents of areas under the PCMC. Another 1,496 beneficiaries are residents from PMC limits. The rest — 241 — are from Pune rural,” Amol Maske, the regional manager of the MJPJY told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-extends-free-covid-treatment-scheme-to-oct-31-activists-demand-it-stay-for-a-year/articleshow/77841214.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Private hospitals in Jan Arogya Yojana scheme not reimbursed for treating Covid patients||Kolhapur: The private hospitals from Kolhapur and Sangli districts empanelled under Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana are waiting for the reimbursement for treating Covid patients. There are very few hospitals in both the districts empanelled in the scheme. In Kolhapur city out of 32 private hospitals where Covid patients are being treated, only nine are empanelled in the scheme. Many big hospitals with large capacities are not empanelled or dis-empanelled in recent years due to complaints. The government has made the Covid treatment free for all sections of people getting treated in these hospitals. The doctors running these hospitals are infuriated over the delays in the payment of the claims registered online. The hospitals get Rs 20,000 per Covid patient with no symptoms or mild symptoms. For the other private hospitals, not empanelled in the scheme, the government has capped the treatment charges. A doctor of a multi-speciality from Kolhapur city requesting anonymity said, “The administration is putting pressure on increasing the ventilators and ICU beds. Also, they have now asking us to buy the costly medicines and stock them up at our own expense. Since last two months, the government has not cleared claims. Many times we are told about technical queries in the claims for delays in getting the claims reimbursed.” In Kolhapur, already there are very few hospitals in the scheme. The poor patients have to approach the other private hospitals where they do not afford even the capped price. There is consistent demand from the relatives that they should be made the beds available under the scheme. Since most or the times the beds are not available the patients wait for some time and gets critical further which is many cases leads to mortality. In Sangli, taking the cognisance of the concerns of the private hospitals, district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary has asked the district co-ordinators of the scheme to process the claims as early as possible. In Kolhapur, district co-ordinator Subhash Nangre said, “We have put up the demand for sanctioning of claims with state body. Soon the reimbursements will be made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/private-hospitals-in-jan-arogya-yojana-scheme-not-reimbursed-for-treating-covid-patients/articleshow/77841212.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Gadkari blames forest dept for G’chiroli’s devpt, Maoist issues||Nagpur: Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Sunday held the forest department responsible for the backwardness of the tribal district of Gadchiroli in eastern Vidarbha and also the simmering Maoist problem. Gadkari took potshots at the forest department while digitally inaugurating infrastructure work worth Rs777 crore in the district to improve its connectivity with neighbouring states of Telangana and Chhattisgarh. Four bridges will be built on Perimili, Bandiya, Parlakota and Wainganga rivers within the district to ensure the talukas are not cut off from rest of the district during monsoon floods. Rs50 crore saved from the estimated cost of the four bridges would help to undertake another 14 smaller projects which Gadkari approved during the inauguration. Gadkari, who has vowed to change the face of Gadchiroli in coming two years, said he is emotionally attached to the district and has been contributing to its development since his stint as state PWD minister in 1995. “It took me 25 years to realize some of my dreams to improve the district’s connectivity and communication with the neighbouring states,” he said. Regarding issues faced in getting regulatory approvals from the forest department, he said, “Yeh honewala kaam bhi hone nahi dete (They do not allow even the work that is possible here. Yeh forestwalo ko jhelna.. (It’s tough to tolerate the forest department).” Gadkari, also holding the portfolio of shipping and micro, small and medium enterprises, held forest department responsible for poor development in district and its law and order problems. He cited example of MP Ashok Nete’s railway project to connect Wadsa Desaiganj “which was stuck due to obstacles created by the forest department”. He also requested guardian minister Eknath Shinde, who was also present, to help him extend the broad gauge Metro’s reach from Brahmapuri to Desaiganj which would connect these places to Nagpur, thus reducing the travel time to only one-and-half hour and even lesser. He also sounded hopeful to stretch broad gauge Metro to connect Chandrapur and Akola. “Around 10,000 persons can get employment opportunity through different projects which should be developed in clusters across the district,” he said. Gadkari pointed out that 541-km of roads were built in the past under 44 works worth Rs1,740 crore. In the coming days, 103 kms of roads have been proposed worth Rs402 crore. “Some work is already underway while rest would be completed by the coming year,’ he said. MP Nete, during his speech, requested Gadkari to help get sanction for 65km road beyond Sironcha. General VK Singh, minister of state surface transport and national highway, said the developmental work would lessen the Maoist influence in such places. TO IMPROVE CONNECTIVITY Projects inaugurated 1. Nizamabad-Sironcha-Asarali-Jagdalpur NH 63 (bridge over Pranhita river) | Rs168 cr 2. Nizamabad-Sironcha-Asarali-Jagdalpur NH 63 (bridge over Indravati river) | Rs248 cr 3. Lenkachen State highway 275 — Beijurpalli-Parsewada-Dewulmari-Aheri | Rs8 cr 4. Beijurpalli-Parsewada-Dewulmari-Aheri Road (State highway 275) (Between Batra and Moyabinpetha) | Rs26 cr 5. 14km Garanji-Pushtola road | Rs36 cr Stone-laying ceremony 1. Narayanpur-Bhamragarh-Alapalli State highway (bridge over Perimili river) | Rs43 cr 2. Narayanpur-Bhamragarh-Alapalli state highway (bridge over Bandiya river) | Rs73 cr 3. Narayanpur-Bhamragarh Alapalli state highway (bridge over Parlakota river) | Rs78 cr 4. Korpana-Gadchandur-Rajura-Bamni-Ashti state highway (bridge over Wainganga river) | Rs99 cr||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-blames-forest-dept-for-gchirolis-devpt-maoist-issues/articleshow/77841728.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite lifting of export curbs on PPE suits, few takers in city||Ludhiana: Five days after the Centre lifted the restrictions on the export of personal protective equipment (PPE) suits, there seems to be lukewarm response to the development as there are hardly any local units who are willing to export. Several reasons like resumption of routine business of units which had started the PPE manufacturing as additional business, inability to travel abroad to get orders and losses incurred during the last few months are being blamed for the situation. Going by the response of the Ludhiana manufacturers it seems that government’s decision of allowing unrestricted export of PPE suits has come a bit late and there will hardly be any takers from here. According to Akhil Seth of Versatile Group, an approved PPE kit manufacturer, “As of now we have no plans to export PPE suits as firstly we do not know till when the demand of PPE suits will remain and secondly as we have to carry on with our routine businesses as well, where already there are lot of challenges like shortage of labour, etc. So we cannot risk our manufacturing capacity during the labour shortage to manufacture PPE suits and we instead want to keep focus on what we were doing regularly. Moreover sudden fall of demand for PPE suits in June had wreaked havoc on us as the situation had led to dumping of huge stocks of PPE suits and we had to face very tough time in tackling this situation. So, now no one wants to take such risks and face similar situations as we are happy in what we are doing presently.” Speaking on the issue, Harish Dua, president of Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, said “It is too late now for the PPE exports from India. Our company was approved by government for manufacturing and sale of PPE suits but we are not interested to export PPE suits. We have lost the opportunity as the ban and restrictions on the export of PPE suits was enforced for a very long time and it covered the period when the demand for the same was maximum in other countries as the number of cases was very high at that time. So during the peak demand countries like China and even Bangladesh encashed this opportunity, which could easily prove to be a gamechanger for the Indian PPE manufacturers.” Dua added that, “No doubt, there is still some demand abroad for PPE suits but for that purpose the interested exporters will have to do proper marketing in the target countries which, is only possible through physical visit or sending samples to the probable buyers. But at this time due to travel restrictions and other related factors it’s not possible. Moreover, already a large number of manufacturers from Ludhiana who had started making PPE suits as an additional item have winded up the operations due to losses they incurred after the rates and demand fell. According to Narinder Mittal another PPE suit manufacturer from city, “Lifting of curbs from export of PPE suits sounded as a great news to us but so far we have not been able to find even a single overseas buyer. All those who had been contacting us earlier when the export from India was banned have fulfilled their requirements by procuring the PPE suits from our neigbouring countries and they are of the view that the demand will remain stagnant now and they already have enough stocks with them for coming months. I think the ban remained for a very long period and it would have been in the best interest of the country and manufacturers had it been lifted in June itself when the local demand tumbled.” Stats about Ludhiana manufacturers More than 110 certified manufacturers in Ludhiana who have approval from government labs like SITRA, DRDO, etc. Close to 200 non-certified manufacturers and traders of PPE suits in Ludhiana Total production capacity of manufacturing 2-3 lakh pieces per day in the city while the national production is 5 lakh pieces per day. Out of 17 lakh pieces of PPE suits, order worth Rs 204.17 crore placed by HLL (government of India enterprise) with Punjab-based manufacturers. Of these, 7 lakh pieces order was bagged by Ludhiana-based firms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-lifting-of-export-curbs-on-ppe-suits-few-takers-in-city/articleshow/77840138.cms||Mohit Behl
August 31, 2020||Dehradun||40-year-old male elephant found dead in Khanpur forest range of Haridwar||Haridwar: A 40-year-old male elephant was found dead in Laalwala Majbatta village close to Roorkee, which falls under Khanpur forest range of Haridwar, on Sunday morning. This is the third jumbo death in Garhwal region in the last 10 days and the second in Haridwar this year. The elephant’s carcass was spotted by a villager in a farm field. He informed the police who in turn informed the forest department. The elephant had no visible injury marks, leading Haridwar divisional forest officer (DFO), Neeraj Verma to comment that foul play was ruled out. “The elephant wasn’t killed due to poaching as all its body parts are intact,” Verma told TOI. Samples of the elephant have been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. “As per our preliminary investigation, the death seems to have been caused by cardiac arrest,” said Amit Dhyani, senior veterinary officer at Haridwar’s Chidiyapur Rescue Centre. Meanwhile, villagers of the area claimed that they had spotted the pachyderm in the area before and reported the sightings to forest officials but no action had been taken. A villager at the spot, who didn’t wish to be named, blamed the forest department for adopting a “lackadaisical approach.” “Monsoon-time is the most vulnerable season, as poachers are highly active during this time, taking advantage of inaccessible areas and bad connectivity during the rains. The elephant had died around midnight but none of the forest department patrolling staff found it,” he alleged. In August, two elephants had died in Lansdowne forest division. Forest officials had attributed the deaths to electrocution and in-fighting respectively. According to data accessed exclusively by TOI, 15 elephants have died in Uttarakhand till July 30 this year. The data also reveals that 13 of the carcasses were those of female elephants. Gender of the other two could not be ascertained as the bodies had decomposed by the time they were discovered. Eight of the elephants were alleged to have died in in-fighting, two in accidents (one was run over by a train), two succumbed naturally, while the reason of death was termed as ‘unknown’ for the remaining three. If the three deaths in August are taken into account, the number of elephant deaths in Uttarakhand would be around 18 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/40-year-old-male-elephant-found-dead-in-khanpur-forest-range-of-haridwar/articleshow/77838231.cms||Shivani Azad
August 31, 2020||Bhopal||5 kids among 14 dead in flood & house collapse in MP; 11,000 rescued||BHOPAL: At least, 14 people — five of them children — have been killed in floods and house collapse due to incessant rain in Madhya Pradesh over the past two days. A newly built bridge in Seoni collapsed on Sunday and several roads and highways have been cut by raging floods, marooning hundreds of villages. Four persons were swept to their deaths in different districts, including a patwari who drowned in his car in a desperate dash to save a friend. At least 10 people died in house collapses in Bhopal, Katni, Jabalpur, Chhindwara and Sehore. Four children were killed when a house caved in in Katni and a girl died in Ashta, Sehore. Three persons died in Chhindwara. Army, Air Force, NDRF and SDRF rescued 11,000 people and took them to temporary shelters. As many as 257 of them had to be rescued by helicopter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5-kids-among-14-dead-in-flood-house-collapse-in-mp-11k-rescued/articleshow/77840133.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Schools and colleges to remain shut till September 30||LUCKNOW: Following the Centre, the state government issued guidelines for the Unlock-4 stage late on Sunday night, allowing gradual opening of economic activity hit by the novel coronavirus pandemic. Directives would come into force with immediate effect. The guidelines issued by UP chief secretary R K Tewari categorically focused on activities which may be started outside the containment zone where lockdown would prevail till September 30. Outside the containment zone there would be no lockdown at all, the guidelines said. The weekend lockdown starting 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday would conti nue till further orders. According to the guidelines, all schools will remain closed till September 30, while the academic activities may be conducted through online classes. The schools will, however, be allowed to call 50% of the teaching/nonteaching staff for giving online consultation from September 21. For this a standard operating procedure would be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. The schools will be allowed to call students of class IX to XII on voluntary basis from September 21. However, school authorities would be required to get a written permission from guardians of students. Likewise, permission would be granted for operation of national skill training institutes, including National skill Development Corporation. This arrangement would come into effect from September 21. The institutes of higher learning would also be opened for PhD and research scholars, requiring laboratories. However, this would be allowed after due consultation with the department of higher education and the home department. The much awaited Metro rail services would become operational from September 7. For this, too, the government would be issuing a standard operating procedure. The state government would be allowing social, political and religious gathering (up to a maximum of 100 persons) from September 21. The people who are part of the gathering would be mandatorily required to wear face masks, follow social distancing norms and undergo thermal scanning and sanitisation. In case of marriage functions and funeral procession, only 20 people would be allowed till September 20, after which the gathering may increase up to 100, the guidelines said. The cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, auditorium would remain closed, though the state government would be allowing opening of open air theatres from September 21. Similarly, international flights operation would remain suspended, except in case of permission granted by the Centre. Passenger trains, domestic air travel and Vande Bharat and Air Transport Bubble flights would continue. The state government would be lifting curbs on inter and intra-state movement of people and goods. In containment zones essential services would be allowed to operate. The state government would also be expediting the exhaustive contact tracing and house to house surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/schools-colleges-to-remain-shut-till-sept-30/articleshow/77841733.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||PMC survey finds infection in over 3,000 senior citizens||PUNE: Health workers from the Pune Municipal Corporation going door-to-door in the city have discovered more than 3,000 people with Covid-19 infection over the past few months. The latest leg of these community surveys was launched to specifically find citizens with underlying conditions who are most likely to develop severe illness. Over 9,000 people were called in for further testing - 33% of them had the virus. The people who have been contacted by medical workers for the surveys include senior citizens, pregnant women and people with serious medical ailments. Officials from the civic body said they reached out to nearly 2 lakh citizens so far across various parts of the city. “We checked oxygen levels, blood pressure and looked for respiratory issues during the latest survey. Those with low oxygen levels and high blood pressure were then asked to take Covid-19 tests,” a senior PMC official said. The surveys are crucial as they help local authorities quickly track down at-risk people who may have infection. Early detection can lead to swifter care or hospitalisation, officials said. “Early detection and treatment will also reduce the death rate. The co-morbidity survey will help us do that,” a senior PMC official said. Senior citizens, especially those with underlying conditions, are considered high-risk. Officials said many elderly had died because of serious underlying conditions like heart ailments, respiratory problems, diabetes, high blood pressure, etc. In June, the number of senior citizens who had died of Covid-19 made up half of all deaths within the Pune Metropolitan Region. Worldwide too, researchers have found that age is the strongest "predictor" of an infected person’s chances of dying — an important metric known as the Infection Fatality Ratio (IFR). The IFR is the proportion of people infected with the new coronavirus virus, including those who have not been tested or show any symptoms, who will die as a result of illness. Estimates have now shown that getting Covid-19 is now more than 50 times more likely to be fatal for a 60-year-old than driving a car out on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/door-to-door-surveys-pick-up-infection-in-over-3000-senior-citizens/articleshow/77841217.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD EO gifts silk robes at Kanipakam||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal on Sunday presented silk robes on behalf of TTD to Lord Ganesha at the Kanipakam temple where annual Brahmotsavams are underway. The EO, accompanied by a group of priests and officials from the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, ceremoniously carried silk robes and presented them to Sri Varasidhi Vinayakaswamy Devasthanams’ officials and priests at the Kanipakam temple. In recent years, it has become a practice by the TTD to present silk robes to prominent temples across the country on the eve of the most important annual festival. The annual Brahmotsavams at the Kanipakam temple commenced on August 23. The presiding deity was adorned on the eve of the Kalyanam fete with the silk robes presented by the TTD. Kanipakam EO Venkatesu, Puthalapattu legislator MS Babu and others were present.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-eo-gifts-silk-robes-at-kanipakam/articleshow/77839070.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Audio visual services see dip in rentals this year||PUNE: The demand for audio-visual rental services has come down during this year’s festive seasons in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. “We didn’t get even one booking this year. Usually by now, we would have been booked for several visarjan processions,” said the owner of a local sound and light system rental service in Katraj. With artists cancelling their tours and shows for the rest of the year, sound and light rental services are struggling to keep their businesses afloat. “We have arrangements with some venues that use our equipment when they have special performances. But this year, all performances have been cancelled or postponed to February-March 2021. In the meantime, we are offering servicing for speakers and electronics. We are all well versed with DJ equipment and are doing repairs for all kinds of mixers, controllers and so on,” said a sound system rental owner from Kothrud. The average cost of renting a sound system and lights per day ranges from Rs 5,000-50,000 depending on the kind of equipment required. Before the pandemic began, these renters saw a trend of house parties which hired professional sound and light systems to celebrate anything from birthdays to promotions with friends and family. “I had to let my staff go because I couldn’t afford to pay for their salaries. People have refrained from hiring sound systems for weddings and functions during the lockdown,” said an audio-visual rental service provider from Keshavnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/audio-visual-services-see-dip-in-rentals-this-year/articleshow/77841222.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Stray dog sterlisation may start in Sept first week||Ludhiana: After remaining closed for almost a month the stray dogs sterilisation project may see the light of the day again in the first week of next month. The work was stopped due to exodus of the dog catchers-cum-labourers, but now the firm, which is handling the project, has arranged the labour so the officials are hopeful they will be able to start work again by next month. Of late, the officials had been receiving so many complaints about stray dogs from the localities. The labourers have been arranged from Indore and for safety reasons they are in quarantine for one week. The officials claimed that they have to keep them in isolation for sometime just to check whether they show any symptoms or not. Whenever the work will begin, they will first of all check the complaints from various areas and then ward-wise sterilisation will begin. Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said, “The labourers have arrived in the city but they have been kept in isolation. I am hopeful we will be able to start sterilisation again from the first week of September.” He said there were so many complaints about stray dogs, so first of all they will have to look into those complaints because due to Covid pandemic the operation had to be stopped and so it would take time to pick up. Dhalla further said earlier they had started the process to cover wards one by one as only after 100% sterilisation in one ward they were moving to the second ward., but in between coronavirus came and everything slowed down. He said they had continued the drive during the pandemic as well but when labourers left the city, they had to stop the drive. Meanwhile, the contract with the firm which is currently handling the sterilization of stray dogs is also coming to end in December,a so the officials have already started the process to float tenders for hirin g new firm as the project will continue for more years. The officials claimed that last time they had failed to start the process in time and the project had got delayed. However, a businessman and resident of Model Gram, Balwinder Kumar, said, “Stray dogs have become a nuisance for residents as they have been known to attack and bite any time.” He said that the situation was such that in their locality that residents used to first check for stray dogs before stepping outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stray-dog-sterlisation-may-start-in-sept-first-week/articleshow/77840140.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Four years after inauguration, indoor stadium still lying unused||Ludhiana: Constructed at a cost of Rs 85 crore, the indoor stadium on Pakhowal road is still lying unused. Though these days due to coronavirus all sports activities have been stopped, even after four years of its inauguration hardly any indoor sports activity took place in the stadium except certain private events. Even now the authorities concerned are clueless as to how they can bring this stadium in usage. The commercial space inside the stadium could not be used for any purpose despite several attempts. Even after four years the civic body has not been able to get an electricity connection for the stadium. Though they planned to bring wholesale markets here in the stadium, be it of clothes, medicines or jewellery, but these scheme could not materialise. However, when some senior officer or politician visits the spot the civic body officials get the cleaning done at the stadium, otherwise it remains in utter state of neglect. Recently, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had visited the stadium after which cleaning inside the stadium premises was done. When contacted, the MC commissioner claimed that, “I had gone to see the stadium and we will plan something to bring it in usage. There are so many shops inside and it can develop into a commercial hub.” He said the situation was a little bit tense these days due to coronavirus but as soon as the situation becomes normal, they would definitely bring this in use. Meanwhile, some city residents said that if the government was not going to use this stadium, then what was the purpose to spend so much amount on its construction. A resident of Pakhowal road, Pankaj Garg, said, “The kids do not have open space to play now as earlier when this stadium was not here they used to play in the open place. But now neither it is being used by any sportsperson, nor kids can utilise the place.” He said if they were not going to use it they should have spent money on some other project. Another resident from SBS Nagar Amarjit Singh said, “I am unable to understand the priorities of the government, whether it is SAD-BJP or Congress, as elected representatives do not think about public welfare as they are bothered about their interests only.” He said the passenger under-passes on Ferozepur road (outside DC office and Aggar Nagar) are also good examples of official apathy and lack of planning. Cong govt never paid attention to sports: SAD Since this project was completed during the SAD-BJP tenure, district president of SAD Ranjit Dhillon said, “Sports and health-related activities have never been a priority of this government. They did not bring this stadium in usage and even other sports activities are completely being ignored. This government closed down kabbadi cup, which was started by SAD government.” He said chief minister Amarinder Singh and his MLAs all are busy in minting money and they have nothing to do with public. ‘First priority is to save city from pandemic’ Senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra on being contacted claimed that everybody was busy in dealing with coronavirus cases and priority was to control its further spread. He said they had things in mind but it was not the right time for all this. Project highlights---- * Proposed way back in 1997 but actual work started in 2003. It took 13 years to complete the project * Initial cost was Rs 16 crore, which later escalated to Rs 85 crore * Centrally air-conditioned and spread over 3.2 acres * Total sports arena is spread over 10,000 square feet * Stadium has 74 shops, 16 offices, restaurants and food courts * MC was supposed to auction these shops and other commercial sections but no auction has taken place till date Despite objections, project conceived The Volleyball Association of India had raised question marks on this stadium when it was proposed. The association had written a letter in which it was mentioned that location of stadium was not right for organising sports events. However, the officials ignored the letters and continued with the project work. The stadium was inaugurated in November 2016 by former deputy CM Sukhbir Badal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-years-after-inauguration-indoor-stadium-still-lying-unused/articleshow/77840151.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Onam celebrations to be a quiet affair in Nagpur||Nagpur: Eagerly awaited and met with great cheer every year, Thiruvonam (the tenth and final day of Onam festival) will be celebrated rather quietly in the city on Monday. The all-pervasive coronavirus has put paid to plans for the usual congregations, confining the festive spirit to Malayali households. Associations have called off all public functions, and advised everyone to celebrate indoors. “Every year, we mark the occasion on a large scale, with gatherings of over 2,000 people. But amid the pandemic, we must take care of each other and the society at large,” said Rajan Nambiar, president of Nair Service Society (NSS). “Usually, we carry on the festivities over four-five consecutive Sundays at different venues, but all such plans have been dropped this time,” NSS general secretary Santosh Nair added. Some, like former Keraleeya Samajam president Manoj PV, will not be celebrating at all, as their entire family is currently in Kerala. Most revellers will have to make do with pookkalam (flower rangoli) and Onam Sadhya (feast) at home, and some quality time with family. “Even though muted, celebrations are still on. It’s all about fresh food, clothes and flowers,” said Anil Nair, former NSS president. Procuring the Sadhya supplies has also been a challenge this time around. “We buy our stuff from Kerala Stores, but the arrival of many materials was delayed due to the lockdown. The prices of many items were hiked too,” said Pavithran Karat, president of Sri Narayana Dharma Paripalana, Nagpur chapter. “I visited Kerala Store today. Because of the stalling of a goods train, bananas were overripe and raw mangoes got spoiled. Some items had to be transported on trucks,” Santosh added. The main regret, though, is not being able to meet and greet friends and relatives. “We always purchase new clothes and meet each other in Onam functions. We won’t be able to show off our new dress this time,” Pavithran lamented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/onam-celebrations-to-be-a-quiet-affair-in-nagpur/articleshow/77841737.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
August 31, 2020||Lucknow||Premium liquor vends coming up at two Lucknow malls||LUCKNOW: In a good news for bacchus lovers, Uttar Pradesh’s first premium retail liquor vend in a mall has come up in Agra while two more are expected to start operations in Lucknow soon. Three licences have been issued by the state excise department till now. A senior official in the excise department said 10 applications for licence had been received so far of which seven are under process. “There were three applications for Lucknow of which two have been sanctioned and one is under process. Two of these vends will be in Cinepolis while one will come up at City Mall,” he said. Besides these, two applications are from Moradabad, and one each from Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Varanasi and Gorakhpur. The official said there were about 66 malls in UP and the government was expecting that at least 60 shops would open in coming months. In a cabinet decision in May this year, the government had allowed stand alone liquor shops in malls. These vends will be allowed to sell premium liquor, beer and wines. In July, the department fixed the licence fee and started the process of issuing licences. “We have allowed the sale of imported foreign liquor, Indian scotch, all brands of brandy, gin and wine, vodka and rum worth over Rs 700 and cans of beer worth Rs 160 or more at these shops. These vends will be fully airconditioned but will not be allowed to serve liquor on their premises,” he said. The shop in Agra, besides displaying the name of owner and other rules, has mentioned that people below the age of 21 years and government officials on duty will not be allowed entry. Under conditions laid down in the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licence for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020, the licence holder will have to arrange the shop layout in such a manner that the space where liquor is sold can be sealed or locked up in the event of dry days. The mall where the shop will be located should have a minimum area of 10,000 sq feet while the shop should have a minimum area of 500 sq feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/premium-liquor-vends-coming-up-at-two-city-malls/articleshow/77841759.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Private school transformed into Covid-care facility for cops||Barnala: While all schools here are closed, a private one in Barnala is helping frontline corona warriors in fighting against this deadly pandemic. Takshila School, almost 5km away from ITI chowk, Barnala, is located on Raikot road was transformed as the first-ever Covid-care facility, which is specially dedicated to police personnel. School’s 25 classrooms, meeting halls and staff rooms have been turned into a 100-bed capacity level 1 isolation centre established by the police department for its personnel and is named as Barnala Police Covid Care Centre (BPCCC). This facility is only for asymptomatic as well as mild symptomatic police personnel. Just like the rest of the country, police personnel of this relatively smaller district too have been hit by the disease. More than 70 of them have so far tested positive. Of these, 28 are active cases and more than 140 personnel have been quarantined while the rest have recovered. At present, 27 are under quarantine and isolation. This quarantine-cum-isolation facility is fully air-conditioned, with separate blocks for female and male officials. Here, medical officers from Police Lines, Barnala, are appointed as nodal officers for overall coordination and supervision. More than 20 officials have been deployed, besides six police officers, three doctors, two para-medics, four nurses, four housekeeping and support staff have been deployed round the clock to take care of cops. They have procured protective gears like PPEs, masks, gloves, sanitisers and other medical equipment to cater to the needs of patients. In case of emergency, an advance life-saving support ambulance is stationed outside this private school, which is used for any immediate referral of moderate symptomatic cases to a designated hospital. Also, there is a provision for a healthy diet according to a specially prepared plan to boost immunity of the patients as well as provide much needed nutrition. Trident group and IOL Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Limited contributed generously for this cause. One of the officials Harjeet Singh, 55, who had caught infection recently and had been quarantined in the male isolation ward of the BPCCC, said, “My children are settled abroad. It’s only me and my wife who stay here. She, too, is a diabetic like me. BPCCC not only provided me with required medical facilities, but also prevented infection to my wife. Clinical examination is done on a daily basis here. Hygiene is taken care of completely.” With a smile on his face, Singh adds, “It is a home away from home. Here, I never felt dejected as I got company from my colleagues. On the contrary, if I have been admitted to any hospital, I would have not found time to open up. Physical activities like yoga and meditation while maintaining social distancing keep us busy and bring positivity.” Another official who caught infection said, “As the number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise, it is a stellar example of foresightedness and pro-active steps undertaken to provide state-of-the-art facilities to frontline police personnel.” With mug shots Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel The most commendable factor in its establishment is that it has not cost any bit to the state exchequer. No land was purchased, no funds spent on its construction, simply an unused school building was transformed. The owners of the school were approached and they voluntarily offered its use for the community welfare amid pandemic. This facility is the outcome of the contributions of some philanthropists as well as the police personnel. Mehal Kalan ASP Pragya Jain Police officials are at very high risk of infection due to the nature of our job. Not only us, but our families are also exposed. By creating this facility, we are preventing spread of infection to their family members and the community as well. Our personnel have gone beyond the call of their duty in the past six months of this pandemic. This model can be very easily replicated in other parts of the country In box Covid spread in Barnala police  Total force | 1,085 Total cases| 73  Total active cases| 28 Recovered | 45 Deaths | 0 Total quarantined so far - 142 (Source: Barnala police)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/private-school-transformed-into-covid-care-facility-for-cops/articleshow/77840174.cms||Mehak Jain
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh minister offers Rs 1 lakh to Dalit youth||VISAKHAPATNAM: A day after the arrest of seven persons in connection with the incident where a 20-year-old Dalit youth, P Srikanth, was tonsured at Sujatha Nagar in the city, Dalit leaders and activists staged a protest demanding the arrest of P Nutan Naidu, in whose house the alleged atrocity took place. “We appeal to police to nab Naidu to deter such incidents in the future,” said Surla Venkata Ramana, convener of Dalitha Vimukthi organisation. He demanded the police to investigate the role of Naidu in the incident. Meanwhile, state tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Pendurthi MLA Adeep Raj on Sunday visited Srikanth’s residence at Pendurthi and consoled him and his family. The minister and MLA gave Rs 50,000 and announced Rs 1 lakh aid and employment through outsourcing to help Srikanth. VS Krishna, coordination committee member of Human Rights Forum, AP and Telangana, called for punishment to perpetrators. He pointed to the tardy progress in such cases and recalled past instances when justice was delayed. On December 29, 1996, Dadala Venkataratnam and Koti Chinnaraju of Venkatayapalem in Ramchandrapuram in East Godavari, were tonsured in the presence of TDP MLA Thota Trimurthulu. A case was registered and hearing began in 2017 at the SC, ST Special Court in Visakhapatnam but the trial is not yet complete. On July 19, Indugamilli Varaparasad of Vedulapalli village in Sitanagaram mandal of East Godavari was beaten and tonsured by a sub-inspector. On July 21, Yericharla Kiran Kumar, a Dalit youth, died, allegedly because of police beatings in Chirala of Prakasam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/minister-offers-rs-1l-to-dalit-youth/articleshow/77839125.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 31, 2020||Pune||Jumbo hospital in Pimpri to admit patients from today||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The jumbo hospital at Annasaheb Magar Stadium in Pimpri, which was inuagurated last week, will start admitting Covid-19 patients from Monday, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation officials said. The jumbo facility hosts 616 oxygen support beds and 200 ICU beds. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar said the tanker carrying the medical oxygen, which was supposed to be filled earlier last week, reached late. So, the dry-run testing got delayed. However, it will be complete by Sunday evening, he said. “The installation of beds has been completed and the testing of oxygen support is underway at the site. We are hoping we can start admitting patients from Sunday night only,” he said. Hardikar said patients would be treated at the jumbo hospital free of cost and it also has ICU dialysis beds. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said the oxygen tank has capacity of 25-kilo litre. The oxygen output inspection is underway. He added that the facility was equipped with around 50% of beds at the time of inauguration, which now has been set up with its original capacity of 816 beds. Earlier, Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, on the day of the inauguration last week had said the hospital would be made available for patients by Friday, August 28). However, it is not the case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-hosp-in-pimpri-to-admit-patients-from-today/articleshow/77841280.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 31, 2020||Pune||A doctor fights the virus, learns life truths during isolation||Four months into the coronavirus pandemic, I had attended to more than a thousand patients and appeared confident of having mastered the art of isolating myself from the infection. But little does one realise how fragile the human defence system can be. I contracted the virus in early August after a thoracic CT scan showed a small but distinct Covid pneumonia. The one symptom that sent me for the scan was the acute pain in my legs, which repeated doses of paracetamol over two days would not alleviate. I did not develop fever and my cough was more allergy-like. A day after the scan, my RT-PCR and GeneXpert tests for Covid-19 and Chi-Stat test for myriad other viruses all returned negative. So a small diagnostic dilemma was to remain at the back of my mind for the next three weeks till I hopefully developed antibodies. The mind is a dangerous tool in such doubtful times, revelling in playing games in which you are an unwilling participant. I began experiencing imaginary pains. Even saturation levels of 94-95 would feel like evolving hypoxia. Then, my two-week CT scan came out worse than the baseline. Three attempts to stop steroids failed but the fourth was successful on day 13. Finally, my IgG test for antibodies returned positive on August 24 (baseline just a month ago was negative). So what I had was surely Covid pneumonia. Did the virus turn my world upside down? No, I rested like one does when afflicted with any other viral illness. I was hardly on any medicine except steroids and HCQS for 10 days. My oxygen levels were fine, but the pain in the legs and discomfort in the chest would make me occasionally cringe. Of course, I had to isolate at home for 17 days — way too much time for a practising doctor! But that’s the medical part. Did the virus affect me mentally? You bet it did. Plain-speaking, an untimely death is a man’s worst fear. You cannot even communicate this fear to the family, especially the children, as they look up to you for support. Basically, anxiety is writ large on my forehead. Contracting the virus only escalated my worries. Disillusionment had set in on the professional front too. My hospital was forced to increase Covid beds from 100 to more than 170. This meant that most doctors like me would lose out on regular non-Covid patients. As it is, our earnings were down to 25% of the average monthly checks (yes, doctors too are facing paycuts in Covid season). The authorities were not helpful to our cause. We were at the receiving end despite starting a Covid unit with a few ICU beds at the hospital to eventually dedicating 80% beds four months later. And then a senior state government MP says he prefers to take medicine from a compounder than a doctor. We do not expect “taalis”, clanging of “thalis” and flower showers. All we ask for is that we are looked upon as doctors with emotions. Like regular people, we too have families to feed and instalments to pay. Let me say this: barring a few dishonourable exceptions, most doctors and hospitals are living off their savings rather than their earnings these days. But I digress. It took me much effort to realise that I could defeat the virus. My laboratory values remained rock steady, the inflammatory markers showed no rise, my breathing was normal and my sense of smell and taste were perfect. I returned to my OPD after nearly three weeks. My home isolation taught me a few lessons. One, you are not indispensable. Everyone loves you as a person but, professionally, no one would equate you with a rocket scientist. Two, your family will always be your best support. Wife Madhuwanti looked after me and also managed her Covid laboratory workload of up to 500 tests daily with a smile. Children Saee and Sushrut displayed maturity and responsibility throughout. Three, your body cannot stay young forever. With age catching up, you need to adjust according to the frailties. Four, fitness is a huge factor. Despite being a borderline diabetic, my inflammatory markers never moved. The most dreaded cytokine storm did not even arrive on my horizon. Five, Amazon firestick can keep you greatly entertained. I realized there were so many fun activities I had missed out on because of work. I even added a new collection of indoor plants to our home during the isolation. Finally, as a doctor, I need my patients for my survival. Their smiles when I went on my rounds the first day after recovering were remuneration enough for me to risk a 100 more Covid-like situations. (The author of this piece is the head of department, pulmonary medicine, Poona Hospital and Research Centre)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-doctor-fights-the-virus-learns-life-truths-during-isolation/articleshow/77841241.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Over 77,000 tested for Covid-19 in August||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The report released by the health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) stated that it conducted over 77,000 RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests in August. The department identified around 27,544 Covid-19 positive cases until August 30, the highest in all months to date. On an average, around 2,500 RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are conducted per day. PCMC officials said the number of tests have increased to around 4,000, per day, recently. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI, “We do not have any plan to increase the number of daily tests beyond the 4,000 mark for now. Our main goal remains early detection of cases, for which the Covid-19 survey is underway. At present, we have a positivity rate of around 26%, which we need to bring down. Other than that, reducing the case fatality rate (CFR) and early identification of senior citizens with comorbidities remains the highest priority.” Hardikar added that minimizing the death rate is among the top priorities for the administration. The death rate among senior citizens, according to Hardikar, is around 8%. As per the Pune district health office report released on August 29, there are 11,983 active patients in the PCMC limits at present. Of the total 5,756 cases are under isolation at a hospital, while 5,927 are under home isolation. Of the total active patients, around 11,000 are asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-77k-tested-for-ncov-in-aug/articleshow/77841298.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 31, 2020||Bareilly||24th battalion of Jat Regiment to be raised in Bareilly; to become operational from Sept 1||Bareilly: The Indian Army had a plan to raise the 24th Jat Regiment in Bareilly — which already has the 23rd regiment raised here in 2016 — by July 1, but the Covid-19 outbreak delayed the process. Now, the Army is set to make the 24th battalion operational from September 1 in Bareilly. Lt General SK Saini, Vice Chief of the Army Staff and the Colonel of the JAT regiment, will grace the accretion programme as the chief guest.The raising of the new battalion would be marked by the inauguration of the unit’s Quarter Guard and hoisting of the 24 JAT regiment’s flag. However, the decision on the deployment of the battalion will be taken later.A senior official, who wished not to be named, told TOI, “The raising of the new regiment is part of a long-term defence strategy. Vice Chief Saini will grace the accretion programme and address to the jawans. We have ensured that jawans in the cantonment area maintain social distancing, go through regular check-ups and exercises regularly to boost their immune system. We have very limited guests and the Covid-19 guidelines would be followed during the event.”“Everyone here is excited about the development as they have worked hard amid the pandemic to establish the new battalion,” he added.��4�v||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/24th-battalion-of-jat-regiment-to-be-raised-in-bareilly-to-become-operational-from-sept-1/articleshow/77839148.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 31, 2020||Nashik||NHAI asked to fill potholes: Godse||Nashik: The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has been instructed to fill up all the potholes on the Mumbai-Agra highway at the earliest, for the safety of motorists travelling on the highway, said MP Hemant Godse. Godse said he had recently interacted with Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways, where he brought up the issue about the condition of Mumbai Agra Highway. The MP said Gadkari immediately instructed the officials concerned of NHAI to get the potholes filled at the earliest. It was obligatory on part of the NHAI to get the potholes filled within 72 hours, Godse said. However, their work has been extremely slow, following which he communicated the problem with Gadkari. Various parts of the district have been witnessing rainfall over the past few weeks following which potholes have surfaced on numerous roads. The situation is similar on the Mumbai Agra highway. However, as there is continuous vehicular traffic on this highway, including the daily travellers between Mumbai and Nashik given the absence of buses and trains, there are higher chance of accidents on the stretch. Hence, Godse informed Gadkari about the condition of the highway. He added that there was significant delay at the Ghoti toll plaza in collecting toll, as it should not take more than three minutes for a motorist at the toll plaza. The work of filling potholes have already begun, said the MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nhai-asked-to-fill-potholes-godse/articleshow/77839106.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam needs more deluxe rooms to meet demands of a capital city, say hoteliers||VISAKHAPATNAM: The hospitality industry in Vizag city is likely to hit a purple patch in the next five to six years, once it becomes the state’s executive capital. But with only 2,143 rooms under star categories at 27 hotels, the industry anticipates a severe demand and supply gap in deluxe rooms. “Our market analysis shows that a major contribution to hotels’ businesses comes from the corporate sectors that will increase as there is scope for development in the industrial sector once Visakhapatnam becomes the capital. With many tourism projects in the pipeline we are expecting a growth in domestic and international tourists. Overall, within five to six years from now the beach city would require more and more star properties,” Pavan Kartheek, vice-president of Hotels and Restaurants Associations of Andhra Pradesh (HRAAP) told TOI. Apart from Radisson with 105 rooms near Bheemili Beach and Mayfair Ripples with 100 rooms on the Araku Highway, there is no major brand looking to set up a property in the city. Should this trend continue, rates for budget rooms in the city will go up and existing properties can reap the benefits that come with being a capital city. Recently, the state government inaugurated Best Western Ramachandra, being managed under the PPP mode. However, the hotel only has 73 rooms. “Until and unless new players come in there would be a severe room crunch in Visakhapatnam by 2025 or so. Tariffs would increase to a great extent. The situation would be similar to that in Vijayawada in 2018 when budget hotels had room tariffs of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000,” K Vijay Mohan, Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh told TOI. Future prospects, however, have been dampened by the ongoing pandemic with hoteliers uncertain about how long they will be able to run their properties. Expenditure has gone up by over 45%, they claimed, compared to January and February this year. This has been accompanies with a more than 95% dip in revenue. “It goes beyond saying that the capital decision would boost the hospitality industry in the city in the next few years and we would need more star properties. But now, the present challenge is to sustain business for the next two years so that we can meet the challenges after five years,” Prasanth Singu, president of HRAAP told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-needs-more-deluxe-rooms-to-meet-demands-of-a-capital-city-say-hoteliers/articleshow/77839163.cms||Arpit Basu
August 31, 2020||Nashik||Man arrested with firearm in Panchavati||Nashik: The Nashik city police has arrested a man under the Arms Act for allegedly carrying a firearm in the Panchavati area of the city. The suspect has been identified as Raju alias Bhurya Subhash Salunke, a resident of Malharkhan slum. The suspect was arrested after officials of the crime branch unit 2 informed the city police that constable Yogesh Sanap received information about sale-purchase of illegal firearm near Hanuman ghat. Acting on the information, the crime branch unit 2 laid a trap near Sri Chaitanya Hanuman temple compound and arrested Salunke from the spot. Police also recovered three live cartridges from the suspect along with the three firearm. PI Dinesh Bardekar said that the trap was laid on the guidance of CP Vishwas Nangare-Patil, DCP Laxmikant Patil and ACP Sameer Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-arrested-with-firearm-in-panchavati/articleshow/77839129.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: 572 face action in Mulshi taluka for flouting norms||PUNE: The Paud police on Saturday took action against 572 people from different areas across Mulshi taluka for violating social distancing norms, not wearing masks and other offences. Of these, 427 have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and another 145 were fined Rs500 each, collectively mounting to Rs72,500, for not wearing masks. Senior inspector Ashok Dhumal of the Paud police said wearing masks has been made compulsory to stop the spread of Covid-19. The district administration too has prescribed Rs500 as fine for not wearing masks and Rs1,000 for spitting in public, Dhumal said. He said there has been a substantial rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mulshi taluka. “We have also observed that despite the rise, people are not following social distancing norms. So, on Saturday, we put up check points at different spots and took action against those flouting norms,” Dhumal said. The check points had been put up at Bhugaon, Pirangut, Ghorawade, Paud, Lavasa, Mulshi, Ambavane, Male and Urawade. Meanwhile, the Yavat police too have taken action against 600 people from different parts of Daund taluka for not wearing the masks in the last two days and have collected fine of Rs1.3 lakh, police said. The Shirur police on Saturday took action against 349 people and collected Rs1.4 lakh in fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/572-face-action-in-mulshi-taluka-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/77841324.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Sign up for a BSc in cyber & digital science||The Suryadatta Group of Institutions launched a new course last week — Bachelor in Science (BSc) in Cyber and Digital Science. India’s priorities have digital as an integral aspect of all key initiatives — Digital India, smart city projects and more. Sanjay Chordia, founder & president of the Suryadatta Group of Institutes said, “Technology is indispensable in personal, social, organizational and even governmental functioning and development.” According to the Internet Crime Report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, India stands third among the top 20 countries in the world in terms of Internet crimes. Cybersecurity Ventures predict that there will be 3.5 million cybersecurity jobs globally by 2021, up from 1 million openings in 2014. There are currently around 30,000 cybersecurity vacancies in India.  For details, log on to: siics.org / www.suryadatta.orgAdmission process: Via SGUCAT (schedule available on website)  Eligibility: The students who have passed Higher Secondary School Certificate (10+2) or its equivalent examination with English OR have a three-year Diploma course of the board of technical education conducted by the government of Maharashtra or its equivalent OR Higher Secondary School Certificate (10+2) with English and the vocational subject of +2 level (MCVC) can seek admissions to the programme  Curriculum: Subjects include Computer Science and Problem Solving, Computing Devices, Ethical Hacking, Python Programming and more  Career Options: Typical job roles would be as Chief Information Security Officer, IT Director, IT Security Director, IT Manager, IT Security Manager, Security Architect/Engineer and the likes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sign-up-for-a-bsc-in-cyber-digital-science/articleshow/77841312.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Pune||Unlock 4.0: Maharashtra to ease curbs on hotels, travel, govt office attendance||MUMBAI: With the Centre opening up more activities outside containment zones under Unlock 4.0 rules, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to lift curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, raise attendance in government offices and schools, and increase occupancy limits for hotels. According to a top official, Thackeray is likely to grant relaxations when he declares his Unlock 4.0 plan on Monday, under the state’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ programme. No separate permission or e-pass is likely to be required for movement of people and goods, intra- or inter-state. Despite a central directive, Maharashtra was among six states that persisted with it. Under fresh Unlock 4.0 rules in Maharashtra, occupancy in hotels will be enhanced from 33% to 50%, attendance requirement in government offices for IAS officer-level staff raised to 100% and for subordinate staff increased from 15% to 30%, frequency of local trains raised and students of classes 9 to 12 allowed to visit schools on a “voluntary basis” to clear their doubts from September 21 onwards. On attendance in schools, the state will adhere to guidelines prescribed by the central government. Students of classes 9 to 12 outside containment zones will be allowed to visit school to consult teachers, subject to written permission of parents or guardians. Standard operating procedures will be followed for the purpose, as issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On hotels, officials said, occupancy limit will be enhanced to 50%. While in-house guests can avail of dining facilities, decision on allowing outsiders will be taken at a later stage. The decision on re-opening restaurants too will be taken soon, but no timeframe has been fixed for the purpose. On attendance in government offices, an official said, all officer-level staff (IAS and those in the rank of deputy secretary and above) will be required to come in while subordinate staff attendance will be enhanced to 30-40%. To facilitate the move, frequency of suburban trains will be enhanced suitably. On gyms, the official said, the CM has already assured a delegation of gym owners that permissions will soon be granted. “We are in the process of drafting the standard operating procedure. We expect to grant permission for opening gyms within a week,’’ he said. The official said the CM is keen to grant more relaxations, but remains concerned about the spurt in coronavirus cases. “We have granted maximum relaxations, despite the fact that there was exponential growth in the number of cases,’’ he said. Watch Unlock 4.0: Maharashtra to lift curbs on hotels, travel, govt office attendance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-to-ease-curbs-on-hotels-travel-govt-office-attendance/articleshow/77843042.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 31, 2020||Mumbai||Unlock 4.0: Maharashtra to ease curbs on hotels, travel, govt office attendance||MUMBAI: With the Centre opening up more activities outside containment zones under Unlock 4.0 rules, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to lift curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, raise attendance in government offices and schools, and increase occupancy limits for hotels. According to a top official, Thackeray is likely to grant relaxations when he declares his Unlock 4.0 plan on Monday, under the state’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ programme. No separate permission or e-pass is likely to be required for movement of people and goods, intra- or inter-state. Despite a central directive, Maharashtra was among six states that persisted with it. Under fresh Unlock 4.0 rules in Maharashtra, occupancy in hotels will be enhanced from 33% to 50%, attendance requirement in government offices for IAS officer-level staff raised to 100% and for subordinate staff increased from 15% to 30%, frequency of local trains raised and students of classes 9 to 12 allowed to visit schools on a “voluntary basis” to clear their doubts from September 21 onwards. On attendance in schools, the state will adhere to guidelines prescribed by the central government. Students of classes 9 to 12 outside containment zones will be allowed to visit school to consult teachers, subject to written permission of parents or guardians. Standard operating procedures will be followed for the purpose, as issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On hotels, officials said, occupancy limit will be enhanced to 50%. While in-house guests can avail of dining facilities, decision on allowing outsiders will be taken at a later stage. The decision on re-opening restaurants too will be taken soon, but no timeframe has been fixed for the purpose. On attendance in government offices, an official said, all officer-level staff (IAS and those in the rank of deputy secretary and above) will be required to come in while subordinate staff attendance will be enhanced to 30-40%. To facilitate the move, frequency of suburban trains will be enhanced suitably. On gyms, the official said, the CM has already assured a delegation of gym owners that permissions will soon be granted. “We are in the process of drafting the standard operating procedure. We expect to grant permission for opening gyms within a week,’’ he said. The official said the CM is keen to grant more relaxations, but remains concerned about the spurt in coronavirus cases. “We have granted maximum relaxations, despite the fact that there was exponential growth in the number of cases,’’ he said. Watch Unlock 4.0: Maharashtra to lift curbs on hotels, travel, govt office attendance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-to-ease-curbs-on-hotels-travel-govt-office-attendance/articleshow/77841861.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo snatch gold chain at gunpoint||PUNE: Two men on a motorcycle threatened 42-year-old Jaswant Kumar Agarwal, a software engineer, at gunpoint and snatched his gold chain worth Rs 50,000 late on Saturday night at Sangvi in Pimple Saudagarwhen he was on his routine walk after dinner. Assistant inspector Dattatreya Guling of the Sangvi police told TOI that two men on a motorcycle stopped Agarwal near a flyover around 10pm when he was walking from Govind Garden Chowk towards P K Chowk. “Agarwal stated in his complaint that one of the men was carrying a pistol. He threatened Agarwal of dire consequences and snatched his chain,” Guling said. Agarwal immediately approached the police and lodged an FIR after the duo left the spot. He told the police that the robbers seemed to be around 25 years old. “We have registered the offence under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Indian Arms Act,” Guling said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-gold-chain-at-gunpoint/articleshow/77841315.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Goa's Netravali locals renew demand for health centre||POINGUINIM: Fed up with the poor healthcare facility, locals of the remote Netravali village in Sanguem have renewed their demand for upgrading their rural medical dispensary (RMD) to a primary health centre (PHC). “The government seems unconcerned about the health of around 4,500 people from the ten wards of Netravali, including the hilly areas of Tudav-Verlem and Salgini,” said an elderly villager. During emergencies, the villagers are forced to travel 35km to reach the nearest health centre at Sanguem. The nearly 750 villagers residing in the hilly areas of Verlem-Tudov and Salgini have to cover an additional distance of 18km to reach the PHC, with the bad roads making the journey even more cumbersome. Deputy sarpanch Abhijit Desai told TOI that, in 2017, the panchayat had written to the health authorities requesting that the RMD be upgraded to a PHC following a demand from the villagers. “But so far nothing has happened. The villagers continue to suffer with regards to poor health care facilities,” Desai said. The Sanguem PHC looks after the RMD. A full-time doctor who was posted from the PHC to the RMD stopped visiting after he was promoted to the post of health officer seven years ago. Since then, the RMD has not had a full-time doctor. “Presently, a doctor is available only for two hours daily, which hardly serves the medical needs of the villagers. Other than the doctor, the RMD only has the services of a nurse and a pharmacist. There are no clerical or utility staff,” said sarpanch Archana Gaonkar. When TOI contacted the Sanguem PHC’s health officer Dr Seema Pai Fondekar, she said that after the full time doctor at the RMD was promoted and transferred, no doctor was posted to the Netravalli RMD on a regular basis. “With no help coming from the government for deputing a full time doctor in the village, the locals under the Netravali Aryog Dham, have got one regular doctor in the village. The doctor charges a nominal fee and is provided with accommodation in the village by the locals,” the deputy sarpanch said. Despite several calls and messages to Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar, he did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/netravali-locals-renew-demand-for-health-centre/articleshow/77841818.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Crackdown on revellers in Lonavla||PUNE: The Lonavla (city) police are taking strict action against tourists for visiting the hill station without permission. Police inspector Manojkumar Yadav said, “Tourists, especially those from Mumbai, have come to the hill station and violated several lockdown norms.” Over the weekend, the police pulled up 460 tourists for moving about in the town and its neighbouring villages for violation of safety norms and collected Rs2 lakh in fines. Police filed cases against 343 people for not wearing masks, and booked 104 people for not following social distancing. Thirteen people were also booked for visiting the hill station without valid permits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crackdown-on-revellers-in-lonavla/articleshow/77841328.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik-based pvt lab offers RT-PCR test for Rs 1,000||Nashik: City-based private laboratory Datar Cancer Genetics (DCG) has made the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used for detecting the presence of Covid-19 among people at less than half of the prevailing rates. The state government has fixed a rate of Rs 2,200 for the laboratories carrying out the RT-PCR test, but the DCG has decided to make the test available for Rs 1,000 This concessional rate will be applicable two centres — city office of Indian Medical Association (IMA) at Shalimar and at Datar Cancer Genetics, F-7, D-Link Road. People from across the city, district and other parts of the state can come and get the tests conducted at these centres from 8 am to 8 pm. The Datar Cancer Genetics has a capacity to perform 7,500 tests on a daily basis. The IMA (Nashik) has welcomed the decision and assured to provide all the necessary co-operation required to the DCG. The DCG has been at the forefront in taking various social initiatives and played an important role in setting up of the Covid testing laboratory at Nashik Medical College and J J Hospital in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-based-pvt-lab-offers-rt-pcr-test-for-rs-1000/articleshow/77839143.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Jaipur||Centre okays Rs 82.81cr for border dists’ devpt||Jaipur: The Centre has approved an annual action plan of Rs 82.81 crore for border area development programme (BADP) in Rajasthan for the financial year 2020-21 as the total allocation for the year was Rs 60.87 crore. “Rs 60.87 crore is the total allocation for the state this year, of which 60%, i.e., Rs 36.52 crore will come from the Government of India and Rs 24.35 crore will come from the state. The annual action plan (AAP) of Rs 82.81 crore has been approved including last year’s projects that are incomplete,” said special secretary rural development department P C Kishan. The BADP is meant for four districts in the state including Barmer, Bikaner, Jaisalmer and Ganganagar. The Centre has approved Rs 19.54 crore for Barmer district, Rs 11.50 crore for Bikaner; Rs 33.05 crore for Jaisalmer and Rs 18.72 crore for Ganganagar district. Under the annual action plan (AAP), Rs 25.76 crore is allocated for building roads and bridges (57 projects); Rs 6.86 crore for health (38 works); Rs 8.12 crore is meant for education (60 works); Rs 3.53 crore has been allocated for agriculture (25 works). Also, Rs 31.86 crore has been allocated for drinking water (160 works); Rs 2.76 crore for social sector (20 works); Rs 3.51 crore for maintenance (11 works) and Rs 40 lakh (6 works) for administrative expenditure. Under the mid-term perspective plan (2021-24), Rs 253 crore has been proposed. However, this proposal has not been approved by the Centre yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-okays-rs-82-81cr-for-border-dists-devpt/articleshow/77841329.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pakistan woman held for violating visa rules||NEW DELHI: A Pakistani woman has been arrested in Noida for allegedly violating visa rules, Gautam Buddh Nagar police officials said on Sunday. The woman, identified as Nausheen Naaz from Karachi in Pakistan, was held on Saturday. She was staying with her husband at their Ajmeri Gate home in Delhi on a long-term visa, officials said. The woman is being questioned by central government agencies to ascertain if she was acting as a spy, a source said. “The woman had entered Noida in violation of the rules of her long-term visa. She was in a bus which was intercepted for checking under a flyover at Sector 14A of the city. She was arrested after inspection,” a police spokesperson said. An FIR has been lodged against her at the Sector 20 police station under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, and further legal proceedings are underway, he added. According to officials, the woman's visa allowed her long-term stay in the country but not outside Delhi. For travel anywhere outside the national capital, she was required to have necessary permissions, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pak-woman-held-for-violating-visa-rules/articleshow/77841787.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||K Chandrasekhara Rao extends fund aid for Nellore temple||NELLORE: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhara Rao has extended financial assistance for the construction of a temple at Nayudupet town in Nellore district. A Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple has been constructed by residents of Timmaji Kandriga village on the outskirts of Nayadupet town. Renowed vastu consulant and temple trustee, Padmanabhaiah is reported to be behind getting the Telangana CM’s support for the temple. Padmanabhaiah is reported to have offered consultation to K Chandrasekhara Rao on astrology and vastu. Padmanabhaiah said that K Chandarasekhara Rao has promised to visit the temple after the Covid-19 situation eases. KCR and his wife Sobha are reportedly funding the construction of the Maharajagopuram and Mada Street in the temple premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kcr-extends-fund-aid-for-temple/articleshow/77839197.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj allowed to leave Jharkhand||Bokaro: BJP’s Unnao (Uttar Pradesh) MP Sakshi Maharaj, who was put under 14-day quarantine at an ashram in Giridih on Saturday, left Jharkhand on Sunday. Sakshi Maharaj did not respond to questions on his release within 24 hours but said, “I am happy to return today.” Giridih DC Rahul Kumar Sinha said, “Sakshi Maharaj was granted exemption after he wrote a letter to the state chief secretary on Saturday soon after he was quarantined. He sought an exemption for his scheduled meeting of the parliamentary standing committee, where an important bill has to be discussed.” He added, “After getting the nod from the state government, we conducted Covid-19 test on him on the TrueNat machine and was allowed to go after he tested negative.” The MP left the ashram at 2 pm and boarded a New-Delhi Rajdhani from the Dhanbad railway station. He had arrived in Giridih early on Saturday morning and spent two hours with his ailing 97-year-old mother at the Shanti Bhawan ashram before making his way back. Giridih SDO Prerna Dixit apprehended the MP’s vehicle and put him in quarantine at the ashram, citing state government rules. BJP had said the MP’s detention was politically motivated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-mp-sakshi-maharaj-allowed-to-leave-jharkhand/articleshow/77841211.cms||Divy Khare
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||Amid political slugfest, centres gear up for NEET, JEE||Ranchi: With the stage set for the conduction of NEET-JEE exams despite differences between a few state governments and the Centre, online testing centres along with schools designated as centres for the national-level competitive examinations have started their preparations on a war footing. Soon after the district administration received an advisory from the National Testing Agency (NTA), a meeting with the heads of online testing centres in Ranchi was convened on August 28 and they were apprised of the preparations to be made for conducting the examinations. Talking to TOI, Ranchi ADM (Law & order) Akhilesh Kumar Sinha said: “We have briefed the heads of online testing centres at Tupudana and Tatisilwai about the guidelines of the state government and had asked them to make adequate arrangements as per the advisory issued by the NTA. We have also decided to depute magistrates and security personnel to maintain order at the centres during all six days of the JEE examination.” According to sources at TCS iON, which is holding the online examination at two different locations in Ranchi, around 15,000 students will appear in the engineering entrance examination this year. “We have conducted a sanitization drive at our centres, right from the entrance to the labs where the candidates will sit for the examination. Apart from that, we have deputed managers to manage the crowd and have made a queue protocol as per NTA advisory, which directs us to maintain a distance of six feet between two persons in a queue as well as inside the examination halls,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. On being asked how they are going to maintain social distancing norms inside the examination hall, the official said: “Even inside the centres, candidates will be made to sit on alternate computers in order to ensure the distance of six feet and they have also made arrangements for isolation labs which will be provided to candidates who might show symptoms of Covid-19.” The examinations will be held between September 1-6 at Tupudana centre and from September 2-6 at Tatisilwai centre. As per the advisory issued by NTA for conducting the medical and engineering entrance examination, the whole procedure has been divided into three parts including pre-examination measures, conduct and control during examination and post-examination measures. Under pre-examination measures, the advisory directs allocation of seat as per social distancing norms, training of staff on social distancing and sanitization norms and inventory management for the examination. Conduct and control measures during examination include hygiene and implementation of social distancing norms, thermal scanning of all candidates upon arrival, wearing of masks, gloves by one and all present at the examination centre at all times. Post-examination measures include safe disposal of masks, gloves and other disposable protective equipment items in a pedal push bin outside the examination hall at the examination centre. Apart from these directives, the NTA has also asked all the centres to avoid overcrowding at all the entry and exit points and to maintain a separate register with contact details of all other staff including housekeeping, security guards in a digital format provided by NTA to the centre superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/amid-political-slugfest-centres-gear-up-for-neet-jee/articleshow/77841177.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||Centre should borrow money & pay states: Jharkhand fin min||Ranchi: A day after the Centre provided two options to raise fund for the GST shortfall, Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Sunday demanded that the Union government should borrow money and distribute it among the states. Talking to TOI over the phone, Oraon said he is currently waiting for a written communiqué from the Union finance ministry following deliberations of GST Council earlier this week to take a formal call. On Saturday, the Centre circulated two options for the states — to borrow from RBI or from the market — to meet the GST shortfall, which will be repaid via an extension of the compensation cess beyond the June 2022 deadline. Sitaraman also gave the state ministers seven days to decide. Many non-BJP ruled states, however, rejected the Centre’s proposal. Oraon said, “When the Union finance minister sounded two options, I had demanded her to give them in writing. I will check if the letter comes or not on Monday to decide our future course of action.” He further said, “Why should a state borrow in the first place? The Centre owes us the money. It should borrow and distribute among the states. This is my firm opinion.” Stating that Jharkhand owes nearly Rs 2,500 crore GST dues with the Centre, Oraon said, "The state government has inherited a frail economy after coming to power about seven months back and coupled with ongoing global pandemic which weaned away from our earnings, the state treasury is in a near-crash situation.” He added, “In such a situation, our debt will further increase if we borrow. Moreover, when a poor state like Jharkhand goes for borrowing, it will get the money on a high interest rate. The Centre being the overall custodian of the nation’s economy, has the onus of ensuring its promised money to states like us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-should-borrow-money-pay-states-jharkhand-fin-min/articleshow/77840132.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||State sees 12 deaths, over 1.3k cases take tally close to 39k||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 12 Covid-19 deaths and 1,323 fresh infections, taking the toll in state to 410 while the caseload inches closer to 40,000. The state also reported 1,182 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Among the 12 deaths, two were reported late on Saturday from Ranchi and Dhanbad while 10 were recorded on Sunday with East Singhbhum continuing to report the highest number of casualties at seven deaths. Dumka, Pakur and West Singhbhum reported one death each. The death toll breached the 400-mark on Saturday night. In Ranchi, 248 fresh cases were reported on Sunday while Bokaro reported 178 new infections. Dumka, Ramgarh and Chatra, too, reported cases 157, 124 and 110 cases respectively followed by East Singhbhum (85), Giridih (69) and Saraikela with 62 new cases. This is for the first time that five districts reported three-digit fresh infections at a time while Dumka reported it for the first time. With 1,323 fresh infections and 1,182 recoveries on Sunday, the cumulative caseload in state stood at 38,435, of which 11,577 are active and 26,448 have recovered. The positivity rate has a slight increase on Sunday at 6.53% as 1,323 out of total 20,246 samples tested positive for the virus. In the last six days, Jharkhand witnessed a surge in fresh infections with 7,120 cases reported. It made the weekly growth rate climb at 3.51% which is 1.23% more than the national average of 2.28%. The doubling rate in the state has reduced to around 20 days while the national average stands at about 31 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-sees-12-deaths-over-1-3k-cases-take-tally-close-to-39k/articleshow/77841218.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||Several Reds hurt in gunfight with cops in Hazaribag forest||Hazaribag: Several Maoists are believed to have suffered bullet injuries in an encounter with police in Bakchumba forest in Pipradih under Keredari police station on Saturday night, Hazaribag SP Kartik S said on Sunday. The encounter site is about 75km from the district headquarters. Kartik said, “We had information that zonal commander Mithilesh and sub-zonal commander Karu Yadav along with 12 others were camping in the forests for the last one week. They were planning an attack on security forces and to extort money from traders in the coal belt of Barkagaon and adjoining areas. We formed a team along with CRPF to crackdown on them when the rebels began firing upon seeing security forces.” Around 100 rounds of bullets were fired from both the sides, he said, adding, “The firing ended around midnight and all rebels fled from the spot, however, many sustained bullet injuries. None from the police side suffered injuries. We are trying to trace them.” Since Sunday morning, police intensified combing operation in the area but till the time of filing this report, no arrest was made. “We have recovered clothes, food, medicines, shoes, and other items left behind,” Kartik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/several-reds-hurt-in-gunfight-with-cops-in-hazaribag-forest/articleshow/77840240.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||E-pass for Babadham devotees from today||Dumka: Deoghar deputy commissioner Kamleshwar Prasad Singh on Sunday shared the online portal (http://jharkhanddarshan.nic.in.) on which the devotees can log in to generate e-passes for visiting Baba Baidhyanathdham temple. “From Monday, entry to the Deoghar temple will take place only through the e-passes. Visitors need to log in to our portal to generate the e-pass. One person can generate passes for four people at the most,” Singh said. He added, “Once a devotee generates the e-pass, he/she will get a time slot for visiting the temple and the devotee must turn up half an hour before the scheduled time to undergo the mandatory health check-up.” Following a Supreme Court order, the state government on August 26 allowed the reopening of Basukinath temple (in Dumka) and Babadham for a limited number of devotees for four hours daily. At Babadham, per hour only 50 people will be allowed inside while in Basukinath, the visitors’ turnout has been fixed at 40 per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-pass-for-babadham-devotees-from-today/articleshow/77841246.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Cotton barrage sees 6th largest discharge of water||RAJAHMUNDRY: As many as 2083 tmc water was discharged from Sir Arthur Cotton barrage at Dowlaiswaram into the sea till today this year. This is the sixth largest discharge in the history of the Godavari. Over 35 lakh cusecs of water was discharged into the sea on August 16, 1986. The second highest discharge was on August 16, 1953--over 30 lakh cusecs of water. In 2006, 28.50 lakh cusecs of water was discharged on August 7. About 27.88 lakh cusecs was discharged on August 25,, 1990. The fifth highest discharge was in 1994-- 22.67 lakh cusecs on September 9. In August, 1986, East and West Godavari districts had a tough time. People living along the Godavari bunds were shifted to higher grounds as water rose. People left their homes in boats even in towns like Rajahmundry. The situation in Konaseema was unbearable and the people in island villages in the region have experienced a nightmare. After the flood fury in the Godavari, the government strengthened bunds in East and West Godavari districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cotton-barrage-sees-6th-largest-discharge-of-water/articleshow/77839189.cms||Samson Raj
August 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Suspected drug reaction kills woman||Vijayawada: A woman died at Cheernalapadu in A Konduru mandal in Krishna district after being administered an injection by a rural medical practitioner (RMP). The deceased, 40-year-old M Nagamani, had gone to a local RMP with fever. The RMP, Narasimha Rao, reportedly gave her an injection. Family members alleged negligence on part of the RMP. A case was registered. Cases against six for assaulting man Visakhapatnam: Srikakulam police registered cases against six persons for allegedly assaulting a man. The victim of the attack, A Prabhakar, is currently undergoing treatment. Police said that Prabhakar had given a loan of Rs76,000 to a V Ramesh. When Prabhakar asked Ramesh to return the money, Ramesh attacked Prabhakar along with his associates. Investigation is on. Woman falls into well, dead Visakhapatnam: A 30-year-old woman accidentally fell into a well while trying to draw water and died at B Korlam area in Sompeta mandal of Srikakulam district on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as P Krishna Rao. Police have retreived the body from the well and sent it to a government hospital for post mortem. A case was registered and investigation is underway. Vehicles collide: Two injured Visakhapatnam: Two persons were injured after a car collided with a milk-laden vehicle on BRTS Road near NAD Junction in Vizag on Sunday. Drivers of both vehicles suffered injuries. Upon receiving information, police reached the spot and took the injured to a hospital. Meanwhile, traffic on the busy Vadlapudi Junction in Vizag was disrupted on Sunday after a container detached from a truck and fell on the road. Fortunately, no one was injured. Van intercepted, liquor bottles seized Vijayawada: Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) intercepted a van at Bhavanipuram area on Sunday and seized 566 bottles of liquor. The liquor was reportedly being smuggled in from Telangana. SEB officials had received a tip-off and had set up a check-post and intercepted the van. Further, SEB officials also found liquor bottles buried in mud at Bhavanipuram area. 178 booked for not wearing masks Vijayawada: Police on Sunday booked cases against 178 persons for not wearing masks in public places. Police slapped fines worth Rs14,350 against violators. Vijayawada police have made mask-wearing compulsory in public places in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/suspected-drug-reaction-kills-woman/articleshow/77839208.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi cases cross 2,000 for first time in over 50 days||NEW DELHI: On Sunday, the number of new Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi crossed the 2,000-mark after 51 days. The city recorded 2,024 cases, the highest single-day tally since July 10 when 2,089 cases were reported. Since June 23, when the capital reported its highest single-day spike, 3,947, the daily count has been steadily going down. In the last one week, however, the number of fresh cases reported every day is going up, as is the positivity rate. Covid-19 positivity rate rises to 9.9%The total number of cases has now gone beyond 1.73 lakh, with the cumulative toll reaching 4,426. The positivity rate — number of confirmed cases from those tested — has gone up from 8.8% on Saturday to 9.9% with 2,024 persons testing positive from 20,437 tested. Last week, from Monday to Friday, it was recorded at 8.9%, 7.7%, 8.5%, 8.7% and 7.8%, respectively. From a high of 30% at a time, the city’s positivity rate had come down to less than 6% in July. Out of the total 1,73,390 positive cases reported till date, 1,54,171 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated, with the recovery rate being 88.9%. The number of active cases, which was below 10,000 till not so long ago, is now nearing 15,000. Compared with 14,040 active cases on Saturday, the figure zoomed to 14,793 on Sunday. The number of containment zones on Saturday was an alltime high of 803 but that record was surpassed on Sunday with the number going up to 820. On Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had attributed the increase in cases to patients from outside seeking treatment in the capital, migrants who had left the city during lockdown returning and increased testing. Delhi government data reveals that more than 30% Covid-19 patients admitted in city hospitals this month were from other states. Also, patients from other states account for more than half the number of deaths. Anticipating a huge rise in cases in Delhi, the AAP government had decided to reserve beds in Delhi government-run hospitals for residents of the capital but it was overturned by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Data shows that of the 8,577 Covid-19 patients admitted to Delhi’s hospitals in August, 2,536 were from other states, with the highest number from neighbouring UP and Haryana though patients from Jharkhand, Assam and Maharashtra are also receiving treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cases-cross-2000-for-first-time-in-over-50-days/articleshow/77842252.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 31, 2020||Goa||Portuguese-era bridge in Agonda to be replaced||Poinguinim: The bridge over the Davalkhazan culvert in Agonda, Canacona, will be replaced with a six-metre double-span box culvert bridge within a year, deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes has said. “The existing Portuguese-era bridge is worn out from underneath,” Fernandes said.The project, estimated to be cost around Rs 35.5 lakh, is among the seven tenders floated by the pubic works department (PWD) for development works worth Rs 2.7 crore in Canacona constituency. “Six of these are in Canacona and the seventh project is in deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar’s Quepem constituency,” the MLA said. The other projects to be taken up include improvement and tarring of an interior road to Touremoll in Agonda; resurfacing of a 3.2km stretch in Shisheval-Astagal and the Marlim-Tirval road in Poinguinim; a box-culvert at Welwada in Poinguinim; improvement and resurfacing of the road to Chapoli dam from NH66 in Gulem, Shristhal; reconstruction of a retaining wall near the Nirakar Vidyalaya High School in Mashem and improvement and tarring of the road from Ganapati temple at Bondoi in Khola village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/portuguese-era-bridge-in-agonda-to-be-replaced/articleshow/77841404.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 31, 2020||Goa||Biodiversity of Chicalim now just a click away||VASCO: The Chicalim biodiversity and its various aspects are now freely available for observation and research purposes on the iNaturalist Network. Cyril Fernandes, the leading motivator of ‘The Chicalim Bio-Crusaders’ who have developed the project, said, “A villagers’ group has formed a project page on the iNaturalist network and uploaded all the moths and birds they have documented till date in Chicalim.” iNaturalist is a citizen science project and online social network of naturalists, citizen scientists and biologists, built on the concept of mapping and sharing observations of biodiversity across the globe. Observations recorded with iNaturalist provides valuable open data to scientific research projects, conservation agencies, other organizations, and the public, said Fernandes. iNaturalist, which can be accessed via its website or from its mobile applications, is owned and managed by California Academy of Sciences and the National Geographic Society. Chicalim Bio-Crusaders have been documenting the biodiversity of Chicalim, which possesses megalithic-era human footprints through underground caves, historic ruins and churches, heritage houses, khazans, traditional rain-water drainages, water harvesting systems and natural breeding grounds for windowpane oysters, a protected species under the Wildlife Act besides clams (tisreos) and oysters (Kallvam).Till date, the Bio-Crusaders have documented the local wildlife, fishes, butterflies, flowers, plants, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/biodiversity-of-chicalim-now-just-a-click-away/articleshow/77841415.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 31, 2020||Goa||2 booked over missing goods worth Rs 2.6L||Margao: The Fatorda police have booked an offence against two employees of a showroom of a branded watch company on charges of criminal breach of trust following disappearance of items worth nearly Rs 3 lakh from its stores. The showroom is located near the old market circle at Margao. Lucky Prasad Das, who has been arrested, was residing at Colva, while Gaurav Kumar Shivde, for whom police are on the lookout, is a native of Madhya Pradesh. Police sources said that as per the complaint lodged by the showroom manager Mahendra Kapoor, the items are believed to have gone missing between March and August 2020. Both Das and Shivde were manning the showroom. The incidence came to light when a number of watches, sunglasses and perfume bottles from the stores of the showroom, together worth Rs 2.6 lakh couldn’t be accounted .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-booked-over-missing-goods-worth-rs-2-6l/articleshow/77841424.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Govt to pay for works by discounting bill||Panaji: With the state government unable to pay contractors immediately due to a financial crunch, it has decided to adopt the ‘discounting bill’ method to clear around Rs 700 crore in bills. Explaining the concept, a senior government official said that if the state owes a contractor Rs 10 crore and if five per cent is forgone, the state will ask the bank to pay Rs 9.5 crore to the contractor. The five per cent that was forgone may be paid to the bank while returning the rest of the money within a specified period. The government, however, has not discussed with banks whether it will repay an amount with the forgone percentage or with interest. The adoption of the discounting bill concept means that banks, contractors and the government through various departments will have to register themselves on TReDS, an online electronic institutional mechanism aimed at facilitating the financing of trade receivables through multiple financiers. Big contractors who have taken up major works including construction of bridges and roads are expected to benefit from the scheme. While the ceiling for the bill raised by a contractor under the scheme has not yet been decided, a senior government official said a minimum bill of Rs 1 crore may be considered. Departments have now been asked to ascertain the liabilities of the government. Goa’s economy has plummeted since the Covid-19 outbreak, revenue receipts have missed budget estimates, and the government finds itself stuck with high committed expenditure. With a 74% shortfall in revenue collections and fiscal borrowing showing a spike, chief minister Pramod Sawant, who holds the finance portfolio, announced several austerity measures, including a freeze on capital expenditure on infrastructure works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-pay-for-works-by-discounting-bill/articleshow/77841452.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||As Covid hits 87k medics, IMA asks PM for better care||NEW DELHI: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to PM Modi drawing his attention to over 87,000 healthcare workers who have got infected with Covid-19 and another 573 who have lost their lives and called for more care for their welfare. “Healthcare manpower is precious. Uniform practices have to be put in place throughout the country. Substantial differences are noticed from district to district in how doctors and healthcare workers are deployed. Their service situations differ and mostly reflect the logistics of the district,” the IMA letter to the PM said on Sunday. The data on infections among healthcare workers was taken by the health ministry last week and states were asked to pay more attention as higher rates of infection and vulnerability to the disease among frontline workers would compromise the fight against Covid-19. TOI had reported state-wise official data on Saturday which showed six states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal and Gujarat — accounted for three-fourths (around 74%) of the 87,176 healthcare workers infected till August 28 and over 86% of total 573 deaths. Maharashtra alone accounted for 28% of the infected healthcare workers and more than 50% of the total deaths. Underlining the scarcity of doctors in remote areas, the IMA said, “Districts are not sensitive to the safety and the concerns of stress and fatigue of medical manpower. Deploying doctors 24x7 without intermittent quarantine periods or long working hours in PPE for Covid care is not the same as 24x7 Covid control from safe offices,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-covid-hits-87k-medics-ima-asks-pm-for-better-care/articleshow/77842264.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 31, 2020||Goa||Gulzar’s TOI poem gets 18m views in 4 days||The enduring magic of Gulzar’s poetry is that he takes your innermost thoughts and deepest feelings and captures them in words. And what words! Simple, everyday language mysteriously transforms into haunting, powerful imagery. True to form, he creates multiple goosebump-inducing moments in a poem written for The Times of India, which celebrates readers’ eternal romance with their favourite newspaper, and the sense of longing they feel when deprived of it. Read by Gulzar himself in his unmistakable baritone, the poem is accompanied by evocative visuals that perfectly capture the mood created by the words. You find yourself nodding, as Gulzar begins, “Bina akbhar ke, chai subah ki adhoori lagti hain…na din chadhta hain poora, na poori aankh khulti hain” (Without the newspaper, the morning tea feels incomplete… the day doesn’t really begin, your eyes don’t fully open). You can’t help but smile as he intones,“Degree kahan rakhi hain, kisko yaad rehta hain? Jahan tasveer chapi thee magar, akhbar rakha hain” (Who remembers where the degree is kept? But the paper in which your photo appears is preserved) even as the video depicts a doting father cutting a clipping about his daughter’s selection in a football team and framing it. You sigh wistfully as the poem concludes, “Bina akhbaar… tabiyat thodi kuch udaas rehti hain, bina akhbaar din bhar pyaas rehti hain” (Without the newspaper, you feel a little downcast, there is a sense of thirst throughout the day). Released on the night of August 26, the 1.47-minute long film has already gathered over 18 million views across social media and digital platforms, with viewers raving about it. Gulshan Bagga posted, “One realised its importance specially during lockdown... SPOT ON!!!” Pramod N wrote, “TOI is an integral part of day to day life”, and Neelam Katoch commented, “Beautiful depiction of newspaper...without newspaper even I feel incomplete and lost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gulzars-toi-poem-gets-18m-views-in-4-days/articleshow/77841471.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Trawler owner, staff held for chaining drunk labourer in Goa||COLVA: The police on Sunday arrested a trawler owner, Jose Alexio Fernandes from Vaddy, Benaulim, and Ram Manjhi, his labourer, for wrongful confinement of another labourer and abusing him with filthy language. The duo was later released on bail. According to complaint lodged by the victim, Kashtu Manjhi, a native of Jharkhand, both the accused chained him to house pole with a chain and padlocks. Colva police said the victim is a relative of Ram who arranged a job on the trawler for him with his employee. The victim arrived in Goa five days back and immediately started consuming alcohol and disturbing the peace in the neighbourhood. On Saturday night, when Kashtu again got drunk and started shouting, the accused in a bid to restrain him allegedly chained him and abused him with filthy language. The incident came to light on Sunday morning when some villagers noticed the victim in chains and getting soaked in the rain as there was hardly any space for him to seek cover. All this was recorded on the cellphone and went viral after it was posted on social media. Colva police immediately took custody of the victim and started their investigation. Colva police inspector Melson Colaco informed that the accused have been booked under sections 342 and 504 read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trawler-owner-staff-held-for-chaining-drunk-labourer/articleshow/77841482.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Four die at GMC, one at Margao Covid hospital||PANAJI: Five more Covid deaths were reported on Sunday taking the death toll to 183. Four of the patients died at Goa Medical College and one — a 68-year-old male from Margao — succumbed at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. Those that died at GMC include a 72-year-old female from Vasco, 50-year-old male from Pernem, 75-year-old male from Navelim and 60-year-old female from Verna. A total of 451 new Covid positive cases were detected with 244 reports awaited. The cumulative positives in the state crossed 17,000 with active positive cases at 3,635. A total of 13,186 persons have recovered from Covid. Margao continues to record the highest number of positive cases in the state and has begun to report more deaths over the past month as well. While cases have dipped in Vasco, Ponda has overtaken it with 265 active positive cases. The health centre with the third highest active positive cases inching towards the 200 mark is Porvorim with 183 cases. The capital city of Panaji and Mapusa are not far behind with 140 and 156 active cases, respectively. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said private agencies have been roped in to improve the standards of hygiene and food at the Covid hospital in Margao. “To practice and maintain the highest standards of hygiene and an environment conducive for speedy patient recovery, Eco-clean Systems and solutions has started operations at the ESIC Covid hospital. The staff will also be trained in patient handling at the Covid hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-die-at-gmc-1-at-margao-covid-hosp/articleshow/77841496.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||‘Unlock 4.0 norms expose Goa’s apathy towards teachers’||Panaji: School teachers said that the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Centre on Saturday have exposed the state government’s apathy towards them. While the guidelines state that teachers may be called to schools for work at 50% strength post September 21, the state government has made it compulsory for them to report to duty in full strength since June. “Teachers in Goa were allowed to work from home only for five days last month. The Unlock 4.0 guidelines vindicate our stand that the state government has been violating central government’s guidelines on work from home for teachers,” said president of All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association (AGSSTA) Dattatrey Naik. He said that repeated petitions by different organisations of teachers and school heads were ignored by the state government and little regard was shown for the wellbeing of teachers during the pandemic. “Covid cases have spread to every village in Goa. The central government’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines state that even after September 21, teachers ‘may’ be called to work. It means they may be called only if necessary even at 50% strength. In these circumstances, what about the violation by the state government for all these months,” said Naik. Even after the guidelines were issued on Saturday, no instructions have been issued to schools on allowing only 50% teachers in the school premises post the weekend on August 31. As a result, on Monday, schools across the state are expecting teachers to report to work in full strength. “The central government directives state that states should strictly implement the Unlock 4.0 guidelines, what about penalty for states like Goa who have violated the norms all along?” said Naik. Director of education Santosh Amonkar had earlier stated that he has forwarded a file to the chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant on implementing work schedule as recommended by central government guidelines for school teachers. As no directions were issued in this regard, teaching and non-teaching staff are reporting to schools in full strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unlock-4-0-norms-expose-goas-apathy-towards-teachers/articleshow/77841501.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Privatisation of new hospital: Sardesai wants white paper||Margao: Voicing his objection to any plans of the government to hand over any space in the South Goa district hospital to a private party, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai on Sunday demanded that health minister Vishwajit Rane come out with a white paper over the government’s plans pertaining to the newly constructed hospital within 24 hours. Sardesai also wrote to Rane demanding to knowwhy the two vacant floors of the hospital weren’t being used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Sardesai warned the government against “politicising public health” at a time when the state has earned the dubious distinction of 1% of its population getting infected with Covid-19. “Salcete has become the hotspot of Covid-19, yet Margao’s Covid hospital and private hospitals have run out of beds. A controversy has now erupted over government’s plans to privatise a part of the new district hospital,” Sardesai said. Pointing out that the people of Fatorda had sacrificed their lands for the sake of the hospital, Sardesai stopped short of threatening to take to the streets with the people over the issue. In his letter to Rane, Sardesai said that “any compromise in either the capacity or quality of the health services to be provided (in the new district hospital) will not be tolerated by the people of South Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/privatisation-of-new-hospital-sardesai-wants-white-paper/articleshow/77841511.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||Khilone pe charcha instead of pariksha pe charcha: Rahul||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday and said while students across the country were asking for a ‘Pariksha pe Charcha (Discussion on Exams)’ in the context of postponing JEE and NEET, Modi had decided to talk about making India a “toy hub”. “JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM do “pariksha pe charcha” but the PM did "khilone pe charcha,” he said on Twitter, along with the hashtag #Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat. JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM do ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ but the PM did ‘Khilone Pe Charcha’.#Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1598769634000His remark came after PM Modi said in his “Mann ki Baat” address that India has the talent and ability to become a hub for the toy industry and called upon startups and entrepreneurs to “team up for toys”. Rahul’s attack came even as Congress, along with six state governments, has moved the Supreme Court seeking a review of its earlier order to allow the exams to be held. Congress, at a day-long campaign it held earlier in the week, said the government should have held consultations with the student community before arriving at any decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/khilone-pe-charcha-instead-of-pariksha-pe-charcha-rahul/articleshow/77842273.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Govt should make full use of south Goa hospital: Digambar Kamat||MARGAO: Leader of opposition and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat on Sunday reiterated his demand for making the South Goa district hospital fully operational “by utilising every space available in the complex”. “With no Covid handling action plan in sight, (and) health minister Vishwajit Rane openly admitting that all Covid hospitals are full and Covid patients forced to go for home quarantine, it is now clear that the BJP government in Goa wants to convert every house into containment zone and leave people to the mercy of god,” Kamat said in a press note. Accusing the government of having failed to do any preparations to tackle the pandemic during the 40-day lockdown period, Kamat said, “The people are pushed into the trap of Covid by the faulty measures and policies of the government. It is now more than clear that the government has no action plan and mechanism for people’s safety. With people being blamed for celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi festival and spreading coronavirus, it is clear that the government is clueless on handling and management of Covid pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-govt-should-make-full-use-of-s-goa-hosp/articleshow/77841519.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Sawaikar +ve, admitted to Ponda hosp||Panaji: Former South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar has become the latest Goan politician to test positive for Covid-19. He tweeted his status on Sunday after his test result. Sawaikar said he is “asymptomatic”, and has been admitted to the Covid-sub district hospital, Ponda. “My vitals are within normal limits,” he said in the post, and appealed to people who may have come in contact with him in the last four days to get tested and take precautions. Union Ayush Minister Shripad Naik continues to be in hospital. His condition is “stable and he is improving,” said Dr Shekhar Salkar, head of clinical services, Manipal hospital. Former chief minister and NCP MLA Churchill Alemao and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar are also recovering from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawaikar-ve-admitted-to-ponda-hosp/articleshow/77841527.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||JEE gets off to a smooth start||Nagpur: Day one for JEE (Main) went off smoothly with no technical issues being reported from Nagpur. On Tuesday, candidates appeared for B Arch paper in the morning and afternoon shifts. Despite conduct of the exams raising a political storm, the exam went off without a glitch. Priyanshu Kumbhare, who appeared at a centre in Wadi, said the arrangements were “excellent”. “I was pleasantly surprised to see the level of planning. There was no crowding because at the main gate they were sending candidates one by one, and a person there ensured social distancing,” said Kumbhare. After checking admit cards, temperature scanning of candidates was done. “Then, after sanitization, they gave me a sealed mask and finally guided me to my allotted room. Before entry again sanitization was done,” said Kumbhare. Rajnikant Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI), said, “The exam today was not at all tough. Students were able to finish everything on time.” The National Testing Agency (NTA), the exam conducting body, kept a tab on the exam proceedings through its command centre in the capital. NTA officials were able to access live CCTV feed from centres and thus ensure greater control of the conduct of exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jee-gets-off-to-a-smooth-start/articleshow/77873043.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Floods ease, 90k hit; alert in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: The floods which finally abated on Tuesday have left more than 90,000 persons affected in the region. Out of these, more than 47,000 had to be rescued and shifted to safer locations, according to divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar who participated in a review meeting with the state minister for disaster relief Vijay Wadettiwar. Sources said there is no updated information about loss of lives and this is not being ruled out. Information is being gathered on the likely casualties, they added. At the meeting, the divisional commissioner said 138 shelter homes have been set up in the affected districts where 9,000 people have been accommodated. Sources said rest of the rescued persons were taken to safer locations close to their villages itself or sites other than the shelter homes. Wadettiwar said this was the worst flood in the last 100 years and has led to a major damage to property, crops, roads, bridges and livestock. He directed the officials to prepare a report to assess the damage on a war footing and submit it to the ministry of relief and rehabilitation. The minister also issued directions to ensure supply of food, clean water, restoration of power supply and road repairs in the affected areas. The water flow in Gosikhurd dam on the Wainganga river has reduced to 5,300 cubic meters per second (cumecs), which is much within the normal levels. The discharge from Pench and Kanhan rivers near Nagpur has also reduced to 1,500 cumecs in all. The discharge had reached 29,000 cumecs and 6,600 cumecs in Wainganga and Pench, respectively. Gadchiroli remains to be under alert as water from these rivers has increased the flow in rivers in the district. There were reports of flood waters receding in all the affected districts of Nagpur, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur. A flood alert has been issued in Gadchiroli. At present, 34,000 cubic meters per seconds (cumecs) of water is being discharged from the Chisdoh barrage in Gadchiroli district. This is much more than what was flowing out of the Gosikhurd dam during the flood. Sources said that the situation was under control because there were no rains in Gadchiroli since last one week. However, the water flowing from the northern districts has led to a massive discharge in Gadchiroli. The water will finally flow into Godavari river down south. It has enough capacity to accommodate the discharge. Road connectivity remains to be hampered in Gadchiroli district. A decision to withdraw the national disaster relief force (NDRF) and state disaster relief forces (SDRF) teams from the affected areas has been taken as local units would now be able to carry out the remaining relief works, said an official monitoring disaster relief at the division level. A press release by the defence spokesperson said that at Bramhapuri taluka of Chandrapur some of the villagers refused to leave their homes citing poor condition at the shelter homes. The note also claimed that there was no clarity about the compensation apart from uncertainty about livestock. The villagers agreed after the civil administration reassured them. The army has rescued 104 persons along with some livestock, said the press release. Disaster management officers in Bhandara and Gondia said that the situation was under control and relief operations were being wound up. There were similar reports from Nagpur too with officials claiming that the rescued persons were slowly returning to their villages from shelter homes. In Chandrapur, the water level had receded by six feet and rescue operations have been stopped. Among the last to be rescued were 150 families from Tok village in Pombhurna tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/floods-ease-90k-hit-alert-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/77877264.cms||Shishir Arya
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||NMC cancels odd-even rule for shops located on roads with dividers||Nagpur: After three months of odd and even diktat, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation will allow all non-essential shops to function on all days from September 2. The old rule, which was being opposed by shopkeepers, has been in force since June 5. Now, shops on both sides of the road, where a road divided exists, will be allowed to function. The new rule will also be applicable for all non-essential shops in case they are stand-alone too, the notification issued by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Tuesday stated. The new rule will not be applicable to shops located in areas like Itwari, Mahal, Gandhibagh etc where the roads are narrow and there are no medians. They will continue to follow odd and even rule till September 30. All non-essential shops will be allowed to remain open all days along the roads where there are no shops on the other side. On all other roads such non-essential shops will be allowed to open on alternate days (P1 and P2 basis) as per earlier guidelines. All such non-essential shops will now be allowed to remain open up to 9pm from the existing 7pm. Hotels and lodges will be allowed to operate at 100% capacity as per separate standard operating procedure which will be issued by state government for necessary precautions to be taken while operating these establishments. Liquor shops will continue to operate as per earlier guidelines, the notification added. Activities to remain prohibited included schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions. Till September 30, online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and would be encouraged. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (including that in malls and market complexes), bars, auditorium, assembly halls and similar places too will remain prohibited. International air travel of passengers except as permitted by MHA. It also prohibited operation of metro rail along with social/political/sports/entertainment /academic/cultural/ religious functions and other large congregations. All essential shops which are allowed to remain open before these order, will continue to do so, the notification stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-cancels-odd-even-rule-for-shops-located-on-roads-with-dividers/articleshow/77878114.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||CRly opens train bookings for travel within state||Nagpur: Now passengers in Maharashtra can travel in trains within the state. Earlier, though passengers were allowed to board a train outside the state, bookings within the state were not allowed. The decision was taken by Central Railway after the Maharashtra government issued Unlock-4 guidelines on August 31 allowing inter-district movement of people. Based on this, Central Railway issued a circular on September 1. Chief passenger traffic manager (CPTM) DY Naik has issued a circular informing its decision to restart ticket bookings to state’s chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and state secretary for relief and rehabilitation Kishore Raje Nimbalkar and transport secretary AK Singh. “With effect from September 2, inter-district movement of passengers by trains within Maharashtra is being enabled in passenger reservation system (PRS) and passengers would be able to book reserved tickets for stations within Maharashtra,” officials said. On June 1, Indian Railways had started over 230 trains to different destinations to the country. But, owing to Covid-19 restrictions, a passenger was not allowed to travel to Nagpur, Akola, Gondia etc from Mumbai or Ahmedabad. Of the eight trains that passed through Nagpur, Ahmedabad-Howrah-Ahmedabad (02833-02834) and Mumbai-Howrah-Mumbai Mail (02809-02810) used to operate daily but due to restrictions by the Bengal government these trains are running once a week. The Ahmedabad-Howrah arrives in Nagpur on Monday at 5.35 pm, while Mumbai-Howrah arrives on Saturday at 10.55 am. Passengers keen on travelling in the state can benefit from these two trains. The frequency of these trains will increase soon. “In the meanwhile, with restrictions eased, the Central Railway is also gearing up to start trains to Pune and Mumbai. These will include express trains like Sewagram, Vidarbha, Nagpur-Pune, Garib Rath among others. However, for this, a separate circular will be issued by the Railway Board,” sources said. The state’s biggest public transporter Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is already operating long distance buses to Pune and Aurangabad and private bus operators have also been allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crly-opens-train-bookings-for-travel-within-state/articleshow/77876942.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||Flood-hit civilians take on Army, military authorities condemn act||Nagpur: Hit by floods over the last few days, civilians residing in the Kamptee cantonment pushed their way through after a showdown with the military authorities. The residents had been at loggerheads with the local military authority (LMA) since the lockdown due to restrictions imposed on their movement inside the cantonment area. The LMA had allowed thoroughfare only twice a week. After access through other routes was cut off due to floods, residents gathered in huge numbers at the gate. Later, the LMA agreed to open the gates for four days after which a meeting will be held to decide the further steps. Sources said there was apparently an ugly spat between the Army and civilians. A resident has also filed a complaint with the police against a Lt Colonel for allegedly threatening him while another alleged that he was assaulted by a soldier. It began with residents of Juni Kamptee area, who were affected by the floods, demanding reopening of access through the cantonment area which was closed following Covid. They claimed that after the cantonment roads were blocked residents had to take an over 10km detour. The floods had left the longer route damaged and the only motorable road was through the cantonment. The residents of Juni Kamptee first gathered on the main road. With other civilians joining, the protest spilt over to the national highway which was blocked for 10-15 minutes, according to the residents. Soon, former district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule of the BJP, other political leaders and police reached the site. Gaurav Bhutani, a resident of The Mall area in cantonment, said he was driving out with his brother Paras when an office of Lt Colonel’s rank stopped him. According to the complaint filed by Bhutani, the officer ordered soldiers reporting to him to prevent the duo from moving in an out of the cantonment. Not only was there a heated argument, the Lt Colonel also threatened him, stated Bhutani’s complaint. Bhutani said the matter worsened after one of the civilians was hit by a soldier. On seeing the Juni Kamptee residents, even those from other areas gathered at the gates. Soon videos and pictures of the protest went viral on social media. Parminder Wahie, the president of Kampte Cantonment Nagrik Mandal — a residents association, said a group of vegetable vendors were trying to use the road through the cantonment and were stopped. This led to a protest. Wahie said that the authorities have now agreed to open some of the gates. “A meeting will be held with all the stakeholders after which a final decision will be taken. A public meeting should be held in this matter,” he said. Police officials also confirmed the development and decision to open the gates. A statement issued by the Army said a large number of villagers from Juni Kamptee and Gora Bazar brazenly broke all protocols off Covid protection. “Many of them were without face masks endangering the health of Army personnel being trained. The protest was orchestrated by certain civilians residing the in the old grant bungalows in the cantonment. They do not follow Covid protocols. Such behaviour is condemnable,” the Army stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flood-hit-civilians-take-on-army-military-authorities-condemn-act/articleshow/77876563.cms||Shishir Arya
August 31, 2020||Nagpur||September begins with record recoveries in Vidarbha, fatality rate still high||Nagpur: The highest ever of 1,820 patients of Covid-19 recovered in a day in Vidarbha region on September 1. This took the total number of recovered patients near to 40,000 mark (39,038) and recovery rate of the region up to 64%. Even though 2,314 new cases were reported, the consistent increase in recoveries in the last six days is a relieving factor for the region. On the other hand, increasing Covid-19 deaths continued to be a major cause of concern. On September 1, Nagpur alone reported 46 deaths, Gondia and Amravati reported 4 deaths each, Akola 2 and Wardha 1. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha is still 2.7%, which is higher than national average of 1.78%. On Tuesday, the 1,820 patients recovered include 1,353 from Nagpur, 129 from Amravati, 99 from Wardha, 94 from Buldhana, 49 from Chandrapur, 32 from Gondia, 28 from Washim, 23 from Akola and 13 from Gadchiroli. The new cases include 1,602 from Nagpur, 216 from Chandrapur, 148 from Amravati, 88 from Buldhana, 81 from Wardha, 62 from Gondia, 58 from Washim, 41 from Akola and 18 from Gadchiroli. Updates from Bhandara and Yavatmal districts were not received on September 1. Now, Vidarbha region has 61,277 cases of Covid-19, with 39,038 of them getting recovered, and 57 deaths. A total of 20,543 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha. AMRAVATI: Four Covid deaths and a spike of 148 cases took the district's toll to 135 and count to 5,898 on Tuesday. A civil surgeon office report said that 129 patients were given discharge on Tuesday, taking the number of recovered patients to 4,417. This left 1,346 active cases, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 315 in home isolation. The deceased included males aged 77, 62 and 70 from Nagpur in Morshi, Pannalal Bagicha and Chhatrasal Nagar here respectively, and a 65-year-old female from Rampuri Camp. The rural belt reported 22 cases today that took its count to 1,712. In city, 13 inmates of central jail were among the 125 who tested positive in city. Chhabada Plot reported six cases while Nawathe Nagar had five. CHANDRAPUR: The district scored a third consecutive double century of Covid-19 on Tuesday even as it is all set to go for a 10-day lockdown from September 3. In all, 216 new patients were detected during the last 24 hours taking the total to 2,763. District collector Ajay Gulhane has sent a proposal to impose a 10-day lockdown to the state government for approval on Tuesday. Health department informed that 49 patients were discharged from hospital during the day taking the number of cured patients to 1,298 in district. There are now 1,436 positive patients being treated at Chandrapur GMCH and Covid care centres. There was no death reported in district during the day and toll remains at 29. Officials claimed that the proposed lockdown will be implemented in two stages. In first stage, there will be complete lockdown in district from September 3 to 8. All the establishment and services including health services will remain closed during the first stage. Even the essential commodities shops like grocery, vegetable etc will remain close. In second stage between September 8 and 12, the essential commodities shops will be allowed to open from 9am to 2pm. District collector has called upon the people to prepare for lockdown and cooperate with the administration. WARDHA: A 58-year-old man of Arvi died due to coronavirus while 81 fresh cases were detected on Tuesday. 65 people were discharged after recovering from Covid-19. The death toll reached 24 in the district while total count of Covid cases reached 1,087. Out of 465 test reports, 81 tested positive. Recovery in district is also satisfactory, 65 patients were discharged and now the total count of recovered patients is 757. 330 are active positive patients in district who are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/september-begins-with-record-recoveries-in-vidarbha-fatality-rate-still-high/articleshow/77878531.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 31, 2020||India||Singhvi’s UK law scholarship to focus on Indians||NEW DELHI: Senior advocate and Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi announced a redesigned law scholarship endowment at his alma mater, Trinity College in Cambridge, for Indian students aspiring to pursue LLM. The ‘Singhvi Trinity Scholarship’ endowment of Rs 2 crore will now focus exclusively on Indian residents. He is also likely to enhance the endowment corpus. “It is important for Indian students to get exposed to international terrain and world-class education so that they can transform themselves into global leaders who can be flag-bearers of India in creating history not only for our nation, but for the world around us,” Singhvi said. The recipient will also be given an opportunity to work in Singhvi’s chamber after successful completion of the LLM course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/singhvis-uk-law-scholarship-to-focus-on-indians/articleshow/77842284.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Goa||Opening of OPDs at Ponda CHC delayed||Ponda: With the ongoing renovation work still in progress, the opening of the old building of Ponda’s community health centre (CHC) is likely to be further delayed. The internal work of the flooring is still pending and could take a couple of days to complete, said a PWD official. After the sub-district hospital in Ponda began operating as a Covid hospital from August 11, the health department authorities decided to reutilise the abandoned building of the old CHC to commence out-patient departments (OPDs). The OPDs were to commence on August 29. Renovation work which is being undertaken by the PWD at a cost Rs 9 lakh, includes cleaning, painting, changing some floor tiles and covering the roof with plastic sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opening-of-opds-at-ponda-chc-delayed/articleshow/77841537.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Final-year exams may be conducted online in October||MUMBAI: Final-year exams are likely to be pushed to October in public universities in the state. The question papers may be in the MCQ (multiple choice questions) format, said sources. While the state government may come out with uniform guidelines for conducting the final exams soon, these were some of the points discussed in a vice-chancellors’ committee meeting held on Sunday. The committee report will be submitted to the government on Monday. Sources in the University of Mumbai said that the most likely the panel would suggest holding the examinations in online mode. Universities may be asked to check the feasibility of the online exam from college principals. The experts may also suggest reducing the weightage of the 100-mark paper while shrinking the exam duration to one hour. “As universities may need time to prepare for the new exam mode, it may not be possible to hold the exam by September 30,” an official said. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant questioned the unlock guidelines of the Centre in a tweet: “How can examinations be held by September 30, if schools and colleges are closed. What exactly should the state governments and students do?” Samant had formed the V-C panel to look at the best options for conducting finalyear exams after the Supreme Court verdict. The court had relaxed the September 30 deadline for states that are unable to hold exams due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The panel comprised vicechancellors from Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nanded and SNDT universities, and two former Mumbai University vice-chancellors and directors of higher and technical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-final-year-exams-may-be-conducted-online-in-october/articleshow/77842287.cms||Yogita Rao
August 31, 2020||Goa||Porvorim mall to submit daily SOP report||Saligao: Candolim primary health centre (PHC) has asked the management of a mall in Porvorim to submit a daily report with regards to standard operating procedures (SOPs).  After nine cases were reported from the mall, a review meeting on SOPs was held and was attended by the managers of 58 stores located in the mall. A decision to shut down the mall from August 29 to September 3 was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorim-mall-to-submit-daily-sop-report/articleshow/77841557.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||Duo who put up ‘Khalistan’ flag at DC office held||BATHINDA/NEW DELHI: Two Punjab youths accused of raising a Khalistani flag atop the Moga deputy commissioner’s office and desecrating the tricolour on August 14 have been arrested by the special cell of Delhi Police. The duo from Rauli in Moga district — identified as Inderjit Singh Gill and Jaspal Singh — was intercepted on GT Karnal Road in Delhi just as they were to leave for Pakistan via Nepal for training, DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said. The youths’ handler had apparently directed them to travel via Delhi and transferred Rs 20,000 to them for the journey. US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, founder of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) forum that is banned in India, had allegedly asked people to hoist Khalistani flags on government buildings and get rewarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/duo-who-put-up-khalistan-flag-at-dc-office-held/articleshow/77842316.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka sees 8,800 new Covid-19 cases; Nalin Kumar Kateel tests positive||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday added 8,852 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 3,35,928. The total deaths touched 5,589 after 106 deaths in the past 24 hours. Among the infected was state BJP unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was admitted to a hospital in Mangaluru after he tested positive. Bengaluru saw 2,821 new cases and 27 deaths on Sunday. The state added 2,02,961 new cases between August 1 and 30, the highest-ever addition in a month. However, in the same period, 1,85,340 discharges, including 7,101 on Sunday, have taken the recovery rate past 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-sees-8800-new-covid-19-cases-nalin-kumar-kateel-tests-positive/articleshow/77842324.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka sees 8,800 new Covid-19 cases; Nalin Kumar Kateel tests positive||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday added 8,852 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 3,35,928. The total deaths touched 5,589 after 106 deaths in the past 24 hours. Among the infected was state BJP unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was admitted to a hospital in Mangaluru after he tested positive. Bengaluru saw 2,821 new cases and 27 deaths on Sunday. The state added 2,02,961 new cases between August 1 and 30, the highest-ever addition in a month. However, in the same period, 1,85,340 discharges, including 7,101 on Sunday, have taken the recovery rate past 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-sees-8800-new-covid-19-cases-nalin-kumar-kateel-tests-positive/articleshow/77842323.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka sees 8,800 new Covid-19 cases; Nalin Kumar Kateel tests positive||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday added 8,852 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 3,35,928. The total deaths touched 5,589 after 106 deaths in the past 24 hours. Among the infected was state BJP unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was admitted to a hospital in Mangaluru after he tested positive. Bengaluru saw 2,821 new cases and 27 deaths on Sunday. The state added 2,02,961 new cases between August 1 and 30, the highest-ever addition in a month. However, in the same period, 1,85,340 discharges, including 7,101 on Sunday, have taken the recovery rate past 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-sees-8800-new-covid-19-cases-nalin-kumar-kateel-tests-positive/articleshow/77842325.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka sees 8,800 new Covid-19 cases; Nalin Kumar Kateel tests positive||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Sunday added 8,852 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 3,35,928. The total deaths touched 5,589 after 106 deaths in the past 24 hours. Among the infected was state BJP unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was admitted to a hospital in Mangaluru after he tested positive. Bengaluru saw 2,821 new cases and 27 deaths on Sunday. The state added 2,02,961 new cases between August 1 and 30, the highest-ever addition in a month. However, in the same period, 1,85,340 discharges, including 7,101 on Sunday, have taken the recovery rate past 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-sees-8800-new-covid-19-cases-nalin-kumar-kateel-tests-positive/articleshow/77842326.cms||---
August 31, 2020||India||‘Less 1% of students faced glitches’||A total of 30,000 candidates had registered for the NATA. The online aptitude test is conducted for admission to five-year B Arch degree programmes offered by 465 institutes. Some aspirants and parents raised questions on social media on the credibility and sanctity of the exam taken from home. Raj Oberoi, registrar, CoA, said one candidate had been found impersonating. “Action was taken immediately. Any kind of unfair means is unacceptable,” Oberoi said. Many students took to social media highlighting the technical glitches. At one of the examination centres in Aligarh, candidates could not take all the questions due to a power cut soon after the test began. Oberoi admitted that there were technical glitches. “Less than 1% of the candidates faced technical issues and that is being looked into by the committee,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/less-1-of-students-faced-glitches/articleshow/77842330.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Metro, pubs, bars gear up to reopen in Karnataka; SOPs on Monday||BENGALURU: With Unlock 4.0 set to relax more Covid-19 curbs from September 1, stakeholders concerned are busy laying the ground for the return to the normal in their respective sectors. The fizz is likely to be back in the pub district of Bengaluru and elsewhere in Karnataka on Day 1 itself, with CM BS Yediyurappa on Sunday according in-principle approval for consumption of alcohol in bar and restaurants. The Unlock 4.0 envisages resumption of Metro services in a graded manner from September 7 and limited academic activities in schools from September 21. Bars and restaurants will be allowed to function subject to reduced seating capacity and maintenance of hall temperature at 24-30 degree Celsius, officials in the know said, adding a detailed advisory to this effect is expected on Monday. The functioning hours are unlikely to change. Schools are looking at staggered timings and specific slots for class 9 to 12 students who will be allowed to come to campus from September 21 for clarification of doubts. The department of public instruction said they will issue a standard operating procedure to get students on campus for these sessions. There is a concern among state board schools over the delay in the announcement of the pared-down syllabus to make good the lost days. Karnataka Textbook Society officials said they have submitted the reduced syllabus to the department and the government is now left to take a decision. Watch Unlock 4.0: Karnataka gear up to bring life back to normal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/metro-pubs-bars-gear-up-to-reopen-in-karnataka-sops-on-monday/articleshow/77842337.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh seeks Centre’s help to pay for Polavaram rehab package||AMARAVATI: The state government has requested the Centre to release funds for Polavaram project and rehabilitation work. With floods inundating many colonies, officials said people from at least 19 villages should be rehabilitated at the earliest. The irrigation department has requested the government to release Rs.2500cr for the first phase of rehabilitation work to be completed by September. Although works on the project is going ahead, the revenue and irrigation officials could not take up rehabilitation works effectively due to shortage of funds. According to sources, the finance department is yet to respond to the irrigation department’s request made in August seeking release of funds on a weekly basis to implement the rehabilitation package, construction of houses for the oustees and acquisition of land under R&R package. Meanwhile, the entire project area, including 15 villages identified to be part of the first phase, was submerged due to the flood in the Godavari. The Godavari witnessed nearly 22 lakh cusecs per day flood flow for almost a week resulting in evacuation of the oustees to safer locations. “We are worried about delay in completion of the rehabilitation works as another round of floods are expected in the next couple of months. We can’t remain silent to the plight of the oustees while targeting the first phase of the project to be completed by next Khariff,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-seeks-centres-help-to-pay-for-polavaram-rehab-package/articleshow/77844886.cms||Samdani MN
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh seeks Centre’s help to pay for Polavaram rehab package||AMARAVATI: The state government has requested the Centre to release funds for Polavaram project and rehabilitation work. With floods inundating many colonies, officials said people from at least 19 villages should be rehabilitated at the earliest. The irrigation department has requested the government to release Rs.2500cr for the first phase of rehabilitation work to be completed by September. Although works on the project is going ahead, the revenue and irrigation officials could not take up rehabilitation works effectively due to shortage of funds. According to sources, the finance department is yet to respond to the irrigation department’s request made in August seeking release of funds on a weekly basis to implement the rehabilitation package, construction of houses for the oustees and acquisition of land under R&R package. Meanwhile, the entire project area, including 15 villages identified to be part of the first phase, was submerged due to the flood in the Godavari. The Godavari witnessed nearly 22 lakh cusecs per day flood flow for almost a week resulting in evacuation of the oustees to safer locations. “We are worried about delay in completion of the rehabilitation works as another round of floods are expected in the next couple of months. We can’t remain silent to the plight of the oustees while targeting the first phase of the project to be completed by next Khariff,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-seeks-centres-help-to-pay-for-polavaram-rehab-package/articleshow/77839100.cms||Samdani MN
August 31, 2020||India||India sees record 10.6L tests in a day, total crosses 4cr||NEW DELHI: India scaled another high by testing over 10.6 lakh samples in a day to detect Covid-19, taking the total tests conducted till Saturday to over 4.1 crore. The exponential jump in testing capacity and the number of tests have resulted in an upsurge in tests per million to 30,044, the health ministry said, underlining the role of aggressive testing in early identification of positive cases and their contacts. The Centre had conceptualised and implemented the care strategy of “test, track and treat”, the ministry said. Due to increased testing, the positivity rate remained at 8.6%, despite a record single-day spike of 78,761 cases on Saturday taking the total Covid-19 tally to 35,42,733 cases. States having a positivity rate less than the national average included Tamil Nadu at 8.1%, Jharkhand at 6.2%, Bihar at 5.4%, Gujarat at 5%, Madhya Pradesh at 4.7%, Punjab at 4.7%, Uttar Pradesh at 4.6% and Rajasthan at 4.2%, the data showed. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 63,498, with 948 people succumbing to it on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-record-10-6l-tests-in-a-day-total-crosses-4cr/articleshow/77842339.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Prakasam SP gets tough on errant cops||Ongole: Prakasam district superintendent of police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal has sent three sub-inspectors to the Vacancy Reserve (VR). The SP shunted out Komorolu police station SHO S Mallikarjuna Rao, Dornala police station SHO Sk Abdul Rehaman and Gudluru police station SHO Y Panduranga Rao to the VR at the headquarters in Mangalagiri.  “The officials were proved guilty of corrupt practices, rude and inappropriate behaviour with the public after an in-depth inquiry from multiple perspectives,” said Kaushal. The SP said there would be no hesitation in booking criminal cases against police personnel if charges against them called for such an action. “We are still investigating the complaints against the officials impartially. We will not hesitate to look into the possibility of criminal action, if necessary, based on the inquiry report,” said Kaushal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prakasam-sp-gets-tough-on-errant-cops/articleshow/77839130.cms||Samdani MN
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada ACP suspended for demanding bribe||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada central assistant commissioner of police (ACP) P Nagarjuna Reddy was suspended on charges of corruption on Sunday by DGP Gautam Sawang. The suspension orders were issued after an internal inquiry confirmed allegations. According to sources, the suspended ACP is accused to have demanded Rs 1 lakh as bribe from a builder after a worker fell off from an under-construction building and died in exchange for not registering a case against him. Unwilling to pay the bribe, the builder lodged a complaint with the DGP office through the helpline number. The DGP took serious note of the complaint and directed Vijayawada commissioner B Srinivasulu to probe the issue. DCP Harshavardan Raju conducted an inquiry and confirmed the allegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-acp-suspended-for-demanding-bribe/articleshow/77839142.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Woman, daughter die after falling off building in AP's Guntur; family cries murder||VIJAYAWADA: A 29-year-old woman and her 9-month-old daughter died after falling off a five-storied building in Guntur on Saturday night. The deceased woman, a software engineer by profession, has been identified as Narra Manogna who used to work in Hyderabad. Following her death, she tested positive for Covid-19. Manogna was married to Kalyanachandra around three years ago. Her husband used to work with the navy on a contractual basis. According to Pattabhipuram police, Manogna was living with her in-laws in an apartment at Lakshmipuram in Guntur town for the last three months. On Saturday, she fell off the building along with her baby daughter. While the 9-month-old Tulasi died on the spot, Manogna passed away while being treated at a private hospital. According to Manogna’s in-laws, she committed suicide along with her baby. However, Manogna’s parents Bachina Ramesh Babu and Vijayalakshmi have expressed doubts over the claim. They suspect that their daughter may have been killed and then thrown off the building. In her complaint, Manogna’s mother Vijayalakshmi has claimed that there were no signs of blood injuries on the bodies even though they fell off the building. She alleged that Manogna had been harassed by her in-laws for additional dowry in the past. She said that her daughter had called her recently and cried over the phone saying that she cannot stay at her in-laws’ place in Guntur. The dispute was settled among elders of the family after which Manogna’s parents returned home, said Vijayalakshmi. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death). Cops said that they are awaiting the post mortem report to ascertain the cause of death. Police further said that if they find any evidence suggesting other causes in course of investigation, the case will be altered according to applicable sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-daughter-die-after-falling-off-building-family-cries-murder/articleshow/77839170.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Vijayawada||BEE calls to speed up ECBC implementation||Vijayawada: The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has asked the energy department to expedite implementation of the mandatory Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC) by issuing fresh orders on the updated ECBC-2017 code. ECBC-2017 is said to be one of the most cost-effective tools to curb energy demand in future and deliver significant savings in energy costs. In a webinar with Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) to review implementation of ECBC, BEE made several suggestions. According to a BEE estimate, there can be a 50% reduction in energy consumption if ECBC-2017 is effectively implemented within the next decade. BEE has requested the municipal administration and the urban development department to take immediate steps to implement ECBC. BEE director general Abhay Bhakre said that the Union ministry of power is very keen on adoption of ECBC-2017 in commercial buildings. Bhakre added that such adoption would translate to energy savings of around 300 billion units by 2030 and a peak demand reduction of over 15GW in a year. This will be equivalent to savings of Rs 35,000 crore and carbon dioxide reduction of 250 million tonnes, the BEE director general said. “The ECBC-2017 is a powerful regulation adopted by the Government of India to encourage transition of buildings to efficient use of energy,” Bhakre added. The ECBC is applicable to any commercial building or complex with plot area of 1,000 square meters or more. Further, buildings such as multiplexes, hospitals and hotels must comply with ECBC irrespective of built-up area. “The building sector in India consumes over 30 per cent of the total electricity consumed in the country annually. The demand may grow aggressively in coming years. We request state governments to strictly implement the ECBC regulation in their respective states,” said the BEE director general.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bee-calls-to-speed-up-ecbc-implementation/articleshow/77839177.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||Demanding road repair, CM’s sister-in-law threatens stir||Dumka: Ruling JMM’s Jama MLA and chief minister Hemant Soren’ sister-in-law, Sita Soren, on Sunday demanded immediate repair and renovation of all dilapidated roads in her constituency and threatened to hit the streets, if her demand is not met. Earlier this week, six people, including two children, were killed in a road mishap on the Dumka-Deoghar road triggering a massive public protest. On Saturday, a person died and another sustained injuries in a separate road accident under Ramgarh police station area. Tweeting to the CM on Sunday, she wrote, “I will have no option but to take to the roads along with the electorates if attention is not given towards proper maintenance of roads in this area.” She also offered shramdaan (voluntary service) to repair the roads if the need arises as the government has currently put a ban on sanctioning of projects and withdrawal of funds from MLALAD funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/demanding-road-repair-cms-sister-in-law-threatens-stir/articleshow/77840130.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||PIB webinar on Jan Dhan scheme||Kolkata: The Press Information Bureau, Kolkata and Field Outreach Bureau, Chuchura organised a webinar titled ‘Benefits of PMJDY and its Impact on Society’ on Saturday. At the webinar, DGM, FI & MM, State Bank of India, Kuhu Ganguly said, “SBI has 1crore 44 lakh Jan Dhan accounts across the state, with more than Rs 4,600 crore balances in them. Out of this 1.89% are zero-balance accounts and Rs 1,80 crore disbursed to women account-holders having average balance of Rs. 3,600.” The webinar was inaugurated by Jane Namchu, additional director general, Eastern Region, Union ministry of information & broadcasting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pib-webinar-on-jan-dhan-scheme/articleshow/77841523.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 14-year-old shot dead as gang fires on crowd||KOLKATA: A 14-year-old boy died after miscreants on bikes opened fire to disperse a crowd gathered during a Muharram Tazia procession at Jagaddal in North 24 Parganas on Saturday evening. A gang member, caught and beaten up, was handed over to police by residents. A manhunt is on for the others involved in the shooting. Abdul Waquar, a Class VIII student of a Bhatpara school and resident of Kankinara’s gali no. 5, was on his way home after offering namaz at a mosque when the shooting happened in gali no. 3 around 9.30pm. Abdul had joined the Tazia taken out in gali no. 3, said local sources.  As many as 10-12 bike-borne youths who entered the lane warned the participants to make way immediately, residents said. “Around 60-70 people were participating in the Tazia. The biker gang threatened locals with dire consequences if they didn’t make way,” said local trader Miyaz Ali. “As some people protested against the threat, the goons whipped out guns and opened fire at least three times. A bullet pierced the boy’s head,” he added. Abdul, bleeding profusely, slumped to the ground. The 14-year-old was rushed to Bhatpara State General Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Some residents chased the bikers and caught one, identified as Rashid Khan. He was beaten up and handed over to police. Abdul’s father Rustam Ansari demanded exemplary punishment for the culprits. “My son, a school student, was returning home after offering namaz. He joined the Tazia taken out on the eve of Muharram near our home. The armed criminals didn’t think twice before shooting my innocent boy. Police should take stern action against all gang members,” a weeping Ansari said while calling for a “police encounter” of the culprits. A manhunt has been launched to nab local criminals, including Saddam, Sattar, Akhtar, Sabbir and Pankaj, said police sources. “A gang member has been arrested and a raid is on to nab others. Nearby police stations such as Bhatpara, Jagaddal, Titagarh, Bijpur and Naihati have been alerted,” said Ajay Thakur, DCP, Zone I, Barrackpore Commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/14-yr-old-boy-shot-as-gang-fires-to-disperse-crowd/articleshow/77841558.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Eden’s new innings: Safe house for Covid-hit Kolkata cops||KOLKATA: The famous ‘Eden Gardens roar’ unthinkable in the current scenario, Kolkata’s iconic cricket stadium — initially planned to be used as a quarantine centre for those who needed isolation after coming in contact with Covid-infected cops — has silently converted itself into a full-time safe house for police personnel. Barely two weeks after beginning a new innings in its new avatar, Eden Gardens is presently home to 13 asymptomatic Covid-positive cops. Two NRS Hospital doctors and medical workers, working in shifts, are monitoring their health after the stadium got designated as the official “attach hospital”. Police sources said they now have also increased the total number of beds in the facility: from the proposed 50, it now stands at 75. “Kolkata Police has had a very good recovery rate. Out of the 1,788 personnel who have recovered out of 1,917 cases reported till Friday, almost 70% have rejoined work. But we saw that many of our personnel could not isolate themselves at home due to multiple reasons. There was also the threat of the relatives of these infected personnel getting infected, as was observed in a few cases earlier last month. Thus, once we got the go-ahead from Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) and the Army, we knew we had to build a safe home,” explained a senior officer from the Welfare Cell. The patients, said sources, have been admitted in the blocks close to the state assembly, covering blocks E and F for now. “We have also allowed them to use our mini hospital area in F Block, which would be used by the doctors who would be monitoring those under quarantine,” the CAB had announced. “With the mini-hospital backup, these 13 patients are receiving as good a treatment as those who are admitted at the various hospitals,” said an officer. Eden Gardens, the first stadium to host a cricket World Cup final outside England and the venue of India’s first day-night Test, has become the first stadium of its stature in the country to be converted into a safe house. The space allotted so far can easily accommodate 1,000 people and the required medical infrastructure plus a makeshift kitchen, said CAB office-bearers. Kolkata Police has been desperately hunting for a large quarantine facility for over two months after the 120 beds reserved at Howrah’s Dumurjola stadium were filled up. An attempt to convert the outpost at Rabindra Sarobar into a quarantine facility failed, following objections from morning-walkers. Lalbazar officials then turned to Eden Gardens and wrote to the CAB, seeking to convert a section of the stadium into a makeshift quarantine centre for police personnel “with immediate effect”. Work under some of the galleries started on a war footing and beds were set up by the end of last month. It took another fortnight to get the other necessary logistics in place. The Club House and some other blocks used for administrative work and indoor sporting activities will not be used, CAB officials had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/edens-new-innings-safe-house-for-covid-hit-cops/articleshow/77841849.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal seeks clarity on Unlock 4.0 guidelines||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Sunday sought clarity from the Centre regarding the imposition of total lockdowns in the state, a day after the latter made it mandatory for states to consult it in order to impose such lockdowns beyond containment zones under Unlock 4.0. Bengal has declared total state-wide lockdowns on September 7, 11 and 12. The revised guidelines, however, will not come in the way of the August 31 total state-wide lockdown. On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the three September lockdowns after a state cabinet meeting, indicating the state would “review the situation” before September 20 and decide whether to extend the complete lockdowns for the whole of September. The Covid advisory committee had advised the state on the need to continue with the total lockdown format in Bengal, which is also been done in other high-Covid prevalence states, to “break the chain of infection”. Banerjee had also indicated that the cabinet had considered September 3 and 4 as total lockdown days but decided against it over the continuing uncertainty over JEE (Mains) scheduled between September 1 and 6. Bengal has 37,973 JEE candidates. Senior officials indicated that the Centre had been informed that the total lockdowns in Bengal had helped control the disease spread. While the state has reported 87,008 new Covid cases in the period between August 1 and August 30, active Covid cases increased by only 5,026 in the same period. The state’s discharge rate of 81.9% is also higher than the national rate of 76.6%. In August, Bengal’s Covid fatality rate also dropped below 2% for the first time, recording 1.9% on Sunday. On August 1, it was 2.2%. “There is a need to continue with the total lockdowns,” a senior official said, adding, “The state’s July 30 lockdown circular, detailing the exemptions, ends on August 31 and has to be reissued latest by Monday.” Senior officials indicated that the Centre’s clarification was also needed for the advisory that says, “There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements.” The state wants to understand whether this extended to all modes of travel, even trains and flights. Bengal has proposed a three-day-week flight schedule from six hotspot cities and allows only special trains. The state has also sought clarity on the issue of granting permission for functions and gatherings from September 21 with a cap of 100 persons. According to the order, from September 21, the Centre has permitted all gatherings — social, academic, sports, cultural, entertainment, religious, political functions and congregations — with not more than 100 persons. “This needs to be more specific,” an official said. “Bengal has allowed social functions with only 50 guests. For example, several examinations are being held with more than 100 candidates. There also needs to be a clarification on indoor and outdoor activities for sports, cultural and entertainment events. To what extent can the state regulate these?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-seeks-clarity-on-unlock-4-0-guidelines/articleshow/77841768.cms||Saibal Gupta
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||Rapid antigen test camps in East Singhbhum today||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum administration will conduct rapid antigen testing camps on Monday to detect Covid-19 patients. Health department sources said on Sunday that they have set a target to conduct the tests on at least 7,500 people. The sources added that the camps would be set up in different areas like Birsanagar Zone No. 1, Mango, Lion’s Club office, Baliguma, Roopnagar in Sonari, Ramzamnagar in Kadma, Bagunhatu, Laxminagar, Birsanagar Zone No. 5, Govindpur and Sidhgora. Notably, mass rapid testing camps were organized on August 18 and 19. That time, the target was to test 10,000 people in the district. Altogether 86 teams had taken part in the camps. On August 18, samples of 8,429 people were tested, followed by 815 on August 19. A total of 438 persons tested positive for Covid-19 at the camps last time around. The department said they have plans to conduct more such camps in future. Meanwhile, the state-run MGMMCH in Jamshedpur received 16 ventilators. The ventilators would be installed at the ICU, Covid and Emergency wards. The information was shared by hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rapid-antigen-test-camps-in-east-singhbhum-today/articleshow/77839975.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||JD(U) wants to contest bypolls in alliance with BJP||Jamshedpur: The state unit of Janata Dal (United) (JD-U) on Sunday expressed its interest to contest in the upcoming by-polls in Dumka and Bermo assembly constituencies in alliance with the BJP. State party president Salkhan Mumru said BJP — with whom it shares an alliance in the neighbouring state of Bihar — should accommodate JD(U) in one of the two seats. “BJP should contest from one seat and let JD(U) contest from the other,” Murmu told TOI. When asked, Murmu said the state unit has apprised JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar and the state party in-charge, Arun Kumar, about the party’s keenness to fight the by-polls in alliance with the BJP. Calling for the reorganisation of the BJP-JD(U) alliance in the state, Murmu said that if the two NDA partners fight the by-polls together then it would have a positive impact on the Bihar electorate where the assembly polls are scheduled to be held this year. “Under the able leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar, NDA is going to perform well in the assembly polls in Bihar but in the run up to election, BJP and JD(U) should come together in Jharkhand as it would help in strengthening the alliance and it will can take lead over the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance,” said the former MP. Murmu added, “The 50-50 partnership in seat sharing for the by-election could be a good model for the two parties to contest the upcoming municipal election and the panchayat polls in Jharkhand.” He feels that the saffron party could lose the by-poll if it fights alone in Dumka and in Bermo. Both the parties fought the assembly polls in Jharkhand last year separately. While JD(U) did not win a single seat, BJP won 25 out of the 79 seats it contested from. The Dumka assembly seat fell vacant after Hemant Soren decided to keep the Barhait seat after winning both the seats in last year’s assembly polls. While the Bermo seat fell vacant after sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Singh died in May this year after a prolonged illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jdu-wants-to-contest-bypolls-in-alliance-with-bjp/articleshow/77840105.cms||B Sridhar
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Naga Armed battalion withdrawn from Purulia||Purulia: India Reserve Battalion’s 14th Nagaland Armed Police Battalion is being withdrawn from Purulia, part of the erstwhile Red bastion. The withdrawal, the local administration feels, will expose strategic locations to renewed Maoist threat. However, it has been decided that state armed police battalions will take charge of six units till four companies of CRPF take charge. The Ayodhya Hills and its surroundings, where these units are located, were the hotbed of Maoist activities till 2010. The 30-member Ayodhya platoon of Maoists was a dangerous force. Three key members of the platoon are still absconding and may regroup into a new force. Naga Armed Force, which has expertise in jungle warfare, was engaged in two successive encounters in Ayodhya Hills, in which many Maoists were killed. After that, most leaders surrendered and many fled to other states. The Ayodhya Hills forest area is part of the contiguous Jangalmahal where Maoists campaigned against the state administrative machinery and brought large parts of land under their control. Commanding officer of 14th Naga Armed Police Battalion Mondko Yanchu said, “We have long been associated with the joy and sorrow of the villagers. These people are very simple, honest and straightforward. Our stay with them will always be cherished with a lot of fondness.” The camps were located strategically at EPSP and hill top (Baghmundi police station) Pathor Bandh and Kumari Kanon (Balarampur police station), Sirkabad (Arsa police station) and Morguma (Kotsila police station area). “It was decided that two companies of CRPF personnel will take over in the first phase and two more in the second phase,” said CRPF inspector-general Pradeep Kumar Singh, The first two companies on their way from Kashmir got stuck in a landslide. They will arrive a little later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/naga-armed-battalion-withdrawn-from-purulia/articleshow/77841573.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip to raise Prez rule issue with Nadda||Kolkata: A day after Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya sought holding of the 2021 assembly elections under President’s Rule, state president Dilip Ghosh said he will raise the issue with party national president J P Nadda. Ghosh will reach Delhi before Parliament’s monsoon session and meet Nadda within a fortnight. “We have long been complaining about the decadent law and order situation in the state. Our workers are being killed. This cannot be a democratic process and it is difficult to have free and fair polls under these circumstances. We need to have either President’s Rule or the entire poll process being conducted under the watch of central forces,” Ghosh said. State tourism minister Goutam Deb said in 2021, it will be clear that the entire population in the state is with Mamata Banerjee. “It is not a question of 30%, but the entire population will stand by Mamata Banerjee during the 2021 polls,” he said. “On September 4, BJP will agitate in front of BDO offices in each district demanding rule of law in the state and an end to corruption,” said Sayantan Basu, general secretary of state BJP. Former MP Anupam Hazra was inducted as vice president of BJP’s Yuva Morcha on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-to-raise-prez-rule-issue-with-nadda/articleshow/77841578.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Ranchi||Mithilesh donates plasma for Covid treatment of Ghatshila elderly||Ranchi: Over a month after being discharged from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur returned to the hospital to donate his plasma for Covid treatment. Talking to TOI after donating the plasma, which will be used for a 60-year-old patient from Ghatshila admitted at Medanta Hospital, Thakur said, “I was in post recovery quarantine when I got to know that chief minister Hemant Soren will launch plasma therapy at Rims and as I had recovered by then, I wanted to be the first plasma donor, but I couldn’t as I hadn’t fulfilled the criteria of mandatory quarantine of 14 days post recovery.” Thakur was admitted to Rims on the night of July 7 after he tested positive for the virus. He was discharged from the hospital on July 21. Urging recovered Covid patients to come forward in large numbers and donate their plasma, Thakur said, “I am grateful that I had the opportunity to save a life. I would call upon all my brothers and sisters who have recovered to donate plasma and help others.” According to hospital sources, Thakur had himself contacted the district administration officials and expressed his desire to donate plasma as he has a rare blood group. “Soon after we were informed that Mithileshji wanted to donate his plasma, we immediately arranged for his samples and got his pathological tests done after which he was declared fit for donation,” said Sanjay Pandey, Ranchi’s nodal officer for plasma donation. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, who was present during the donation, said Thakur’s donation will inspire many recovered patients and bust myths about donation. “He is a role model for us and we will again request him to donate if the need arises.” Ranjan said the district administration will launch a dedicated web portal to promote plasma therapy from where people can make requisitions as well as enrol for plasma donation. The portal will be launched in a day or two, he informed. Meanwhile, Rims, which was facing difficulty in plasma donation due to availability of a single Aphresis machine used for plasma separation, received a new machine which will be functional in another couple of days. Associate professor and blood bank in-charge Dr Sushma said, “Earlier we used to separate plasma as well as platelets for patients of dengue and other diseases and it was becoming difficult for us to cater to the high demand. With the new machine, we will be able to separate more plasma and it will help us in providing them to patients at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mithilesh-donates-plasma-for-covid-treatment-of-ghatshila-elderly/articleshow/77839996.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 31, 2020||Kolkata||HC pause ontraining course for med students||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government not to start the six-month training course on “Fundamentals in Abdomino-Pelvic Ultrasonography” for MBBS students for a week after the Centre told the court that it has not given permission for such a course. The HC is hearing a case in which medical students have claimed that this is a three-year post-graduate course specialisation for MBBS passouts and such certificate courses will rob their post-graduate degrees of their value. Justice Shampa Sarkar said in her order: “Radiology is a vast subject and highly technical. Whether a certificate course of this nature could be equated with an MD degree needs consideration.” The HC then directed the state “to keep the admission fees so far collected from candidates who have applied for the course in a separate bank account”. The court is likely to hear the case again on September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-pause-ontraining-course-for-med-students/articleshow/77841554.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Bengaluru||PM Narendra Modi praises Karnataka's Koppal toy-making initiative||BENGALURU: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised Karnataka’s efforts in creating a toy manufacturing cluster in Koppal. He mentioned it during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address, a section of which focused on the need to popularise Indian toys and games. The Koppal cluster was an initiative of the previous coalition government of Congress-JD(S), and it was one of nine proposed by then chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. The other eight are struggling to attract investors. After Modi’s address, chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted: “In line with PM @narendramodi ‘s vision of #VocalForLocal & boosting toy manufacturing, Koppala will have India’s first toy manufacturing cluster. With the ecosystem to support the toy cluster in place, this 400-acre SEZ will have top-class infra & generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years.” Modi also wrote on Twitter: “Happy to see the states responding enthusiastically to the clarion call of making India a toy production hub.” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and others have also lauded the Koppal initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pm-narendra-modi-praises-karnatakas-koppal-toy-making-initiative/articleshow/77842398.cms||---
August 31, 2020||Delhi||11-year-old's head severed as car topples 3 times in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An 11-year-old boy's head got severed when the car he was travelling in toppled multiple times in Dwarka Sector 22. The boy, Mayank, was sitting next to his father who was driving the car. The Swift Dzire car hit the divider on Thursday night when it was being driven at a high speed, locals said. The victim's mother and grandmother, along with his six-year-old younger sister, were sitting at the back. Police said Sujeet Kumar (35) was returning home at Pochanpur in Dwarka from a relative's house with his mother, wife, and two children. "I was talking on the mobile phone when I heard a loud sound. The boy's head was thrown out of the window and landed on the road. I stood numb for some time," said a local. "Kumar was driving the car while Mayank was sitting next to him. According to locals, the car was at a high speed. It hit the divider and toppled at least three times and then stopped. Due to the impact and for sitting close to the window, Mayank's head was severed. He died on the spot," said a senior police officer. The other family members were taken to hospital where they were given first aid and discharged. Kumar received injuries on his hand, the officer said. No case has been registered but inquest proceedings have been initiated. Watch Delhi: 11-year-old's head severed as car topples multiple times||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11-year-olds-head-severed-as-car-topples-3-times-in-delhi/articleshow/77842412.cms||---
