01-07-2020||India||Terrorist attack kills civilian, his 3-yr-old grandson saved||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) trooper and a civilian were killed in a terrorist attack on security forces in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Wednesday, officials said.The three-year-old grandson of the deceased civilian was rescued by security forces, according to officials. A photograph of him sitting on the lifeless body of his grandfather was widely shared on social media. The Jammu and Kashmir Police later shared on its official Twitter handle a picture of the child being carried by a security official.Terrorists hiding in the attic of a mosque fired at CRPF personnel when they were getting off a bus around 7:30am, a spokesperson of the paramilitary force said. CRPF personnel retaliated, but the terrorists managed to escape. It was not immediately clear how many terrorists were holed up inside the mosque.CRPF head constable Deep Chand suffered bullet injuries and died in the attack. Three others were wounded and admitted to a hospital.The civilian, a 65-year-old resident of Srinagar, was passing by in his car with his three-year-old grandson when the attack began. Sopore, known for its apple orchards, is 50km from Srinagar.His family accused CRPF of killing him, a charge dismissed by security forces as “false news” spread by miscreants. In a video, the man’s son said his father left home for some work early in the morning, and alleged that he was “brought down from his vehicle and fired upon”.Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police, Kashmir Range, said the terrorists fired indiscriminately at CRPF personnel when they were de-boarding a bus. Panicked, the civilian rushed out of his vehicle with the child and tried to escape, but he was killed by a bullet.“Later, miscreants spread false news. Even his son, due to the fear of militants and the miscreants, released a video, which is completely baseless,” Kumar said. He added that securitymen rescued the child without caring for their lives. The Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, led by Altaf Bukhari, demanded an impartial probe into the killing. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), too, demanded a time-bound probe.Every incident becomes a “propaganda tool in the bloody violence in Kashmir”, former chief minister Omar Abdullah said.“A three year old toddler has to have his misery broadcast to the whole world to drive home the ‘we good they bad’ message. We would have got the point without his misery being filmed and shared so please don’t,” he said on Twitter. “We would have expected no less from the men in uniform than to rescue the young boy and for that they have our gratitude but we would expect better than for them to film & use a three year old’s pain the way it’s being done today,” he added.Meanwhile, in the Jammu division, the Indian Army foiled an intrusion bid and killed a suspected Pakistani terrorist along the Line of Control (LoC). “We acted on the basis of specific intelligence inputs from J&K Police, and a joint operation was launched close to the LoC in Keri area of Bhimber Gali sector in Jammu division’s Rajouri district,” said Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand, spokesperson, Indian Army.“Terrorists were seen crossing the LoC. Our alert troops foiled the infiltration bid. One terrorist was killed and an AK-47 rifle and two magazines were recovered...,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-attack-kills-civilian-his-3-yr-old-grandson-saved/story-UmmeQrwSUYsqoWEMdes54J.html
01-07-2020||India||HC notice to Centre on plea over e-tailers||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the Centre’s response to a plea seeking that directions be issued to e-commerce platforms to ensure that products they sell display the name of the manufacturing country. The plea, filed by advocate Amit Shukla, seeks implementation of the Legal Metrology Act 2009 and the rules framed under it , specifically clause 3.2 (ii) of the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011, which mandates that name of the country of origin be displayed on products being sold. The petition contended that this was not being enforced with respect to e-commerce entities.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre and e-commerce platforms, including Amazon India, the WalMart-owned Flipkart and Snapdeal, seeking their responses by July 22.HT reported last week that the Centre is considering making it mandatory for retailers and e-commerce platforms to display the country of origin on every product sold on e-commerce websites, so that consumers could choose between local and imported goods. The move comes at a time when Prime Minister has pushed for an “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India), and asked citizens to be “vocal on local” as a way to help revive the local economy; and amid heightened tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh that have prompted a sharp Indian response on the economic front.In his plea, submitted before the court, Shukla contended: “ Today, when a large number of Indian citizens intend to comply with the government’s appeal on promoting and buying Indian goods to strengthen the nation, it becomes essential that the e-commerce websites conspicuously display the country of manufacturing/origin for all products sold through e-commerce platform.”On Wednesday, the petitioner told the court that if someone wants to buy only products made in India, the option should be available on websites. He also contended that in 2017, the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 were amended, making it mandatory to publish the country of origin. “ However no compliance of the rule has been made by the companies,” he said.The notice to the Centre was accepted by government’s standing counsel Ajay Digpaul on behalf of the Union ministry of consumer affairs.The matter will be now heard on July 22.Snapdeal did not respond to the queries. Both Amazon and Flipkart did not respond to repeated calls and texts. On June 24, the commerce ministry held a stakeholders’ meeting on ways to enforce explicit labelling of goods with their respective countries of origin after it was made mandatory for products sold on the state-run trading platform Government e-Marketplace (GeM).The same day, Bloomberg reported that Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc.’s Flipkart agreed to compel merchants to start prominently displaying “country of origin“ for all goods sold online in India.Apar Gupta, advocate and executive director of Internet Freedom Foundation, says that generally the names of the country are mentioned on the products. “If there is valid legislative framework which is in place and not being followed then the court can issue direction on the implementation of the law or rule. However, if no such legislature exists then the parliamentarians should look into the matter and the courts cannot pass any direction because it is a policy decision, Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-over-e-tailers/story-CzpaiUDCXctpEkpmzw7RQO.html
01-07-2020||India||PM Modi exits Weibo account, posts taken down||Beijing: Prime Minister Narendra Modi exited his Weibo account on Wednesday, a day after India banned 59 Chinese apps, and with the armies of the two countries facing off along the de factor border after a skirmish in Eastern Ladakh on June 15 left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers dead. “The message is loud and clear. If red lines are crossed, there will be consequences, “ the BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya said on Twitter, a micro-blooging platform after which Weibo is modelled. All 115 posts on Modi’s Weibo profile have been taken down, as has been his profile photograph. The removal of all information from Modi’s Weibo account comes 10 days after at least three official Indian statements – including the PM’s – were deleted from the Indian embassy’s official account on the popular Chinese social media app, WeChat.“We are taking action to unsubscribe the account,” an Indian embassy official told HT.Modi’s Weibo account was set up in 2015 amid much fanfare and publicity before his first visit to China as prime minister.Since then the account has built 244,000 followers, many of them Chinese.Since 2015, but barring this year, Modi has wished President Xi Jinping ahead of his birthday on June 15. He also published messages on Sino-India ties especially after meetings with Xi.Modi’s posts on Weibo were in Chinese.The Hindustan Times has reached out to the Chinese foreign ministry for a comment on this development.Modi’s abrupt departure from Weibo account and removal of the Indian government’s posts on Chinese social media come in the backdrop of the violent face-off, and ongoing tension, between Indian and Chinese troops. The Chinese government has so far not revealed the casualties suffered by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) although China has admitted to international diplomats that it did suffer casualties. .On June 20, an India’s external affairs ministry (MEA) statement about the Indian position on the ongoing border tension with China was mysteriously deleted from the embassy’s official Weibo account a day before the WeChat posts were deleted.Tencent, a leading Chinese tech company that owns WeChat, didn’t respond to HT’s questions on the taking down of Indian government’s official statements.The message that popped up on WeChat when clicking the MEA’s statement on the Galwan Valley clash said: “This content was reported and confirmed by the platform of the following:” before it says in Mandarin: “Suspected of violating relevant laws, regulations and policies”.The long list of regulations include: “endangers national security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power, or undermines national unity, inciting hatred, disseminating false information, inciting illegal assembly, demonstration or gathering of people to disturb public order”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-exits-weibo-account-posts-taken-down/story-YYCAqWvAaJ1Ryzogwk9FuO.html
01-07-2020||India||India, China talks focus on expeditious de-escalation||Indian and Chinese armies stressed the need for an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority” during a marathon meeting between senior military commanders at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday.But the disengagement process will be “complex” even though the military discussions “reflected the commitment” of both sides to reduce tensions, the people added on condition of anonymity.The June 30 meeting focused on issues related to “disengagement at the face-off sites” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) and “de-escalation from the border areas”, according to one of the people cited above.“More meetings are expected at the military and the diplomatic level to arrive at a mutually-agreeable solution and to ensure peace and tranquility along the LAC as per bilateral agreements and protocols,” a second person said.This was the third meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region; and the second after the brutal clash at Galwan Valley on June 15 that left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead. There was no official statement from Indian Army on Tuesday’s Chushul talks.But the people indicated that disengagement is expected to kick off with rival troops pulling back a few hundred metres from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides. India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region.Experts said that the Indian Army must follow a cautious approach during the disengagement process as the continuing Chinese buildup calls into question the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) intent to restore status quo ante (the status in early April in this case) in strategic areas.“It appears the talks have led to some partial forward movement. But the reliability of the Chinese remains suspect, given their track record in the area. The army will verify if the Chinese are retreating from face-off points at each stage every 72 hours. Disengagement will have to be followed by de-escalation and de-induction of troops and equipment from the region,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander.The Indian side on Tuesday reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.“Both sides have emphasised the need for an expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation as a priority. This is in keeping with the agreement between the external affairs minister and his Chinese counterpart during their conversation on June 17 that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and that both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely,” the second person said.The two senior officers first met on June 6 to ease growing tensions along the LAC. But the limited military disengagement that began in some areas after the first meeting was derailed after the bloodshed in Galwan Valley.The delegations led by the corps commander-ranked officers last met on June 22 when they hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border. However, the “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” has neither enabled any disengagement on the ground nor led to the thinning of military build-up by rival forces in the region”, Hindustan Times reported last Wednesday.“The June 30 meeting was held in a businesslike manner keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols. The discussions reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce the tensions along the LAC. The process of disengagement along the LAC is complex and in such a context, speculative and unsubstantiated reports need to be avoided,” said the first person.India is especially concerned about the People’s Liberation Army holding positions in the Finger Area where it has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts in areas New Delhi considers its territory. Chinese buildup has also been seen in the Depsang sector, the Galwan Valley, and the Gogra Post-Hot Springs region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-talks-focus-on-expeditious-de-escalation/story-4IyG7lBZqmL2aTUcBg5hBK.html
01-07-2020||India||BSNL cancels 4G tender after govt nudge on China||The department of telecommunications (DoT) has scrapped a tender worth Rs 7000-8000 crore for the acquisition of network equipment to upgrade state-run telco BSNL’s 4G services, and is in the process of working out details of a new tender that could ensure the business does not go to Chinese equipment makers, a DoT official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The move comes against the backdrop of increased tensions with China following deadly clashes along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh on June 15, after which India began reviewing involvement of Chinese companies in crucial areas. Shortly after, the Union government asked the two state-run telecommunications operators, BSNL and MTNL, to not use equipment from Chinese manufacturers. On Monday, the government separately banned 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications.  According to the DoT official, the new process may allow only domestic manufacturers, possibly cutting out Chinese majors such as Huawei and ZTE that at present dominate the telecom hardware market.“However, any decision will only be taken after the committee’s report is submitted,” said the official , referring to a committee set up last month to review the tender. While the Chinese telecom equipment makers are privately owned, there’s widespread belief that they have deep ties with the state. The six-member committee is headed by DoT technology advisor K Ramchand and has representatives from BSNL and MTNL, two independent experts and another representative from the industry.The fresh tender will be “futuristic” and with “realistic” expectations, officials earlier told HT.The move is part of the DoT push to reduce the reliance of India’s telecom sector on foreign equipment and increase domestic manufacturing. According to experts, nearly 75% of the telecom equipment is sourced from China. Other major foreign players include Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung.  DoT is also in the process of starting trials for 5G telecommunications, a process in which Huawei was slated to take part amid concerns by countries such as the United States. According to the official cited above, no decision has yet been taken on when the 5G trials will take place.Separately, DoT is also in consultation with private telecom service providers to encourage the use of equipment manufactured in India.According to former DoT technology advisor RK Bhatnagar, the department in February , issued a memorandum that said India is liable to take reciprocal action against any country that does not provide market access. “Although it wasn’t explicitly stated, the context was China,” Bhatnagar said. “Whether DoT explicitly states it in the fresh tender or not, it is unlikely procurement from Chinese firms will be allowed.”Bhatnagar added that the Federal Communications Commission, US, has designated Huawei and ZTE as a “national security risk”. He also said that during a national crisis the government also has the right to take over any network, even private ones. “There is no mandatory testing of equipment that is procured,” said Bhatnagar. “Right now, the situation with China is tense but if it escalates they could use the equipment and sabotage us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-cancels-4g-tender-after-govt-nudge-on-china/story-pbeno5MGHwACTOhHiiWLsI.html
01-07-2020||India||300 frontline workers in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19 in last 3 months||More than 300 frontline including policemen, nurses, ASHA workers, doctors, anganwadi workers and sanitary staff in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last 3 months making the battle looking increasingly grim for the state, officials said.Of the 300 who have tested positive, more than 200 are from the Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district where close to 1500 cases have been detected so far. Most of the frontline warriors in Ganjam are ASHA workers, ANMs, anganwadi workers and local sarpanch who are either in charge of quarantine centres populated by migrant workers or take swabs of people who show symptoms of Covid-19. On June 30, at least 43 such corona warriors in Ganjam tested positive for Covid-19.Similarly, in Khurda district about 65 such people including 44 employees of a private nursing home tested positive this month. Among the 65, are 7 doctors in AIIMS Bhubaneswar.Cuttack is among the other districts where more and more corona warriors are getting infected. In Cuttack, a police station was sealed after the inspector and the sub divisional police officer were infected along with several other police officials.“It’s a matter of concern for us as they are the ones who are spearheading the fight against the pandemic. In Ganjam, a BDO, tehsildar, several sarpanch, doctors and nurses have been infected over the last 2 months. We have taken several steps including enforcing shutdowns to ensure our warriors don’t get infected, but it is becoming difficult. Unless people adhere to social distancing norms and wear masks, the spread will continue,” said Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrit Kulange.Doctors and nurses who run the biggest risk of getting infected, say there is not enough PPEs for them in non-Covid wards of hospitals where an asymptomatic patient can infect them. “Unless regular supply of PPEs is ensured, it’s a matter of time before every doctor gets infected,” said a doctor at a medical college and hospital. Similarly, ASHA workers and anganwadi workers say they don’t get adequate number of PPEs while collecting swabs or visiting the quarantine centres in villages. “The government has said the next of kin of frontline health workers like ASHA workers and anganwadi workers will get Rs 50 lakh if they die due to Covid-19. The government can simply prevent our death by providing us with enough PPEs,” said Basant Kumar Sahu of Odisha Rajya ASHA Sathi Sangh.Odisha health department officials said a separate database of such workers as well as members of local Panchayati Raj bodies are being kept ready in each district for regular monitoring by the department. “The monitoring team will contact with the hospitals to ensure special attention in treatment. The team will contact family members to assure and update on the patient’s status,” said state health secretary PK Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-frontline-workers-in-odisha-have-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-last-3-months/story-b82LXKmhuHI6NvtjhUdxxI.html
01-07-2020||India||SC rejects bail plea by Covid positive 1984 riots convict||New Delhi: A convict who has contracted Covid and is in hospital cannot get any special treatment or favours, the Supreme Court observed on Wednesday while rejecting the plea for interim bail by ex-councillor Mahender Singh Yadav, a co-convict in 1984 anti-Sikh riots.Yadav, who has contracted Covid and is currently in intensive care unit (ICU) of Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi, argued that his relatives are not being allowed to visit him at the hospital and he should be granted interim bail so as to enable his family members to take suitable steps in view of his deteriorating health.“If a person is in ICU, nobody can visit him. The petitioner cannot be given differential treatment because he is under detention,” the bench headed by justice Indira Banerjee remarked.Yadav was sentenced to three years imprisonment by the trial court in 2013 for his role in the 1984 anti-sikh riots in Delhi in which more than 2,700 sikh persons were massacred in the aftermath of the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi by her bodyguards.Yadav was convicted for the offence of rioting by the trial court and sentenced to three years in jail. The conviction and sentence was upheld by the Delhi high court in December 2018.Yadav, who tested positive for Covid-19 on June 26, pointed out that one of the 29 inmates with whom he was sharing barracks at the Mandoli jail in Delhi passed away due to the coronavirus disease. Seventeen of the remaining inmates were found to be Covid positive, he added.Yadav also cited his advanced age (more than 70 years) and diabetes and kidney ailments as grounds to seek bail.“The petitioner cannot even walk properly without support and doctor has suggested replacement of both knees. He is also suffering from acute diabetes and other kidney problems,” the plea said. Senior counsel R Basant, appearing for Yadav, submitted that even at the hospital two constables are posted out of his ward and relatives are not allowed to visit him.Additional solicitor general KM Nataraj appearing for the government submitted that all the patients are given equal treatment and there is no discrimination meted out to the petitioner or the members of his family on the ground that he is a convict.The bench, which also comprised justice BR Gavai, noted that there was no specific suggestion forthcoming from Yadav as to what steps his family intended to take if Yadav was released on bail. “There is no offer from the family to shift the petitioner to any other hospital. There is not even a whisper in the petition that any differential treatment is meted to the patient or to his relatives on the ground of incarceration of the petitioner,” the court said while dismissing the plea.The Supreme Court had, on May 13, rejected the plea for interim bail filed by former Congress MP and a prominent convict in the 1984 riots cases, Sajjan Kumar. Kumar had also sought interim bail on health grounds but the court turned down the plea stating that Kumar did not require immediate hospitalisation as per the medical report submitted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-bail-plea-by-covid-positive-1984-riots-convict/story-1zVuOCj7r8raz4L8WWRzIL.html
01-07-2020||India||Prasar Bharati sets up its own recruitment board||Prasar Bharati on Wednesday established its first recruitment board for appointing persons to posts carrying a scale of pay less than that of a Joint Secretary to the government of India.This is the first time India’s public service broadcaster has got its own recruitment board after it was set up as an autonomous body in 1997 under the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Act, 1990.Jagdish Upasane, Director, Bharat Prakashan, has been named as the chairperson of the recruitment board.Joint Secretary (B-II), Information and Broadcasting Ministry will be an ex-officio member of the board. The board will have four other members -- Deepa Chandra, Retired ADG (Prog), Prasar Bharati; PN Bhakta, Retired ADG (Engg), Prasar Bharati; Kimbuong Kipgen, Secretary, Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB); Chetan Prakash Jain, GM (HR), Rail Vikas Nigam Limited.The chairperson and members, other than ex-officio members, shall be entitled to a sitting fees, which will be notified in due course, but shall not be entitled to any salary or remuneration, the order on setting up of the recruitment board said. Prasar Bharati comprises All India Radio and Doordarshan Television Network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-sets-up-its-own-recruitment-board/story-zhsHvgFPCrsvMZxW4pInFK.html
01-07-2020||India||In-laws in Muzaffarnagar beat woman to death over dowry||A woman was allegedly beaten to death on Wednesday by her in-laws in Budhana town of the district over dowry, police said.They said Shaziya’s husband Sameer has been arrested, while other accused members of his family are absconding.According to an FIR lodged by Shaziya’s father Amir Ahmad, her ln-laws had been harassing her for more dowry and they allegedly beat her to death on Wednesday.The victim’s family staged a protest by keeping her body outside the SSP office, demanding strict action against the accused.They dispersed after the police spoke to them and assured action.The body has been sent for postmortem, police said, adding they are searching for the remaining accused.In another case, a man shot at his 30-year-old married sister, named Priya, after some arguments, police said, adding she has been hospitalised in critical condition. According to an FIR lodged with the police, Bunty (26) went to his sister’s house at Bhopa village on Wednesday when they had some arguments over some issue.The FIR said that Bunty opened fire, leaving Priya injured.Bunty has been booked for attempt to murder, they said, adding he is absconding, and that an investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-laws-in-muzaffarnagar-beat-woman-to-death-over-dowry/story-eXqRkuFEfnIBe4idAf5yfL.html
01-07-2020||India||BJP lauds CM Mamata for anti-China stand, says she stands with Centre on national security||Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may be fighting for every inch of political ground in the poll-bound state but Mamata Banerjee is drawing appreciation from the opposition for taking a strong stand against China. The Bengal chief minister, while attending the June 19 all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi convened to discuss the Ladakh crisis, said her government firmly stands by the Centre.While addressing an online rally from Delhi on June 28, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman virtually lambasted the TMC government but lauded Banerjee on one issue. “Over the past one year, the Bengal chief minister has vehemently opposed all development schemes of the Centre. But there is one thing I want to say in her support and appreciation. When the Prime Minister called the all-party meeting on the Ladakh issue, our Didi (Banerjee) at least spoke for our country and in support of the Central government,” said Sitharaman.The video of Sitharaman’s speech is embedded in the BJP Bengal unit’s Facebook page, the cover photo of which carries the slogan “Aar noi Mamata” in bold letters.On Tuesday afternoon, Banerjee went a step ahead and said, “To ban some apps will not be enough. We have to give China a befitting reply. How we do it, that we have to decide.”Interestingly, state forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who is known to be close to the chief minister, has sung in Hindi to pay homage to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on the night of June 15. The song, ‘Hindustan Meri Jaan’, has been made into a music video which was released on June 23. The video features images and names of the soldiers and the colonel as well as clippings of army exercises and Republic Day parades.Two of the soldiers, Rajesh Orang and Bipul Roy were from Bengal’s Birbhum and Alipurduar districts respectively. The state government announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh and a government job for each family.The Bengal BJP leadership too did not hesitate to appreciate the chief minister in public.“We welcome the position Mamata Banerjee has taken on China. In a multi-party democracy all parties should be united on the issue of national security despite their differences on internal issues. It is a pity that the Left and Congress walk a different path. Though TMC MP Mahua Moitra tweeted against the BJP on the Ladakh issue, we appreciate that the TMC chief has taken a serious stand,” said BJP Bengal unit vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.Political observers feel that Banerjee has made the right decision by not following the Congress.“This is a national crisis. All political parties, including the Congress, should stand by the Centre in the fight against Chinese aggression. When Banerjee is saying that she fully supports Narendra Modi, she is doing the right thing. The BJP is appreciating her gesture. We welcome this because all parties should forget their differences in the interest of the nation,” said Prof Amal Kumar Mukhopadhyay, noted political analyst and former principal of Presidency College.Incidentally, after the deadly terror attack on the CRPF convoy in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama on February 14 last year, the Bengal CM joined Congress and other opposition parties that questioned the extent of damage done by the Indian airstrike on Balakot in Pakistan. Two of the soldiers killed in Pulwama were from West Bengal. The Bengal CM used Pulwama and Balakot as issues in her campaigns prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi countered it at a rally in Kolkata. “We hit there (Balakot) but it hurt people here. Kolkata’s Didi was more pained than people in Islamabad and Rawalpindi,” said Modi. In the elections, the BJP, which had only two Lok Sabha members from Bengal, bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats, marking the party’s highest growth in Bengal.Asked why he did not sing in Bengali, the state’s official language, forest minister Rajib Banerjee said, “I chose Hindi to reach out to people of this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-lauds-cm-mamata-for-anti-china-stand-says-she-stands-with-centre-on-national-security/story-tbJflBzDkKah2dDGHHycnM.html
01-07-2020||India||Shivraj Chouhan launches ‘Kill Corona campaign’ in MP with door-to-door survey||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday launched a ‘Kill Corona campaign’ under which a door-to-door survey will be conducted across the state to detect Covid-19 patients.Launching the 15-day campaign and underlining achievements of the state government in combating the Covid-19 pandemic, Chouhan said, “We have to combat coronavirus together. Our victory is certain. We all should take a resolution that we will make Madhya Pradesh a corona and disease free state,” Chouhan said.The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh now stands at 13,861 including 581 casualties.A total of 11,458 survey teams will be deployed across the state for a door to door survey. Non-contact thermometers, pulse oximeters and essential protective gears will be provided to each survey team.Besides identifying suspected patients of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) the suspected patients of malaria, dengue, chikungunya will also be identified by the survey teams and the information will be uploaded on a ‘Sarthak App’.The sampling of Covid-19 suspected patients, whose details are uploaded on Sarthak App will be tested. More than three lakh samples will be taken of the identified suspected patients across the state and a capacity of 21,000 tests per day is being developed.Appreciating the role of doctors para-medics and anganwadi workers, ASHAs and NGOs etc on Doctor’s Day, Chouhan said, “The state had one testing lab three months ago with only 60 tests per day capacity. Now, 30 labs have been developed for testing corona in the state with a capacity of 9,000 tests per day. The State’s recovery rate is 77%, which is better than other states. Infection has come down.”Chouhan sounded confident that the door-to-door survey will help control the virus.“We are also taking the cooperation of private hospitals. The ICU beds are available in sufficient quantity in districts. We have achieved success in controlling the corona in Indore and Bhopal. The door-to-door survey will now completely control coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-launches-kill-corona-campaign-in-mp-with-door-to-door-survey/story-luISqdmy28Dk1hlIniGNII.html
01-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police arrest man selling leopard skin, 2nd case in 12 days||The Gariaband police recovered a leopard skin and arrested a person, who poisoned a water body to kill the animal, from the border between Chhattisgarh and Odisha on Tuesday evening. This is the second seizure by the Gariaband police in the last 12 days. Police said that in both the cases the accused poachers were from Nowrangpur district of Odisha, and were active in the Maoist-hit part of the Gariaband district of Chhattisgarh.On Tuesday, Buduram Gond, 40, of Raidhar, Odisha, was arrested by a special team from Shuklabhata village in Baghnala police station limits, Superintendent of Police Bhojram Patel said.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Patel said police got an input that a man was trying to find a buyer for a leopard skin.“A team of policemen was sent to Maoist-affected Shuklabhata and the accused was nabbed. When interrogated, Gond confessed to poisoning a water body to kill the big cat,” said Patel, adding that the skin was 82 inches long from head to tail.Gond has been booked under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act.On June 19, Gariaband police arrested a 55-year-old man for allegedly possessing a leopard skin. The accused Ramnath Netam lives at the border of Chhattisgarh and Odisha.Police said that since most of the part of Udanti Tiger Reserve, which borders Odisha, is Maoist affected, hence these poachers enter easily and hunt animals.Recently, police have also seized a pangolin which was smuggled from this area.“In Gariaband, leopards have been found in nearly every part of the district and we are suspicious about the international gang active in this region. It seems that they know the people who purchase these skins since both came to sell them. We are working some leads and something positive will come out soon,” said Patel.Wildlife activists of the state also believe that an international gang is working in Gariaband district, particularly near Udanti Tiger Reserve.“Last November, seizures of pangolins were made in Nowrangpur district of Odisha. This is a fact that an inter-state gang has been active in Gariyaband since last year. We have found that wild animals’ skins and other parts are smuggled to countries through north-east states and Nepal,” said Meetu Gupta, member of the state wildlife board and wildlife activist.Gupta has been demanding that a special task force (STF) be formed to nab the poachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-arrest-man-selling-leopard-skin-2nd-time-in-12-days/story-EMPZTGnKyJqMfqSIrii4mI.html
01-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi clears dues on Lutyens’ bungalow hours after govt notice||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi cleared her pending dues hours after the government announced it has cancelled the accommodations at 35 Lodhi Estate stating that she is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and hence not eligible anymore.“Ms Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has made online payment of balance amount due on her. Hence, now dues as on 30.06.2020 is nil against her,” a spokesperson for the ministry of housing and urban affairs said.The ministry has also said that she had accumulated dues of RS 3,46,677 till 30th June.The directorate of estate department of the ministry had issued a notice to her to vacate her house within a month.“Consequent upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover by Ministry of Home Affairs, which does not have provision for allotment/retention of Government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of Type 68 house No. 35, Lodhi Estate, New Delhi is hereby cancelled w.e.f 01/07/2020. One month concessional period on the same rent up to 01.08.2020 is allowed as per rule,” the letter sent by the ministry said.“Any stay beyond 01.08.2020 will attract damage charges/penal rent as per rules,” it added.According to the current norms, there are no provisions for allotment or retention of government retention unless exceptions are made based on recommendations given by the Union home ministry.“In view of this, she is no longer entitled for Government accommodation and her allotment has been cancelled by the Directorate of Estate,” the spokesperson of the ministry of housing and urban affairs addedGandhi was allotted bungalow 35, Lodhi Estate on February 21, 1997 on security ground as an SPG protectee.“Cabinet Committee on Accommodation (CCA) in its meeting held on 07.12.2000 reviewed the guidelines on allotment of Government accommodation on security ground and decided that in future no private person, other than those who are SPG protectees, shall be given Government accommodation on security ground. Such allotments were to be done at the market rate i.e. 50 times of normal rent,” the official said.However, the decision to modify the rules was formally taken by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2015.Congress chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh has protested the move and urged Centre to revoke the order. “Captain Amrinder Singh takes exception to orders asking Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi to vacate govt house, urges Centre to restore her SPG cover and revoke allotment cancellation on security grounds in view of threat perception to Gandhi family,” the Punjab Chief minister’s office said.“Blind hatred and a sense of vengeance with the Congress leadership is evident by the BJP and Modi government… The notice to clear Priyanka’s house shows the uneasiness of Modi ji-Yogi ji. We are not afraid of the frustrated decisions of the authoritarian government,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-clears-dues-on-lutyens-bungalow-hours-after-govt-notice/story-T1Iie2HBcOe8R4UcmRVNOP.html
01-07-2020||India||Cow who ate ball of explosives in Andhra Pradesh dies, 3 arrested||The cow, Laxmi, which ate a ball of explosives wrapped in some food stuff at Kogileru village of Ped Panjani block in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Saturday evening, died in the early hours of Wednesday. It was cremated according to Hindu rituals. In a similar incident, a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala died two weeks after consuming a pineapple filled with firecrackers. The cow in Chittoor suffered from infection for more than three days before it died. “The post-mortem report revealed that infection caused by the explosion of the crude bomb in Lakshmi’s mouth spread to the entire body. There were blood clots in several parts of the body,” Arjun Reddy, caretaker of “Gow-Matha Peetham,” a cow shelter with 17 cows.Peda Panjani police sub-inspector Chitreddy Lokesh Reddy said the police had arrested three hunters, including two from Kogileru village and remanded them in judicial custody on Tuesday.The police had booked cases against the accused under Sections 286 (negligent conduct in using explosives) and 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of Indian Penal Code, Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960 and Section 9 (B)(1) of the Explosives Act.The hunter had planted the explosive wrapped in some food stuff made of flour in the grass closer to the adjacent forest area in order to kill wild boars. The cow which was being grazed in the area ate it accidentally and it exploded in her mouth.Due to its impact, the lower jaw of the cow got ripped off. Doctors at the government veterinary hospital in Tirupati tried to restore the jaw by conducting a surgery on Monday evening, but they failed because the jaw was completely broken.“We brought Lakshmi back to the cow shelter on Tuesday and administered intravenous fluids. But it collapsed later in the night and died in the early hours of Wednesday,” Arjun Reddy said.Arjun Reddy, along with the villagers, conducted Lakshmi’s funeral as per Hindu rituals, similar to the ones performed for dead human beings. “We are planning to construct a Samadhi for the cow in the same place where she died and develop it as Lakshmi Ghat with a beautiful garden around it,” Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-who-ate-ball-of-explosive-in-andhra-pradesh-dies-3-arrested/story-qLD0JGSYXBjjMe7RzIoauK.html
01-07-2020||India||Lockdown a drastic strategy to eliminate coronavirus, says Oxford University don||While the Indian government has often cited the lockdown as a vital factor that helped control the spread of Covid-19, Professor Sunetra Gupta, an epidemiologist at Oxford University, says lockdown is a drastic measure and may not be a long-term solution.“I think lockdown is really a drastic strategy which is being implemented rather widely without any consideration as to what costs it imposes. I have been pushing for a while now to consider the costs of lockdown and to urge governments to reopen rather being in a state of lockdown or keep on re-imposing lockdowns in the hope of somehow eliminating or eradicating this virus,” she told HT in an interview.Professor Gupta acknowledged that lockdown may have reduced transmission of Covid-19.“Lockdown has some effects. It does reduce transmission. Lockdown played a role in the dissemination of the virus to out of some metropolitan areas both in the UK and Germany and various parts of Europe. But I don’t know if that’s a long-term solution.”She also rubbished comparisons among countries about the impact of Covid-19.“It is nonsensical to compare India to Germany or the UK or to the US or Brazil as if there is a sort of a beauty contest going on. Essentially the virus is spreading through a geographical kind of dimension. It starts in China and I am very surprised that it hadn’t already arrived in India, in certain parts of India particularly metropolitan areas. I am very surprised that it may not have arrived and spread through significantly before lockdown,” Professor Gupta said.Asked whether the use of BCG vaccine in India could be a reason for the comparatively lower mortality rate from Covid-19, she said it was unlikely.“I very much doubt it could be the BCG vaccine which doesn’t even do the job it is supposed to do which is to protect against TB so if it protects against coronavirus that would be something…. The virus doesn’t affect everyone equally so there is vulnerable sector of the populationwho are at risk of diseases and death. Some of those are very frail, elderly populations,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-a-drastic-strategy-to-eliminate-coronavirus-says-oxford-university-don/story-9euCBbI9I9tSULFaWEzAGI.html
01-07-2020||India||Focus on Guwahati after over 500 Covid-19 cases detected in less than 24 hrs||Assam and northeast’s biggest city Guwahati is in focus following a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and detection of over 500 positive patients in less than 24 hours.On Tuesday, the city recorded 382 Covid-19 positive cases and on Wednesday till 3 pm another 157 had been added to the tally. Between June 24 and June 30, the city recorded 1,212 positive cases.The Assam health minister termed the situation as “extremely critical” and urged residents to be very careful. Guwahati and the rest of Kamrup Metro district are already under total lockdown for 14 days beginning June 28 in a bid to arrest the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases.“I had a phone conversation with union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday and he informed that in the Centre’s view, the Covid-19 scenario in Guwahati is extremely worrying. He instructed us to change our testing pattern urging to conduct 10,000 tests for the city daily,” said Sarma in a press conference.“ICMR has suggested the use of rapid antigen-based tests which will enable us to deliver results within an hour. Tests will be done on nasal swab samples. Those found positive will be sent to isolation and those found negative but having symptoms will be subjected to a RT-PCR test,” he added.Sarma said that training of personnel to carry out the new tests will happen from Thursday and the new testing regimen will be in place within the next few days. He added that initially around 3,000-4,000 tests would be done daily and it would be scaled up in future.Following detection of over three dozen positive cases without travel history, the Assam government had started a campaign from June 15 urging people to come forward for tests voluntarily and deposit samples at 31 centres across the city. Till June 30, over 19,000 tests had been conducted as part of that drive.“At present we have 1,538 hospital beds in Kamrup Metro for Covid-19 patients and 987 of them are occupied. We need another 1,500 beds immediately to cater to the rising number of cases,” Sarma said.“We are also setting up a plasma bank in the next 4-5 days. A plasma separator has already been installed at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital. Training of personnel is on and we will soon be able to start plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients who need it,” he added.The minister informed that a new website www.covidassam.in would be launched soon where people would be able to check their swab test results. The state government has also decided to allow home-cooked food for Covid-19 patients provided they are delivered to hospitals in disposal bags.Till Wednesday afternoon, Assam had recorded 8,547 Covid-19 positive cases. A total of 5,647 patients have recovered and 12 deaths have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-guwahati-after-over-500-covid-19-cases-detected-in-less-than-24-hrs/story-ToKZdrBd1bKebTVzp8JzTI.html
01-07-2020||India||US lends support in India vs China in UNSC over Karachi attack statement||The United States on Wednesday stepped in to stall a United Nations Security Council statement pushed hard by Xi Jinping’s China on this week’s Karachi terror attack in light of New Delhi’s reservations over the Imran Khan government’s efforts to politicise the attack at Pakistan Stock Exchange.The UNSC routinely condemns such acts of terror. But the statement on the Karachi terror strike got complicated after Islamabad attempted to pin the blame on New Delhi.Pakistan foreign minister Makdoom Shah Mehmood Qureshi had blamed the attacks on India on Tuesday. His boss Imran Khan echoed him in the National Assembly on Wednesday, claiming Islamabad had no doubt that India was involved. The Balochistan Liberation Army is reported to have claimed responsibility for the attack in Pakistan’s southern port city on June 29.In informal consultations, several UNSC members took a dim view of Pakistan’s effort to queer the pitch and use the UNSC to achieve their political objectives in cooperation with mentor, China.Germany was the first to speak up on the China-sponsored statement. The UNSC follows the silence procedure that considers a resolution to have the support of all members concerned if no one raises an objection to it within a specified time.Germany’s intervention pushed the timeline, forcing China to extend the silence process to 10 am (Eastern Time) on July 1.As this deadline was to expire, the United States also made an intervention. The procedure now stands extended till 1 pm (Eastern Time) on July 1. Officials said that there was a good chance that the statement on the terrorist strike in Pakistan would be approved by the UNSC sooner or later. The delay, however, is the message to the China-Pakistan team that it could not expect a smooth ride at international fora.Indian and Chinese soldiers have been locked in a stand-off in eastern Ladakh for weeks after People’s Liberation Army soldiers attempted to expand their territory on the Indian side. On July 15, the stand-off escalated into a violent scrap that led to loss of lives on both sides.One Chinese diplomat posted at the UN who tried to push the Pakistan statement tried to nudge others to move quickly, arguing that taking action “slowly will send a bad signal to others and the victims.”That statement, however, did not have the desired impact, particularly since China doesn’t have a track record of coming down strongly on terror. At the UNSC, China - one of the five permanent members - had blocked a resolution designating Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar as a global terrorist under 1267 resolution for years. Beijing eventually had to take a step back last year under intense international pressure. Pakistan has, however, not acted against Masood Azhar despite the UNSC resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-lends-support-in-india-vs-china-in-unsc-over-karachi-attack-statement/story-hiV3U1JHELduesCQYitP1M.html
01-07-2020||India||Maharashtra records 5,537 Covid-19 cases as tally crosses 1.8 lakh||A day after recording less than 5,000 cases, Maharashtra reported 5,537 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday to take the tally to 1,80,298, the state health department said.Out of the 5,537 new cases, 1,487 were from Mumbai where the tally has gone up to 79,145. Between Friday and Monday the state recorded more than 5,000 cases for four straight days.There were 198 casualties that took the death toll in the state to 8,053. Seventy five of the deaths were in Mumbai where Covid-19 casualties touched 4,631.A total of 2,243 people were declared to have recovered on Wednesday boosting the number of recoveries to 93,154.The rising Covid-19 numbers continued to hit Maharashtra Police badly with the death toll in the force climbing to 60 on Wednesday as one more policeman succumbed to the disease. At least, 77 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of active cases in the force to 1,015, the police department said in a statement.Out of the 60 victims, 38 were from the Mumbai Police. Earlier in the day, the Mumbai Police imposed prohibitory orders in the city under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the spread of the coronavirus disease. The order will remain in force till July 15.Amid the soaring Covid-19 tally in the state, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray performed special prayers at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur early in the morning on the occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi.He prayed for making Maharashtra and the world free from Covid-19 and healthy life for one and all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-5-537-covid-19-cases-as-tally-crosses-1-8-lakh/story-XVpzOkLqQY87af6gFD7oDI.html
01-07-2020||India||Railways scraps thermal cameras tender after firms allege advantage China||The railways has scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company.In June, Railtel, the railways’ telecom arm, had issued a tender for thermal temperature screening AI-based surveillance cameras for assistance in Covid-19 surveillance. The government company has decided to issue a fresh tender after the controversy. “EOI for selection of partner for thermal temperature screening solution to RCIL’s customers stands cancelled with immediate effect. Fresh EOI will be published soon,” a notice by the PSU said. This comes at a time when the Indian government has banned 59 apps, mostly having Chinese links, saying they were “engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India”.India and China are involved in a tense border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. A brutal brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 led to 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead.In a letter written to Railtel, one of the vendors said the pre-qualification criteria laid down for the OEM & bidder has some anomalies and ambiguities. Hindustan Times has seen a copy.“Even after the release of the latest corrigendum (on June 23) the department has some ambiguities too in technical specifications. Specifications issued are biased to Chinese OEM i.e. Hikvision, Specs clearly mentioned DeepinMind technology which is a proprietary feature of Hikvision NVRs,” the letter said.Indian firms have alleged that artificial intelligence technology - DeepInMind - which is specified in the tender is a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company partly owned by the Chinese government. According to Hikvision’s technology, Network Video Recorder (NVR) has a “mind” of its own and can analyse and classify human and vehicle targets from video streams.Under the specifications mentioned in the tender for temperature screening with facial recognition and mask detection, Railtel mentioned “Special interface in DeepinMind NVR.” The specifications for the cameras include temperature screening with facial recognition and mask detection, simultaneous temperature screening for multiple persons, detecting whether people wear masks and giving timely alarms on people without masks.While the initial tender for these cameras issued on June 9 excluded a crucial specification called “black body” temperature - the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has fever or not - and the DeepinMind technology specification, they were included in the revised tender issued on June 23.Railtel had floated the tender to purchase around 800 such camera systems.Hindustan Times had on November 10 last year reported the national carrier is planning a complete overhaul of security at railway stations through the use of facial recognition technology backed by artificial intelligence.It also planned to link the facial recognition system (FRS) with existing databases such as the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) to identify criminals prowling railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-scraps-thermal-cameras-tender-after-firms-allege-advantage-china/story-UiGb6FKhUWIZVl40ZkGf5K.html
01-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: India to ban Chinese companies from highway projects, says Nitin Gadkari and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India to ban Chinese companies from highway projects, says Nitin GadkariIndia will not allow Chinese companies to participate in highway projects, including those through joint ventures, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday amid border standoff with China. Read morePM Modi hits delete on his Weibo account after banning it in India. It isn’t easyPrime Minister Narendra Modi has deleted his posts on Weibo, China’s Twitter-like account after India decided to ban 59 mobile applications linked to China. New Delhi had initially tried to delete PM Modi’s account but it turned out that the Chinese social media platform had a “complex procedure” for VIP accounts, people familiar with the development said. Read more‘Will boost India’s security’: Mike Pompeo welcomes ban on 59 Chinese appsUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday applauded India’s sweeping ban on Chinese apps including TikTok, saying New Delhi was ensuring its own security. “We welcome India’s ban on certain mobile apps” from China, Pompeo told reporters, saying the move would “boost India’s integrity and national security.” Read more9 wanted men designated as terrorists under anti-terror law, includes Pannun, Khalistani forcesThe Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday declared nine wanted men, including Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) as designated terrorists under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Read moreShashank Manohar steps down as ICC Chairman after two stintsShashank Manohar on Wednesday stepped down as International Cricket Council (ICC) chairman after two tenures at its helm. Deputy Chairman Imran Khwaja is set to assume the responsibilities of the chairperson until a successor is elected. Read moreManoj Bajpayee reveals journey from Bihar village to Bollywood, says he was ‘close to committing suicide’ after NSD rejectionManoj Bajpayee, the son of a farmer from Bihar, battled all odds to break into Bollywood. The recipient of two National Awards and a Padma Shri, he opened up about his journey and said that he once lost three roles in a single day. Read moreWhatsApp rolls out animated stickers, QR code support, ‘Status’ feature on KaiOS and moreWhatsApp is also rolling out dark mode on its web and desktop versions. The new WhatsApp features will be available in a few weeks. Read moreBaby elephant bravely shoos away birds in a wobbly run, leaves netizens gushing. WatchVideos of baby elephants splashing around while taking a bath or just playing around are among Internet’s favourites. Adding to the adorable collection is a video of a baby elephant that may just make your day. Read moreOn The Record | On low death rate & lockdowns: Oxford Prof Sunetra Gupta’s argumentIn this conversation with Hindustan Times’ national political editor, Sunetra Choudhury, Professor Gupta explains why she considers lockdowns ‘drastic’ and not a long term solution. She also explains why comparisons about Covid spread shouldn’t be done on a nation-wise basis. Watch the full video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-to-ban-chinese-companies-from-highway-projects-says-nitin-gadkari-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SbnlaDlEtOuumGSOc3B6aP.html
01-07-2020||India||Explosion in e-rickshaw kills driver, damages houses in Bengal town||A powerful explosion in an e-rickshaw killed the driver and damaged some houses at Englishbazar town in Bengal’s Malda district on Wednesday afternoon.The explosion, which took place around 5 pm, rocked the area and shattered windowpanes and walls in several buildings. The driver’s body was ripped into pieces and the vehicle was completely destroyed. The driver could not be identified till Wednesday evening. Local people said the vehicle was coming from the Ghorapir area in the Englishbazar municipality’s ward no 25 and was going towards Prabalpally.It was not clear during preliminary investigation whether the driver was carrying explosives or whether the battery, which powers e-vehicles, exploded.Malda superintendent of police Alok Rajoria rushed to the spot with senior officers and CID’s bomb disposal unit. The CID team collected samples.“We are trying to identify the deceased. Samples have been collected from the blast site. We have started a probe,” said Rajoria.Pratim Saha, a resident of the area, said, “The sound could be heard from a long distance. Luckily there was no one close to the vehicle. We rushed to the spot and found pieces of the driver’s body scattered all over the road.”Saiful Alam, another local resident, said, “We have never seen an e-rickshaw blowing up like this. We saw a white container in the wreckage. Probably, it contained some explosive material.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosion-in-e-rickshaw-kills-driver-damages-houses-in-bengal-town/story-zws4bPTsaKhU1CPgyRRJWN.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Will boost India’s security’: Mike Pompeo welcomes ban on 59 Chinese apps||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday applauded India’s sweeping ban on Chinese apps including TikTok, saying New Delhi was ensuring its own security.“We welcome India’s ban on certain mobile apps” from China, Pompeo told reporters, saying the move would “boost India’s integrity and national security.”TikTok on Tuesday denied sharing users’ data with the Chinese government, after India banned the wildly popular app as ties with Beijing deteriorate sharply following a deadly border clash.Watch | Mike Pompeo backs India’s ban on Chinese apps, says move will ‘boost integrity’ Blaming each other for the brutal hand-to-hand battle on June 15 as talks make little headway, the Asian giants have been bolstering their border forces as anti-China sentiment grows in India.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on Monday banned 59 Chinese apps including TikTok, WeChat and Weibo.The ministry of information technology said the apps “are engaged in activities... prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.The move mirrored growing unease about Chinese tech firms in other countries, in particular regarding telecom giant Huawei.TikTok, owned by China’s ByteDance, allows users to upload and share short videos and is spectacularly popular in India -- its 120 million users have made it the app’s top international market.On Tuesday, the head of TikTok India issued a statement saying the firm has “not shared any information of our users in India with any foreign government, including the Chinese government”.“Further if we are requested to in the future we would not do so,” Nikhil Gandhi said, adding that “hundreds of millions of users, artists, story-tellers, educators and performers... (depend) on it for their livelihood.”It remains unclear, however, how the bans would work, with Indians who have downloaded TikTok on their phones still able to use the app on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-welcomes-india-s-ban-on-chinese-apps-including-tiktok/story-4e1gmVc1nRpUogSQehPi0I.html
01-07-2020||India||Thousands stranded at Andhra state border as Hyderabad lockdown looms||With the Telangana government mulling the possibility of re-enforcing complete lockdown in Hyderabad and nearby districts in the next couple of days, there has been a mad rush of Andhra people going back to their native places in the last 24 hours.On Sunday, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the state cabinet would meet in three or four days to discuss the suggestion of health department and medical experts to reimpose lockdown in the limits of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for at least 15 days in the wake of sharp spike in the number of positive cases for Covid-19.Beginning Tuesday evening, there has been large-scale migration of people from Hyderabad to their native places in Andhra Pradesh. Thousands of vehicles got stranded at toll gates on the Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway and at inter-state borders at Garikapadu.Many migrant labourers from Andhra, who returned to Hyderabad after lifting of lockdown restrictions, were also rushing back to their native villages. Similar incidents of a large number of vehicles getting stranded were reported from Pondugala and Vadapalli inter-state check posts.Most of these travellers going back to Andhra were, however, stopped at the check-posts, as the Andhra police did not allow them into the state unless they had registered their names in the state government portal, Spandana, and obtained a travel permit.“It was a shock for us, as the Union government guidelines for unlock 2 clearly said there shall be absolutely no hindrance in the inter-state or intra-state movement of individuals or goods and that no separate permits or passes will be required for the same,” S Narasimha Rao, a private employee who was held up at the Garikapadu check post along with the family, said.However, Andhra Pradesh Director General of Police Gautam Sawang said the state had powers to decide on the inter-state transport. “Since people are coming from Hyderabad which has been witnessing a high number of Covid-19 cases, we are taking precautions in allowing them into the state,” he said.The officer made it clear that only those who had obtained travel permits after registering their details on the official portal would be allowed into the state. “We shall allow them only after conducting the mandatory thermal screening. These restrictions will continue till further notice and people should cooperate with us in their own interest,” Sawang said.Even the passholders are being stopped at the check-posts if they are coming after 7 pm. “The travel permits are valid only between 7 am and 7 pm. The borders will be sealed after 7 pm,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-stranded-at-andhra-state-border-as-hyderabad-lockdown-looms/story-WV5aTz2gJy0C7pmFPt19MI.html
01-07-2020||India||Goa govt’s green light to 250 hotels to reopen on Thursday||More than 250 hotels in Goa will throw open their doors on Thursday after the government granted permission to resume operation, the state’s Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said Wednesday.This is the first major decision of the Goa government under Unlock 2 which kicked in on Wednesday. Hotels in Goa had been shut since the lockdown was announced in march to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Goa government had sought applications from hotel operators who were willing to reopen as well a declaration that they will abide by the standard operating procedures. Around 250 hotels applied for reopening. “The hotels will be allowed to start from tomorrow. Those who want to travel to Goa can do so. Hotel booking should be done prior to travelling to the state and with a hotel that has been allowed to reopen. Without booking tourists will not be allowed. At the entry point we will check if they are tested 48 hours prior. If not, the tourist will be sent to a hotel, where he will be tested. And once the test is negative, the tourist will be allowed to move out,” Ajgaonkar said. “If the tourist is staying with friends or relatives, there should be documentation,” Ajgaonkar added. The tourism minister said that he was expecting those from the cities who were fed up with the lockdown and being stuck in their homes to opt for travel for a “change of scenery”. “We are not forcing anyone to come. We are only creating facilities for them,” Ajgaonkar said when asked whether the reopening of the sector will help spread the virus at a time when the state is still struggling to cope with rising cases of Covid-19.“We do not want to play with anyone’s life. At the same time we need to boost revenue and the economy. Economically we are in bad shape,” Ajgaonkar added. Tourism on which the state relies heavily for revenue had come to a complete standstill in Goa following the lockdown. The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has claimed that the direct and indirect economic impact of the tourism industry is estimated at 40% of the state’s GDP including multiplier effect.The industry has also sought that bars and restaurants be allowed to reopen in the state as hotels “cannot successfully (reopen) unless the bars and restaurants are given permissions to reopen as well.”The TTAG has been petitioning the government to allow them to reopen in order that they can begin taking bookings for later in the year when the European tourists start arriving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-s-green-light-to-250-hotels-to-reopen-on-thursday/story-LhGJGl1tfSwdme7JWAkWOO.html
01-07-2020||India||Covid care railway coaches: 118 patients admitted, 72 discharged so far||As many as 118 patients have been admitted in the Covid care coaches of the Indian Railways so far, while 72 have been discharged, the national transporter said on Wednesday. On the requisition of state governments, the Railways has parked 960 such isolation coaches across five states.However, only two states have started using this facility offered by the Railways so far -- Delhi which has 503 such coaches at its disposal across nine stations and Uttar Pradesh which has 372 coaches parked in 24 locations. The remaining coaches are parked in Telangana, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Till date, there have been 40 admissions in Delhi and 78 admissions in Uttar Pradesh since the coaches were stationed there, officials said.Currently, there are 22 patients at Mau in Uttar Pradesh and 24 patients at Shakurbasti railway station in Delhi. The death toll due to coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh has risen to 718 while the total Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 24,056. According to health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday, the Covid-19 tally in Delhi stands at 87,360 while the the death toll due to the disease is 2,742. Indian Railways is ready to offer 5,231 isolation coaches to the states and the zonal railways have converted these coaches as quarantine facilities, officials said. The coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid care centres as per guidelines issued by the Union Health ministry. Train coaches have been modified into patient isolation wards to bolster the country’s healthcare infrastructure amid the rapid spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-care-railway-coaches-118-patients-admitted-72-discharged-so-far/story-kSSvuJ0F9YgQHL35y6tdCK.html
01-07-2020||India||PM Modi hits delete on his Weibo account after banning it in India. It isn’t easy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has deleted his posts on Weibo, China’s Twitter-like account after India decided to ban 59 mobile applications linked to China. New Delhi had initially tried to delete PM Modi’s account but it turned out that the Chinese social media platform had a “complex procedure” for VIP accounts, people familiar with the development said.The government has initiated the process for deletion of the account. “For reasons best known to the Chinese, there was great delay in granting this basic permission,” a government functionary said.As an interim measure, the Prime Minister’s Office decided to remove its posts from the platform. PM Modi made his debut on the Chinese social media in 2015.“PM Modi had 115 posts on Weibo. It was decided to manually delete them and after much effort, 113 posts were removed,” news agency ANI added, quoting sources.The government had on Monday ordered the ban on the 59 mobile apps after an assessment that “they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order”.The move, which many analysts say, could become the template for other countries to act against Chinese companies, have angered Beijing. In a statement last evening, China claimed that the ban selectively and discriminatorily targets Chinese apps on ambiguous and far-fetched grounds and abuses national security exceptions.Back home, China has for years banned internet websites that it felt could hurt its national security. Beijing does not allow its nationals to access sites such as Twitter, Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hits-delete-on-his-weibo-account-after-banning-it-in-india-it-isn-t-easy/story-rL3DYMNPd88Ez5BlYXznRO.html
01-07-2020||India||India to ban Chinese companies from highway projects, says Nitin Gadkari||India will not allow Chinese companies to participate in highway projects, including those through joint ventures, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday amid border standoff with China. Gadakri also said the government will ensure that Chinese investors are not entertained in various sectors like Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The senior minister’s assertions assume significance against the backdrop of border standoff between India and China in Ladakh that also saw the death of 20 Indian Army personnel last month. Amid escalating tensions, the government on Monday banned 59 apps, mostly having Chinese links, citing threats to national security. “We will not give permission to joint ventures that have Chinese partners for road construction. We have taken a firm stand that if they (Chinese companies) come via joint venture in our country, we will not allow it,” Gadkari told PTI in an interview. The Road Transport, Highways and MSME minister said a policy will be out soon banning Chinese firms and relaxing norms for Indian companies to expand their eligibility criteria for participation in highway projects. Currently only a few projects which were undertaken much earlier involve some Chinese partners. When asked about this, the Minister said that the new decision will be implemented in current and future tenders. With respect to existing tenders and future bids, Gadkari said rebidding would be done if there are any Chinese joint ventures. “We have taken a decision to relax norms for our companies to ensure that they qualify in bidding in large projects. I have directed the Highways Secretary (Giridhar Aramane) and NHAI Chairman (SS Sandhu) to hold a meeting for relaxing technical and financial norms so that our companies can qualify to work,” he said. Elaborating on the decision, Gadkari said if a contractor can qualify for a small project, he can also qualify for a large project. “Construction norms are not good so I have asked to change it. We are changing it so that we can encourage Indian companies,” he added. According to him, qualification norms for projects are being rationalised to ensure Indian companies do not require to enter into pacts with foreign partners to grab projects. “Even if we have to go for foreign joint venture in the areas of technology, consultancy or design, we will not allow Chinese,” the Minister said. About the MSME sector, Gadkari said the effort is to enhance the capacity of local production but at the same time foreign investment is being promoted. However, he made it clear that despite decision to encourage foreign investment, Chinese investors would not be allowed. “For upgradation of technology, research, consultancy and other works, we will encourage foreign investment and joint ventures in MSMEs but in case of Chinese we will not entertain them,” he said. On stopping of consignments from China at Indian ports, the minister said there is “no arbitrary stopping of goods” at Indian ports and the government is initiating path-breaking reforms to help MSMEs and businesses in a bid to make the country self-reliant. “It is a good step. The imports from China will be discouraged and the country will take large strides towards self-reliance,” the Minister said and added that he is among the strongest proponents of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Gadkari said that he had urged departments concerned to expedite clearance of consignments which were booked two to three months in advance before the situation took its present shape. After a representation from a farmers and traders’ body that imported agriculture equipment consignments were delayed at ports, Gadkari in a letter to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Commerce and Industries Minister Piyush Goyal had sought early clearance of the said consignments. There are reports that customs authorities at Chennai and Vishakhapatnam ports are conducting extra scrutiny of consignments from China. Gadkari, as per the information, did not mention the name of the country from where these equipment were imported. “Indian business has the strength and skills to grow further and power our journey towards self-reliance. Under strong leadership of PM Narendra Modi, the Government of India is proactive and initiating path-breaking reforms that will help businesses and MSMEs,” he said. Most of these equipment, as per the information, pertain to spraying devices for pesticide control as the same had been diverted to urban areas during the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. Amid heightened border tensions with China, Indian customs officials have started physical inspection of all consignments coming from the neighbouring country specially Chennai and Vishakhapatnam ports. PTI NAM RAM NAM DRR DRR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-ban-chinese-companies-from-highway-projects-says-nitin-gadkari/story-vSuK6MB6fbgUsLb4qLXM5J.html
01-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi told to vacate govt bungalow within one month||The government on Wednesday cancelled allotment of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s house in the heart of national capital Delhi and told her to vacate the bungalow within a month.The decision was taken by the Cabinet Committee on Accommodation after the government stripped the Gandhi family of protection by the Special Protection Group. She was allotted the Lodhi Estate bungalow in 1997 on the recommendation of the SPG.Priyanka Gandhi still has the Z+ security cover but this category does not entitle protectees to government accommodation unless the cabinet committee approves the exception on the recommendation of the home ministry. The home ministry didn’t see any reason to make an exception for her, people familiar with the development said.An official said she has accumulated dues of Rs 3.46 lakh and has also been asked to clear the dues.Officials said the cabinet committee had decided way back in December 2000 that no private person, other than those protected by SPG, should be given government accommodation on security grounds. If such an exception had to be made, the cabinet committee had recommended charging at the market rate.In July 2003, it was decided to charge a special rate of licence fee, that is 20 times the normal rent from such allottees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-asked-to-vacate-govt-allocated-official-accomodation-within-one-month/story-KdWz8gKVpH0KT3lDbjgSzL.html
01-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi told to vacate govt bungalow in Delhi within a month||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday was asked to vacate her government allocated Lodhi Estate house in Delhi within a month as she no longer enjoys the Special Protection Group (SPG ) security cover. Any stay longer than August 1, the government order said, will attract “damage charges and penal rent” as per rules.“Upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover my ministry of home affairs, which doe snot have provision for allotment/retention of government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of Type 6B house No 35, Lodhi estate is cancelled, read a notice from Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.There was no immediate comment from Priyanka Gandhi or her party Congress.Gandhi was allotted her Lodhi estate bungalow on February 21, 1997 on security ground as an SPG protectee.According to the current norms, there are no provisions for allotment or retention of government accommodation to those with Z+ security unless exceptions are made based on recommendations given by the home ministry.In November last year, the Centre withdrew SPG security cover to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi and daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The decision was taken on the recommendation of a top security review panel that carries out a threat perception analysis of protected persons. The three Gandhis are now protected by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).While in August that year, the security cover of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was also downgraded after a security review.The Special Protection Group was raised in 1985 – after the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi - to protect the Prime Minister and their immediate family members. Former Prime Minister and their family members were brought under the SPG cover after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-asked-to-vacate-govt-allocated-official-accomodation-within-one-month/story-pFpe8WXbU8Lrb25XY8a2nJ.html
01-07-2020||India||Wedding snappers snap up biz at slashed rates||Big-budget events and parties – marriage functions included – are passé, at least for the time being, and the ‘big, fat Indian wedding’ has been downsized to meet the ‘new normal’. One immediate consequence of this downsizing has been that the photography business has suffered a body blow.Wedding photographers are wooing customers with ‘attractive lockdown budget packages’! A flyer doing the rounds in WhatsApp groups reads: ‘Booking open for up to 50 members wedding. Attractive live streaming wedding packages in your budget.’The packages of fat-weddings have come down 50-70%, costing between Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000. “One of the main reasons for this is that lavish marriages have shrunk to become small affairs. A high-end marriage used to have 2-3 drones, LED screens, Gimban equipment for cinematic shots, lighting paraphernalia and multiple photo and video cameras. Now, in functions where 30-50 persons are allowed, we have trimmed decor, limited arrangement so these high-end gadgets are not required so the budget has come down heavily,” said wedding photographer Amit Saheta.Shooting too is done with just two or three people, as every head at the venue is counted in the permissible limit. “We have an eight-person staff and expenses have not stopped. We had 15 bookings for June and we are ending the month with 3 events. Expecting Rs 6 lakh business, we barely did Rs 1 lakh work. So, it’s a tough phase,” he added.Photographer Mohd Azmi said that from 8,000-10,000 average photographs in a marriage the mandate for the last wedding he worked at was 200 photos. Those too were demanded in a pen drive and not as a wedding album, as is customary.Arun Pushkar, another lensman, highlighted a new trend that he had witnessed. “I had a wedding booking that solemnised at a five-star hotel this month. They changed the terms and made us click from both bride and groom side. I eventually sent three persons as the budget was slashed,” he said.In another function the pre-wedding shoot was cancelled totally. “Advance ‘wapas karna pada’ (had to return). I am returning the amount to them in instalments, as I had passed the advance on to my staff. It would be wrong of me to expect them to return the amount, but I will have to adjust the amount in future jobs,” he adds.Established wedding photographers say that competition from newcomers is another reason for falling market rates. “Most photographers buy cameras and equipment on a loan. To meet monthly instalments, newcomers are ready to work at any rate,” said Mohd Asad, a photographer.This scenario has created a win-win situation for customers. “Now, one can afford photographers that one could not think of in the small budgets we have. Spending even Rs 75,000 on marriage photography is a big thing for us. Now, at least one can negotiate and capture the golden memories forever,” said recently married Upendra, a Lucknowite.The lensmen too don’t mind what they are getting as after July first week the ‘muhurats’ (auspicious dates) are only available after November 25 and that too in a limited number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/wedding-snappers-snap-up-biz-at-slashed-rates/story-120I4Yaz5hU6F6HLh6F6CJ.html
01-07-2020||India||TN police start probe into Tuticorin custodial deaths after HC’s direction||The Crime Branch-CID of the Tamil Nadu police on Wednesday began its investigation into the death of a father-son duo in Tuticorin last month after they were allegedly thrashed by the police in custody.“We have started an investigation in the case. We will further update on the matter,” said CB-CID Inspector General of Police Shankar according to ANI.On Tuesday, the Madras High Court directed the CB-CID’s Tirunelveli Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar to probe the death of the two traders, who died in a hospital. The probe team conducted enquiries with the family members of the deceased and also in the market where the two men ran their mobile phone shop.Investigators also visited the Sathankulam police station which has since been brought under the Revenue department under the High Court’s direction.P Jayaraj and his son Bennicks, arrested for allegedly violating lockdown norms, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23. Relatives alleged that they were brutally beaten at the Sathankulam police station.The death of the two men sparked outrage forcing the government to suspend five policemen, including an inspector and two Sub-Inspectors. The Madras High Court had directed a CB-CID probe into the matter although the state government had transferred the case to the CBI saying it feared that evidence could disappear by the time CBI took over the probe.On Monday, the state government had transferred the probe to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-police-start-probe-into-tuticorin-custodial-deaths-after-hc-s-direction/story-l8ZRdUEhWoIQ1tQpgZ3kiJ.html
01-07-2020||India||77 cops test Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra, death toll rises to 60 in force||The death toll in Maharashtra Police climbed to 60 on Wednesday as one more policeman succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours. At least, 77 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of active cases in the force to 1,015, a statement from the Maharashtra Police said.Sixty Maharashtra Police personnel, including three officers, have died due to the infectious disease since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Wednesday.Out of the 60 victims, 38 were from the Mumbai Police force, he said.ALSO READ | Thackeray says human beings have given up, prays for miracle to overcome Covid crisisMaharashtra remains the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic, accounting for almost one-third of the country’s total coronavirus patients.So far, nearly 4,900 police personnel have been infected with coronavirus in the state, including over 2,600 from the Mumbai Police force.In the last 24 hours, 82 police personnel in the state were discharged after recovering from the infection. With this, more than 3,700 police personnel have till now recovered from the deadly viral disease, the police official said.Currently, there are 1,015 active cases in the state police force.The police have registered 1,39,702 cases for violation of prohibitory orders in the state and 29,425 people were arrested in these cases during the tenure of the lockdown.At least 290 incidents of assault on police were reported in which 86 personnel were injured, the official said, adding that 54 health professionals were also attacked during the initial days of the outbreak.Nearly 860 people were arrested for these assault cases.The Maharashtra Police force comprises over two lakh personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/77-cops-test-covid-19-positive-in-maharashtra-death-toll-rises-to-60-in-force/story-HoVLeYzyXKYhyQsjWcQbXI.html
01-07-2020||India||June records ‘excess’ rainfall, good precipitation expected in July: IMD||The month of June ended with “excess” rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday, forecasting a good precipitation in July. According to the IMD data, the overall rainfall in June was 118 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA), which is considered “excess” rainfall.It was also the wettest June in the last 12 years, the IMD said.The LPA rainfall of the season over the country as a whole for the period 1961-2010 is 88 centimetres. Rainfall in the range of 90-96 per cent is considered “below normal”, and that in the range of 96-104 per cent is considered “normal”. Precipitation in the range of 104 -110 per cent of the LPA is considered “above normal”, while beyond 110 per cent is considered “excess” rainfall.The June rainfall in the Central India subdivision of the IMD, which covers the regions of Goa, Konkan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, was 131 per cent of the LPA. In the East and northeast subdivision, the rainfall was 116 per cent of the LPA. Assam has witnessed floods, while Bihar has also received excess rainfall. However, the rainfall over this region will reduce over the next 5-10 days, IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.The Northwest India subdivision comprises the north Indian states. The rainfall here was 104 per cent of the LPA, while in the South Peninsula, it was 108 per cent of the LPA. The IMD has predicted 103 per cent rainfall of the LPA for July. “July is expected to have good rainfall,” Mohapatra said. He added that there are two cyclonic circulations, one near the Gujarat coast and other over east-central India, which will bring good rains over central and southern India over the next 5-10 days, Mohapatra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/june-records-excess-rainfall-good-precipitation-expected-in-july-imd/story-jmzeeimi7hLkietHvewiZM.html
01-07-2020||India||Odisha to continue with weekend shutdown in 10 districts; schools, colleges will remain closed till Aug 31||he Odisha government announced Unlock 2.0 on Wednesday in a bid to open up commercial activities to revive the economy amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak while persisting with total weekend shutdowns in 10 worst-hit districts in the state during July.Odisha has reported 7,316 Covid-19 positive cases to date.Odisha chief secretary (CS) Asit Kumar Tripathy said 10 districts --- Ganjam, Gajapati, Khordha, Cuttack, Jajpur, Jagatsinghpur, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, and Jharsuguda -- have been classified under the Zone-1 category, where total shutdown would be in place on all Saturdays and Sundays during July, as they have accounted for 63% of the 7,316 positive cases in the state.Odisha reported 251 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday midnight, including 102 from the coastal Ganjam district alone.The state has recorded 26 Covid-19 related deaths and nine people, who were found to be infected by the virus, succumbed to their comorbid conditions.On Tuesday, a deputy general manager (57) of the public sector undertaking (PSU), National Aluminium Company Limited (Nalco), in Angul district died of Covid-19, said Angul collector Manoj Kumar Mohanty. The official was undergoing treatment at Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research at Burla in Sambalpur district. His wife, a lecturer with the Surendra Sai University of Technology in Burla, has also tested Covid-19 positive. Later, 15 employees of Nalco, who had come in contact with the deceased official, were put under home quarantine, while the technical university, where the official’s wife worked, has been sealed for the next seven days.In Ganjam district, a man (52), who had tested Covid-19 positive, died during treatment. However, health officials put his death under the non-Covid-19 category, as he was suffering from lung cancer.“Local administrations in Zone-I districts have beer empowered to stop inter-district public and private transport movement. Offices and business establishments can be closed by the local authorities,” Tripathy said.“Additional restrictions are required to be imposed on the mobility of people and congregations in a bid to contain the pandemic,” he added.The night curfew would be in place between 9pm and 5am, the CS said.The state government also announced that all schools, colleges, and other educations would be shut till August 31.Restrictions will continue on certain activities as it had been during Unlock 1.0.Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, theatres, and assembly halls will continue to remain shut. No social, cultural, and political congregation will be allowed during Unlock 2.0. International flights will remain suspended except those allowed by the Centre.Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to operate as per the norms of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Restaurant services will be open for only in-house guests, as per older norms.All government departments and subordinate offices would operate with 50% of their strength, including Group-A officers, during July because of the spike in the Covid-19 positive cases, the CS added.In Ganjam district, the local administration said those planning to get married have to take special permission from the local sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). First information reports (FIRs) would be filed against priests, who preside over marriage rituals without prior permission, the officials warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-continue-with-weekend-shutdown-in-10-districts-schools-colleges-will-remain-closed-till-aug-31/story-C52LAaCQj9VhhSPtNaoAjP.html
01-07-2020||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh likely to visit Ladakh on Friday: Sources||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to visit Ladakh on Friday to review India’s military preparedness in view of the bitter border standoff with the Chinese army in the region, sources said. During the visit, Singh is expected to hold high-level meetings with senior military leadership, they said. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in the standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-likely-to-visit-ladakh-on-friday-sources/story-dqqzezmeenjkkkkoGzNVDM.html
01-07-2020||India||UP cop masturbates before woman complainant, she records it, files FIR||A police officer in Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district has gone missing after he was caught on camera masturbating while interacting with a mother-daughter duo, who had come to file a complaint in a land dispute case. Shri Pati Mishra, Superintendent of Police (SP), Deoria, on Wednesday announced a reward of Rs 25,000 to help find the absconding officer while police teams also carried out raids to nab him.Police officials said the inspector was accused of touching his private parts intentionally to sexually harass the two women while talking to them in his office chamber. Mishra said an FIR under sections 166 (public servant disobeying law), 354-A (sexual harassment) and 509 (act with intent to insult the modesty of woman) of the IPC has been registered against inspector Bhisma Pal Singh. He said the inspector was told to surrender but has been missing since then. Another police official of Deoria said the initial investigation had revealed that the video was recorded on June 22 when the inspector was posted as in-charge of Bhatni police station. Narrating the sequence of events, the official said the inspector was seen masturbating on his chair while the two women, seated opposite him, were talking about a land dispute with their relatives. The complainant said she, along with her mother, visited Bhatni police station at least thrice but their complaint was never heard. She said the inspector in-charge Bhisma Pal Singh was touching himself in front of the two when they visited him.“I ignored him at least twice before deciding to record his act on camera and expose him in front of his seniors and public,” she emphasised. She said she secretly shot the video when the inspector repeated the act on June 22 and later shared it with some senior officials.The inspector was suspended on June 26 and finally the FIR was lodged on June 30 when local journalists started questioning the SP after the video went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cop-masturbates-before-woman-complainant-she-records-it-files-fir/story-ytoThfHFYHfBOSk8Gp2UmI.html
01-07-2020||India||Assam lab isolates Covid-19 virus in tissue culture; 4th in country to do so||A government laboratory in Assam has successfully isolated the SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) virus becoming the fourth such facility in the country to achieve the feat.Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) located in Lahowal in Dibrugarh district follows National Institute of Virology, Pune, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad to be able to isolate the virus.“The significance of Covid-19 virus isolation by team at RMRC, Dibrugarh is that live and viable SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19 virus) can now be produced in abundance in lab as and when required,” said a press release issued by RMRC-Dibrugarh.“It is important for development of inactivated Covid-19 vaccine where virus grown in laboratory are inactivated by heat or chemical and purified for use as vaccines after pre-clinical and clinical trials,” it added.Apart from vaccine development, other uses of cultures of SARS-CoV-2 include drug screening for potential drugs or drug candidates against the virus, testing effectiveness of disinfectants, use in development of therapeutic antibodies etc.According to scientists at RMRC, Dibrugarh all strains of SARS-CoV-2 were L-type and not S-type, which is slowly disappearing across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lab-isolates-covid-19-virus-in-tissue-culture-4th-in-country-to-do-so/story-7S9lvqbFRnKyAgLfmAKChL.html
01-07-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Haryana schools set to reopen from July 27||Schools in Haryana are set to reopen from July 27 after summer vacations end on July 26 amid Covid-19 crisis, Haryana Directorate School Education issued an order on Wednesday. As per the order, universities and colleges in the state will remain shut till July 31. This comes a day after the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday allowed private schools to collect tuition fee “irrespective of offering online classes” to students during the Covid-19 lockdown.“All schools irrespective of whether they offered online classes during the lockdown period or not, are entitled to collect the tuition fee,” the court said adding that they will continue to endeavour and impart online/ distance learning.As per the High Court’s order, the schools have been restrained from increasing the fee for 2020-21 and directed to adopt the same fee structure as of 2019- 20.Also read: Section 144 imposed in Mumbai till July 15 amid spike in Covid-19 casesUnder the first phase of nationwide Covid-19 lockdown announced by PM Modi on March 25, all educational institutes across the country were shut to keep the virus from spreading. Last month, the Centre had said that a decision on reopening schools across the country will be taken in July based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation. In its guidelines on the second phase of ‘Unlock’, the government on Monday announced that educational institutions, Metro rail services and large gatherings will continue to remain banned till the end of July.The fresh guidelines said schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. It added that Metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain shut. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to be banned.“Dates for the opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation,” the Centre said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-haryana-schools-set-to-reopen-from-july-27/story-Dyp2qFZWsXuBvEn5c5vEfK.html
01-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Goa CM Sawant retracts his statement on community transmission||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday sought to allay fears about contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), after a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker tested positive last week.The CM claimed that he had met the infected member of the legislative assembly (MLA) over eight days ago while maintaining adequate social distancing norms.“We maintain adequate social distancing norms during meetings. The others are at liberty to undergo tests. We were sitting in the same room more than eight days ago and all precautionary measures were followed,” Sawant said.The infected MLA is undergoing treatment at a local hospital and his health condition is stated to be stable.The CM also retracted his earlier statement that community transmission has started in Goa and insisted that the disease is spreading from one infected person to another.“It is not in the air. If we check the root of all the cases, even though I had said earlier that the community transmission has started, I stand corrected. It is being transmitted from one person to another. We have to be careful to break the chain. There is no community transmission in Goa,” Sawant said. Goa has reported a spike in Covid-19 positive in June, the worst month to date, when 95% of the cases were detected.Though the coastal state had reported less than 100 Covid-19 positive cases till end-May, the tally has since risen to around 1,400, including 700 active cases and four deaths.Front-line healthcare workers such as nurses, hospital attendants, and police personnel, who are battling the pandemic, have been the worst affected by the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-goa-cm-sawant-retracts-his-statement-on-community-transmission/story-Akam0FA4ZgKk7JdbvvDXLO.html
01-07-2020||India||Kerala hikes bus fares by 25% to tide over Covid-19 crisis||In a bid to help the state public transport system tide over Covid-19 crisis, Kerala government has announced a 25% hike in fares of state-run and private buses as an interim measure.State transport minister AK Saseendran said the minimum charge would remain Rs 8, however, the fare would be calculated for first 2.5 kilometres instead of 5 kilometres. The announcement comes after a judicial commission, appointed to look into the problems faced by the transport industry, made a recommendation in favour of a hike in the bus fare, news agency PTI reported. Also read: Section 144 imposed in Mumbai till July 15 amid spike in Covid-19 casesThe fare revision commission headed by Justice M Ramachandran also recommended raising the concession rate for students but the state cabinet has decided not to increase it for now. “We have also decided not to change the special fares for students as there are no educational institutions functioning. So that fare remains the same,” Saseendran stated. “We decided not to increase the minimum charge but reduced the minimum distance,” the minister added. Kerala, the first state in India to have reported cases of coronavirus, has registered 4,442 Covid-19 patients till date of whom 2,306 have recovered and 24 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hikes-bus-fares-by-25-to-tide-over-covid-19-crisis/story-t5qOkhWNUitaj7YRWty2WM.html
01-07-2020||India||Pakistani terrorist killed along LoC in Rajouri, infiltration bid foiled||The Indian Army on Wednesday foiled an intrusion bid and said it killed a Pakistani terrorist along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district in the Jammu division of Jammu and Kashmir.“We acted on the basis of specific intelligence inputs from J-K Police and a joint operation was launched close to the LoC in Keri area of Bhimber Gali sector in Jammu division’s Rajouri district,” said army spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand.“Terrorists were seen crossing the LoC. Our alert troops foiled the infiltration bid. One terrorist was killed and an AK-47 rifle and two magazines were recovered. The search operation is still on,” he added.The infiltration bid was foiled around 5.55 am . On Tuesday, Dilbag Singh, director-general of police (DGP), J&K Police, had said Jammu and Kashmir’s anti-infiltration grid is intact, despite active terror launch pads across the LoC constantly trying to infiltrate terrorists.Singh had said that the anti-terror operations are on at full throttle in Kashmir and 128 terrorists have been eliminated by the security forces to date this year.There has been a spurt in ceasefire violation and infiltration attempts by Pakistan along the International Border (IB) and the LoC since March 15 amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The government has been making a concerted bid to mount anti-terror operations to stymie homegrown terror groups’ attacks.Meanwhile, the J-K administration is making all necessary arrangements for the annual Amarnath Yatra which is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 along the shorter Baltal track in Ganderbal district.In 2017, a bus carrying Amarnath pilgrims from Gujarat, was attacked by terrorists in Anantnag district that left seven of them dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-terrorist-killed-along-loc-in-rajouri-infiltration-bid-foiled/story-RdjWIDHRCR6YGt5J2110lM.html
01-07-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies stress on need for quick, phased de-escalation at border||The Indian and Chinese armies stressed the need for “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) on priority during a 12-hour meeting between senior military commanders at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday as part of ongoing efforts to cool heightened border tensions, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday, on the condition of anonymity.The discussions reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce tensions along the disputed border, said one of the persons cited above, adding that the disengagement process would be complex.“More meetings are expected both at the military and at the diplomatic level to arrive at a mutually-agreeable solution and to ensure peace and tranquility along the LAC as per bilateral agreements and protocols,” he said. This was the third meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region; and the second after the brutal clash at Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead. The Galwan Valley clash, which took place on June 15, derailed an earlier disengagement plan.“India and China have been engaged in discussions through established military and diplomatic channels to address the situation along the LAC in India-China border areas,” said the second person cited above.He said the focus of the June 30 meeting was to discuss issues related to disengagement at the face-off sites along the LAC and de-escalation from the border areas.“Both sides have emphasised the need for an expeditious, phased and step wise de-escalation as a priority. This is in keeping with the agreement between external affairs minister and his Chinese counterpart during their conversation on June 17 that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and that both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely,” the second person added.The two delegations last met on June 22 when they hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border during an 11-hour meeting. The “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” reached eight days ago has neither enabled any disengagement on the ground nor led to the thinning of military build-up by rival forces in the region, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday.“The June 30 meeting was held in a businesslike manner keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols. The discussions reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce the tensions along the LAC. The process of disengagement along the LAC is complex and in such a context, speculative and unsubstantiated reports need to be avoided,” said the first person cited above.The two senior officers first met on June 6 to ease growing tensions along the LAC. The limited military disengagement that began in some friction areas after the first meeting was derailed after the bloodshed in Galwan Valley.The Indian side on Tuesday reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from the friction points and sought the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains.The latest meeting took place at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC, while the previous two meetings were held at Moldo on the Chinese side.China has not halted — but instead ramped up — its military activity in Finger Area near Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Depsang Plains after the senior officers last met on June 22.India is especially concerned about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding positions in the Finger Area where it has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts in areas New Delhi considers its territory, as reported by HT on Tuesday..The situation is equally critical from the Indian standpoint in the Depsang sector as the PLA has mobilised troops, weapons and other military equipment in sensitive areas, with its forward presence disrupting the army’s patrolling patterns there.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region.The Chinese buildup in other areas including Galwan Valley and the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector hasn’t thinned either. Satellite imagery dated June 22, released by US firm Maxar Technologies, shows not only is the PLA holding ground in Galwan Valley but has also shored up its military positions in the area, as reported by HT on June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-stress-on-need-for-quick-phased-de-escalation-at-border/story-bv3S9eUtvJUYAw1ys50AGJ.html
01-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Boiler explosion in Tamil Nadu claims 6 lives, CM announces Rs 3 lakh compensation for kin of victims and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu boiler explosion: CM announces Rs 3 lakh as compensation to kin of victimsTamil Nadu chief minister M Edappadi K Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakhs each to the families of those who lost their lives in a boiler explosion at Neyveli Lignite Plant on Wednesday. Read moreSection 144 imposed in Mumbai till July 15 amid spike in Covid-19 casesThe Mumbai Police on Wednesday imposed prohibitory orders in the city under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the spread of the coronavirus disease. Read morePrincess Diana Birth Anniversary: How the royal defied royal protocol with her fashion senseThe beloved princess, who died in 1997 in a car crash, would have turned 59 today. Princess Diana’s style was very versatile and ranged from classy and muted ensembles, to colourful and daring ones as well. Read moreSpotify starts rolling out real-time lyrics in IndiaSpotify has started rolling out real-time lyrics in India. Spotify has partnered with Musixmatch for lyrics support on its platform. Read more‘We all wore them later’: Aakash Chopra recalls when Inzamam-ul-Haq gifted t-shirts to India team in Multan during 2004 seriesIndia and Pakistan have shared a heated rivalry on the cricket field for several years. But behind the doors, players from both the teams have enjoyed a great camaraderie with each other. In a recent interview with Pak Passion, veteran allrounder Shoaib Malik had talked about his friendship with former India batsman Yuvraj Singh. And now, former India cricketer Aakash Chopra has opened up on his friendship with Pakistan bowling legend Shoaib Akhtar. Read moreMeet the dog that ‘says’ hi to anyone who passes by his yard. WatchWhat is better than seeing a video of a goofy doggo? It’s the video of a goofy doggo “saying” hi to every hooman who passes by his yard. Don’t believe us? Wait till you see the video and we’re pretty sure that this all kinds of cute clip will leave you with a smile on your face. Read moreWatch: Three wheeler electric ambulance to bury patients who die of Covid-19A Chennai based company has developed a three wheeler electric ambulance to ensure dignified burials for Covid fatalities. The M Zafi Rescuer Ambulance is India’s first three-wheeler electric ambulance with an autonomous stretcher. This comes as several reports of Covid victims’ bodies being thrown into graves have emerged from some places. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-boiler-explosion-in-tamil-nadu-claims-6-lives-cm-announces-rs-3-lakh-compensation-for-kin-of-victims-and-all-the-latest-news/story-rd0xInZM1Ed1yYW3kdcP5J.html
01-07-2020||India||Elderly man in Uttarakhand killed over Rs 1,500, murder caught on camera||A 60-year-old man was brutally stabbed to death on a busy road in broad daylight by four men over a dispute of Rs 1,500 in Jaspur town of Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district on Tuesday, police said Wednesday.A purported video of the crime has since gone viral on social media. The four accused involved in the crime fled from the scene on foot with one of them wielding a dagger at passers by. Rajesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur, said, “The deceased was identified as one Guchchan Khan, a resident of Nai Basti colony in Jaspur who was a daily wage earner. He had gone to meet the four accused- Rizwan, Naushad, Danish and Akram near a petrol pump on Tuesday evening to settle a financial dispute of Rs 1,500 between his son Nadeem and them”“The four had initially called Nadeem but being suspicious something was not right, Khan’s wife sent him to meet the accused. After he reached there to speak to the four, a heated argument broke between them in which suddenly two of them dragged him on the road despite the traffic and stabbed him multiple times with a dagger. Seeing the attack some passersby tried to stop the accused but they wielded the dagger at them before fleeing from the scene leaving behind gravely injured Khan,” said Bhatt. The victim who had collapsed on the road was rushed to a nearby hospital but the doctors declared him dead on arrival. While the accused were fleeing, a policeman briefly chased the accused but failed to nab them. Bhatt said Khan’s son lodged a complaint against the four accused in the evening after which they were booked on charges of murder under relevant sections of IPC. “Police have formed two teams to nab the accused who are absconding. We also questioned at least three persons to know their whereabouts and on the basis of their information, the manhunt is on,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elderly-man-in-uttarakhand-killed-over-rs-1-500-murder-caught-on-camera/story-TsqgTUb3ZMWHpCvxiAZLBK.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Impulsive decision’: Nusrat Jahan on India banning TikTok, 58 China apps||Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan underscored on Wednesday that TikTok, one among 59 Chinese-linked apps banned by the Centre earlier this week, is an entertainment app, questioning what’s the government’s “strategic plan” going forward. The Centre’s decision to ban the apps follows June 15 violent scrap between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. Twenty Indian soldiers died in that clash. “TikTok is an entertainment app. It’s an impulsive decision. What’s the strategic plan? What about people who will be unemployed? People will suffer like demonetisation. I don’t have any problem with the ban as it is for national security but who’ll answer these questions,” Nusrat Jahan said during an event at Iskcon in Kolkata today, news agency ANI reported.TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India as of January this year and had become one of the most prominent social media tools used by young Indians.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad today said the ban on Chinese mobile apps is a great opportunity to help Indians come up with good apps of their own and end foreign dependence for such things.“In the wake of the ban which we have imposed...I think it is a great opportunity. Can we come up with good apps made by Indians? Let the dependence on foreign apps, with their own agenda for a variety of reasons, stop,” said the IT and telecom minister.The government said these applications were “engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.The Basirhat MP’s comments come on a day when the CEO of TikTok Kevin Mayer wrote to employees in India that “our platform has encountered an unfortunate challenge in India. However, we stay resolved and committed to our mission, and are working with stakeholders to address their concerns”.CEO Mayer further underlined that TikTok is popular among users in remote cities, towns and villages across India.Actions by the Indian authorities could lead to retaliatory measures by Chinese counterparts.Indian IT companies have been eyeing the Chinese market as part of their strategy to reduce dependence on tapping the Chinese market to the US and UK, which together make up over 70% of Indian IT exports.Beijing on Tuesday said it was “strongly concerned” about New Delhi’s decision to ban Chinese mobile applications. It stressed on cooperation between the two countries and underlined that the ban would go against “India’s interests”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impulsive-decision-nusrat-jahan-on-india-banning-tiktok-58-china-apps/story-fsngBj7RQvgTP3V6RFvINK.html
01-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura announces one-year upper age limit relaxation for govt jobs||Agartala: The Tripura government has relaxed the upper age limit by one year for candidates aspiring for various government posts, whose recruitments were stalled due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The current upper age limit for candidates appearing for government jobs is 40 years. “ Happy to share that our government has decided to give one-year relaxation in the upper age limit for all categories of candidates for direct recruitment of various posts to be advertised by various departments, TPSC (Tripura Public Service Commissions), PSUs (Public Service Undertakings) and state govt organisations. The decision has been taken following the Covid-19 pandemic. The relaxation will take place as a one-time measure. A memorandum will soon be issued in this regard,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on a social media post.State law minister Ratan Lal Nath said: “Tripura is the only one to have decided to give one-time relaxation in the upper age limit for the candidates appearing for the direct recruitment process. It will remain in force till December 31 since the date of issue of the notification.”The student wing of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), recently demanded that the CM give the upper age limit relaxation for candidates aspiring for government jobs.“We are thankful to the CM for giving the one-time relaxation in the upper age limit for government job aspirants,” said Rupam Datta, organising secretary, ABVP, Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tripura-announces-one-year-upper-age-limit-relaxation-for-govt-jobs/story-qtG9xmsG937AndlGK6I6lK.html
01-07-2020||India||Darjeeling tourist spots, hotels open amid questions over safety||All hotels in the Darjeeling hills and the Dooars region of north Bengal opened on Wednesday – the first hill station in the country to welcome tourists, albeit with some restrictions – amid concerns over the safety of locals and visitors because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Darjeeling district has reported 518 Covid-19 positive cases and 11 deaths to date, but the district headquarter has not recorded a single fatality due to the viral outbreak. Most of the Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Siliguri, a sub-division of Darjeeling district and the biggest town in north Bengal.Tourists would have to carry fitness certificates to visit the Darjeeling hills. They would also be screened for Covid-19 symptoms before entering the hills, the officials said.Suraj Sharma, assistant director of the autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s (GTA) tourism department, said, “It takes three to four months to prepare the ground and send a message to tourists that they can plan their visit to Darjeeling hills. The tourist spots have been opened to send a positive vibe. Tourists will have to carry fitness certificates with them.”Tourist spots, safari parks and hotels were shut after the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.Though July, August and September are considered to be the lean season for tourism because of the monsoon fury, the West Bengal government and the GTA authorities are hopeful that some tourists from the plains are likely to visit the hills. Industry stakeholders said the opening the tourism sector might not boost business immediately but at least prepare them to draw tourists during the upcoming peak season of October and November.“Murti and Jaldapara in the Dooars received some tourists on Wednesday,” said Tanmoy Goswami, a Siliguri-based tour operator, as he hailed the decision as a key step to revive tourism in the region.Raj Basu, convenor, Association for Conservation and Tourism (ACT), said, “The tourism business will take time to be back on track. The stakeholders can expect some business in October. We have already lost the business in the March-April season. We need to move ahead with a positive mindset, as the livelihood of thousands of people are involved.”Representatives of political parties and hotel owners, however, said they are not sure how community-based surveillance committees would treat tourists since all people coming from outside the region are made to stay in home quarantine for 14 days.Even local people, travelling from Siliguri town, or the neighbouring Kalimpong district, are not exempted. There have been instances, when homes of some families were locked from outside by the surveillance committees. GTA officials have convened a meeting in Darjeeling on Thursday to discuss this issue. Amar Lama, a senior leader of the local Jan Andolan Party (JAP), questioned the GTA authorities’ move.“It is quite unbelievable that tourists are being allowed to travel to the hills, when even local people, travelling from one village to another, are being asked by surveillance committees to stay in quarantine,” Lama said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-tourist-spots-hotels-open-amid-questions-over-safety/story-YU08LKJeDfcCOuwlzTb3dP.html
01-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu boiler explosion: CM announces Rs 3 lakh as compensation to kin of victims||Tamil Nadu chief minister M Edappadi K Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakhs each to the families of those who lost their lives in a boiler explosion at Neyveli Lignite Plant on Wednesday. Rs 1 lakh has been announced as compensation for those who have sustained severe injuries while those with minor injuries will be provided with Rs 50,000.At least six people were killed and 17 other got injured in the boiler explosion that took place in Tamil Nadu earlier in the day. The six men were aged between 25 and 42 years, according to an official cited by news agency PTI. The injured include employees who have sustained at least 40% burn injuries according to an initial assessment, the official said. CM Edappadi K Palaniswami announces an ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakhs each to families of those who lost their lives in a boiler explosion at Neyveli Lignite Plant. Rs 1 lakh&Rs 50,000 have been announced for those who have sustained severe & minor injuries, respectively: Tamil Nadu CMOThe incident occurred in stage 2 of Tamil Nadu’s Neyveli Lignite Power Plant. The injured were taken to the NLC Lignite Hospital. Union home minister Amit Shah expressed grief on the incident and assured all possible help to control the situation.Shah said that the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is already on the spot to assist the relief work.“Anguished to learn about the loss of lives due to a blast at Neyveli power plant boiler in Tamil Nadu. Have spoken to Chief Minister Office of TamilNadu (CMO) and assured all possible help. CISF is already on the spot to assist the relief work. Praying for the earliest recovery of those injured,” Shah said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-boiler-explosion-cm-announces-rs-3-lakh-as-compensation-to-kin-of-victims/story-XSKrvRhCZ0fl4DZ19Q7HjL.html
01-07-2020||India||National Doctors’ Day: Meet corona warriors who are going the extra mile||The unprecedented times due to Covid-19 pandemic have demanded some extraordinary efforts from the healthcare professionals. Working in 48 hour shifts in high risk environments while sweltering in PPE kits, the medical practitioners have been doing it all, as the frontline warriors against coronavirus. But that’s not all for some doctors have been going beyond their call of duty to help others survive the difficulties. For families of patients stranded at night shelters outside AIIMS in Delhi, when the lockdown was announced, the situation became worse. Dr Vijay Kumar Gurjar, assistant professor of Geriatric Medicine at AIIMS, took upon himself to provide meals to these family members of patients. He has even made arrangements for access to sanitisers and masks for about a 1,000 people in the slum areas while his social work continues within AIIMS. “As opposed to earlier practice, we are now making two meals available to attendants of patients as well. For them, with nearby places closed, it was hard to make food arrangements. No one should have to go hungry at this hour,’’ Gurjar opines. The need to serve people was also at the core of Gurugram-based gynecologist, Dr Aruna Kalra’s decision when she took the call to keep aside one day in the week to treat for free, those patients who’ve lost their jobs and women who are pregnant. “The situation is exceptionally difficult for people who have lost their jobs during the lockdown. Many pregnant women are finding it very difficult to afford the expense for their treatment. For me, as a doctor, my patients’ health is my first priority,’’ says Kalra. Her concern extends for her nursing staff; she has been cooking all meals for them! “They (nursing staff) give their 100% in taking care of the patients, but often end up neglecting their own health. I feel it’s my responsibility to take care of them as my family,” adds Kalra. Some doctors have even come forth to be angels in disguise for those who have been living through the pandemic alone, and even departing this planet alone. “Everyone deserves to be buried with dignity,’’ says Dr Deepak Devgan, a senior pharmacy officer at Civil Hospital in Amritsar. Devgan has been cremating unclaimed bodies during the pandemic. “There have been instances where the kin have refused to cremate the body of their relative fearing infection while some bodies have been found lying unclaimed in public areas, and were brought to us. I’ve cremated almost 50 people during the lockdown,” shares Devgan, feeling sad that misinformation around coronavirus has led to people not coming forward to put the dead to rest, in a respectful manner. “Indeed the lack of information needs to be addressed during the pndemic,” says Dr Preet Hathi, a senior resident doctor of surgery at Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital. When on duty, Hathi contracted Covid-19 on May 5. But soon after his recovery, he started donating plasma, and has done it twice by now. “One plasma helps two patients. The idea that I’m directly the cause for recovery of four patients means a lot to me,” he says adding, “Ahmedabad has had about 20,000 patients so far, and only less than 50-60 plasma donations. Even in these, 20 or so would be doctors. We need more people to know that this is safe and effective, and one of the ways to show it is to do yourself,” urges Hathi. Author tweets @Bhagat_MallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/national-doctors-day-meet-corona-warriors-who-are-going-the-extra-mile/story-V6qWUM6oI1AnQf8FIqoivM.html
01-07-2020||India||Assam ordinance on land conversion for industries raises concerns on threat to land rights of indigenous people||Assam government’s decision to allow conversion of land without clearances for the setting up industries in the state has sparked a row and has drawn flak from opposition parties.On Monday, the state cabinet had approved an ordinance that allowed micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to set up industries by only submitting a self-declaration.“In a historic and far-reaching decision to ease out the process of setting up industries in Assam, the state cabinet has approved an ordinance today. Now, anyone will be able to set up industry in Assam just by submitting a self-declaration,” industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary had tweeted on Monday.“No permission, clearance, or licence will be required for three years. Land will also be deemed converted for industrial purposes. Such bold and advantageous change is expected to accelerate the industrialisation process in Assam,” the minister had added.Though more details of the ordinance, which is yet to be approved by Governor Professor Jagdish Mukhi, are not available, apprehensions have surfaced on whether it will lead to the rapid conversion of agricultural land as well as those in tribal belts for industrial purposes without any checks and balances.“This ordinance will severely hurt Assam’s rural economy and the state’s farmers. Not many Assamese have means to procure land and set up industries and the benefit of this ordinance will be reaped by those from outside,” said Debabrata Saikia, a Congress legislator and the leader of opposition in the Assam Assembly.“Last December, when protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) was at its peak, the state government had announced that it would enact two laws to protect the land rights of indigenous people. But this ordinance runs contrary to that assurance. We demand that it is repealed immediately,” Saikia said.He also expressed concerns about health and environmental hazards.There is no clarity yet on whether MSMEs willing to set up industries will have to seek environment and pollution clearances.“We have around one lakh MSMEs in Assam and the ordinance could seem aimed at them benefitting from nearly Rs 6,000 crore expected to come to the state as part of the Centre’s Rs 3 lakh crore stimulus package for the sector,” said Nilay Dutta, a senior advocate.“But, existing MSMEs don’t need land. We welcome steps taken to ease setting up new industries, but when they set up business in agricultural land without any clearances, all protection provided to indigenous farmers will disappear in a flash. What was the grave urgency for this move?” Dutta asked.The All Assam Students Union (AASU), a potent political force in the state, said that the ordinance was anti-indigenous people as it goes against the recommendations given by the committee on Clause VI of the Assam Accord and also contrary to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s promise of protecting the state’s maati (land).“Allowing industries to set up without any clearance from the revenue department solely on the basis of a self-declaration form will hit the land rights of Assamese people and make the state a playground for industrialists from outside. We want this ordinance revoked at the earliest,” said Lurinjyoti, Gogoi, general secretary, AASU.Prodyut Bora, the chairman of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), alleged that the move would lead to a largescale land grab by “moneybags” and all lands located on both sides of national and state highways would be bought and converted into industries.Bibhab Talukdar, the founder of Guwahati-based wildlife non-governmental organisation (NGO), Aaranyak, too, took exception to the state government’s “hurriedly-conceived move”.“The ordinance appears to be framed hurriedly without assessing Assam’s ability to grow economically without further damaging its ecosystem, goods, and services. An unscientific way of converting agricultural land for industries calls for an immediate re-look. If an industrialist wants to set up an industry in key wilderness spots in the state such as Deepor Beel, located on the south-western part of Guwahati, won’t it compromise the conservation of pristine forests, rich and diverse wildlife and the environment? The state government has a lot to answer for,” said Talukdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-ordinance-on-land-conversion-for-industries-raises-concerns-on-threat-to-land-rights-of-indigenous-people/story-y5kgSPdFmE5aWHiw38wrbO.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Won’t allow Chinese companies to participate in highway projects’: Gadkari||India will not allow Chinese companies to participate in highway projects, including those through joint ventures, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Gadakri also said the government will ensure that Chinese investors are not entertained in various sectors like Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).“We will not give permission to joint ventures that have Chinese partners for road construction. We have taken a firm stand that if they (Chinese companies) come via joint venture in our country, we will not allow it,” Gadkari told news agency PTI.The minister also said that a policy will be out soon banning Chinese firms and relaxing norms for Indian companies to expand their eligibility criteria for participation in highway projects.Also read: ‘Let’s stop foreign dependency’: Union minister on China-linked apps banThe minister said while foreign investment and joint ventures in MSMEs will be encouraged, the Chinese shall not be entertained. He described the move as a step toward achieving PM Modi’s vision of a “self-reliant India” or Atmanirbhar Bharat. In the backdrop of the ongoing border standoff with China, India on Monday banned 59 apps, mostly Chinese, citing threats to national security.Also read: TikTok influencers turn to other platforms after app banUnion minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday also hailed the government’s move to ban Chinese mobile apps and described it as an opportunity for Indians to come up with apps of their own and put an end to dependence on other nations for technology-related tools.“In the wake of the ban which we have imposed...I think it is a great opportunity. Can we come up with good apps made by Indians? Let the dependence on foreign apps, with their own agenda for a variety of reasons, stop,” Prasad said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-allow-chinese-companies-to-participate-in-highway-projects-gadkari/story-zGpPCbnUNit7akBeLTXzyI.html
01-07-2020||India||Odisha govt allows counter sale of liquor from today||The Odisha government has allowed over-the-counter sale of liquor from Wednesday after more than three months of coronavirus lockdown.“The state government allowed the counter sale of liquor in OFF and ON shops in addition to the ongoing home delivery of these items from July 1,” the notification from the government read.The customers now need to book a time-slot through an online portal for buying alcoholic beverages from the outlets, stated the govt notification.The liquor shops were closed since March 22 in the wake of the lockdown. Now, to contain the spread of the virus, the excise licenses have been directed to maintain social distancing norm and take all health safety measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-allows-counter-sale-of-liquor-from-today/story-KXr3EULvWbD7k5Lszut9JM.html
01-07-2020||India||Imran Khan to join Xi Jinping to shore up Nepal’s PM Oli against India||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has decided to extend his support to Nepal PM KP Sharma Oli who is finding himself increasingly isolated within the ruling Nepal Communist Party after blaming India for a rebellion in his party, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.PM Oli had on Sunday accused his detractors of trying to push him out of power, accusing India and politicians in Nepal of being involved in a conspiracy to topple him for publishing the country’s new map that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory.This accusation, however, appeared on Tuesday to have backfired on PM Oli after rival leaders such as Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” demanded that he quit his leadership role in the party and government. They had earlier given him an option to retain one of the two posts.Imran Khan’s outreach to PM Oli comes at a time when he is struggling to stay in power.Officials told HT that Islamabad had sent a formal communication to the Nepalese foreign ministry to fix a time for Imran Khan’s phone call to PM Oli.Imran Khan has proposed a 12 noon phone call on Thursday (12.45 pm Nepal Time, 12.30 pm IST).Also Read: How Nepal’s PM is harming tiesDiplomatic sources said it is obvious that the flavour of the conversation is going to be India.Imran Khan’s Pakistan has accused India of engineering the terrorist attack at the Pakistan Stock Exchange in Karachi while PM Oli has been accusing India of destablising his government.The phone call comes at a time Xi Jinping’s China is engaged in a standoff with India over Ladakh. The two prime ministers also owe a huge debt to China for projects that critics say, largely serve Beijing’s interests. “China is their common link,” a Kathmandu watcher said.On the domestic front, PM Oli’s move to come out with a redraw his country’s political map and whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments was an attempt to consolidate his support within the party. PM Oli tried to use it to the hilt this weekend, imputing motives to his rivals who want to see his back.Prachanda and Oli are co-chairs of Nepal’s communist party. Oli is, however, seen to lean a little too heavily towards China and has managed to hold on to the PM’s post due to Beijing’s intervention in the past.PM Oli’s hard push to redraw the Himalayan nation’s political map to create a dispute with New Delhi was also timed to serve China’s interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-to-join-xi-jinping-to-shore-up-nepal-s-pm-oli-against-india/story-oOnbE0uSw9LKi8cYmPYrBK.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Let’s stop foreign dependency’: Union minister on China-linked apps ban||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad underscored on Wednesday that the ban on Chinese mobile apps is a great opportunity to help Indians come up with good apps of their own and end foreign dependence for such things. “In the wake of the ban which we have imposed...I think it is a great opportunity. Can we come up with good apps made by Indians? Let the dependence on foreign apps, with their own agenda for a variety of reasons, stop,” said the IT and telecom minister. Citing national security concerns, the central government on Monday decided to ban 59 mobile applications, including the wildly popular TikTok, linked to China. Government officials told Hindustan Times that the deliberations to ban the apps were fast-tracked after June 15 violent scrap between soldiers at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh.A statement by Ravi Shankar Prasad’s information technology ministry said the decision was taken as these applications were “engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.Beijing on Tuesday said it was “strongly concerned” about New Delhi’s decision to ban Chinese mobile applications. It stressed on cooperation between the two countries and underlined that the ban would go against “India’s interests”.TikTok, a video-sharing platform to create short videos, stopped working in India on Tuesday as the company appeared to comply with the ban. It also no longer came up in searches on the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store, while the company disabled the webpage. Some of the other prominent applications – such as WeChat and CamScanner – continued to work and were available on the application stores of both platforms till Tuesday night.TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India as of January this year and had become one of the most prominent social media tools used by young Indians.In a statement issued by TikToK, the company’s India head, Nikhil Gandhi, said they “have been invited to meet with concerned government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-stop-foreign-dependency-union-minister-on-china-linked-apps-ban/story-n6UAp0pBviMWWNcgyIpMaP.html
01-07-2020||India||Mint wins best ‘Newspaper Front Page Design’ prize at WAN-IFRA’s 19th Asian Media Awards||Business daily MINT has won the best ‘Newspaper Front Page Design’ award at WAN-IFRA’s 19th Asian Media Awards for a striking page design, which featured Prime Minister Narendra Modi accepting the people’s mandate after the results for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls were declared in May last year. HT Media’s business newspaper Mint won the prestigious prize for the front page of its special edition dated May 24, 2019 following the announcement of the Lok Sabha election results last year, which gave the Narendra Modi-led government a second term in power at the Centre.Hundreds of newspapers and magazines from the Asia Pacific, South Asia and West Asia took part in the competition, which aims to promote the highest standards of publishing in the fields of newspaper and magazine design, infographics, editorial content, marketing, community service and photojournalism.  In the case of Mint’s front page look, the central visual with its fine drawing and deep saffron was striking. The overall look was elegant because of the soft shade. More importantly, the front-page design was simple and easily navigable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mint-wins-best-newspaper-front-page-design-prize-at-wan-ifra-s-19th-asian-media-awards/story-B1J1cSot1NXcegnX4RwZrM.html
01-07-2020||India||Chariots of Lord Jagannath and siblings return to main temple without devotees||The Bahuda Yatra signifying the return of the holy trinity of Lord Jagannath and his siblings to the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri began Wednesday morning with servitors pulling the chariots back from the Gundicha temple.There were no devotees in line with a Supreme Court order in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 23 too, the Rath Yatra took place without any devotees.After the morning rituals at Gundicha temple, the three deities set off for the main temple atop their respective chariots. Lord Balabhadra, the eldest was the first to set off in his red-bluish green coloured chariot Taladhwaja, followed by Goddess Subhadra in red-black chariot Darpadalana. Lord Jagannath was the last to start in his red-yellow chariot Nandighosha.The ritual of chhera pahanra (sweeping) was performed by Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb on three chariots between 10.30 am and 11.15 am. The pulling of chariots started at 11.25 am, ahead of a schedule fixed by the Sri Jagannath temple administration. The entire process is being telecast live by Doordarshan as well as state government’s own agencies.Sri Jagannath temple chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar said all the rituals of the festival till now have been completed on time.This was also the first time in 285 years when the Bahuda Yatra like the Rath Yatra was held without the presence of a single devotee. The Rath Yatra was earlier stalled following SC order on June 18. However, following interventions by several individuals including the head priest of the temple, the apex court had allowed the Rath Yatra on the condition that there is no public attendance and all entry points into Puri will remain closed. It also said each of 3 chariots, would be pulled by not more than 500 people who test negative for coronavirus.Though around 2,000 servitors were tested ahead of the Rath Yatra on June 23, over 5,500 persons including servitors, police, staff of temple administration and sanitary staff were again tested for the Bahuda Yatra two days ago. Out of them 12 including a servitor tested positive for coronavirus.“The persons who tested positive have been isolated and their contact tracing is on. All the servitors who took part in today’s Bahuda Yatra had tested negative for Covid,” said Puri district collector Balwant Singh.After arriving at Simhadwar, the main gate of the Jagannath temple, the three deities will be draped in Sunabesha (golden attire) on Thursday.Adharpana ritual, which witnesses serving 100 litres of pana (sweet drink) to the deities in specially made terracotta pots, will be held on Friday. On Saturday, the three deities would be taken back to the main temple in a ritual called Niladri Bije.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chariots-of-lord-jagannath-and-siblings-return-to-main-temple-without-devotees/story-FzJkb01hbTWbLnjx6VXmQM.html
01-07-2020||India||AP acquires 1,088 state-of-the-art mobile clinics to provide emergency medicare to patients||Andhra Pradesh (AP) government on Wednesday acquired a fleet of 1,088 state-of-the-art ambulances, which will serve as mobile clinics in both rural and urban areas, at an estimated cost of Rs 201 crore.AP Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who flagged off the ambulances in Vijayawada, asserted that his government was committed to revamping the medical infrastructure in the state.The new ambulances will operate with two separate toll-free numbers – 104 and 108. While ambulances with toll-free number 104 will run as emergency services in rural areas, 108 will be for the urban parts of the state.Of these new ambulances, 412 and 676 have been divided for urban and rural areas, respectively.The ambulances will run as mobile clinics with advanced life support systems. The ambulances include 26 vehicles that will be used exclusively for neo-natal services equipped with incubators and other essential facilities for babies born with complications.The CM said 676 ambulances would serve as Mobile Medical Units (MMUs), which would provide 20 types of medical services, including all screening for communicable and non-communicable diseases (NCDs).Altogether, 744 doctors would be made available for these services and they would visit a village once a month to offer medical services, he added.Besides oxygen cylinders, these new ambulances would have ventillators, infusion pumps, syringe pumps, and comfortable stretchers besides provisions for delivery of babies. The vehicles are also enabled with surveillance cameras to ensure proper healthcare monitoring by doctors, he said.The CM also announced a hike in the monthly salaries of ambulance drivers from Rs 18,000 to Rs 28,000 and ambulance technicians from Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000.Special chief secretary (medical and health) KS Jawahar Reddy said the ambulances would be attached to the primary healthcare centres in all the revenue blocks for the deployment of doctors on call.“This would help people know doctors they should contact in emergencies and doctors, too, would have an understanding of the health profile of the villagers in general and families in particular. The government is in the process of preparing digital family health profiles,” he said.The estimated time of arrival of these emergency vehicles to the spot from the time of receiving an emergency call is expected to be 15 minutes in urban areas, 20 minutes in rural areas, and 25 minutes in the remote tribal areas of the state. A new programme, Dr YSR Rahadari Bhadratha, is also being linked to the urban service, where any road accident patient will be treated free of cost in any hospital across the state for the first 48 hours and up to a maximum expenditure of Rs 50,000. Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust would reimburse the expenses for the road accident patients, the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-acquires-1-088-state-of-the-art-mobile-clinics-to-provide-emergency-medicare-to-patients/story-OXK5Zwyj0IhIBJOk5iBLJL.html
01-07-2020||India||Coronil will be in stores soon after Ayush ministry calls it a Covid-19 management drug||Announcing the availability of Ayurvedic Coronil— the immunity-boosting medicine across the country from now on, yoga guru Swami Ramdev on Wednesday said that all issues with the Ayush ministry have been resolved and their ayurvedic medicine has been labelled as a ‘Covid-19 management drug’ by the ministry.Reiterating that Patanjali Yogpeeth followed all due legal procedures in carrying out clinical control trials of Coronil, swasari and anu taila on Covid-19 positive patients, Swami Ramdev while addressing a press conference in Haridwar on Wednesday pointed out that after carrying out successful clinical control drug trials on asymptomatic and mild patients, Patanjali is also carrying out advanced stage research on serious patients.“All issues with the Ayush department have been resolved and our ayurvedic drug has been labelled as a Covid-19 management drug. This is appropriate and proves that Patanjali has done nothing wrong but followed all due legal processes. Our Covid-19 immunity boosters are solely abstract and compounds of Ayurvedic herbs like Giloy, Tulsi, Ashwagandha and have been effective in the treatment of coronavirus patients. Soon this Coivd-19 immunity booster kit will be available across the country and we are in talks with those states also where due to some confusion the sale of Coronil was being opposed,” said Swami Ramdev.He pointed out that right through from licence seeking process, clinical trials, scientific documentation to submission of all the requisite documents pre and post trials, Patanjali followed each and every rule but undue confusion and doubts were created to malign their sincere efforts on creating an immunity boosting Ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19.Lashing out at those who cast aspersions on Patanjali’s Coronil, Swami Ramdev said that yoga and Ayurveda are ancient time-tested therapies and some segments of society including pro allopathic supporters, drug mafia and multi-national companies were not able to accept the remarkable work being done by Patanjali Yogpeeth in the field of health and medicine through Ayurveda.“The drug mafia, MNCs and anti-national forces want me in jail,” he said.Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit three years ago, during the inauguration of the Patanjali Research Institute, Swami Ramdev recalled that PM Modi had then suggested that Patanjali should establish Ayurveda as evidence-based medicine, for which Patanjali has been for the past few years concentrating immensely with a dedicated team of 500 senior Ayurveda researchers and practitioners working round the clock to achieve this target.The time has come that Ayurveda should be given due medicinal status. We hail from a humble background, are seers, wear saffron clothes but our yoga-ayurveda based work and infrastructure is not going down well with some segments as a result of which we are being dragged unnecessarily into controversies,” said Swami RamdevAcharya Balakrishna, general secretary of Patanjali Yogpeeth, said that Patanjali has carried out clinical trials for more than ten diseases like dengue, hypertension, asthma, swine flu and it’s not the first time that they are conducting virology trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronil-will-be-in-stores-soon-after-ayush-ministry-calls-it-a-covid-19-management-drug/story-Lmhw1MXRZqCf9nD5HoTLFO.html
01-07-2020||India||BJP’s Bengal unit president allegedly heckled by TMC supporters||Dilip Ghosh, the president of the West Bengal unit of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was allegedly heckled by ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters in New Town in the northern fringes of Kolkata on Wednesday morning.While TMC leaders refuted the allegations, opposition parties have closed ranks and condemned the attack.Ghosh had gone out for a morning walk, when some of his party supporters arranged a few chairs at a roadside tea stall near his newly-rented house, where he could sit and interact with local residents.“Suddenly some local TMC supporters came and started abusing me. They also broke the chairs, tore the posters, and damaged a car. There was a scuffle with my security guards. I have informed the local police over the phone and a written complaint will be lodged soon. I could identify a few of the attackers. They are all TMC supporters,” alleged Ghosh.The TMC has, however, rubbished the allegations.Sudip Banerjee, TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha said: “I hear such allegations from the BJP almost every day. Our party is not associated with such attacks.”Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, condemned the attack and said: “There may be political differences. But for that, you cannot attack the head of a party. This proves how the TMC behaves with opposition parties in Bengal.”“Such attacks would ultimately help Ghosh in bringing him to the limelight. The TMC is helping the BJP. We condemn such attacks,” said Sujan Chakraborty, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) lawmaker, who represents the Jadavpur assembly constituency and also the leader of the Left parties in the Bengal Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-bengal-unit-president-allegedly-heckled-by-tmc-supporters/story-GVdgyvPsrPkktuRwkKLfhI.html
01-07-2020||India||Tests reduced despite rising Covid-19 deaths, cases: AIIMS worker to Rahul Gandhi||A coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient, who works as a healthcare worker at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, during an interaction on Wednesday with the former Congress president, Rahul Gandhi, lamented that the testing has drastically reduced in the national capital despite a significant increase in viral infection and fatality rates.“This is, indeed, a sad state of affairs. I want to inform you about some statistics. On May 27, the infection rate in Delhi was 13.7%. We were doing 7,000 tests per day. By June 12-13, our infection rate had crossed 30% and we are doing under 5,000 tests per day,” said Vipin Krishnan, who has been working at AIIMS for the past two years.“This is surprising given that our deaths and infection rates are increasing, but we have reduced testing. I don’t understand what is happening?” he asked Gandhi.Krishnan was joined by three other nurses -- Anu Ragnat from New Zealand, Narendra Singh from Australia and Sherlylmol Puravady from the United Kingdom (UK) – who shared their experiences with Gandhi via a video-conference link about fighting the Covid-19 pandemic as frontline healthcare workers. The conversation covered a range of subjects, including the reason behind Indian nurses are sought after across the world and working in a Covid-19 environment that has had an impact on their family lives. Krishnan, who belongs to Kerala and along with his wife is in quarantine after both tested Covid-19 positive, shared statistics about the skewed ratio between doctors and nurses to patients in the country.“We have 1.2 million registered allopathic doctors in India. We have around 3.7 million registered nurses in India. The ratio is 1:1,500 for doctors to patients and 1.7:1,000 nurses to patients in the country,” he said.“However, the WHO (World Health Organisation) had recommended that the ratio should be 1:1,000 doctors to patients and 3:1,000 nurses to patients. Though we are way short of human resources, we are still fighting hard,” Krishnan added.Gandhi said the doctors are a frustrated lot and do not know how to move forward in terms of conducting Covid-19 tests and are facing enormous challenges such as putting a patient, who has contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, next to a non-Covid-19 patient. “I think the government is trying to manage the perception and trying to give a sense that the problem is not as bad as it is. But I believe that we have to face the problem. We should accept and define the problem accurately and then fight it. I don’t know how you react to that,” the former Congress chief said.“You are absolutely correct,” Krishnan replied.“We have a pandemic situation and the AIIMS director has said that we will peak in June and mid-July. So, even the Delhi chief minister has stated that they are expecting 5.5 lakh cases. We are having 10,000 beds in Delhi. Can you imagine the gravity of the situation, if 5.5 lakh people were to be admitted? Of course, they won’t come at the same time, but on average we will have lakh patients a day. I can’t imagine the gravity of the situation. What will we do?” he asked.Krishnan claimed that outpatient departments (OPDs) in many government hospitals have ceased to function. “We have no way out. We have to think about how to help non-Covid-19 patients. I have also received many calls from cancer patients and others asking for help but we are unable to help. Most of the beds are being allocated for Covid-19 patients, not just in AIIMS but in most government hospitals.”Krishnan also talked about the difference between government and private hospitals in the country.“There is a sea of difference between government hospitals and private hospitals in India… When we look into the private sector, there are a lot of discriminations. Private nurses are saying that their salaries are being cut. How will they care for their families during this pandemic? In such a situation, I think the government must help them and pay their entire salaries. In this condition, it is difficult for them to survive,” he said.Asked by Gandhi if he was scared, Krishnan replied: “I don’t think we are scared of the Covid-19 pandemic. To save the country, we have to fight at the frontlines. My own experience showed that. I was not scared but now that I have been infected, I am still not scared. I want to tell you and the government that once I recover, I want to go back to the Covid-19 ward.”He also demanded that doctors and nurses should be included under the risk allowance category of the central government, as they are losing their lives while fighting against Covid-19 as frontline workers like the army personnel, who are busy guarding the country’s borders.“We can compare this (Covid-19) to a bio-war. It is not a bio-war, but a virus, a small microscopic organism is challenging the world and the country at large. So, we are fighting like the army or the air force. I’m not comparing this with our force. But at least I think you will agree with that we are fighting as an army,” Krishnan said.“Yes, you are a non-violent army,” agreed Gandhi.“We are exhausted but we are fighting in the frontline without any fear or favour. We will win. You and the government are with us. I have complete faith that we will fight this war against Covid-19 and win,” added Krishnan.He also claimed that the voice of healthcare workers is not being heard while making policies. “When a policy is being made related to nurses and the medical profession at large, the experts should be asked for their inputs. Then, only the policies should be made. Unfortunately, that has not been happening in our country. Many organisations’ leaders are not being called when it comes to policymaking decisions.”While Ragnat shared her experiences in New Zealand, Singh gave an account of how the Covid-19 battle is fought in Australia and Puravady talked about the challenges faced by the UK.In Australia, Singh, who is from Rajasthan, said initially Covid-19 was thought to be a simple flu and not taken seriously. “But once the viral outbreak became widespread, we saw it on news every day. And then Italy’s mortality rate started climbing. That was time we started thinking that it was not the simple flu. This is really serious. I think we have to take this viral outbreak seriously,” he said.Talking about her experience in the UK, Puravady, who also belongs to Kerala, told Gandhi that they were quick to use the personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as surgical masks, aprons, and gloves even before the lockdown restrictions were announced.In the UK, she said people are respectful of healthcare workers. “We have dedicated shopping time for the National Health Service (NHS) staff or the care workers. Every Thursday the government is putting it as the clapping for the care workers and things like that. So it is so supportive, all supermarket authorities are very supportive.”Ragnat, who is also from Kerala, said the figures could have gone up easily into five digits if New Zealanders were careless.“So, I think going hard and going early was the motto of Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. She’s done absolutely well. I think going hard and early was really the right thing and that really flattened the curve in New Zealand,” she added.Ragnat said the New Zealand government had the beginning itself announced a $10-million package, including accommodation for healthcare workers. “If you don’t want to go back home to an immune-compromised family member, you can stay either in a hospital or in nearby motels and the government would pay for that. Listening to the rest of the team, I feel like we are in a blessed position actually,” she said.Asked by Gandhi why Indian nurses are valued so much abroad, Puravady said they are very hardworking and dedicate their lives to the profession.“They don’t care about themselves. They see the patients in front of them as either their parents or children, their mother, their brother or sister,” she said.“I think we are go-getters. We are always on the frontline. I think we are ready to cope in any country in any situation, in any scenario, and easily adapt being in few other roles,” she added.The dialogue was a part of Gandhi’s series of video conversations with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the country’s economy.In the past, the Congress chief had interacted with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan; Nobel Laureate Professor Abhijit Banerjee; Harvard Professor Ashish Jha; Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke; Bajaj Auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj and the former US under-secretary of state Nicholas Burns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-reduced-despite-rise-in-covid-19-deaths-infections-rates-aiims-health-worker-to-rahul-gandhi/story-6NIEjMamoGl7x5XcMA8eZM.html
01-07-2020||India||Spurred by business resumption, GST revenue improves in June||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection, a weathervane of economic health, has posted a 46% jump in June at Rs 90,917 crore compared to the previous month, indicating a recovery in business activities post 68-day nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. However, the revenue is still 9% short of Rs 99,939 crore collected in June last year.The GST collections for April was Rs 32,294 crore, a 72% year-on-year decline, the first full month under the 68-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown since March 25, a finance ministry statement said. Although the GST revenue for May saw some improvements at Rs 62,009 crore, it was still 38% less than the revenue collected in the same month last year, the statement said.The government had not released revenue collection figures for April and May this year. In March 2020, the revenue collection dipped by 8% at Rs 97,597 crore even as the slowdown had affected only the last week of the month. Giving subdued collection in June 2020, the statement said the revenues from import of goods came down by 29% and the revenues from the domestic transactions (including import of services) came down by 3%.“However, since the government has allowed a relaxed time schedule for filing of GST returns, returns of the month of April, March, as well as some returns of February, got filed during June 2020 and some returns of May 2020, which would have otherwise got filed in June, will get filed during first few days of July,” it said.The GST collections for the first quarter of the current financial year is 41% less than Rs 3,14,090 crore revenue collected during the same quarter previous year. “However, a large number of taxpayers still have time to file their return for May 2020,” it said.“The gross GST revenue collected in the month of June 2020 is Rs 90,917 crore of which CGST [Central GST] is Rs 18,980 crore, SGST [State GST] is Rs 23,970 crore, IGST [Integrated GST] is Rs 40,302 crore (including Rs 15,709 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 7,665 crore (including Rs 607 crore collected on import of goods),” it said.The government has settled Rs 13,325 crore to CGST and Rs 11,117 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement, it said. The total revenue earned by the Union government and the state governments after regular settlement in June 2020 was Rs 32,305 crore for CGST and Rs 35,087 crore for the SGST, it added.MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India said, “While a decline in GST revenues was expected due to business activities coming to a near standstill, these revenue numbers indicate that a revival is underway and collections will improve in the coming months.”“It is also very interesting to note that in June some of larger producing states have shown an increase in collections or stable revenues compared to last year while some of the consuming states have shown a decline,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurred-by-business-resumption-gst-revenue-improves-in-june/story-DWvOZ7qsMCm00JcKMG2WxO.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Shocked’ Rajinikanth demands punishment in Tamil Nadu custodial death case||Actor Rajinikanth has issued a strong statement on the custodial deaths in Tamil Nadu, and demanded strict punishment for those involved in it.The case is about the death of father-son duo in custody in Tuticorin district.Expressing shock at the incident, Rajinikanth condemned the behaviour of cops. “Everyone related to the incident who deserves punishment should get it,” he said in the statement posted in Tamil on Twitter. #சத்தியமா_விடவே_கூடாது pic.twitter.com/MLwTKg1x4aP Jayaraj (59) and his son J Bennicks (31) were arrested on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the main market of Sathankulam town open during a curfew imposed during coronavirus lockdown.Jayaraju and Benicks were allegedly tortured during the police custody after which they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22. While the son died on the same night, the father breathed his last on the morning of June 23.Judicial magistrate M S Barathidasan, who investigated the incident, submitted a four-page inquiry report which includes the testimony of a policewoman, the only eyewitness on record. The policewoman has said in the testimony that both Jayaraj and Bennicks were beaten through the night on June 19.“There were blood stains on the lathis and a table,” she said and asked the magistrate to obtain them immediately.The report also claimed that camera footage from that night was unavailable because the CCTV camera inside the police station was set on auto-delete.Barathidasan said in the report that the police staff at the station did not cooperate in the investigation. In fact, it further mentioned, that Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police D Kumar “flexed his body to show his physical strength” before the magistrate.Kumar, Deputy superintendent of police C Prathapan and constable Maharajan are facing contempt case based on Barathidasan’s complaint. Three other policemen of the station - one inspector and two sub inspectors - were suspended from duty last week.The incident has led to political battle in Tamil Nadu with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin accusing chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of concealing the brutal murders at the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-rajinikanth-demands-punishment-in-tamil-nadu-custodial-death-case/story-VXvmKIEttSEZSl2UqX7GVK.html
01-07-2020||India||Thackeray says human beings have given up, prays for miracle to overcome Covid crisis||Maharashtra Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray performed special prayers at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur on early Wednesday morning on the auspicious occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi.He prayed for making Maharashtra and the world free from the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and healthy life for one and all.“I (Uddhav Thackeray) prayed to the Lord that now I want to see magic. Show me that magic because as humans our hands are clasped. We don’t have medicine or anything else. How to live with a mask on our faces? Start destroying corona from today and give the entire world a happy and healthy life,” tweeted Chief Minister’s office (CMO).This was the first time that Thackeray offered prayers at the Pandharpur temple as Maharashtra CM.It is a long-standing tradition in Maharashtra for the CM and his spouse to attend the morning prayers at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur on the auspicious occasion of Ashadi Ekadashi.Also read: Section 144 imposed in Mumbai till July 15 amid spike in Covid-19 casesThackeray was accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya, who is also the state’s environment and tourism minister.Despite Shiv Sena being part of previous governments, the Thackerays never took part in this tradition, as no member had contested any election till recently.Aaditya was the first member of the family to contest and win the assembly elections last year. Thackeray, too, got elected this year as a member of the Legislative Council to retain his post as the CM.Traditionally, lakhs of warkaris (pilgrims) – devotees of Lord Vitthal – undertake the wari (pilgrimage) on foot from across Maharashtra and reach Pandharpur on Ashadi Ekadashi, which was observed on Wednesday.The authorities had decided to keep the celebrations low-key this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak.Also read: June turns out to be the worst month for Maharashtra with 5,569 Covid-19 deathsThey had decided that this year, the wari, with the padukas (footprints) of Saint Dnyaneshwar, Saint Tukaram, and seven others would be taken to Pandharpur by bus with a limited number of people, not on foot as it is traditionally done. Pandharpur district collector has also decided to close the temple to devotees between July 1 and 15 in a bid to maintain social distancing norms because of the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-offers-special-prayers-at-lord-vitthal-temple/story-YW1GEWWh4jx7n6obnIywoK.html
01-07-2020||India||Govt’s cyber security agency says over 100 malicious Chrome extension removed, asks users to be cautious||The Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-In) has advised internet users to exercise caution while installing Google Chrome extensions.The company said that it removed over 100 malicious extensions after they were found collecting sensitive user data. CERT-In also said that it found these extensions contained code to bypass Google Chrome’s Web store security scans.CERT-In comes under the Ministry of Electronics and Technology and deals with cyber security threats.The malicious extensions had the ability to take screenshots, read the clipboard, harvest authentication cookies or grab user keystrokes to read passwords and other confidential information, said the agency.The agency advised Internet users to only install extensions which are absolutely needed and refer user reviews before doing so.Last month, researchers had said that spyware effort attacked users through 32 million downloads of extensions to Google’s Chrome web browser. Google had said that it removed more than 70 of the malicious add-ons from its official Chrome Web Store after being alerted by the researchers.Most of the free extensions purported to warn users about questionable websites or convert files from one format to another. Instead, they siphoned off browsing history and data that provided credentials for access to internal business tools.In January this year, Google had suspended all the commercial extensions in the wake of a significant increase in the number of fraudulent transactions that aim to exploit users.Malicious developers have been using Google’s Chrome Store as a conduit for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-cyber-security-agency-says-over-100-malicious-chrome-extension-removed-asks-users-to-be-cautious/story-1fRfBC0ByDkjPsurGAZawM.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Covid-19 is unpredictable, no room for complacency’: Delhi CM Kejriwal||The Covid-19 situation in the national capital seems to be improving in last few days, however, there is no room for complacency, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said during an address on Wednesday, adding that the Covid-19 “virus is unpredictable”. “We must continue our efforts with more vigour,” the chief minister added. Kejriwal said that nearly one month ago when the lockdown was relaxed, it was assumed the cases would increase in the national capital. “We had predicted 1 lakh total cases and 60,000 active cases till June 30. I am happy today that Delhi has only 26,000 active cases,” he said.Also read: No difference of opinion with AYUSH Ministry’ - Patanjali issues statement The situation is improving in Delhi in the last few days. However, there is no room for complacency. This virus is unpredictable. We must continue our efforts with more vigour: Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Chief Minister #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/uYgC7Ssd3zThe chief minister said that while it was predicted that 15,000 beds would be required for Covid-19 patients, only 5,800 patients have occupied beds till date. “The recovery rate is very good. A month ago, 38% patients had recovered, now recovery rate is 64%,” he stated. Kejriwal said that the Covid-19 death rate in the national capital has also come down. “Testing has been increased, the positivity rate has also come down. Earlier of 100 tests, 31 would test positive. Now 13 cases are found in 100 samples. This shows the situation has come under control. We hope for the best but are prepared for the worst,” he noted. Delhi stands third on the Covid-19 national tally with coronavirus cases jumping to 87,360 on Wednesday. As many as 58,348 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,742 have succumbed to the infection. India’s Covid-19 tally stands at 585,493, more than 17,000 have died from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-in-unpredictable-no-room-for-complacency-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-naQ4q6oSsbptbRlCAsiUIP.html
01-07-2020||India||BSNL’s 4G tender scrapped, Chinese companies may be excluded in next round||The BSNL 4G upgradation tender was cancelled on Wednesday by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT). The decision comes after the DoT decided to issue fresh specifications for the upgradation process.A fresh tender will be issued by the DoT, officials said, in the next two weeks after the six-member committee set up to review the upgradation requirement submits its report. The tender will focus on boosting the Indian manufacturing sector, as the DoT pushes the government’s flagship initiative, Make in India. The Central government had instructed BSNL to not use Chinese equipment for the upgrade - days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) - which is likely to cost Rs 7,000-8,000 crore.In the fresh tender, DoT may ask government telcos, BSNL and MTNL, to not use equipment from Chinese companies, DoT officials told Hindustan Times.“However, any decision will only be taken after the committee’s report is submitted,” said the official on the condition of anonymity. HT had earlier reported that the six-committee is headed by a DoT Technology advisor K Ramchand and has representatives from BSNL and MTNL, two independent experts and another representative from the industry.The fresh tender will be on “futuristic” and “realistic” expectations, officials had earlier told HT.The move is part of the DoT push to reduce reliance of India’s telecom sector on foreign equipment and increase domestic manufacturing. According to experts, nearly 75% of the telecom equipment is sourced from China. Two major Chinese firms with a stake in the Indian market are ZTE and Huawei, both Chinese companies. Other major players include Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung. The DoT is also in the process of starting the 5G spectrum testing, in which Huawei was slated to take part. Separately, the DoT is also in consultation with private telecom service providers to encourage the use of equipment manufacture in India.Earlier this week, the electronics and information technology ministry had also banned 59 Chinese apps citing security concerns. According to former DoT technology advisor RK Bhatnagar, the DoT in February 2020 had issued a memorandum that said India is liable to take reciprocal action against any country that does not provide market access. “Although it wasn’t explicitly stated, the context was China,” Bhatnagar told Hindustan Times. “Whether DoT explicitly states it in the fresh tender or not, it is unlikely procurement from Chinese firms will be allowed.”Bhatnagar added that the Federal Communications Commission, US, has designated Huawei and ZTE as a “national security risk”. He also said that during a national crisis the government also has the right to take over any network, even private ones. “There is no mandatory testing of equipment that is procured,” said Bhatnagar. “Right now, the situation with China is tense but if it escalates they use the equipment and sabotage us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-4g-tender-cancelled-after-dot-excludes-chinese-companies/story-heXvPzkfYDKju3ZZHSK1sM.html
01-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi speaks to Indian nurses from around the world on Covid crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi talks to Indian nurses from across globe, discusses Covid-19 situationOn National Doctors Day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hosted a conversation with Indian nurses from around the world on the Covid-19 crisis. Read moreUnlock 2: Uttarakhand govt taking steps to boost state’s economy, says CM RawatUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Wednesday the government is taking several steps to lift the state’s economy as India entered into day one of Unlock 2. Read moreSopore encounter: Police save 3-year-old from getting hit by bulletsThe Jammu and Kashmir Police saved a three-year-old boy from getting hit by bullets during the encounter between the security forces and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore on Wednesday. Read morePakistan Army appoints first female lieutenant generalPakistan Army has appointed a woman officer as lieutenant general for the first time, the military’s media wing said on Tuesday. Major General Nigar Johar, who got the coveted post of a three-star general, has also been appointed as the first female surgeon general of the Pakistan Army. Read moreBookMyShow launches its own online streaming platform: Here’s what it will show youIf you are a movie buff and like to watch them at movie theatres, you must be knowing about BookMyShow, an application through which you can book tickets to theatres and other events. Read moreBreathe 2 Into The Shadows trailer: Abhishek Bachchan would kill to find daughter, Amit Sadh returns in Amazon Prime showActor Abhishek Bachchan has shared the first trailer for Breathe 2: Into The Shadows. The show marks his television debut and will arrive on Amazon Prime Video on July 10. Read moreNational Doctor’s Day 2020: Will teleconsultation be the next big thing in healthcare?Extended working hours, no sleep, hospitals teeming with patients, the risk of getting infected and barely any ‘me time’ — these are just a few things doctors face every day. Read moreNational Doctor’s Day 2020: Mumbai Police’s special tribute to doctors who’re no less than superheroesNational Doctor’s Day is being celebrated today and people all over social media are writing words of praise and sharing posts of gratitude towards our heroes. Among those posts is a special tribute from Mumbai Police. Read moreNew ‘pandemic virus’ in China raises alarm, St Stephen’s may drop written testHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, new variant called G4 of swine flu virus that killed thousands in 2009 raises alarm in China, transfusion guideline tweaked for pandemic, St Stephen’s may drop test and conduct online interviews. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-speaks-to-indian-nurses-from-around-the-world-on-covid-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sCgdRMhNHwZg1gWBCnUckK.html
01-07-2020||India||‘No difference of opinion with AYUSH Ministry’: Patanjali issues statement||Patanjali Ayurved Ltd., on Wednesday, issued a statement saying that all documents related to the Covid-19 clinical trial have been shared with the AYUSH Ministry and that there exists “no difference of opinions between the ministry and Patanjali.In the statement, Patanjali said that Covid-19 patients group that received its medicines, showed 67% recovery in 3 days and 100% recovery in 7 days of treatment. “That is, all 45 patients became Covid-19 negative,” the statement read.Patanjali claims that the ministry has categorically agreed that “Patanjali Research Foundation has appropriately worked on Covid-19 management”. Patanjali claims that "#COVID19 patients group that received its medicines, showed 67% recovery in 3 days & 100% recovery in 7 days of treatment, that is, all 45 patients became COVID negative"; says all clinical trial documents have been shared with AYUSH Ministry. pic.twitter.com/jSMTxCwLp8As per the statement, Patanjali says it is allowed by the Ministry to “manufacture and distribute its Divya Coronil Tablets, Divya Swasarvati and Divya AnuTaila across India”. The company said that it has procured the licence approval for Divya Coronil tablet and Divya Swasarivati on their “traditional reported usage”. “Ayurvedic drug licences and control clinical trials are two different streams,” the statement read.This comes a day after Acharya Balkrishna, the chief executive officer of Patanjali clarified that the company never claimed that its newly-tested medicines would treat Covid-19.“We cited Coronil as ayurvedic medicine for immunity boosting, fever, cough and allergic problems,” Balkrishna said, adding, “Only results of clinical trial based curing of positive patients were claimed by us”.Last week, Patanjali Ayurved launched a drug called “Coronil”, claiming that it had cured within a week all Covid-19 patients who took part in a trial conducted in Jaipur.The claim triggered a row with the Union AYUSH ministry directing the firm not to sell the drug.Uttarakhand’s Ayurveda department said the firm had only applied for a licence to manufacture an immunity booster and not a cure for coronavirus.In reply to a notice by the Uttarakhand government, Patanjali clarified not promoting any “kit” to treat Covid-19 and only sharing the findings of the “successful trial” of a medicine on patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-difference-of-opinion-with-ayush-ministry-patanjali-issues-statement/story-DSvJWjobZcHUg8XLM8xGlJ.html
01-07-2020||India||New Zealand intelligence broke into Indian mission in 1989 and 1991||The Indian high commission in Wellington was among foreign missions targeted by New Zealand’s intelligence agency for illegal break-ins in the late 1980s and early 1990s, according to a media report on Wednesday.The report by Radio New Zealand (RNZ), an independent public service media organisation, said New Zealand’s Security Intelligence Service (SIS) broke into the Indian mission for Britain’s MI6 and the Iranian embassy for the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to “photograph code books, plant bugs and steal communications”.There were at least two raids on the Indian high commission in Wellington in 1989 and 1991 to “photograph thousands of pages from the commission’s code books, which were used to encrypt communications”.The covert attack on the Indian mission was a joint move by SIS and MI6 that was code-named Operation Dunnage.“Thousands of photographs containing the codes were sent back to the UK so that Britain’s foreign intelligence service could decipher the communications of Indian government officials and diplomats,” RNZ reported.There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials.In the early 1990s, SIS targeted the Iranian embassy in Wellington in a mission named Operation Horoscope, which was driven by CIA, which “altered circuit boards on a telex machine used by the Iranian Embassy in Wellington, allowing the American intelligence agency to intercept” Iranian communications, the report said.There was also a joint SIS-MI6 raid on the Czechoslovakian embassy in 1986 to steal Warsaw Pact codes.New Zealand is part of the secretive “Five Eyes” intelligence alliance that also includes the UK, the US, Australia and Canada. The five countries are party to a treaty for cooperation in signals intelligence and the alliance has faced criticism in recent years for its covert activities.RNZ cited one New Zealand source, who spent more than 20 years at the highest levels of the public sector, as saying he was concerned about the nature of the work SIS carried out for its Five Eyes partners.The source, who had close dealings with intelligence agencies, said “New Zealand came under pressure from its Five Eyes partners, especially the US and Australia, to do their dirty work”. The source also felt New Zealand “sometimes risked its international reputation by doing things that largely benefited Five Eyes partners”.Breaking into an embassy is a violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which states that foreign missions are inviolable and the host country should not even open diplomatic mail bags.Geoffrey Palmer, New Zealand’s prime minister between August 1989 and September 1990, said he had not heard of the raids on the Indian and Iranian embassies but should have been alerted by SIS if they occurred when he was in charge of the agency.“If it was at the time I was prime minister, I most certainly should have been,” he told RNZ.Jim Bolger, prime minister during 1990-97, said he too couldn’t recall signing any warrants to allow SIS to break into foreign embassies. He expressed surprise there had been a raid on the Indian mission and asked why New Zealand would want to carry out a covert attack on India.Bolger said: “I have no recollection of that ever hitting my desk and if it did, I have to say, my memory is not gone yet, I’d be very surprised if I was ever advised of any such event. I have no recollection – and that’s not just a brush-off.”Former premier Helen Clark refused to confirm or deny whether raids happened during her term as prime minister between 1999 and 2008.SIS said in a statement it was “unable to respond to questions about what may or not be specific operational matters”. The statement added: “The mission of the NZSIS has always been to keep New Zealanders safe, protect our key national institutions and promote New Zealand’s national advantage.”RNZ learned about the raids after piecing together information gained over months of engaging with multiple sources in New Zealand, Britain and the US. The raids were brought to light by Wellington-based writer and documentary maker John Daniell, whose mother and stepfather worked for SIS, and RNZ journalists.In February, the Washington Post had reported that CIA and its West German counterpart, BND, had controlled Crypto AG, which made coding machines for dozens of countries, including India and Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-zealand-intelligence-broke-into-indian-mission-in-1989-and-1991/story-KBSMcx9xpvEvoZYUeyZf1N.html
01-07-2020||India||Ban China-funded news platforms in India, online publishers group DNPA to Centre||Days after India banned 59 China-linked mobile apps, India’s online news publishers association has asked the government to extend the ban to online news platforms and applications funded by China or Chinese companies.In a statement released on Wednesday, Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA) said the Indian government should take a hard look at the online news sector and ban all news apps and platforms in India funded by investment by China or its investors. This is important to ensure that biased information shouldn’t reach Indian users, the organisation of the digital arms of media companies said.Pawan Agarwal, DNPA chairman said this is the time that we should consider upholding India’s security, sovereignty as the utmost priority.On Monday, the government banned 59 mobile apps linked to China citing concerns that these are ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.DNPA underscored that Beijing had practically banned Indian media in China, preventing people in their country from accessing news and opinion from India. “None of the Indian websites can be opened in China even via a VPN (virtual private network),” the statement said.The DNPA’s communication to the government comes days after Robert O’Brien, National Security Adviser in the Trump administration, spoke about heavy investments by the China’s communist party into overseas propaganda operations. O’Brien said the communist party owned or worked closely with nearly every Chinese language news outlet in the US and was making inroads into English language media as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-china-funded-news-platforms-in-india-online-publishers-group-dnpa-to-centre/story-UcZE3Mi6gYDsd2ZV2COOMO.html
01-07-2020||India||Pak terrorist killed along LoC, infiltration bid foiled||The Indian Army on Wednesday foiled an intrusion bid and killed a Pakistani terrorist along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district in the Jammu division of the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). “We acted on the basis of specific intelligence inputs from J&K Police and a joint operation was launched close to the LoC in Keri area of Bhimber Gali sector in Jammu division’s Rajouri district,” said Lieutenant Colonel, Devender Anand, spokesperson, Indian Army.“Terrorists were seen crossing the LoC. Our alert troops foiled the infiltration bid. One terrorist was killed and an AK-47 rifle and two magazines were recovered. The search operation is still on,” he added.The infiltration bid was foiled around 5.55am and the terrorists had entered 400 metres inside the Indian territory in the Keri sector, said an Army source, requesting anonymity.On Tuesday, Dilbag Singh, director-general of police (DGP), J&K Police, had said the UT’s anti-infiltration grid is intact, despite active terror launch pads across the LoC constantly trying to infiltrate terrorists.“Our anti-infiltration grid is intact on the border and in the hinterland. But, at the same time, the launch pads of Pakistan are active and they keep trying to push terrorists to our side. Our security forces have foiled their sinister designs and will keep doing so,” he had told media persons after reviewing the security scenario along the LoC and in the hinterland in Jammu’s division’s Poonch district.Singh had said that the anti-terror operations are on at full throttle in Kashmir and 128 terrorists have been eliminated by the security forces to date this year.“In the Kashmir Valley, 48 terrorists have been eliminated in June alone. So far, 128 terrorists, of which 70 belonged to Hizbul Mujahideen (HM), 20 each from Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and remaining from other groups, have been killed in anti-terror operations,” he had said.The DGP said that two terrorists were killed during an operation in Bijbehara in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Tuesday. The slain terrorists were involved in the killing of an infant (5) and a CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) jawan on Sunday.There has been a spurt in ceasefire violation and infiltration attempts by Pakistan along the International Border (IB) and the LoC since March 15 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.But there has been a concerted bid to mount anti-terror operations to stymie the home-grown jihadi groups’ terror attacks.The J&K administration is making all necessary arrangements for the annual Amarnath Yatra in the south Kashmir Himalayas, which is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 from the shorter Baltal track in the Ganderbal district.In 2017, a bus, carrying Amarnath pilgrims from Gujarat, was attacked by terrorists in Anantnag district that left seven of them dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-terrorist-killed-along-loc-infiltration-bid-foiled/story-Gj8UeV4ThFRaOHyua3lq7M.html
01-07-2020||India||Assam’s Covid-19 cases double in fortnight to cross 8,000; Guwahati worst hit||Assam’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally doubled from 4,000 cases within 15 days on Tuesday, as the overall count stands at 8,407.The state reported 613 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday – the biggest single-day spike.Of the new Covid-19 positive cases reported on Tuesday, 380 were from Guwahati, which along with rest of the Kamrup Metro district is under a 14-day complete lockdown since last Sunday (June 28) to rein the spike in the viral outbreak in the state’s and the north-east region’s biggest city.“Today, 380 cases were reported in Guwahati alone and the need for caution can’t be overemphasised,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted around midnight on Tuesday.Assam had reported its first Covid-19 positive case on March 31 and it took nearly two months to reach 1,000 cases on May 29. The state topped 2,000 cases on June 4 and it took another 10 days for the figure to double. Assam has reported 12 Covid-19 related deaths till Tuesday and 5,647 patients have recovered from the viral infection at a recovery rate of 72%.So far, the north-east’s most populous state has conducted over four lakh Covid-19 tests.“Our aggressive and targeted testing is designed to flatten the curve by tracing all those who may be potentially infected. Continuing Herculean efforts, health department teams reached test figures of 412,214 today,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday.Though the viral outbreak was under check in Assam until April, the situation worsened from May 4 onwards amid the easing of lockdown restrictions and the resumption of domestic flights that led to the return of over 3.5 lakh stranded people to the state.The state government has imposed the 14-day lockdown in the Kamrup Metro district after around three dozen Covid-19 positive cases were detected last week among people, who didn’t have any recent travel history.However, the surge is yet to be under control in Guwahati, despite the imposition of lockdown restrictions.Guwahati has reported 1,727 Covid-19 positive cases to date.Earlier, the minister had said that 890 hospital beds are available for Covid-19 patients in the Kamrup Metro district and justified the imposition of lockdown because of the spike in the viral outbreak.On Tuesday, the minister inaugurated a 250-bed facility for Covid-19 patients at Palashbari on the outskirts of Guwahati. Another 900-bed Covid-19 facility is expected to be opened soon at Khanapara in Guwahati on the Assam-Meghalaya border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-covid-19-cases-double-in-fortnight-to-cross-8-000-guwahati-worst-hit/story-KVqrCy3hxAYYgEQiFH5kXI.html
01-07-2020||India||Doctor’s Day: How to address exacerbating burnout rate among medics due to Covid-19||With the contagious Covid-19 virus gripping the nation, the first line of defence, doctors and other healthcare workers have been caught in the eye of a storm. The saviours are at the highest risk for depression, insomnia, anxiety, and increased alcohol consumption. The thought that you may cause the infection to your loved ones when you go back home every single day is crawling under their bellies.“There is always a constant fear that runs in my mind that what if I am spreading the deadly coronavirus to my children, who diligently follow the hygiene guidelines as suggested by the health bodies,” said Dr Shuchin Bajaj, Internal Medicine, Ujala Cygnus Orthocare Hospital, New Delhi.Besides battling with fear, Dr Bajaj also struggles with sparing quality time for the family. “Since life has become different especially for a healthcare professional, I try to utilize the time with my family as I know I might have just a couple of hours to spend with them in our 24-hour job. It’s very hard to express those feelings as a father, who can’t hug their children and kiss them,” added Dr Bajaj.Who would have thought that the person who could provide aid against the disease would be in the clutches of the disease itself? Doctors who are in hotspots usually show a higher degree of a psychological burden compared to the ones away from them.“A large proportion of healthcare professionals, especially doctors are experiencing symptoms of anxiety, depression, insomnia, and psychological distress. They report severe symptoms, which should not come as a surprise, as they often must engage in a lot of emotional labour, like reassuring patients, while keeping their own emotions in check,” said Dr Shweta Sharma, Consultant-Clinical Psychologist, Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurugram.The old adage ‘Prevention is Better than Cure’ comes handy for the doctors when it comes to stopping the Covid-19 spread. The sole fear among doctors which increases anxiety level in them is of their family being affected due to them, along with long working hours with PPE kits.“I practice Yoga, meditation to come out of depression and try spending quality time with my family with some recreational activities,” said Dr Ashok Rai, BAMS, MD, Kanchan Poly Clinic, Badarpur.“Though it is a noble profession, for one to embrace it every single day and fight one’s fear and the patients’ fear and illness is not an easy task. Doctors should be discussing with their peers and watch their moods in terms of feeling sad, mood swings, increased irritability, increased anger, please speak to someone competent to handle mental health,” said Dr Preeti Singh, Sr Consultant Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Paras Hospitals, Gurugram.Like soldiers on the frontline, doctors are performing their duties during the ongoing pandemic with utmost diligence. We need to acknowledge their contribution and should express the gratitude in these testing times. Life has become an emergency drill for medics working 24X7 at a full-fledged Covid-19 hospital armed with PPE kit and determination to save lives. National Doctor’s Day, July 1, is a perfect day to thank all of them for their round the clock service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-s-day-how-to-address-exacerbating-burnout-rate-among-medics-due-to-covid-19/story-B1jyQoymtJJULhFvRpjELJ.html
01-07-2020||India||6 dead, 16 injured in boiler explosion at NLC power plant in Tamil Nadu||Six contractual workers were killed and 16 others suffered burn injuries in a boiler explosion at NLC India Ltd’s thermal plant in Tamil Nadu’s Cuddalore district on Wednesday, in the second such accident in two months, reports said.The accident took place at the fifth unit of the Centre-run thermal power station-II (210 MW x 7) when workers were in the process of resuming operations in the morning.“Six men have died. Sixteen people who sustained injuries have been rushed to a hospital in Chennai,” an NLC official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The six men were aged between 25 and 42 years, according to the official cited by the news agency. The injured include employees who have sustained at least 40% burn injuries according to an initial assessment, the official said.Union home minister Amit Shah condoled the deaths and said he has spoken to Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami and assured all possible help.“Anguished to learn about the loss of lives due to a blast at Neyveli power plant boiler in Tamil Nadu. Have spoken to Chief Minister Office of TamilNadu (CMO) and assured all possible help,” Amit Shah said in a tweet.“CISF is already on the spot to assist the relief work. Praying for the earliest recovery of those injured,” he said.In May, at least six workers died after a boiler explosion at the plant of NLC, which was easier known as Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-injured-in-tamil-nadu-s-neyveli-lignite-power-plant-boiler-explosion/story-bpg81HLru8I62HICqqxqQL.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Steady improvement’: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate nears 60%, over 3.4 lakh recover across country||While India’s coronavirus cases continue to rise, according to the government the Covid-19 recovery rate in the country shows promise and now stands at over 59 percent. As of July 1, the country’s coronavirus recovery rate was recorded at 59.43 percent.Of the 585,493 coronavirus cases in the country, the number of patients who have recovered till date stands at 347,978.In a tweet, the government of India - through its handle on Covid-19 updates - shared the recovery path of coronavirus patients in the country, showing a steady improvement in the country’s recovery rate since the imposition of the first phase of the lockdown on March 25 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Also read: India sees biggest one-day jump of 507 Covid-19 deaths, toll reaches 17,400📢#CoronaVirusUpdates:✅India's #COVID19 recovery rate crosses 59% and improves to 59.43% as on July 01, 2020📍Steady improvement in India's COVID-19 recovery rate since #lockdown initiation on March 25, 2020#IndiaFightsCorona@ICMRDELHIVia @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/yunVOjQQKxIn March-end, as per the government data, India’s recovery rate stood at around 7 percent which rose to 26 percent during the start of May.On May 18, the rate jumped to 38 percent which stood at 47.7 per cent by the end of the month. As of July 1, 2020, India’s Covid-19 recovery rate nears 60 percent. The number of Covid-19 cases in the country now near 600,000. On Wednesday, the national tally jumped to 585,493 with the addition of 18,653 fresh cases while the highest single-day jump of 507 Covid-19 fatalities pushed India’s death toll to 17,400.Maharashtra continues to struggle with the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with over 1.7 lakh people infected by the deadly virus. Tamil Nadu, the second worst-hit state is inching toward the one lakh-mark. In the national capital, coronavirus cases jumped to 87,360 on Wednesday. Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh on the fourth and fifth spot respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steady-improvement-india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-nears-60-over-3-4-lakh-recover-across-country/story-Tu1TkBVFTe5UO46vrmikmK.html
01-07-2020||India||Sopore encounter: Police save 3-year-old from getting hit by bullets||The Jammu and Kashmir Police saved a three-year-old boy from getting hit by bullets during the encounter between the security forces and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore on Wednesday.A photo posted on the Twitter handle of Kashmir Police showed the boy being carried away by a policeman on the North Kashmir town.One personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a civilian were killed while two other security force personnel received injuries in the gunbattle. Three other CRPF jawans have been injured.“We lost one CRPF personnel and one civilian in a terrorist attack at Sopore. Three CRPF personnel also got injured in the attack,” the Kashmir Police said on Twitter. We #lost one CRPF personnel and one civilian in a #terrorist #attack at #Sopore. Three CRPF personnel also got injured in the attack. Area has been cordoned off and search is on to nab the #terrorists. @JmuKmrPoliceThe encounter started after terrorists attacked a CRPF’s road opening party when they were placing a check post along with personnel of Jammu and Kashmir police on the Sopore by-pass highway in Model Town of Sopore.The area has been sealed and a search operation has been launched. Officials of the Indian Army and police are also on the spot.This is the second attack on the CRPF in Sopore in the last three months. On April 18, terrorists fired at a CRPF party, killing three personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sopore-encounter-police-save-3-year-old-from-getting-hit-by-bullets/story-RjkPbc0DKPhEqPQY3a7PRN.html
01-07-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi talks to Indian nurses from across globe, discusses Covid-19 situation||On National Doctors Day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hosted a conversation with Indian nurses from around the world on the Covid-19 crisis.The conversation revolved around the Covid-19 situation around the world and how the nurses’ experience can help in tackling the disease.“When this Covid-19 started, we initially thought this is a simple flu. We thought this flu is killing more people than Covid. We didn’t take it seriously. When it started rolling over, and we saw news in Italy that the death toll is rising higher and higher, then we thought that this is not a flu, that this is serious,” said Narendra Singh, who works in Australia’s New South Wales. He belongs to Sikar in Rajasthan.Another Indian-orign nurse, Anu Ragnat, who works in New Zealand said that the tough policies adopted by prime minister Jacinda Arden helped flattened the curve. “Going hard and going early was the motto by Prime Minister Jacinda Arden. That really flattened the curve in New Zealand,” said Ragnat.Vipin Krishnan, who works in Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said that there are differences in the pay given to nurses in private and government hospitals. “Private hospitals are deducting salaries if these nurses. How are they going to look after their families in such a scenario?” he asked.Krishna belongs to Kerala and has contracted Covid-19. “Me and my wife have been infected. We are right now in quarantine,” he said but added that he is ready to again work on the frontline once he is cured.Krishnan also talked about the statement made by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia where he had estimated that Delhi will have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 patients by July end. The AIIMS staffer said that a shortage of beds at hospitals could pose a problem if that happens.However, Sisodia has now said that the going was tough in the first two weeks of June, but the national capital is now in a comfortable situation as far as management of the Covid-19 crisis is concerned. Union home minister Amit Shah, who has been coordinating with the Delhi government to check the spread of the disease, had earlier said that he doesn’t agree with Sisodia’s comments and that the 5.5 lakh estimate created fear.The nurses today also talked about their learnings from the Covid-19 crisis. Almost all of them emphasised on the hand hygiene and wearing proper PPE kits.Gandhi had earlier said that he was “immensely grateful” to the doctors who are on the frontlines fighting against the coronavirus pandemic.“On Doctors Day, I am immensely grateful to the dedicated professionals who inspire hope in (the) Covid-19 times,” the Congress leader had tweeted on Wednesday morning.The first National Doctor’s day was celebrated in July 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-talks-to-indian-nurses-from-across-globe-discusses-covid-19-situation/story-b6TiJ3DzwP30l3SK4dIwtI.html
01-07-2020||India||Non-subsidised LPG cylinder prices raised marginally. Check rates here||The rate of liquified petroleum gas or LPG cylinder was increased in the range of Re 1 to Rs 4.50 across metropolitan cities from Wednesday, in the second marginal hike in cooking gas prices.The hike in prices came after three consecutive months of reduction.The rate of a 14.2 kilogram non-subsidised LPG cylinder was increased by Re 1 to Rs 594 with effect from July 1 in Delhi, according to data from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL).The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinder in Kolkata was raised by Rs 4.50 per cylinder, Rs 4 per cylinder in Chennai and Rs 3.50 per cylinder in Mumbai.Indian Oil consumers, which supplies LPG under brand Indane, in Mumbai have to pay Rs 594 for each refill of non-subsidised LPG. They paid Rs 590.50 per cylinder in June. In Kolkata, they will have to pay Rs 620.50 and in Chennai Rs 610.50 after the hike in prices of non-subsidised LPG cylinder.The government subsidises 12 cylinders of 14.2 kilograms each per household in a year. The subsidy amount, which is given by the government on the yearly 12 refills, differs from month to month. The price is determined mostly by factors such as crude oil rates and foreign exchange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-subsidised-lpg-cylinder-prices-raised-marginally-check-rates-here/story-rPDsEh93zgxfuHJ5aPDRhL.html
01-07-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi applauds role of doctors, Chartered Accountants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hailed the role of doctors in their “spirited” fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, saying they are saving lives by putting themselves in danger.  “India salutes our doctors -- exceptional care givers who are at the forefront of a spirited fight against Covid-19,” he wrote on Twitter to mark Doctors’ Day. In a short video of his recent speech, he said while mother’s give birth, doctors ensure our rebirth. They are saving lives by putting themselves in danger, he said. Dr BC Roy’s birth anniversary is celebrated as Doctors’ Day. July 1 is also observed as Charted Accountants Day. In his message, the prime minister said our industrious CA community has a major role to play in ensuring a healthy and transparent economy.  “Their services to the nation are deeply valued. Greetings on Chartered Accountants Day.” In a short video clip, he said the responsibility on the society’s economic health lies with CAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-applauds-role-of-doctors-chartered-accountants/story-6tuH9pvJ3EGYl3UYby9cbN.html
01-07-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Over 90,000 cases in Tamil Nadu, Bihar crosses 10,000-mark||Three months after the initiation of the first phase of Covid-19 lockdown, the number of cases in the country near 600,000. On Wednesday, the national tally jumped to 585,493 with the addition of 18,653 fresh Covid-19 cases while the highest single-day jump of 507 Covid-19 fatalities pushing India’s death toll to 17,400.Maharashtra continues to struggle with the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with over 1.7 lakh people infected while the second worst-hit, Tamil Nadu, is inching toward the one lakh-mark with over 90,000 Covid-19 cases. In Bihar, coronavirus infections have crossed the 10,000-mark. With over 87,000 Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi stands at the third spot, followed by Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Also read: PM Modi reviews preparations for large-scale Covid-19 vaccination exerciseHere’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 174,761 on Wednesday. Over 90,911 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 7,855 have died.Tamil NaduWith 90,167 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,201 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 50,074.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 87,360 on Wednesday. As many as 58,348 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,742 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 32,557 on Wednesday. The state has seen 23,662 people recover from coronavirus while 1,846 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 23,492 while the number of recoveries has touched 16,084. The state’s death toll stands at 697.West BengalAs many as 18,559 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 12,130 recover from coronavirus while 668 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 18,014 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 413 while 14,220 patients have recovered.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 16,339 coronavirus cases. While 7,294 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 260 in the state.Karnataka The state has witnessed 15,242 coronavirus cases till date while two hundred and forty-six people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 8,000 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. HaryanaThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 14,548 while the death toll stands at 236. Over 9,900 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Situation in other statesOver 13,500 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. While the state death toll stands at 572, over 10,395 people have been cured or discharged from the hospitals.Andhra Pradesh has 14595 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar crossed the 10,000-mark on Wednesday, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 7,497. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 7,065 while Assam has reported 8,227 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 5,568, and the number of cases in Kerala is 4,442.States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Mizoram, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. States like Meghalaya, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-over-90-000-cases-in-tamil-nadu-bihar-crosses-10-000-mark/story-XCwOdJh3BheNrfJojRh6bK.html
01-07-2020||India||India sees biggest one-day jump of 507 Covid-19 deaths, toll reaches 17,400||India recorded more than 500 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the biggest single-day spike, taking its death toll to 17,400 even as 18,653 new infections pushed the infection tally beyond 5.85 lakh, Union health ministry data showed on Wednesday. According to the health ministry dashboard, 507 Covid-19 patients died between Tuesday and Wednesday morning. On Tuesday, 418 people had died during the same period.The infection tally has gone up to 585,493--up from 190,535 Covid-19 patients on June 1--as 394,958 cases were added in a just a month.The recovery rate from the coronavirus disease in India, the fourth worst-hit country in the world, improved to 59.43% as 13,157 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. There are 347,978 people who have been discharged from hospitals across the country.There are 220,114 active cases of the viral disease in India on a day the government’s Unlock 2, or the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of infections. comes into force.Maharastra continued to record rising Covid-19 cases as the worst-affected state’s climbed to 174,761 and the death toll to 7,855. Tamil Nadu, which has 90,167 infections and 1,201 deaths so far, is among the states which have added to the country’s caseload.In Delhi, where the Centre has put in place a five-pronged approach to tackle the pandemic, has reported 87,360 Covid-19 cases and 2,742 fatalities. Gujarat, the fourth worst-hit state, has 32,557 and 1,846 deaths, according to central data.There are 10,450,628 Covid-19 cases and 510,632 people have died due to the disease across the world, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed India’s preparations for vaccinating its population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) once a vaccine becomes available.India’s first Covid-19 vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech Ltd has received the central drugs controller’s approval for human clinical trials.The Prime Minister said vaccination must be affordable and universal as he directed officials to start work on a detailed plan for carrying out the exercise and review preparations in place.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry revised the guidelines for blood transfusion to include the collection of convalescent plasma under the protocol of the clinical trial from people who have recovered from infection by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-biggest-one-day-jump-of-507-covid-19-deaths-death-toll-reaches-17-400/story-jJCO36lg5tqucAJWfLgXXL.html
01-07-2020||India||National Doctor’s Day: Amit Shah salutes medics for ‘uttermost commitment’ to keep nation safe, healthy’||On the occasion of Doctor’s Day on Wednesday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday saluted doctors for their ‘uttermost commitment to keep the nation safe and healthy.’He applauded the doctors for their efforts and service amidst the ongoing pandemic. Taking to microblogging site Twitter, Shah said, “On Doctor’s Day, I salute our brave doctors who have been leading the battle against Covid-19 at the forefront. Their uttermost commitment to keep the nation safe and healthy in these challenging times is truly exceptional. Nation salutes their devotion and sacrifice.”Like every year, the country is observing Doctor’s Day on July 1 to honour the contributions of the doctors. The first Doctor’s day was celebrated in July 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-doctor-s-day-amit-shah-salutes-medics-for-uttermost-commitment-to-keep-nation-safe-healthy/story-NDHEp46RehEbg2XbbCDLQN.html
01-07-2020||India||Members unhappy over Pakistan blaming India for Karachi attack, China-pushed UNSC statement delayed||China-backed UN Security Council (UNSC) statement on June 29 Karachi Stock Exchange terror attack has been delayed much to the chagrin of the proposer after fellow council members expressed unhappiness over Pakistan trying to blame India for the strike. As many as 19 people died in the attack, apart from four terrorists of the Balochistan Liberation Army.According to diplomats based in New York, China on Tuesday proposed a UNSC statement on the attack and put it under silence till 4 pm (US East Coast Time). While such statements are routinely issued by the UNSC after a terror attack, fellow UNSC members intervened at the last moment expressing reservations on uncalled statements by Pakistan. Politically beleaguered Prime Minister Imran Khan followed rising star foreign minister Makdoom Shah Mehmood Qureshi in blaming India for the attack without even a shred of evidence. India on its part has totally rejected the outlandish charge.It is understood that fellow UNSC members said the matter should not be dealt by the security council after Qureshi’s statement had vitiated the atmosphere by blaming an elect non-permanent member of the council.Also read: ‘No doubt’ India behind attack on Karachi stock exchange, says Pak PM Imran KhanWhile the UNSC statement is expected to be issued later in the day today, the Chinese diplomats expressed their frustration on the issue to other members by saying that it is the obligation of the UNSC to lend its voice “in time.” One Chinese diplomat in UN said that taking action “slowly will send a bad signal to others and the victims.” It is another matter that China blocked designation of Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar as global terrorist under 1267 resolution at the behest of Pakistan.An internal communication from the Chinese diplomat recorded that they had to extend the silence process after a member asked for extension at the last minute. The procedure is now stands extended till 10 am (East Time) on July 1, 2020.Also read: 2 Taj hotels in Mumbai get threat calls from ‘LeT operative in Pak’, cops step up vigilWhile the Chinese UN diplomats have asked the Council members to act seriously and follow the rules, fact is that the Karachi Stock Exchange attack has been condemned by UN Secretary General, members of the Security Council and India, which is outside the council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/members-unhappy-over-pakistan-blaming-india-for-karachi-blast-unsc-statement-delayed/story-TC5uhWGps57eHidSGEii4M.html
01-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharshtra govt directs all its officials to use Marathi in official communication and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Use Marathi in official communication, those violating the order to not get increment: Maharashtra govtThe Maharashtra government has directed all its departments, local authorities, officers and employees to mandatorily use Marathi language in official business. Read moreAarogya Setu, masks must as malls to reopen in Gurugram, Faridabad todayThe Haryana government has released a set of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as malls in Gurugram and Faridabad districts are all set to reopen on Wednesday after three months amid the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreChhattisgarh forest department to launch campaign for using bio-fertilizers after deaths of 6 elephantsAfter the death of six elephants in northern part of Chhattisgarh in last one month due to toxicity and electrocution, the state forest department decided to launch an awareness campaign in northern plains to encourage the usage of bio-insecticides and bio-fertilizers. Read moreIsraeli PM Netanyahu signals delay in West Bank annexation planPrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said that discussions with the US on his plan to annex occupied West Bank territory would continue “in the coming days”, indicating he would miss a July 1 target date for beginning the controversial process. Read moreIndia tour of Australia 2020: Spike in Covid-19 cases casts shadow on MCG boxing day TestA spike in Covid-19 cases in the Australian state of Victoria has increased doubts over the India-Australia Boxing Day Test being held in its capital Melbourne, from December 26. Read morePriyanka Chopra signs multimillion dollar deal with Amazon Prime: ‘I can do whatever language I want’Actor and producer Priyanka Chopra is on road to bringing more desi representation to global television. As per a Variety report, she has signed a ‘two-year multimillion-dollar first-look television deal’ with Amazon. Read moreFeeding the good bacteria! Uncovering fermentationLockdown or no lockdown, kombucha, kefir and natural sodas are here to stay. Stay-at-home youngsters are fast catching on this trend which is healthy and is also fashionable. Read moreWatch| HT Salutes: Kolkata group who helped sex workers in Sonagacchi amid lockdown||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharshtra-govt-directs-all-its-officials-to-use-marathi-in-official-communication-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Obwvjq53Jo0CO0W2yxXfAP.html
01-07-2020||India||CRPF trooper, civilian killed in terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) trooper and a civilian were killed on Wednesday after terrorists open fired at the paramilitary’s road opening party in Sopore town of Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district, officials said.The terrorists had attacked CRPF’s road opening party when they were placing a check post along with personnel of Jammu and Kashmir police on the Sopore by-pass highway in Model Town of Sopore.Three other CRPF troopers were also injured in the attack and are being treated at a hospital, according to officials.“We #lost one CRPF personnel and one civilian in a #terrorist #attack at #Sopore. Three CRPF personnel also got injured in the attack. Area has been cordoned off and search is on to nab the #terrorists,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted.The man, a 64-year-old resident of Srinagar, was passing by in his vehicle when the attack happened and was killed in the firing, officials said. His grandson was also with him.“JKP #rescued a three years old boy from getting hit by bullets during #terrorist #attack in #Sopore. @JmuKmrPolice (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted.However, his family said he reached the spot after the attack and alleged that CRPF personnel asked him to get out of his vehicle and killed him on the road.A CRPF spokesperson said they have not received any input from the ground.After the attack, the area was cordoned off and a search operation launched to track down the assailants.Dilbag Singh, Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police, had said on Tuesday that anti-terror operations are on at full throttle in Kashmir and 128 terrorists have been eliminated by the security forces so far this year.“In the Kashmir region, 48 terrorists have been eliminated this month. Till June the security forces have eliminated 128 terrorists, out of whom 70 belonged to Hizbul Mujahideen, 20 each from Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba and remaining from other groups,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-crpf-troopers-1-civilian-injured-in-terrorist-attack-in-j-k-s-sopore/story-6dsMqDTgPVZkszTsB9TiDI.html
01-07-2020||India||Use Marathi in official communication, those violating the order to not get increment: Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government has directed all its departments, local authorities, officers and employees to mandatorily use Marathi language in official business.In a circular issued on Monday, the state government also asked all the department heads to take actions such as warning, mentioning it in the confidential reports, issuing strictures and withholding annual increment as a punishment against the staff found deliberately not using Marathi language in official business.The circular was issued by the Marathi language department. “Many departments are still issuing circular, government resolutions etc in English language. Websites of many departments are also only in English language. Similarly, many municipal corporations are issuing notices, letters, applications and samples only in English. Complaints in this regard have been raised by the public representatives time and again,” states the circular.Instructions to all the department heads on using Marathi in all the official business have been issued in the past. They are again directed to strictly implement the instructions and take necessary action against those who are found not following the instructions.In the budget session of the state assembly in February, the government had passed a law making Marathi language a mandatory subject in schools.Marathi Language Minister Subhash Desai and Education Minister Varshan Gaikwad reviewed the progress in this regard in a meeting in May. They said that Marathi language will become a compulsory subject from the academic year 2020-21 for classes 1 to 6 in schools of different mediums and education boards in Maharashtra.Maharashtra has studied laws enacted by southern states of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala that made their languages mandatory in schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-marathi-in-official-communication-those-violating-the-order-to-not-get-increment-maharashtra-govt/story-djPcOGdkFyWopdzA84ZHVN.html
01-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt clears forest land transfer to build roads near China border||The Uttarakhand government has cleared diversion of about 70 hectares of forest land in the Gangotri National Park for construction of three strategically important roads to China border. The decision was taken in the 15th State Wildlife Advisory Board meeting on Monday, officials said.The road proposals cleared include preserving the Gartang Gali road in the Uttarkashi district, an ancient road between India and Tibet.Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that these roads are important from the national security point of view as they connect the base camps of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) set up near China border in Uttarkashi district.“In a big move for national security, wildlife clearance proposal was given for three roads passing through Gangotri National Park which includes a 11.85 km long road from Sumla to Thangla for which transfer of 30.39 hectares of forest land was approved. The second road is a 6.21 km long road from Tripani to Rangmachagar for which transfer of 11.218 hectares of forest land was approved. The third road is a 17.60 km long road from Mandi to Sangchokla for which transfer of 31.76 hectares of forest land was approved,” said Rawat.These proposals will now be sent to National Board for Wildlife for final approval.When asked about the impact on forests and the environment due to the construction of the roads, the minister said, “If a road is constructed then there will be a slight impact on the environment, but this region is important from national security point of view. The impact would not be much as the common man would not be using these road and it would only be for the security personnel. The construction of the roads will improve the supply of food, ration, weapons for our soldiers.”He added the estimation will be done to find out the number of trees that “might have to be cut for construction of these roads.”“During the 1962 war we did not have roads constructed till the border area and China was in an advanced position. The stand-off at the border is happening because India has started constructing roads and strengthening border areas. With the current condition of roads, it is difficult to take weapons to the border points, but once the road is constructed, that process will become smooth,” added Rawat.NB Sharma, deputy director of Gangotri National Park, said these three roads are in the interior part of the park near the China border.“From areas of Sumla, Tripani and Mandi, our troops including army and ITBP personnel have to reach the border area on foot. The State Wildlife Advisory Board at present has given wildlife clearance and the proposal will now be sent to National Board for Wildlife for further clearance after which the land transfer process will start. The area where the roads will be constructed is at a height of 15,000 feet from sea level and have complete barren lands with no trees. Only some grasses grow in that area and as there are almost no trees, they would not have to be cut,” said Sharma.However, experts say that environmental impact should also be considered along with the strategical importance of the project.Ajay Singh Rawat, an environmentalist, said, “For the construction of roads, agencies might have to opt for blasting, which will disturb the mountains and can trigger tremendous landslides. If motorable roads are made at such places without giving importance to the ecological effect and a landslide occurs, then the road will be blocked. These areas are part of the catchment area for the Indo-Gangetic plains, which is home to 40% of India’s population. If the ecology of such an area is disturbed, then the impact percolates down to other states also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-clears-forest-land-transfer-to-build-roads-near-china-border/story-5zAgMiDVTfqoTKrsKfptHM.html
01-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand Congress leader says ‘corona sent by Lord Krishna’, BJP demands apology over comparison||A controversy erupted after Uttarakhand Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said the coronavirus pandemic has been sent by Lord Krishna, drawing a sharp response from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state.Dhasmana reportedly made the comment while participating in a debate on a local Hindi news channel on Monday evening. The statement was soon shared by several users on social media and many accused him of ‘insulting’ the Sanatan Dharma. “Both Corona and Krishna starts with the sound of ‘K’. Hence it’s obvious that the coronavirus has been sent by him in this world,” he reportedly said.Dhasmana, however, stated he had said nothing against Sanatan Dharma or Lord Krishna. “My statement was completely misconstrued. I had clearly quoted the Gita while making the statement. In Gita, Lord Krishna himself has said that he is only the creator, preserver and destroyer of the world. Nothing in the world happens without his will. Referring to that I said, corona has been sent by Lord Krishna and its vaccine will also be developed by his will,” said Dhasmana.The BJP demanded an apology from the Congress over Dhasmana’s statement.“The statement shows how mentally bankrupt Congress has become. Lord Krishna came into this world to destroy the demons but by saying both corona and Krishna starts with ‘K’, Congress has compared him with the demon of corona in today’s world which is highly condemnable,” Devendra Bhasin, the BJP’s state unit vice-president, said. “It should have been better if he would have said ‘K’ for Corona and Congress. It would have been more apt with the kind of hindrances Congress is putting in the fight against corona. It’s an insult of Hindu dharma for which Congress should apologise,” Bhasin added. Dhasamana, however, refuted the allegations of the BJP.“I am a staunch devotee of Lord Krishna and have been organising Bhagwad Gita Katha in Dehradun for the last 25 years. I don’t want a certificate from the BJP on religion as I know how to honour and follow it,” he said.Uttarakhand has reported 2,831 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 39 patients have succumbed so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-congress-leader-says-corona-sent-by-lord-krishna-bjp-demands-apology-over-comparison/story-JWV7QCdJrGve5Q74b4uTlN.html
01-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh forest department to launch campaign for using bio-fertilizers after deaths of 6 elephants||After the death of six elephants in northern part of Chhattisgarh in last one month due to toxicity and electrocution, the state forest department decided to launch an awareness campaign in northern plains to encourage the usage of bio-insecticides and bio-fertilizers.The forest department issued orders to divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dharamjaigarh in Raigarh district, where maximum elephants were electrocuted in last 10 years, to take necessary steps to contain such incidents.This month, total six elephants died in Chhattisgarh in four districts of the state. Carcasses of two tuskers were recovered from the Pratappur forest range in Surajpur district and another elephant was found dead in neighbouring Balrampur district.Later, two elephants were electrocuted in Dharamjaigarh under Raigarh district and a calf died after getting stuck in a marshland in Dhamtari district.“We are doing a research in Balrampur and Surajpur districts where three elephants died due to toxicity and we will start a campaign to encourage farmers of the that area for usage of bio-fertilizers and bio-insecticide, which is less harmful, if consumed by elephants. As per the crop pattern, most of farmers are engaged in sugarcane production hence the awareness could be easily done. Secondly, if farmers in some of these areas, are using chemical fertilizers/insecticides, we will ensure that it should be stored in such a way that whenever elephant raids the house, it should be beyond the reach of animal - storing it some higher place of the house or by digging the fertilizer in the ground,” said Arun Kumar Pandey, additional principal chief conservator of forest, while talking to HT.It is worth mentioning that a team of Project Elephant visited the state after the death of six elephants and also made similar recommendations to check such fatalities, officials informed.“Dr Selvan, a scientist of Ministry of Environment and Forest and Dr Prajana Panda , national coordination of Project Elephant , who came here after the deaths and enquired about each and every death, also believed that these deaths are accidental deaths not wilfully done. They have made similar recommendations to us, on which we are working,” said PCCF adding the department is also talking to Agriculture department for availability of bio-fertilizers.The officer further said that all the three deaths which took place due to toxicity were due to consumption something which was toxic and the department is investigating about it.However, wildlife activists believe that it is not easy for the forest department to make the farmers switch from chemical to bio-fertilizers.“Is there any market of bio-fertilizers from where the farmers of these areas can get it ? Is it easy for farmers to switch from chemical to bio-fertilizers? The forest department should made this clear since the awareness drive is going on in these areas for last few years,” asked Meetu Gupta, member of the State Wildlife Board and wildlife activist.The forest department has also written to the divisional forest about cases of elephant electrocution in that area.“About 40 per cent of the total electrocution deaths of the elephants took place in Dharmjaigarh forest division hence an order has been issued to the forest officers of the region to take measures in this regard,” said a senior forest officer.The order states that the forest department should ensure that 11 KV electric line, which has caused deaths of the elephants should be above 7.5 metres above the ground-level and insulated electric wires should be used in these areas.“The department has also directed the forest officers to coordinate with Chhattisgarh State Power Corporation and find out each and every illegal connection or live wire in these areas,” said senior official said.As per the Chhattisgarh forest department in the last 10 years, the state has recorded an increase in the population of wildlife, including elephants whose number rose from 225 to 290 during the period.In view of this, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel recently issued necessary guidelines for the monitoring of wild animals in the state forests and improving measures for their conservation.Notably, North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts surfaced in last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-forest-department-to-launch-campaign-for-using-bio-fertilizers-after-deaths-of-6-elephants/story-9R2gMfBkkt3LlMCwNpHq0O.html
01-07-2020||India||Tribal woman’s body dumped in MP river as family had no money for cremation||The body of a tribal woman was thrown into a river by her family in Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi district as they did not have the money to cremate her, her relatives said on Tuesday after the video of the clip of the incident went viral.The video clip of the family carrying the body in a cart and then throwing the body into the Son River in the district, 672 kilometres northeast of state capital of Bhopal, was repeatedly shared on social media on Monday.The brother of the woman, who was in her late 30’s, said his sister had been sick for the past several days. As her condition deteriorated on Sunday, their neighbours called on 108 for an ambulance but there was no response from the other side. “It was when we decided to take her to the district hospital on a handcart. At the district hospital, the doctors declared her brought dead. When we couldn’t get ambulance we approached the municipal corporation office again for help but an employee said since it was Sunday no ambulance or other assistance could be provided to us,” Ramavtar Kol of Kotaha locality in Sidhi city said.“We didn’t have money for cremation. Hence, we took the body on the same handcart and floated it in the Son River,” he added.“We didn’t shoot any video of our act. It was done by some passers-by. However, on Monday, some officers came to my residence and gave financial assistance of Rs 5,000,” Mahesh Col, the woman’s husband, said. DP Barman, Sidhi’s additional district magistrate, said the “unfortunate incident” was true. “The family members didn’t have money to cremate the body and they were not aware of any government scheme too. Now, we have provided financial aid to the family. We are looking into the incident to see if there was any fault on the part of any official or employee,” Burman said.Chief municipal officer Amar Singh said they were not at fault.“Though it was Sunday, the municipal corporation officers and employees were taking rounds of the city. No one approached any municipal officer or employee. There is a possibility that they might have talked to some outsider outside the office and returned,” Singh said.Kamal Nath, the president of Congress’ Madhya Pradesh unit, launched an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in general and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in particular.“Shivraj ji, when you were in Opposition you talked a lot about your government’s financial assistance to the poor for cremation but the reality is there for all to see. Where is your last rites scheme? A tribal family in Sidhi district had to float the dead body of its member in a river as it was neither given any financial assistance nor an ambulance,” Kamal Nath tweeted in Hindi.On its part, the BJP said the Congress was speaking without verifying the facts.“It’s unfortunate that the state Congress president indulged in politics even on such a sensitive issue without trying to know the facts. The fact is the district administration has made it clear that no one approached it for any help and when the administration came to know about the incident financial assistance was immediately provided to the family,” Dr Hitesh Bajpai, a state BJP leader, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-woman-s-body-dumped-in-mp-river-as-family-had-no-money-for-cremation/story-NakOCeCKE94OVnRZ42QjqN.html
01-07-2020||India||‘India and Bangladesh should now look at trade in services instead of just trade in goods’||Wishing Bangladesh on Mujib Barsho, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan on Monday said that India and Bangladesh should look now at the trade in the services instead of just trade in goods.“As we celebrate Mujib Barsho this year and the 50th year of liberation of Bangladesh as well as the establishment of diplomatic relations next year, we must do all that it takes to ensure that values that we fought and stood for remain cherished,” Muraleedharan said during a digital conference on ‘Doing Business with Bangladesh’.He said that India and Bangladesh have scripted a ‘Shonali Adhyaya’ -- a golden chapter -- in their partnership, under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. “As we are also looking at creating a new economic partnership for the future, there are opportunities to go beyond trade in goods and look at the trade in services,” he said.He further said, “As India and Bangladesh share the largest border, we need to focus on the socio-economic development of bordering districts on both sides. Sometimes for want of opportunities available, we have criminal elements committing crimes, attacking security forces and disturbing the peace and harmony that exists between our two countries. There is an urgent need to focus on the development of these areas and therefore haats spread along the border is a welcome development. In the same spirit, we should cooperate on developmental works that get undertaken on either side of the border.”Speaking on India’s role in Bangladesh’s “Made in Bangladesh” brand, he said, “We see Bangladesh as a partner in the value chain. India will continue to be a reliable and efficient supplier of raw material to Bangladesh. I recommend that we explore more cooperation in this important sector like facilitating exchanges between our premier textile design institutes, capacity building, textile machinery etc.”The Minister of State said that both India and Bangladesh have been able to maintain a low mortality rate amid the coronavirus pandemic despite having a dense population. “India has conducted an online programme for medical professionals exclusively in Bangla language at the request of Bangladeshi participants and we stand prepared to further assist Bangladesh in mitigating the health and economic impact of the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-bangladesh-should-now-look-at-trade-in-services-instead-of-just-trade-in-goods/story-AeZb4wnbDAAqW31hvsUUqJ.html
01-07-2020||India||West Bengal allows 50 people at weddings, funerals in next phase of Covid-19 lockdown||The West Bengal government has allowed 50 people at marriage functions and funerals during the next phase of the coronavirus lockdown from July 1 to 31.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said morning walks will be allowed from 5.30 am till 8.30 am, provided social distancing and all other norms are “strictly followed”. “From now onwards, we will be allowing 50 people both at weddings and last rites,” Banerjee said. The CM said the Changrabandha checkpoint on the Bangladesh-India border in Coochbehar district will be opened from Wednesday for normal business. “The Changrabandha land border is closed for a long time. Bangladesh is also requesting us (to reopen it) because several goods are taken through this border. So, we have decided to open it from tomorrow. We have also taken the locals into confidence,” she said. Later in an order, the state government stated that the lockdown measures in containment zones, known as affected areas in West Bengal, stand extended till July 31. Schools, ICDS centres, colleges, educational training/ coaching institutions, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls will remain closed till July 31, it stated. There will be restrictions on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religions congregations in the state, the order said. The movement of individuals will remain prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am except for essential activities, including the operation of industrial units in shifts, movement, loading and unloading of goods and travel of persons to destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes, it added. PTI SCH KJ RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-allows-50-people-at-weddings-funerals-in-next-phase-of-covid-19-lockdown/story-rzRm2XLfYpnXgeTwPVTmAL.html
01-07-2020||India||Army moves 3 divisions, tanks to Ladakh sector||The Indian Army has moved three divisions, several squadrons of frontline tanks, additional artillery pieces and fully-ready mechanised infantry squads to the Ladakh sector, as part of its efforts to strengthen its deployments in response to fortified Chinese military presence in the region, four people familiar with developments said on Tuesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The three army divisions sent to build the necessary military strength to deter possible aggressive moves by the Chinese forces deployed across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) account for up to 30,000 well-trained soldiers, as high-altitude deployments are being bolstered with sharp focus on contingency planning, said the first person cited above.A large number of the troop reinforcements sent to Ladakh have been drawn from the army’s reserve formations, based in a mountainous region in north India and another state in the Hindi-speaking belt. These reserve troops have operated in the sector as part of their regular training, said the person quoted above. Soldiers may also have been pulled out from peace stations for the Ladakh role, he added.Hindustan Times is not revealing the location of the bases from where troops, weapons and equipment have been deployed to Ladakh because of security considerations.While the reserve formations have moved with their own integral artillery elements, the tanks and the infantry combat vehicles have been marshalled from multiple bases across the western sector for force augmentation in Ladakh, a second person said.Additional forces have been sent to Ladakh by road and air, he said. The Indian Air Force’s heavy-lift aircraft have also flown soldiers, tanks and other equipment from Chandigarh to Leh, as reported by HT on Tuesday.“Military equipment, including tanks, has been moved to Ladakh from areas in the western sector where very favourable combat ratios already exist to deal with Pakistan,” said the third person cited above. He added diverting this equipment from these areas would not make any “elemental difference” to the situation on the western front. Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region, as attempts to reduce tensions have not yielded a breakthrough.If the stalemate persists, Indian and Chinese forces are likely to hold positions in the area till at least September, with the onset of winter making it virtually impossible for the two sides to stay forward deployed, said the fourth person cited above. “The deployment of additional forces became mandatory keeping in mind that the Chinese buildup is expected to last for the next three months,” he said.Experts believe that deploying essential and additional elements of combat power to the Ladakh sector is necessary as the continuing Chinese buildup calls into question the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) intent to restore status quo ante (early April) in strategic areas.“The Chinese military has flexed its muscle with its buildup at the point of impact, as also in depth areas on their side of the LAC. Due to China’s belligerence, it is axiomatic that we should have desired combat ratios to offset possible evil designs,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander. He added that India’s military posture would enable it to talk to the Chinese from a position of strength.India has also deployed its air defence weapon systems to counter possible aerial threats from the PLA-Air Force in the Ladakh sector where tensions rose sharply after a brutal clash in Galwan Valley left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese troops dead on June 15. The IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert, said the fourth person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-moves-3-divisions-tanks-to-ladakh-sector/story-rObj7wvAR6HtwbuJ5AdpXM.html
01-07-2020||India||Terrorists who killed boy, trooper shot dead in J&K||Two terrorists were killed in a gunbattle with security forces at Waghama in Jammu & Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Tuesday, four days after they fired at a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) patrol and left a trooper of the paramilitary force and an eight-year-old boy dead, a top police officer said. Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said the two and their another accomplice, Zahid Daas, were involved in the killing of a policeman last year as well as the CRPF trooper and the boy. He appreciated the forces for exercising the utmost restraint and ensuring a clean operation with no collateral damage in Waghama.Police released Daas’s picture and said he was involved in the attack on the CRPF patrol on Friday.The gunbattle in Waghama was triggered after the two terrorists fired at security forces during a cordon-and-search operation that was launched following specific information about the terrorist presence in the village. “During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists got ascertained, they were given the opportunity to surrender. However they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” said a police statement. The identities of the two slain terrorists were not immediately ascertained.The police statement said arms and ammunition were also recovered from gunbattle site. It added the bodies of the two were sent to Handwara, around 100 km away, for their burial after medico-legal formalities. “In case any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in last rites at Handwara,” the statement said.Slain terrorists have been buried away from their native places in Baramulla, Handwara, and Ganderbal due to Covid-19 restrictions over the last two months, which have coincided with an escalation of violence in the region.Security forces have stepped up operations and killed 128 terrorists this year mostly in South Kashmir. As many as 48 terrorists have been killed in June, the highest in a month since 39 were gunned down in November 2018. The Jammu & Kashmir police on Monday declared the Union territory’s Doda district “totally militancy free”, saying the region’s last surviving Hizbul Mujahideen commander was killed in a counter-insurgency operation along with two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in adjoining Kashmir Valley’s Anantnag district.Dilbag Singh, the Jammu & Kashmir police chief, said anti-terror operations were going at full throttle with the killing of 128 terrorists this year so far even as terrorist launchpads remained active and Pakistan was trying to push more militants into the region. “Our security forces have foiled their sinister designs and will keep doing so,” he said during a visit to Poonch along the LoC.He said of the 128, 70 belonged to Hizbul Mujahideen, 20 each to Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Toiba, and the remaining to other outfits. Singh called South Kashmir the epicentre of terrorism and added security forces have been successful in eliminating militants in large numbers there. He added only 24 militants remain active in the region. “The positive development is that naive and gullible youth, who used to be brainwashed by the terrorists and their OGWs [overground workers] are not taking up arms. Their number has come down drastically. They have been motivated by their families and security forces to lead a normal and productive life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-who-killed-boy-trooper-shot-dead-in-j-k/story-RJp0DzdmNsmUy1fYOhu1wO.html
01-07-2020||India||Govt depts, CMs exit apps after ban||When the ministry of electronics and information technology was sending out its public order banning 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications, two government departments were tracking the note very carefully. One was the Press Information Bureau of India (and not because it had to disseminate the order) and the other was MyGov.in, the platform to crowdsource ideas about governance. As soon as the government announced that these apps pose a “threat to sovereignty and integrity of India,” both PIB and MyGov.in deleted their accounts on Tik-Tok and its regional version, Helo.Confirming this to HT, MyGov.in’s CEO Abhishek Singh said the action was in keeping with government policies. “We joined Tik-Tok and Helo in April because we are there on all platforms,’’ he said. “If the platform violates the law, then we will leave it. We have to abide by our laws.’’ In just the two months that PIB and MyGov. in were on Tiktok, they garnered more than a million followers and that may be a reason why many top politicians may miss the apps, which send out short videos and messages.A PIB spokesperson told HT: “We were not on Tik-Tok for the love of China, but because it has followers. We wanted to spread the word and it was very effective.’’It’s not just these central government departments. In the last few months, Tik-Tok and Helo have been hosting a formidable bunch of top leaders. From Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan to Punjab’s Amarinder Singh and Andhra Pradesh’s YS Jagan Mohan Reddy , they had all signed up for Tik-Tok and Helo accounts because of the sheer numbers that they saw as audiences.Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao’s team said that they got the idea to join Tik-Tok after seeing the Central government using it for its coronavirus disease messaging. “We were just toying with the idea of starting a Tik-Tok account for the CM when this order came,’’ saod Dileel Konathan, who handles social media for the Telangana CM. “At the moment, we just ran our Corona campaign on Tik-Tok.’’ According to Konathan, the app is appealing because it has a high captive audience, one which is much larger than that offered by Twitter and FaceBook. “The demographic is completely different. You get followers in rural areas who may be semi-literate and they are all consuming your content.’’In other words, they offer a means of communicating with grassroots citizens. Ankit Lal, who handles social media for Delhi chief minister Kejriwal, explained that they came to these apps very recently, just before February’s elections. At that time, Kejriwal gathered 912,000 followers on Helo and 179,000 followers on Tik-Tok. “The kind of followers you get here are 180 degrees different from any other platform. Also, while FaceBook and others have ad-based targeting, here you don’t have to do that,’’ he said. The Kerala government was exploiting that feature for not just the CM’s messages but also to run separate accounts for its police and tourism department as well. In fact, the police had almost a million followers on Tik-Tok. “We used to use sharechat for our Malayalee videos but we only got 51,000 followers in that. Comparatively, the Tik-Tok and Helo accounts get several times more. They really cater to the regional, tier two audience and every time we put out our videos, it engaged many more people,’’ said Appu Lenin, who handles Vijayan’s social media accounts. “It takes such little time for a new app to take over, that it doesn’t really matter,’’ said Lenin suggesting that TikTok may have been their engine to reach rural audiences for some time now, but they are sure that another app promising the same features is sure to come along soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-depts-cms-exit-apps-after-ban/story-lRiHO7d8bpvvTxfreifMaI.html
01-07-2020||India||INS criticises China restrictions on Indian media||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) criticised on Tuesday the decision by the Chinese government to restrict access to Indian newspapers and media websites and said that access to virtual private networks had also been blocked.In a statement, INS president Shailesh Gupta said the action of the Chinese government was uncalled for. Access to Indian newspapers and media websites through VPN was stopped using a “technologically advanced firewall”, the statement added.Gupta “strongly urged” the Indian government to ban all access to Chinese media in India and call off collaborations made by China in Indian media companies forthwith.The statement came amid a stand-off between India and China and escalating tensions between the two neighb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-criticises-china-restrictions-on-indian-media/story-xhnH4mYmPsXyWelnTIKEZI.html
01-07-2020||India||TikTok offline after India app ban, says will follow directive||TikTok stopped working in India on Tuesday as the company appeared to comply with a ban announced a day before by the Union government, which said that the widely used video sharing tool and 58 other mostly Chinese apps were a threat to national security.Those who had the application were no longer able to use it, and it no longer came up in searches on the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store, while the company disabled the webpage. Some of the other prominent applications – such as WeChat and CamScanner – continued to work and were available on the application stores of both platforms till Tuesday night.“TikTok has been removed from both the app stores,” said an official from the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), asking not to be named. “The cyber cell is working to ensure the other apps are taken down as well.” A MEITY spokesperson confirmed that the TikTok ban had come into force. TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India as of January this year and had become one of the most prominent social media tools used by young Indians. In a statement issued by TikTok on Twitter on Tuesday, the company’s India head, Nikhil Gandhi, said: “The Government of India has issued an interim order for the blocking of 59 apps, including TikTok, and we are in the process of complying with it. We have been invited to meet with concerned government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications.”HT was not able to independently verify if there was a meeting planned since MEITY officials did not respond to requests for a comment on this.In addition to the app not being visible on the app stores, TikTok also appeared to disable access to Indians on its website, redirecting instead to a “notfound” page. The Chinese government said on Tuesday it was “strongly concerned” about New Delhi’s decision to ban the apps, adding that the move was against “India’s interests”. The ban follows what has been a period of hostility not seen for decades between the two neighbours over the disputed territory in Ladakh. “China is strongly concerned about the relevant notice issued by the Indian side. We are checking on and verifying the situation,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.Zhao reminded New Delhi of its responsibilities towards foreign companies. “The Indian government has the responsibility to uphold the legitimate and legal rights of the international investors, including the Chinese ones,” he said.According to experts, the ban seems to have been enforced by a voluntary disabling of services in India by TikTok for the time being. “It does not work because the developers rerouted requests from Indian IP addresses to the error page. If it was blocked by ISPs, there would be a different message displayed,” explained Anand V, an independent cybersecurity researcher. The ban on the 59 applications was under discussion since early June but picked up pace following the fatal confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in the middle of the month. MEITY cited complaints from agencies as well members of public that these applications were relaying data of Indian users to outside of the country. “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday while announcing the move. Experts said there must be more clarity on what legal provisions were used to put the ban in place, citing what they said were two particular ways this could be done and one did not require an inter-ministerial review committee: the emergency order route. “If tech platforms operating in India received an order directing blocking of access, they would normally do so. They should have asked under what process and legal authority that was being done, and why an emergency order was being issued -- and the channels to be able to push back in such review,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, lawyer and Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now, an international digital rights group. (With inputs from Binayak Dasgupta)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiktok-offline-after-india-app-ban-says-will-follow-directive/story-lpi3lN59fKG3p5t6L8ZcVK.html
01-07-2020||India||France defence minister writes to Rajnath, conveys ‘steadfast support’||New Delhi France has expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a violent-face-off with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with French defence minister Florence Parly conveying “steadfast and friendly support” to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh.Parly wrote a letter to Singh on Monday, condoling the death of the 20 Indian soldiers in the clash in Galwan Valley on June 15, people familiar with developments said.“This was a hard blow against the soldiers, their families, and the nation. In these difficult circumstances, I wish to express my steadfast and friendly support, along with that of the French armed forces,” Parly wrote in the letter.Parly also recalled that India is France’s strategic partner in the region and reiterated France’s “deep solidarity” in the letter.She also expressed her readiness to meet Singh in India, at his invitation, to follow up on their ongoing discussions, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Parly also conveyed her “heartfelt condolences to the entire Indian armed forces as well as to the grieving families” of the 20 soldiers.Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a months-old tense standoff along the LAC, especially in Ladakh sector, where both sides have deployed thousands of additional troops.France, a key supplier of frontline combat jets to the Indian Air Force (IAF) for decades, has stepped up its defence engagements with India in recent years and both sides are working on closer naval cooperation, including joint exercises and patrols, in the Indian Ocean region.Paris has also acted on a special request from New Delhi to speed up deliveries of 36 Rafale combat jets ordered by India in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in 2016, with six of the planes expected to land at the airbase in Ambala on July 27.France is reworking the calendar for supplying the Rafales to India at a faster pace, people familiar with developments said on Monday. IAF ordered the jets as an emergency purchase to arrest a worrying slide in its combat capabilities.Earlier, the first batch of Rafales to be delivered to India in 2020 was expected to comprise four jets. France has stepped up efforts to meet IAF’s immediate requirements.The people said around 10 Rafale jets are ready at manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility and six of them will be flown by IAF pilots to India via Abu Dhabi in late July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-defence-minister-writes-to-rajnath-conveys-steadfast-support/story-rBKVz2wKsVtPkOvJdYbCFI.html
01-07-2020||India||In EC’s plan, toothpicks to use EVMs||PATNA: With an eye on the safety of voters during the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission (EC) is working on proposals to provide gloves and small sticks of the size of toothpicks to voters to press the button on electronic voting machines (EVMs) for contactless voting, officials at the state’s Chief Electoral Office said.Another proposal under consideration for maintaining safety at the polling stations is the use of disposable syringes to mark the fingers of voters with indelible ink to identify those who have already voted, the officials said. A move to install glass shields at the table of polling officers is being contemplated so that voters, when asked to identify themselves by taking off their face masks, do not come in contact with the staff.Bihar assembly polls are scheduled to be held in October-November in the first full-fledged state elections in the aftermath of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The elections are looming as a major test of the poll watchdog’s ability to ensure the safety of voters and polling staff from infection by the coronavirus disease. The state election office officials said the idea of applying indelible ink through disposable syringes was being considered as a safe option; the syringes can be disposed of after one use. Glass shields to keep polling officers apart from voters is required to minimise the chances of anyone catching the infection.“Even gloves and bamboo-made small sticks are being advocated for use of EVMs to press the buttons and signing the voter register as it will help in contactless voting. Sanitising the EVMs after every vote is not possible. We are not using any plastic-made items because there is scope of infection in it. Bamboo-made sticks are environment-friendly and disposable also,” said a senior Bihar EC officer, requesting anonymity because he is not authorised o speak on record to the media.State election officials said the proposals have been sent by the Chief Electoral Officer, Bihar, H R Srinivasa, to the Election Commission for approval. “We have sent a few proposals for safety of voters at the booths. We are working on it. Our objective is that voters do not come much in contact with any physical substance and there is more contactless method of casting votes during the polls,” said Srinivasa.To be sure, the implementation of the new innovative measures at the polling booths in times of Covid-19, when economic activity hs declined, would not be easy. It would mean procuring millions of gloves and bamboo sticks as well as disposal syringes. The state has a total electorate of 71.8 million voters; the proposal is 106,000 polling booths with the addition of 33,797 auxillary booths to cap the number of voters in each booth to 700 for maintaining social distancing norms.The state EC officials said the process had started for procuring these materials on a priority basis. “We have sought khadi gloves from the Bihar State Khadi board so that it can generate rural employment. Other materials would be purchased locally and district election officers will be authorised to buy them,” said another EC officer, who is privy to the discussion, requesting anonymity.State political parties are divided on the measured proposed by the electoral office. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (United) said they would support any measure suggested by the EC to ensure the safety of voters. The opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal said any such moves would infringe on the rights of voters and defeat the purpose of elections.“If EC takes any steps for safety of voters in view of Covid, we will support {the steps}. But our thinking is that all steps of safety to be taken by the poll panel should be widely publicised as our larger objective is that there should be 100 % voting and all voters should exercise their franchise freely,” said Nikhil Anand, state spokesperson of the BJP. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan said the party would support steps that the poll panel takes for the safety of voters . “We are in favour of safety measures for voters,” he said.RJD’s senior leader and state spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav criticised the proposals. “ In the name of Covid, there is an attempt being made to manipulate the polls. We will oppose any such moves of EC to provide gloves or sticks for use of the EVMs. We want the EC to conduct polls as they did in past. Even in South Korea, elections were held in Covid pandemic by using ballot papers,” he said.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ec-s-plan-toothpicks-to-use-evms/story-ZeBbj7GZ4o5QkjE3oGg5cN.html
01-07-2020||India||Centre issues fresh guidelines for blood transfusion services||Convalescent plasma therapy to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) received boost on Tuesday when the Union health ministry revised blood transfusion guidelines to include the collection of convalescent plasma under the clinical trials protocol from people who have recovered from infection by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“Systems should be in place to enable re-entry of cured Covid-19 patients as donors for convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The treatment of Covid-19 patients using plasma therapy is under clinical trial and currently no evidence of the efficacy of the convalescent plasma as a treatment modality for Sars-Cov-2 is established… the use of convalescent plasma for routine treatment of Covid-19 patients is not recommended at present…,” say the revised health ministry guidelines.The Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) is working to create a database of potential convalescent plasma donors for hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.“We are creating a list of eligible convalescent plasma donors that we pass on to hospitals. You have to extensively counsel these people as these were sick patients who are sometimes not very comfortable with the idea of going back to a hospital even if it is to donate plasma. We find not many recovered patients approaching us directly, so we are dependent on hospitals to provide us the list as we don’t have a hospital of our own,” said Dr Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank), IRCS.The revised guidelines do not recommend testing of donated blood and blood components for Covid-19 or going in for more advanced pathogen reduction techniques, citing reasons such as financial impracticality and lack of enough evidence to support transmission of the virus though blood transfusion. “Testing of the blood supply for Covid-19 is not recommended in light of the risk of transfusion transmission being theoretical or lack of demonstrated infectivity of the Covid-19 virus in blood collected from asymptomatic persons. Routine practices of infectious disease testing for transfusion transmissible infections should not be changed,” the guidelines said.“Pathogen Reduction Technologies (PRT) require significant logistical and financial investment. PRT for whole blood is less widely available and studies of inactivation of coronavirus in whole blood are lacking. Introduction of PRT for the COvid-19 virus would not be cost-effective or proportionate and is not recommended,” the guidelines added.The document has cited studies that say respiratory viruses are not known to transmit through blood transfusion.“No cases of transfusion-transmission were ever reported for the other two corona viruses that emerged during the past two decades (SARS and MERS-CoV). Virus detection in blood has only happened in symptomatic patients with Covid-19 to date. American Association of Blood Blanks, USFDA (US Food and Drug Administration) and CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the US) are not recommending any additional action by blood collection establishments at this time because there are no data or precedent suggesting risk of transfusion-transmission for Covid-19… According to the USFDA, there have been no reported or suspected cases of transfusion-transmitted Covid-19,” experts said in the guideline document. Having said that, the government has asked blood banks to screen donors thoroughly for Covid-related symptoms, and discard or recall the donated blood if there was even slightest suspicion of Covid-19. The donors will have to wait for at least 28 days before they will again be eligible for donation. People who cannot donate blood are laboratory confirmed cases of Covid-19, irrespective of clinical signs and symptoms; contacts of a lab positive case or those with travel history to a country where community transmission of the disease has been established. “The blood samples collected from a donor, who turns out to be Covid positive, or is unconfirmed case or even a close contact of a laboratory positive case within 28 days of donation, will be discarded. All known positive cases cannot donate for 28 days after the end of 7 day home isolation post discharge or when symptoms subside, or travel to a Covid-19 affected country,” the guidelines say.Dr RN Makroo, president, Indian Society of Transfusion Medicine, said thorough screening is good enough. “For regular donors thorough screening of history of the person is good enough. You cannot conduct blood test or PRT which is not just super expensive but also does not happen anywhere in India. We must strengthen screening of our regular donors, that’s the solution. The new guidelines are pretty comprehensive and should be followed,” said Dr Makroo. “The government guidelines say 28 days of deferral, but we go by six weeks to be cautious,” said Dr Singh from IRCS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-blood-transfusion-services/story-Z2xpZpBsnluzREqR6pwoJN.html
01-07-2020||India||Self-reliance, jobs focus of PM meet||New Delhi: Focus on the real estate sector to create jobs, strengthen electronics manufacturing to cut dependence on other countries, particularly China, and offer rebates to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) were some of the suggestions made at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting last week with his ministers, said people aware of the matter. The meeting was called to address the twin concerns of job creation and strengthening of the economy.Modi was suggested to focus on strengthening the government’s ambitious project, the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, which proposes housing for all urban poor and has a target of building 20 million affordable houses by March 2022.“As part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sithraraman, Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free loans for MSMEs were announced. However, there is a need to address concerns that both the banks and the borrowers have. A minister made a suggestion that there is a need to build confidence for both sides so that banks can give loans without security and the MSMEs are encouraged to avail of the lower rate of interests,” said one of the persons on condition of anonymity.Modi announced the ₹20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Movement) in May that combined policy reforms with fiscal and monetary measures.Another minister suggested India should be positioned as a manufacturing hub of electronics and said Chinese smartphone makers control India’s over 70% market.“There was a discussion on how India can also look at starting production in areas where we traditionally depend on other countries like aircraft... Going forward there is going to be a great demand for more air travel and India could explore tie-ups with manufacturers to set up plants here,” said a second person on condition of anonymity.Specific jobs and skill training for migrant workers, who want to stay back in their native states after losing their jobs because of the Covid-19 pandemic, was also discussed.The issue of collaborating with countries keen to move businesses out of China was also part of the discussions. The second person cited above said a suggestion was made for India and Australia to join forces to become the leaders in steel production. “Currently iron ores go from India and Australia and China is the largest manufacturer,” the second person said on condition of anonymity.In his radio broadcast Mann KI Baat on Sunday, Modi reiterated the need for self-reliance and encouraging local production. He said being “vocal for local” is also a way to strengthen the country and to serve it. “A self-reliant India would be a tribute to our martyrs in the truest, deepest sense,” Modi said while referring to 20 soldiers killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The first person cited above said a similar meeting was held in January when Modi chaired a two-day review of the five-year vision documents of various ministries and departments. “The PM had referred to the growth rate [that had fallen to 4.5% in the September quarter] and urged ministers to come up with suggestions to revive the economy. Now with the coronavirus pandemic, the situation has worsened and the PM is keen that all ministers suggest turnaround models,” said the first person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliance-jobs-focus-of-pm-meet-headline/story-d2cbJUEZa4cQfvHnBiwFQI.html
01-07-2020||India||PM Modi reviews preparations for large-scale Covid-19 vaccination exercise||A day after India’s first Covid-19 vaccine candidate received the central drugs controller’s approval for human clinical trials, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed India’s preparations for vaccinating its vast population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) once a vaccine becomes available.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageVaccination must be affordable and universal, Modi said. At a high-level meeting, he directed officials to start work on a detailed plan for carrying out such large exercise in the country of 1.3 billion people and review preparations in place for vaccination against the viral disease that has infected at least 10 million and killed 508,876 across the globe. In India, the disease has infected 566,840 people and caused 16,893 deaths.On Monday, Bharat Biotech said it had received the drug controller’s approval for carrying out human trials on a vaccine it developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The trials are expected to begin in July, the company said.ICMR-NIV researchers managed to isolate and culture 11 strains from swab samples in early February from initial Covid-19 patients in Kerala that could be used to develop vaccines and aid research. Vaccination of India’s vast and diverse population will need to factor in issues including those related to management of medical supply chains, prioritisation of at-risk populations, coordination between different agencies involved in the process, as well as the role of private sector and civil society, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said.The government has allocated ₹100 crores from the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund to support the initiative to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). There are as many as 25 vaccine development initiatives underway in India, across academic institutions, industry, and start-ups, according to the department of biotechnology that is one of the agencies spearheading the research work on Covid-19 management.The PM focused on four guiding principles that will form the foundation of this national effort: such as vulnerable groups should be identified and prioritised for early vaccination; vaccination of anyone anywhere should take place without imposition of any domicile-related restrictions; must be affordable and universal; no person should be left behind; and the entire process from production to vaccination should be monitored and supported in real time with the use of technology.Vulnerable groups include doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, non-medical frontline Covid-19 warriors, and vulnerable people among the general population.Globally, there are 13 experimental vaccines in clinical trials and another 129 in the preclinical evaluation stage, according to the World Health Organisation’s draft landscape of Covid-19 vaccines.The PM directed officials to evaluate available technology options that can form the backbone of the national endeavour to vaccinate all the population in the most efficient and timely manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reviews-preparations-for-large-scale-vaccination-exercise/story-3HG9scCzlTKHZDGtknR81O.html
01-07-2020||India||HT Salutes: Braving Covid-19 to help Kolkata’s sex workers||Days after the nationwide lockdown was announced, sex workers at Sonagachi, Asia’s biggest red-light area located in Kolkata, realised that the empty lanes in their neighbourhood meant no wages and spelt doom for those who were retired had physical disabilities.Around 8000 sex workers live and work in Sonagachi and the adjoining bylanes of Sethbagan and Rambagan in North Kolkata, and for the duration of the lockdown – which began on March 25 and continued till June 15 – their work, and ability to earn, came to a grinding halt.In another part of the 300-year-old city, Dipali Bhattacharya, a retired principal of the Government College of Art and Craft, her friend Aditi Roy Ghatak, a veteran journalist and activist, and other friends understood the implications of the lockdown on vulnerable groups who depend on a daily income to feed themselves and their families. What followed, they said, was an experience of a lifetime, despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Watch | HT Salutes: Kolkata group who helped sex workers in Sonagacchi amid lockdownOver the past two months, the group has distributed food and essential items like sanitary napkins, not only among residents of Sonagachi and south Kolkata’s smaller red light pocket in Kalighat, but also slum dwellers, migrants returning to their home state of West Bengal, and villagers in the South and North 24 Parganas and Hooghly districts.“We were looking for a supplier of glove and masks for distributing these among people when we came across an inter-state helpline run by Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, former Kolkata mayor and member of the Rajya Rabha. We joined his team, and soon, along with some (other) members of the helpline, started our initiative ‘Ektu Din’ (Give A Little),” said Bhattacharya.The former mayor had formed a team of lawyers and social workers in April to run a helpline for migrant workers stranded in other states and enable their return home.The efforts by Give a Little mattered. On May 17, academicians from Yale School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School released their findings of a study called Modelling the Effect of Continued Closure of Red-Light Areas on COVID-19 Transmission in India, which stated that Indians were at a much lower risk of getting Covid-19 if red light areas are kept closed after the lockdown, until an effective treatment or vaccine for COVID-19 is developed.According to the National Aids Control Organization (NACO), there are over 637,500 sex workers in India, and over 500,000 customers visit the red-light areas daily. The study showed that if the red-light areas started operating, the disease would spread extremely fast and infect a very high percentage of sex workers and customers.If red-light areas are kept closed following the lifting of lockdown, there can be a delay in the peak of Covid-19 cases by 36 days in Kolkata, the study estimated. While the science behind the study was sound, it did not account for the deep economic crisis that the sex workers had been plunged into. Though Kolkata has emerged from the lockdown, business continues to remain tepid at Sonagachi, residents said.“Our business is badly affected and it has become very difficult to feed our children and the elderly who cannot move out. Basic groceries and hygiene products are a great help,” one of the residents, who did not wish to be named, said.“A resident, Moti Sur, did a quick survey and identified 250 people in need of help. Sur knows the area and the residents for years. There was no opposition from the police. They usually never stop charity work,” said Indira Kanjilal, an editor of a business magazine, and member of the core team.Sur took into account how many children and old persons were there in each household, as well as kept track of those who were extremely poor or unwell.Around five volunteers visited Sonagachi six times, each time with 250 kits comprised five kilos of rice, two kilos of flour, one kilo of lentils, besides salt and oil. All the volunteers worse masks as they went into the lanes, and the women would come out and collect it from them to maintain effective physical distance. “Packing rice, dal, cooking oil and other items in every packet and distributing these among residents of Sonagachi was not easy. More than 10,000 women live there. It was beyond our means to help them all,” Kanjilal said.Then Cyclone Amphan hit the coast of West Bengal on May 20, leaving 98 dead and a million people displaced.“Friends and acquaintances started donating funds the moment we spread the word on social media. Our work increased manifold after Cyclone Amphan ravaged south Bengal districts. So far we have helped around 10,000 people,” Bhattacharya estimated.“Our supporters have funded us to help everybody; from villagers in the Sunderbans to rag-pickers at Dhapa dumping ground in Kolkata. Help has come from across the world,” said Roy Ghatak.Hindustan Times and Facebook have partnered to bring you 15 stories of HT Salutes. HT is solely responsible for the editorial content of this series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/braving-covid-19-to-help-kolkata-s-sex-workers/story-3vcUbMRFvnAmEadsXkPFmK.html
01-07-2020||India||Sonia pressured govt to decide on scheme: Cong||Responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to extend the provision of free ration to 800 million citizens till November, the Congress claimed that this was due to pressure by party president Sonia Gandhi and critiqued the PM for not doing more to tackle distress and evading issues in his speech. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate claimed that the announcement came in response to Gandhi’s letter to Modi on June 22 in which she had requested him to provide free food grains to the poor for three more months from July in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation across the country. “It is important to remember that this extension of the scheme was suggested multiple times by the Congress president in her letter to the Prime Minister,” Shrinate said, addressing a virtual news conference. In her letter to the Prime Minister on June 22, Gandhi had also said that millions of Indians are at risk of slipping into poverty due to the strict nationwide lockdown for the past three months. She had written, “The union government must consider extending the provision for free food grains for a further period of three months i.e. from July-September 2020. Several states have requested for the same.” The Congress also critiqued the PM’s speech for not addressing critical issues. “We had hoped that he would look at China in the eye and gather the courage for some tough talk. We had also hoped that he will talk about substantive measures against corona pandemic. We were hoping he was going to speak about the economic ruin and a blueprint to resolve it,” Shrinate said. The Congress, she said, had also hoped that the government would announce an income transfer of ₹7500 to the poor. “But clearly, it was all much ado about nothing. Despite all the euphoria and the massive build up, in his 17 minute long speech, he made, what at best is an administrative decision.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Nalin Kohli said, “It’s a miracle they haven’t still taken credit for the Vedas, Puranas, Upanishads, ayurveda and possibly everything good under the sun. Perhaps the only thing they will not take credit for is for inventing zero because it could be a self goal, bringing focus on the top leadership.”BJP yet to respond on PM remaining silent on critical issues||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-pressured-govt-to-decide-on-scheme-cong/story-lEfIIQe02b0IjyGooVhR8O.html
01-07-2020||India||PM Modi extends free foodgrain scheme for poor till Nov-end||New Delhi: With India in the middle of a long battle again Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended for five months the free distribution of foodgrain to economically weaker sections under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana — a scheme that proved to be beneficial for many during the pandemic with more than 73 lakh million tonne (MT) foodgrain reaching beneficiaries in April and May, according to government data.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe extension will continue to benefit 800 million people, or more than half of the country’s population, giving them 5kg wheat or rice per month. “Along with providing 5kg free rice or wheat to each member of a family, 1kg free whole chana will also be provided to each family per month,” said a government statement that followed the PM’s address to the nation.The Prime Minister said that the government will spend more than Rs 90,000 crore for the extension of the Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, pointing out that if the money spent in the previous three months (April-June) is added to this, the government’s total expenditure for the scheme will be about Rs 1.5 lakh crore.Two senior official familiar with the matter said that the broad contours of extending the scheme were discussed in a meeting chaired by the PM on Monday in which some key officials and minsters were present. The scheme is a part of Covid-specific welfare measures announced on March 26, days after sweeping federal lockdown was imposed to check the transmission of the virus. The government also announced components such as insurance for health workers, money for women through Jan Dhan accounts, ex-gratia payments to the marginalised, and the front-loading of the PM Kisan scheme for farmers.One of the officials cited above said that on condition of anonymity that, in the meeting between the Prime Minister and chief ministers earlier in June, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had appealed to the government to extend the Garib Kalyan package for at least three more months. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, too, made a similar demand on June 22.A senior official, who was part of the consultations for the scheme, said, “UP received 37 lakh (370,000) jobless migrant labourers and Bihar received 30 lakh (300,000) labourers. By covering all major festivals, this programme also sends a right signal.”According to government data available till June 20, 113 lakh MT of foodgrain has been lifted by 36 States and UTs for April, and 37.01 lakh MT has been distributed, covering 740 million beneficiaries; while in May, 36.42 lakh MT of foodgrains have been distributed, covering 728 million beneficiaries.Out of 5.8 lakh MT of pulses allocated under the scheme for three months, 5.68 lakh MT has been dispatched to various states/UTs. Of this, a total 3.35 lakh MT has been distributed to 163 million household beneficiaries out of 194 million such beneficiaries.Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh quickly pointed out how UPA-era schemes have made the welfare programme possible. “Two laws, the MGNREGA of 2005 & National Food Security Act of 2013, a legacy of the Congress-led UPA is now the nation’s lifeline,” he tweeted. Former rural development secretary, Jugal Kishore Mohapatra, said, “I think the assessment is that the pandemic’s effect will continue for a much longer time. in that case, the relief for poor people has to continue as they are vulnerable and depends on government aid. It’s a very good decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-extends-free-foodgrain-scheme-for-poor-till-nov-end/story-L3RBihnET38tM7p7jdEwCN.html
01-07-2020||India||Centre used IT Act powers to block apps||The central government has banned 59 mainly Chinese mobile applications such as Tik-Tok and WeChat, invoking its powers under section 69A of the Information Technology Act of 2000 and provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules of 2009 to block the apps.This step was taken, according to government statement, because the Centre had information that the app companies are engaged in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.The ban has raised a slew of legal questions.Section 69A of the IT Act provides for the central government to issue directions for blocking public access to any information through any computer resource. This is the provision which has been relied on by government agencies in the past to take down online content.The section also sets out the grounds on which such a step can be taken - - in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the country, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any offence relating to above. The provision mandates that the reasons for blocking such content have to be recorded in writing.The procedure to be followed for blocking such objectionable content is laid down in the 2009 rules.There are broadly two procedures prescribed under the 2009 rules.One is when the intermediary or person who has hosted the information is given a hearing before the content is blocked (Rules 6, 7 and 8). The procedure is initiated by a complaint sent by any person to a nodal officer, who is an officer appointed by the ministry or department of the central government or the state government/ union territory.If after examining a complaint received by the nodal officer, the concerned ministry or department is satisfied that the grounds provided under section 69A exist, the complaint is sent to a government committee through a designated officer. The committee which comprises the designated officer and officials of the law ministry, then gives a hearing to the originator of the information or intermediary who has hosted the information before giving the green signal to block the objectionable content.The second method is to deal with emergency cases in which the designated officer can issue an interim order blocking the content without giving a hearing to the originator or intermediary (rule 9). The hearing will have to be held subsequently after which the interim order passed by the designated officer is confirmed or revoked.“But the fact of the matter is that, even in cases where hearing is given before imposing a ban, the hearing is most times afforded only to the intermediary and not to the originator or content creator. So we cannot be sure whether a ban is under rules 6, 7 and 8 or under rule 9”, said Gurshabad Grover, research manager at the Centre for Internet and Society..How will the blocking be implemented?“It will be implemented in two ways. One, the government will ask Apple and Google to take down these apps from their online stores. So nobody can download the apps from now on. Second, it can ask Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to block traffic to the apps. This will ensure that continued use of app is not possible”, Grover said.Where is the order blocking the apps?One crucial aspect which has been pointed out is that no details have been made available in the public domain on the ban except what has been stated in the government statement. The order issued by the government blocking the apps is not available publicly.Rule 16 of the 2009 rules mandate that strict confidentiality has to be maintained when it comes to complaints received and action taken regarding such a ban. “This is the reason why none of these government orders are publicly available. This, in turn, is a roadblock to challenge such orders particularly when it affects the right of citizens other than those directly involved”, Grover said.Since the order is not available, the exact reason cannot also be deduced except that it is on the grounds of national security.Brijesh Singh, inspector general of police, Maharashtra, cited the potential security issues associated with such apps.“During hostilities and conflict between China and other countries, data from these apps will put the Chinese regime to a great geopolitical advantage. It can have a real-time picture of various strategic and tactical initiatives undertaken by the other country for its defence and combat preparedness. Apart from the data gathered in due course of business, deliberate vulnerabilities left in the software and hardware of ubiquitous cheap Chinese smartphones can lead to severe compromise of individuals as well as organisational information. Ill-protected and insecure coding of Chinese operating systems and apps can also allow for further targeted attacks by providing an initial foothold into the victims’ devices. A rapid and thorough assessment of Chinese apps from the point of view of national security as well as individual privacy is the urgent need of the hour”, Singh said.Some have pointed out that such a ban affects freedom of speech of people who use such apps to voice their opinion or showcase their creativity. Concerns have also been raised that it stifles access to information.“Many of these apps are used by people to express their opinions and showcase their talent. A ban on them could be construed as affecting their right under article 19”, Grover said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-used-it-act-powers-to-block-apps/story-Fa6OjBUf0edcparI3xtOOK.html
01-07-2020||India||Inmate kills another ‘for revenge’ in Tihar||A 21-year-old man murdered a fellow prisoner, who had allegedly raped his sister and pushed her to suicide in 2014, at Delhi’s Tihar prison on Monday, investigators said citing initial probe, and added it was a revenge killing he had been planning since July 2018 when he was arrested for murder.The 21-year-old attacked Mehtab, 27, with a sharp metal strip and stabbed him in the neck multiple times. Mehtab was rushed to the nearby Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Mehtab had been in prison since 2014 for the alleged rape, an investigating officer. “In July 2018, the 21-year-old was arrested for a rickshaw driver’s murder. He learnt Mehtab was also in prison. They were lodged in different jails then. He had been planning the murder since then. About a week ago, he was transferred to jail 8/9 [same jail complex] from jail number 5. He requested prison authorities to transfer him to the same ward as Mehtab. He was shifted after a fight with his fellow inmates in the previous ward. The 21-year-old was transferred to Mehtab’s ward and he stabbed him on Monday morning,” the investigating officer, requesting anonymity.A Tihar spokesperson said nobody knew they were connected in a case involving a family member. “Normally we segregate prisoners from rival gangs. A magisterial inquiry is in process.” Investigators said they will look into the source of the metallic strip because such sharp items are banned inside the prison compound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inmate-kills-another-for-revenge-in-tihar/story-j82sf4x63lsj512h2RXJVL.html
01-07-2020||India||Mass surveillance risk real with Chinese apps: Experts||Software and hardware developed in China often pose the threat of being used for mass surveillance, cybersecurity researchers have said, citing data breaches as well as laws that indicate the presence of mechanisms that can be activated to collect and sift through troves of user data. One of the strongest hints came last year when Dutch cybersecurity experts discovered billions of messages of users of Chinese apps WeChat and QQ, which were stored in a manner that suggested they were part of a massive dragnet that was used to censor content on these platforms. “Every Chinese tech company has to comply with the Chinese cybersecurity law which allows the Chinese government to have access to the data these companies collect – this is part of the nationwide mass surveillance systems that are in place in China,” said Victor Gevers, head of research at the Dutch Institute of Vulnerability Disclosure (DIVD), who discovered such databases in 2019.WeChat and QQ are among 59 mostly Chinese applications banned by the Indian government on Monday after complaints that these were collecting and sending data of Indian users outside of the country, a move that comes in the middle of increased hostilities between the two countries over the disputed border at Ladakh.“These data collections are not limited to only Chinese users but all users of a certain platform and the data includes every interaction,” contended Gevers, adding that the leaks in 2019 showed the inner workings of these mass surveillance systems for the first time. Gevers’s concerns were echoed by Anand V, an independent security researcher based in Bengaluru. “Generally, developers from China are used to looking at techno-cultural approach that all data belongs to the government. They believe that it is okay to collect data in such manner because it comes from such a mindset,” he said, while also adding that any user of such apps was at risk. Among the database were roughly 3.7 billion messages sent on one particular day – March 18, 2019 – on WeChat that had a common theme: they all contained some specific keywords that were likely to have been identified as triggers for censorship or action by law enforcement. The words included “Jinping”, “power”, “CCP”, “Tiananmen”, and “Dalai”. “It became very clear that they actually gather everything at some point and sift through it to see if there has to be any interception or human interaction. They copy all the data or take a stream of realtime data and use keywords to trigger a censor system that automatically removes content from applications or flag them for a review,” Gevers said.Indications of unlawful collection of data emerged afresh last week with another prominent Chinese company, TikTok, which was found to have been logging what people were typing on their iPhones. According to Gevers, logging keystrokes – what people type – may now become one of the key ways such companies intercept the data they are legally required to maintain as more apps deploy end-to-end encryption.“What we saw with TikTok is likely to happen with other applications,” he warned. The concerns stretch over to hardware as well, he added. “We have observed that China is investing in mass surveillance using not only CCTVs but also other interfaces. The big worries are Huawei with its 5G networks,” he said.The entry of Huawei in 5Gmobile communication has triggered concerns in some Western nations, predominantly the United States, that it may allow for a backdoor for Chinese intelligence to internet as well as phone data. Gevers as well as Anand said the risk in particular was because of how free applications work: they collect massive amounts of user data to sustain the business by offering ads. “Chinese developers often use the principles of data collection and data mining commonly used for advertising and uses it to train its mass surveillance system,” said Gevers.“Most of these applications collect far more data than required and that has been a very long-going concern. It is a giant dragnet of data,” added Anand.The two experts also said China was not the first country to carry out such intercepts, pointing to the disclosures in the documents leaked by American intelligence contractor Edward Snowden that showed similar mass data dragnets being created by United States’ National Security Agency.In a statement issued by TikTok on Tuesday, its India head Nikhil Gandhi said TikTok “continues to comply with all data privacy and security requirements under Indian law and has not shared any information of our users in India with any foreign government, including the Chinese government”. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson in Beijing said China encourages companies in its country to function under legal obligations. “I want to stress that the Chinese government always asks the Chinese businesses to abide by international rules, local laws and regulations in their business cooperation with foreign countries,” said spokesperson Zhao Lijian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mass-surveillance-threat-real-with-chinese-apps-says-cybersecurity-experts/story-HphmVO6k2D8kiRMqoD4NgI.html
01-07-2020||India||Case exposes deeper problems: Experts||The alleged custodial torture and killing of Jayaraj and Bennicks in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district exposed deeper problems with police violence that need strict judicial overview and long-term reform, former police chiefs and legal experts said on Tuesday. Prakash Singh, a former director-general of police who filed a landmark petition for police reforms in the Supreme Court in 2006, called for an attitudinal change and reinforcing the architecture of state and district level “accountability commissions” that were mandated by the top court 14 years ago. “The response of the local police was disappointing; they should have prosecuted these policemen without any wait. There needs to be a mindset change; top officers cannot think, we have to save our own,” said Singh. In the 2006 case, the top court issued instructions to the government to carry out reforms to insulate police from external pressure and to ensure accountability.Another former police chief, Vikram Singh, said the entire police station is liable to be suspended because of violation of arrest guidelines. He called for a fast-track court to prosecute the accused. “Everyone was a willing accomplice and the court’s order to depute revenue officials to the station is a clear loss of trust in the uniform,” he added. Legal experts pointed out that a number of measures were recommended in the past – by judicial and law commission reports – but none were implemented thoroughly. Murali Karnam, a professor at the NALSAR University of Law in Hyderabad, pointed out that in many countries, governments set up truth and accountability commissions to probe large-scale violence by the state machinery. “But in India, there is a belief that everything can be resolved through force. Serious changes are needed in police training and police need to earn the confidence of people,” he said. Shamim Modi, a professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said in addition to the police, accountability should be sought of the judiciary too. “There are many guidelines issued by the Supreme Court but you need to have an environment where the guidelines can be implemented. We need to punish illegal detention… but the lower judiciary does not seem to take this seriously.”S Ramadoss, a professor of criminology at the University of Madras, said Tamil Nadu police have been accused of several custodial violence cases in the past – the state was second to Gujarat in the number of police custody deaths in 2018, according to the National Crime Records Bureau – but cautioned that it will be a mistake to see the entire police force as one. “There are some erring policemen. Human rights are a component of police training. What we need is deeper study and fear of punishment acting as a deterrent against custodial violence.” What is the way forward? Raja Bagga, a programme officer at the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, explained that constant judicial oversight on the actions of the police can bring some accountability to policing.“Magistrates are duty bound to examine whether all safeguards mandated by law have been scrupulously followed - be it  ascertaining the reasonability of the arrest, verifying the medical examination of the arrestee, inquiring about legal representation and intimation to the family about the arrest, among others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-exposes-deeper-problems-experts/story-4ks87Zfjd6WP5xtVwXKRkO.html
01-07-2020||India||No camera footage available in Tamil Nadu custodial deaths, eyewitness claims victims were beaten all night||Inside the Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi district of Tamil Nadu, the judicial magistrate who was investigating if father and son P Jayaraj (59) and J Bennicks (31) were tortured to death while in custody on June 19, found himself to be a victim of intimidation of the policemen, his report to the court stated. The four-page inquiry report submitted by Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Barathidasan to the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday, and accessed by the Hindustan Times, cited the testimony of a policewoman, the only eyewitness on record, who confirmed that both Jayaraj and Bennicks were beaten through the night. It also revealed that camera footage from that night was unavailable on account of the CCTV camera inside the station being set on auto-delete.The report pointed to the police staff’s insubordination and non-cooperation from the start. Also read | The inhumanity, illegality of custodial tortureWhen Barathidasan along with court staff walked into the station on June 28 at 12.45pm, senior police officers C Prathapan and D Kumar were present and did not acknowledge him. “Kumar was standing and flexed his body to show his physical strength,” the report stated. The magistrate began his investigation at 1pm which went on for 15 hours. Deputy superintendent of police C Prathapan, additional deputy superintendent of police D Kumar and Sathankulam station constable Maharajan, are currently facing a contempt case based on Barathidasan’s complaint that they had actively obstructed him from conducting the investigation. The two senior police officials have been put on wait while constable has been suspended. Maharajan had also reportedly abused the judicial magistrate during the questioning.Three other policemen of the station -- one inspector and two sub inspectors – were suspended from duty last week.Also read | ‘Our George Floyds’: Outrage at custodial deaths in Tamil NaduThe magistrate recorded the testimony of a woman head constable -- the only witness on record -- who was present on the night of June 19. She has testified that the father and son were beaten through June 19 night and into the wee hours of the morning. “There were blood stains on the lathis and a table,” she said and asked the magistrate to obtain them immediately. The witness, who asked the magistrate leave to maintain her anonymity, was afraid of other police officers overhearing her. A group of policemen gathered under a tree near the station premises and heckled the court staff accompanying the magistrate. “She was panicking and we gave her time to calm down,” said the report. In the report, the magistrate said that the station’s officials deliberately delayed bringing documents and records. In order to collect camera footage from that night, Barathidasan was accompanied by an assistant systems officer from the district court, a local journalist and an expert to retrieve the footage. However, they found no CCTV recording from the station from June 19 when P Jayaraj and his son Bennicks were arrested. “Despite enough storage of 1TB (terabyte), we found that the system was programmed in such a manner that the footage was auto-erased daily,” the report stated. “Everything was erased.” The team installed a new 500 GB hard disk to confirm that the system worked. The report also spoke of the intimidatory attitude of the police in the station linked to the alleged custodial deaths of the father and son duo. Following the eyewitness’ testimony, the magistrate asked everyone to submit their lathis. “But the policemen pretended like they didn’t hear me,” the report stated. “Constable Maharajan first said that his lathi was in his native district. Later he said that it was in the police headquarters. Finally he said that he doesn’t have a lathi at all.” Eventually, the policemen handed in their lathis. There are no details of how many lathis were obtained and if they were bloodstained. Through the course of the inquiry, the atmosphere inside the station was unpleasant, condescending and fearful. “The situation was not safe for us,” said Barathidasan as the policemen kept taking videos of the process and threatened the staff. The magistrate had emailed the registrar of the court on June 29 to report that Maharajan had made an abusive remark in Tamil mocking the magistrate that he can’t do anything. “He said it behind my back but said it in a way I could hear him.” A policeman even ran away from the station, during the questioning, the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victims-beaten-all-night-eyewitness/story-leSfmM3A2qJsa7q9cIVTdL.html
01-07-2020||India||Madras HC paves way for murder charge in custodial deaths||There is prima-facie grounds to book policemen at the Sathankulam police station for the murder of P Jayaraj and J Bennicks, the Madras high court observed on Tuesday after reading preliminary post-mortem reports and a report by the local judicial magistrate, which said the father-son duo was thrashed through the night with lathis. The court also handed over the probe to the state’s criminal investigation department (CB-CID), fearing that evidence may disappear by the time the Central Bureau of Investigation took over the case. On Monday, the state formally asked the CBI to take over the probe in the controversial case that sparked nationwide outrage. The court stated that “the ante-mortem injuries found on the bodies of the deceased” and the magistrate’s report are prima facie enough to alter the case to Section 302 IPC against the Sathankulam police who were actively involved in the investigation of the case.The court observed that there were chances of evidence tampering and appointed CB-CID deputy superintendent of police Anil Kumar to handle the case. It said that the Sathankulam police “are taking advantage of the fact that the investigation of the case is in limbo and are attempting to cause disappearance of evidence. In fact, they were emboldened enough to even intimidate the judicial officer to put spokes in the wheel of his enquiry.” It further suggested to the government to “revisit” the idea of entrusting the matter to the CBI, if it is satisfied that Kumar is proceeding on the right line.“If we do not act now, it will become too late...” the bench said. On Monday, the court had ordered the Thoothukudi collector to depute revenue officials to collect evidence at the police station. Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Barathidasan’s four-page report to the court cited testimony indicative of torture, an attempted cover-up and an attempt to obfuscate the investigation. The report quoted an eyewitness, a head constable of the police station who wished to remain anonymous, who testified that both the father and son were beaten through the night, and the lathis used by the policemen, as well as the tables on which they were placed, had blood on them. The court has directed the Thoothukudi district collector to ensure the safety of the eyewitness as well as her family members. It suggested she may be allowed to go on leave as “we fear that there will be attempt to intimidate her and make her resile from her version” given to the judicial magistrate.Bennicks, 31, and Jayaraj, 59, died on June 22 and June 23 after undergoing hours of alleged torture at the Sathankulam police station on June 19. The First Information Report (FIR) filed by the police booked them under several sections, including Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 353 (use of force to deter public servant from duty). However, eyewitness accounts refute the claims in the FIR, stating that the duo was tortured severely by the policemen while in custody. On June 24, the Madurai bench of Justices PM Prakash and B Pugalendhi took suo-motu cognisance of the case.On Monday, the court initiated a contempt case against three officials of the police station: additional deputy superintendent of police D Kumar, deputy superintendent of police C Prathapan and constable Maharajan.The Kovilpatti judicial magistrate accused the three of obstructing his investigation and making an abusive remark. On Tuesday, all three appeared before the bench with the constable saying he was “overstressed” and made the remark “by mistake”.Last week, the Thoothukudi police had suspended the station inspector Sridhar, and two sub-inspectors P Raghuganesh and Balakrishnan in connection to the deaths. On Tuesday, the Tamil Nadu government put Arun Balagopalan, the Thoothukudi superintendent of police, on compulsory wait [removed from active duty, but not suspended]. S Jeyakumar from Villupuram district will take over this position. Dr S Murugan, inspector general of police, economic offences wing in Chennai will be the new inspector general of police of south zone in Madurai as the incumbent retires Tuesday. Thoothukudi is under the south zone police jurisdiction in Tamil Nadu. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grounds-for-murder-case-against-cops-madras-hc/story-jM4vOyHFuc5Y1U2Ktwe4XK.html
01-07-2020||India||May be able to push peak until there is vaccine: Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar||The challenge ahead for India will be to strike a balance between managing the industrial impact and heath impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), says Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, who was one of the senior epidemiologists at the forefront of not just India’s fight against Covid-19 but also other recent outbreaks such as Nipah, Zika, Japanese Encephalitis and the Acute Encephalitis Syndrome. Gangakhedkar, who retired as the Indian Council of Medical Research’s head of epidemiology and non-communicable diseases division on Tuesday, spoke to Hindustan Times on his last day at work. Edited excerpts:You have been with the Indian Council of Medical Research for long. How does it feel to leave at such a crucial time in India’s fight against Covid-19?It is difficult to contain emotions when it’s the last day of your work in an organisation that you have had been associated with for 36 years. I had joined ICMR in 1984. It is indeed a long association, and all through these years I have had the opportunity to be a part of some significant projects, especially in the field of HIV/AIDS that was my area of specialisation. Last few months have been a roller-coaster ride; we manage to achieve many milestones that may seem small to others but have been quite significant in our fight against Covid-19. It may be time for me to move on but the fight shall continue. There are several able people who will continue this fight, and even I am not entirely saying good bye and will be around as a part of CG Pandit National Chairs of ICMR. In fact, now I will have more time at hand to think a problem through.You moved to ICMR headquarters in Delhi as head of epidemiology and non-communicable diseases division in 2018; how was the experience?I can’t tell how the experience was because I never got time to think. I was constantly firefighting during past 2.5 years. When I joined in 2018, Nipah outbreak struck in Kerala; then in the same year a highly contagious and life-threatening viral infection, Canine Distemper Virus disease, outbreak happened in Gir, Gijarat; later in 2019, Zika virus disease outbreak was reported from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh; then Nipah again struck in Kerala in 2019; after that Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome cases were reported among children in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur; and then Covid-19 happened. There was literally no time as one thing after another came up that required immediate attention. There was no time to think, forget relax.How many work hours have you been putting in daily in the last few months?Like I said, it is not just about past few months but past 2.5 years that I have been putting in long hours; and was working even after the office time was over. During the past few months it has been around 17-18 hours officially in a day. Since I lived alone in Delhi, I could work long hours.What has your experience been like while dealing with Covid-19 so far? What did we do right?What has worked in India’s fight against Covid-19 is that there has been involvement of all stakeholders together from the very beginning. We have seen in the past that multi-sectoral response in an outbreak situation usually comes so late that much of the damage is already done. But in this case, from the most senior officials to the junior- most government functionaries, everyone came together much early when there was lots that could be done to save the situation from going out of hand later and that even led to early lockdown. We bought so much time and prepared ourselves much better, and well in advance. The risk mitigation that we see now happened only because of this. From the first test on January 22 to nearly 9 million tests so far, we have moved in a very short period. One needs to be realistic in their expectations; what we have achieved is no mean feat. What challenges do you foresee?The biggest challenge will be to achieve the balance between industrial impact vs. health impact of Covid-19. You have to take certain steps for the economy but at the same time be very cautious to not let the disease spiral out of control. India is a diverse country so the much talked-about peak may not be attained in one go; different peaks will occur in different regions because of the diversity and density of the population. We may actually manage to push it till there is a vaccine or a drug that should help. We shouldn’t only look at numbers but we have to see how to reduce death-related risks that is more crucial in our Covid-19 fight. Community mobilization is also crucial, and if we managed to increase that, then it will go a long way in successful implementation of containment strategies. What threats do we face in future in terms of diseases?We need to be very vigilant as infectious diseases are not going to go anywhere. It is not correct to say that only non-communicable (lifestyle-related) diseases are a part of the future; that’s not true. Infectious diseases will emerge and will keep continuing. After the second outbreak of Nipah in 2019, I had started to work on a multiple country project that included countries such as Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Mayanmar, Thailand, Indonesia etc. to work out a strategy to contain infectious disease spread because infectious diseases don’t recognize boundaries. We have to protect not just ourselves but work in tandem with our neighbours to achieve larger protection. We need to work across borders because today mobility is high because of porous borders. We had started with dengue but then Covid happened and other projects had to be stalled. Hope it is taken up again in future.How did you unwind? And what are the plans post- retirement?There was hardly time but whatever time I got, I used to spend talking to my family. Thanks to technology, these days you can video chat with all your family members together. It was fun. As for post-retirement, I intend to settle in Pune. I would want to work for science literacy, by which I mean to make understand complex concepts of science in a simple manner. To me, it is vital to provide biology/science related literacy to our current generation. We do not have enough good science communicators. I plan to contribute in the field. Let’s see....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-be-able-to-push-peak-until-there-is-vaccine-dr-raman-r-gangakhedkar/story-JOxL4YMMpGaOmUdwY2g5BJ.html
01-07-2020||India||US lawmakers back India, slam China for conflict||Yashwant Raj Bipartisan support for India has been growing among the US lawmakers amid its military standoff with China. Mitch McConnell, the leader of the Republican-dominated US Senate, kicked off a floor debate on next year’s defense budget on Monday by slamming China for “picking deadly fights” with India.McConnell appealed for the chamber’s bipartisan support to pass the National Defense Authorization Act, 2021, with remarks highlighting recent threats from China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran.“China has resumed its submarine intrusions into Japanese contiguous zones and picked deadly fights with India at high altitude,” McConnell said.In a floor speech on June 18, McConnell said the Chinese military appeared to have “instigated the worst violent clash between China and India since those nations went to war way back in 1962.” The clash left 20 Indian soldiers dead on June 15. Also on Monday, another Republican senator, Marco Rubio, supported India. “Today I spoke to @SandhuTaranjitS to express our solidarity with the people of #India as they firmly confront unwarranted & lawless armed aggression by the Communist Party of #China.” He was referring to a conversation with Taranjit S Sandhu, the Indian ambassador to the US.“India has made it clear, they will not be bullied by Beijing,” added Rubio, who is a member of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, a congressional panel with oversight of the State Department and the country’s foreign policy.The State Department has also held Chinese aggression responsible for the borer clashes. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has referred to the clashes several times. “The [Chinese] PLA [People’s Liberation Army] has escalated border tensions--we see it today in India, the world’s most popular, populous democracy,” he said on June 18. He also conveyed his condolences over the killing of the Indian soldiers.President Donald Trump offered to mediate in May, but the offer was turned down by both countries.In a TV interview on Sunday, Tom Cotton, a Republican senator, who is a close ally of Trump, denounced China’s aggression on the border with India to illustrate the growing threat Beijing poses to the US and its allies. “The Chinese Communist Party is certainly using the [Covid-19] pandemic to try to assert claims and take very aggressive action against almost all of its neighbours,” Cotton said. “High up in the Himalayas, China has essentially invaded India, an ally of ours. And they have killed 20 Indian soldiers.”Cotton referred to China’s violation of its international commitment regarding Hong Kong, aggression against Taiwan, Vietnam, Philippines, and Malaysia. “China is becoming more aggressive than ever. That is why it is so important that we support all of our allies and partners.”The Democratic-led House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Eliot Engel denounced the Chinese aggression early June before the deadly border clash. “I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border,” Engel said. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbours rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”“I am concerned by continued Chinese aggression along its border with India,” Ami Bera, Indian-origin chair of the Asia subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-lawmakers-back-india-slam-china-for-conflict/story-1Er8U9zWgp2ni0yIw2b9ZK.html
01-07-2020||India||Govt plans scheme for cashless treatment of accident victims||The government plans to unveil a scheme for the cashless treatment of road accident victims and create a motor vehicle accident fund to pay for their medical care, including during the so-called golden hour.Golden hour refers to the first hour after trauma when, if proper and timely first aid is given, road accident victims’ chances of survival improve. The transport ministry has proposed a cap of Rs 2.5 lakh for the victim’s treatment per accident and designated the National Health Authority as the nodal agency to implement the scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. All road accident victims of Indian or foreign nationality will be considered eligible under the scheme. The Centre has sought feedback on the proposed scheme from all chief secretaries by July 10. “The central government shall make a scheme for the cashless treatment of victims of the accident during the golden hour and such scheme may contain provisions for creation of a fund for such treatment…the National Health Authority being the nodal agency for PMJAY having footfall all across the country with more than 21,000 hospitals on board has been entrusted to implement the scheme of cashless treatment of motor vehicle accident victims and also a nodal agency for PMJAY,” the transport ministry said in its letter addressed to the states, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times.More than 150,000 people die per year due to road accidents in India. On average, 1,200 road accidents happen in India every day, and around 400 people lose their lives on account of them, according to the transport ministry.“It is envisioned to have a scheme by the central government for providing access to cashless trauma care treatment for road accident victims at the nearest appropriate hospital in the country, in accordance with the Supreme Court ruling, and by drawing its power from the Motor Vehicle(Amendment) Act 2019 (MV Amendment Act). Such cashless treatment shall be extended to road accident victims including during golden hour, as defined by the MV Amendment Act,” the ministry’s proposal said.Setting up of a road accident fund was one of the key provisions of the MV Amentment Act passed by parliament in September last year.“NHA’s robust IT platforms which are used for implementation of Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY may be leveraged to provide cashless treatment for victims of road traffic accidents for treatment including during the golden hour. Hospitals have to ensure provision of stabilization in case they refer the patient to an empanelled PMJAY hospital where the complete treatment may be provided,” the proposal said.Trauma and healthcare services for road accident victim will be financed through an account which will be established under the transport ministry for the implementation of the scheme.“The funds will have contributions from insurance companies through General Insurance Council (GIC) for insured vehicles and for hit-and-run cases, MORTH {ministry of road transport and highways}will pay for the accident of uninsured vehicles. The account will be managed by NHA for ensuring timely payments to health care service providers as per the defined process flows and stipulated timelines,” the ministry proposed.The vehicle owners will be liable to pay the cost of treatment as part of the compensation in case the vehicle is not insured.“The cashless treatment of road accident victims scheme proposed by the Union government as per the recently enacted Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019, is a pathbreaking development towards saving lives of road crash victims. Once issued and implemented, it will ensure treatment of road crash victims without delay and also drastically reduce refusals faced by victims at certain hospitals,” said Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation, which works to save lives on the roads and improve road safety.This is a welcome step. We hope that hospital infrastructure across India will also be suitably upgraded to reduce patient referrals and transfers to distant facilities,” said Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-scheme-for-cashless-treatment-of-accident-victims/story-bTTxCYZVmAR4BrlrugCLhJ.html
01-07-2020||India||LAC standoff: India, China hold talks at Chushul amid tensions||New Delhi: Senior Indian and Chinese commanders on Tuesday held a long meeting at Chushul in Ladakh as part of ongoing efforts at the military level to cool heightened border tensions that have soured bilateral ties between the two neighbours, even as the military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) continues unabated, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.The talks between the army delegations, led by corps commander-ranked officers, began at around 11am and were still on till the time of filing of this report. There was no official word from the army on the talks. A breakthrough is unlikely at this stage but talks will go on, said one of the persons cited above on the condition of anonymity. This was the third meeting between the delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region; and the second after the brutal clash at Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead. The Galwan Valley clash, which took place while a previous disengagement process was on, has created trust deficit between the two sides, said a second person who asked not to be named. The two delegations last met on June 22 when they hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border during an 11-hour meeting. The “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” reached eight days ago has neither enabled any disengagement on the ground nor led to the thinning of military build-up by rival forces in the region, the second person said.With the senior commanders making no progress in implementing a disengagement plan aimed at gradually reducing tensions, it is now becoming increasing evident that both armies are preparing for a long haul and they could remain deployed in the sector till the onset of winter (September) , said the third person cited above. The two senior officers first met on June 6 to ease growing tensions along the LAC. The limited military disengagement that began in some friction areas after the first meeting was derailed after the bloodshed in Galwan Valley. The Indian side on Tuesday reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from the friction points and sought the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, the third person said. Experts were not optimistic about any fresh hope form the military-level dialogue, saying diplomatic channels would have to be worked to reach a breakthrough. Chinese military buildup continues to be observed on the ground and captured by satellite imagery, he said. The latest meeting took place at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC, while the previous two meetings were held at Moldo on the Chinese side. China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity in Finger Area near Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Depsang Plains since the senior officers last met on June 22.India is especially concerned about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding positions in the Finger Area where it has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts in areas New Delhi considers its territory, HT reported on Tuesday..The situation is equally critical from the Indian standpoint in the Depsang sector as the PLA has mobilised troops, weapons and other military equipment in sensitive areas, with its forward presence disrupting the army’s patrolling patterns there. Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region. The Chinese buildup in other areas including Galwan Valley and the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector hasn’t thinned either. Satellite imagery dated June 22, released by US firm Maxar Technologies, showed not only was the PLA holding ground in Galwan Valley but has also shored up its military positions in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-lt-gen-level-talks-held-at-chushul-amid-tensions/story-ObUxdDhH1ah3DYgrwIda9K.html
01-07-2020||India||India wary of China investing, trading through a third party||India suspects that China could be engaging in unfair trade practices by supplying goods and investments through a third party such as Hong Kong and Singapore, but may not bar legitimate Chinese trade and investments in India while scanning them from the perspective of national interest, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.Data suggests significant indirect inflow of Chinese goods and investments through locations with which India has free trade agreements (FTAs), preferential trade agreements (PTAs) or other bilateral commercial arrangements. This is not only illegal but also injuring domestic industry, the people said, requesting anonymity.The development comes a day after the Narendra Modi govenment announced  ban on 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications such s Tik-Tok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing concerns that these are “prejudicial to sovereignty of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.”Sino-Indian tensions have shot up after a violent brawl between Chinese and Indian soldiers on June 15 along the Line of Actual Control in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian army personnel were killed.Data shows that total foreign direct investment (FDI) from China is minuscule, but many Indian firms have received Chinese investments. Similarly, imports from China have registered a minor decline recently, but at the same time imports from Hong Kong and Singapore have surged. These figures show that something is amiss and needs to be probed, one of the people cited above, who works in an economic ministry, said.According to the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), while India’s trade deficit with China narrowed by $6.05 billion to $51.25 billion in 2019, the gap with Hong Kong widened sharply by $5.8 billion in 2019, nullifying almost all the gains. Similarly, India trade deficit with Singapore was $5.82 billion in the previous financial year, the person mentioned above said. “The principal imports from Hong Kong, which have shown a significant increase, are electrical and electronic products where imports jumped from $1.3 billion to $8.6 billion between 2017 and 2019,” FIEO director general and chief executive officer Ajay Sahai said.The increase in imports is definitely a setback to domestic industry, he said. “If the goods made in China are re-routed through Hong Kong and Singapore, showing such origin of products, customs can always ask importers to provide the proof of adhering to the Rules of Origin,” he said.He advised the government to be extra cautious in case of imports from Singapore because of the India-Singapore Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) as well as India-ASEAN {Association of South-East Asin Nations} Free Trade Agreement (FTA) that increase the possibilities of re-routing of Chinese products to India to derive a preferential tariff advantage. “Any increase in imports has an adverse bearing on domestic industry and thus on job creation,” Sahai said .“Many times, a product originally belonging to China enters from Singapore, Vietnam or even Hong Kong and we might lose the revenue which could come as tax. In simple terms, if consumers will get cheaper imports, market share and profit margins of the domestic manufacturer will get hurt,” Trade Promotion Council of India (TPIC) chairman Mohit Singla said.A second person working in another economic ministry said, “Even the Chinese FDI inflow also appears skewed.” The latest official data shows foreign direct investment from China between April 2000 and March 2020 was $2.378.71 billion, which is 0.51% of the total FDI inflow into the country in the two decades.The second person quoted above said, “Apparently the FDI figures do not capture actual Chinese investments in India and possibly some investments could have flowed into the country undetected, routed through a third country. All such suspicious Chinese inflows need to be scanned properly.”Email queries sent to ministries of finance and commerce did not elicit any response.Even before the current standoff with China over border issue, India in April clubbed FDI proposals from China with those from other hostile countries such as Pakistan, making prior government approval mandatory for any investment in the country to prevent opportunistic takeovers of Indian firms during the Covid-19 pandemic.Burgeon Law, which styles itself as new-age boutique law firm that caters to start-ups and emerging companies, said start-ups will have to scout for other avenues of investment from newer geographies.“With recent events of Indo-Chinese face off and developments of scrutinizing the FDI from nations that share a land border with India, the situation depicts a tightness between the neighbouring countries,” said Roma Priya, founder of the legal firm. “The immediate impact of this can be observed in business relations as well, with contractions, trade deficit and fundings being put on hold.”“Companies which fall under the portfolio of Chinese investors will also have to look for newer alternatives as their transactions will get delayed due to these macro events,” Priya added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wary-of-china-investing-trading-through-a-third-party/story-lSot0pUfeLNMCd50FHtOmJ.html
01-07-2020||India||Delhi adds 2,199 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 87,360, over 14k beds vacant||Delhi on Tuesday registered 2,199 new Covid 19 cases to take the tally of coronavirus cases to 87,360 in the capital, while 2113 patients were declared recovered from the disease taking the number of discharged cases to 58,348 in the city-state, leaving 26,270 active cases of the disease, according to the data released by the state health department.The capital city had recorded 2,084 cases on Monday, a significant decline from the 2,889 coronavirus cases reported on Sunday.The total number of containment zones in the city, has however risen to 440. 9,585 samples were tested on Tuesday through RT PCR method and 7,594 tests were conducted using the Rapid antigen testing technology.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn terms of the availability of beds for treatment of coronavirus patients, a combined number of 14,243 beds were available in three different facilities—dedicated Covid hospitals, dedicated Covid care centres and dedicated Covid health centres as against 7,831 beds occupied by positive patients. 16,240 positive patients remain under home isolation.According to the health bulletin issued by the health department, an order has been issued to all hospitals run by the government of Delhi to rework their existing bed capacity in a way to increase the number of beds with ventilator facility over and above the existing beds.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Another order has been issued for the constitution of teams to conduct inspections at the government-run and privately managed hospitals for a rapid assessment of the existing capacity, patient care amenities and associated aspects of the Covid care facilities in the city-state.The order said that three teams of medical experts constituted by the Union health ministry will conduct regular and surprise inspections at various Covid hospitals in the national capital, officials quoted by PTI said.Each of the three teams will have domain experts from the AIIMS, directorate general of health services in the Union health ministry, Delhi government and civic bodies, said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-adds-2-199-new-covid-cases-tally-reaches-87-360-over-14k-beds-vacant/story-tx0n3k7CIxhpb8NmYNTIeO.html
01-07-2020||India||‘Better quality rice than Centre’: CM Mamata on her free ration announcement||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Tuesday that the state government would distribute free food grains to the poor till June 2021.“For the first three months of the lockdown we gave each family five kilos of rice. Over the next three months, till September, we would provide five kilos of rice along with an equal amount of flour to each family. We will provide free ration till June 2021,” said Banerjee while speaking to media persons at the state secretariat. The Bengal CM’s announcement came just minutes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the union government would distribute free food grains to 80 crore of the country’s poorest till November-end.“We give better quality rice than the Centre. Only 6.01 crore people or around 60% of the people in Bengal have been benefited from the Centre free ration scheme. We are providing to 10 crore people,” she added.The Bengal unit of the BJP said Banerjee’s free ration announcement till June 2021 is a political move to counter Narendra Modi in poll-bound Bengal. “Immediately after the Prime Minister announced that the Centre would provide free ration under Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till November, the chief minster jumped into a political race to counter it. She has said the state will give free ration to people till June 2021. Does she have any credibility as far as social welfare is concerned?” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. Referring to complaints of nepotism in distribution of compensation in Amphan-hit areas, Sinha said, “Even if her government arranges free ration for people it will go to TMC leaders. We saw this when ration sent by the Centre was distributed during the Covid-19 lockdown.”The state has also written letters to the union government to allow resumption of Kolkata Metro and stop flights from five hot spot states at least for the next two weeks, the chief minister added.The chief minister took a swipe at the union government on banning 59 Chinese apps, even though she said that her party supports the government on issues related to external affairs.“Banning some apps will not give any results. We have to be aggressive on one hand and on the other hand we have to be diplomatic. This is an external affairs issue and we don’t interfere. We fully support the government,” said Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/better-quality-rice-than-centre-cm-mamata-on-her-free-ration-announcement/story-1wfFV18Dor7H1oufUP9A1L.html
