02-07-2020||India||28 ministerstake oath as Chouhan expands cabinet||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan inducted 28 new ministers in his cabinet on Thursday, including 12 former Congress leaders, three months after he assumed office for a fourth term. Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, who was sworn in as the acting governor on Wednesday afternoon due to the hospitalisation of governor Lalji Tandon in Lucknow, administered the oath of office and secrecy to the new ministers in a simple function organised at the Raj Bhavan premises. The 28 ministers include 20 cabinet ministers and eight ministers of state. The council of ministers now has 34 members, with only one ministerial berth lying vacant. Twelve of the 28 new ministers are considered loyal to Rajya Sabha member and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. In the previous cabinet expansion on April 21, two other leaders close to Scindia were inducted into the council of ministers. Congratulating the new ministers, Chouhan said, “We all have to make concerted efforts for progress and development of the state. Service to public should be the goal of our life.”Scindia said, “I hope, all the ministers will work shoulder to shoulder with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda for progress and development of the state.”Chouhan came to power in March when the previous Congress-led administration lost its majority after 22 legislators resigned from the state assembly. These 22 seats, along with two others, are set for bypolls soon. Fifteen new faces were inducted on Thursday. The former MLAs will have to get elected within six months to retain their ministerial berth.This is the second cabinet expansion by Chouhan this term. On April 21, five ministers were sworn in. Twelve of the ministers come from the Gwalior-Chambal region and 10 from Malwa-Nimad. Bundelkhand has four ministers. Vindya and central regions have three ministers each, and Mahakoshal is represented by one minister.There are four ministers each from scheduled tribes and scheduled castes. There are at least 10 ministers from Rajput clan and eight from the other backward classes. There are four women in the council of ministers. “Whether it was my respected father or it’s me, the Scindia family has always trodden on the path of truth and justice with our resolve to serve people. In 15 months of Congress rule earlier there was rampant corruption and there were attempts to do harm to the state. I am confident that the government under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan will fulfil the aspirations of people,” Scindia said. The new cabinet ministers are Gopal Bhargava, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhra Raje Scindia, Bhupendra Singh, Brijendra Pratap Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Prem Singh Patel, Omprakash Saklecha, Aindal Singh Kansana, Usha Thakur, Arvind Bhadoria, Mohan Yadav, Hardeep Singh Dang, and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon, the last eight becoming ministers first time.The ministers of state include Bharat Singh Kushwaha, Inder Singh Parmar, Ramkhelawan Patel, Ram Kishor Kanware, Brijendra Singh Yadav, Girraj Dandotia, Suresh Dhakad, and OPS Bhadoria. All of them have become ministers for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-ministerstake-oath-as-chouhan-expands-cabinet/story-lWfm2u0ZI8PUGKdCDtsFkJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Need to further enhance our operational capabilities: IAF chief||The Indian Air Force needs to further enhance its operational capabilities and improve serviceability of its mission critical systems, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria said on Thursday, at a time when the force is on high alert due to escalating tension with China. In his inaugural speech at the two-day conference of Senior Air Staff Officers (SASOs), the chief highlighted the “need for sustenance of existing fleets and optimum operational exploitation of new inductions in order to make the Indian Air Force (IAF) a formidable combat force”. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter stand-off in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. “The CAS (Chief of the Air Staff) while addressing the SASOs emphasised the need for further enhancing our operational capabilities as well as improving serviceability of mission critical systems,” a press release by the IAF said. He also appreciated the operational readiness of IAF Commands and subordinate formations, it said. Moreover, Bhadauria commended the effort put in towards “integrated training of air warriors of all streams” to meet the present and future operational requirements. “The bi-annual conference of Senior Air Staff Officers is being held on Thursday and Friday, wherein pointed discussions would take place towards operational capability enhancements, focused training to tackle contemporary challenges with available assets and automation efforts in the IAF,” the release stated.The conference was conducted through video conferencing, in a first-of-its-kind effort, in the backdrop of the prevailing security environment and Covid-19 pandemic, the IAF said. Meanwhile, the defence ministry on Thursday approved procurement of 33 frontline fighter jets, a number of missile systems and other military hardware at a cost of Rs 38,900 crore to bolster the combat capability of the armed forces, officials said. They said 21 MiG-29 fighter jets will be procured from Russia, while 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft will be bought from state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). A separate proposal to upgrade existing 59 MiG-29 aircraft has also been approved. The ministry has also approved procurement of 248 ASTRA beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missile systems. The missile is designed to engage and destroy highly maneuvering supersonic aircraft and has all weather day and night capability, the officials said. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border besides moving in heavy weapons. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-further-enhance-our-operational-capabilities-iaf-chief/story-oQyUYd3JMFrtO08zSc6pSN.html
02-07-2020||India||Tripura man ends life after failing to buy smartphone for daughter’s online classes||A 50-year-old farmer allegedly died by suicide following an argument with his daughter over his failure to buy a smartphone at a village in Sepahijala District of Tripura.The incident came to notice on Wednesday, police said.Police said that the deceased’s daughter, a Class 10 student, demanded a smartphone for herself so that she could continue her online classes. But her father managed to buy an ordinary phone on Tuesday which she didn’t like and smashed the phone. This led to an argument between them after which he was last seen moving to his room. The next day, he was found dead in his room.“ We inquired some locals and his family about the matter. During our investigation, we got to know that there was an argument in his house over his failure to buy a smartphone for his daughter. We conducted post mortem and handed over the body to them. We took an unnatural death case,” said officer in-charge of Madhupur police station Tapas Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-ends-life-after-failing-to-buy-smartphone-for-daughter-s-online-classes/story-DdXexxwrxS104pWmicMI1O.html
02-07-2020||India||Indian Army Brigadier, who tested positive for Covid-19, dies in Kolkata||A brigadier of the Indian Army died in Kolkata on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19, a few days ago. A senior official said that the brigadier was posted at the Eastern Command headquarters in Kolkata.After he tested positive for Covid-19, he was initially shifted to the military hospital in Barrackpore, the designated Covid-hospital for defence personnel. As his health deteriorated due to complications, he was shifted to the Command Hospital in Kolkata.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe, however, succumbed due to acute respiratory problems arising due to pneumonia and Covid-19 complications.He is survived by his wife and two daughters. They had also tested positive but have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-brigadier-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-dies-in-kolkata/story-6xWsk2bsoXiSGdNkEE9BAP.html
02-07-2020||India||CRPF personnel killed, terrorist shot down in encounter in Srinagar’s Malabagh||A CRPF trooper and a terrorist were killed in an encounter at Srinagar’s Malabagh locality that began late Thursday evening, police said.Two to three terrorists are believed to be trapped in the congested locality.A a cordon and search operation was launched in the area, near Habak Crossing, after a tip-off about presence of militants there, a police official said. The operation turned into an encounter after terrorists opened fire towards the security personnel, the official added.More details are awaited.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-at-srinagar-s-malabagh/story-6l6jFEMVzoxw7bEtC46UJI.html
02-07-2020||India||Manhunt launched for Odisha villagers who killed crocodile, ate its meat||Wildlife officials in Odisha’s Malkangiri district have launched a manhunt to arrest villagers who killed a 10-feet long freshwater crocodile, hung it from a tree and later ate the animal’s meat.Malkangiri divisional forest officer Pradeep Devidas Mirase said a case has been filed against unknown persons and three teams have been formed to arrest unknown villagers in Kaladapalli under Podia block of the district, after photos of the crocodile being hung from a tree emerged on social media. The villagers reportedly caught the crocodile from the Saveri river on Tuesday and tied it to a tamarind tree before taking selfies with it. Afterwards, they cut it into pieces and distributed the meat among themselves.“I was shocked when I first heard about it. This was never heard of earlier in Malkangiri,” Mirase told the Hindustan Times. “Our teams have so far been unlucky in recovering any of the parts of the crocodile. We are trying to locate the people who are seen posing alongside the crocodile carcass.” Sources said the villagers reportedly caught the crocodile after several domestic animals like cows and goats went missing near the river. The villagers suspected that a crocodile was behind the killings.The freshwater crocodile, one of the three varieties of crocodiles that includes esturine crocodiles and gharials found in India, is protected under Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 as their skins are traded heavily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manhunt-launched-for-odisha-villagers-who-killed-crocodile-ate-its-meat/story-UqGNey7ulW274jGhVX4hjP.html
02-07-2020||India||Woman, her two daughters found dead near railway tracks, cops suspect suicide||A 30-year-old woman and her two daughters, aged 5 and 6, were found dead at the railway tracks in east Delhi’s Mandawali early on Thursday morning. Police suspect that the woman and her daughters might have come under the wheels of a train. Their mutilated bodies were spotted by passersby, who also saw the woman’s one-year-old son sitting beside the bodies, with minor injuries. Investigators suspect that it might be a case of suicide as the woman and her husband had had a fight last night.According to the police, a call was received around 3.40am on Thursday, which reported that the bodies of a woman and two children were lying near the railway track close to Mandawali Railway Station. A police team immediately reached the spot and found the three bodies to be mutilated..“A boy, around one year old, was found sitting next to the bodies with minor injuries. All the three dead bodies were removed, as per Covid-19 guidelines, and shifted to GTB Hospital for post mortem examination. The child was shifted to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital for treatment. His condition is said to be stable, “ said a senior officer. The officer said, with the help of locals and passersby, the woman was identified and her husband alerted about the incident.Deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar said a preliminary probe has revealed that the couple often used to fight. “On Wednesday night also, the woman had left her house after a similar altercation with her husband. She had taken her children along. Prima facie, it looks like a case of suicide. CCTV footages from the area is also being checked to establish the sequence of events. Further investigation is in progress and we are contacting the couple’s family members to get more details,” the DCP said. Contacted, clinical psychologist Rajat Mitra said, it is important for the society to understand that woman facing marital trauma and other emotional disturbances needs immediate help. The society must create institutions if we have to prevent unfortunate incidents like this. “Suicidal feelings are not permanent and go away once we get help and discuss it with someone close to us. Several professionals and NGOs offer free help. Our society must do everything to provide support to women in distress, for example through education in schools and workshops. Men should be more sensitive and societal institutions must be upgraded to handle such poignant issues without delay,” he said.Mitra further said in such cases mothers usually kill themselves along with their children because they worry about their child’s future after she is gone.“But trauma of such incidents scar the child for life. In case of older children who survive, he or she maybe left with survival guilt. In many cases such trauma manifests itself permanently,” Mitra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-her-two-daughters-found-dead-near-railway-tracks-cops-suspect-suicide/story-p350jozlwzhy0DQjWXjzpL.html
02-07-2020||India||After row over ordinance for industries, Assam govt says it’s only for MSMEs||Amid a row over an ordinance allowing conversion of land without clearances for setting up industries, the Assam government said on Thursday that it was meant only for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and would benefit local entrepreneurs.“MSME ordinance approved by Assam cabinet is only for micro, small and medium enterprises, not for large industries. This will largely help local entrepreneurs,” industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary tweeted on Thursday.“This ordinance will not be applicable for hazardous industries and no industries will be allowed in eco-sensitive zones,” it added.But the minister’s clarification, which came after opposition parties, student bodies and environmental NGOs raised concerns on the ordinance, hasn’t cleared doubts on conversion of agricultural land to set up industries.“Waiting for clarification on proposed deemed conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes without any approval from revenue authorities,” senior advocate Nilay Dutta tweeted.On Thursday, All Assam Students Union (AASU) burnt copies of the cabinet decision and demanded immediate withdrawal of the ordinance.“Assam cabinet’s decision is totally anti-indigenous. Peoples’ land rights will be lost. Government must withdraw the decision. Land rights must be at the hands of indigenous people,” chief advisor of AASU Samujjal Bhattacharya tweeted.The Assam cabinet had approved the ordinance on Monday allowing anyone to set up industries by just submitting a self declaration without the need to take “any clearance, permission or license for three years”.The move termed “bold” and “historic” by the government, allowed “deemed conversion” of land for industrial purposes. The ordinance is yet to be approved by Governor Jagdish Mukhi.The decision had led to apprehension that it will lead to rapid conversion of agricultural land as well as those in tribal belts for industrial purposes without any checks.It is also feared “outsiders” will benefit from it at the cost of land rights of the state’s indigenous population and could lead to environmental degradation.“This ordinance will severely hurt Assam’s rural economy and farmers. Not many Assamese have means to procure land and set up industries and the benefit of this ordinance will be reaped by those from outside,” said Congress legislator and leader of opposition in assembly Debabrata Saikia on Wednesday.“Unscientific ways of converting agricultural land for industries definitely need re-look. If an industrialist wants to set up an industry in a key wilderness area won’t the ordinance compromise conservation of forests, wildlife and environment?” questioned Bibhab Talukdar, founder of wildlife NGO, Aaranyak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-row-over-ordinance-for-industries-assam-govt-says-it-s-only-for-msmes/story-pYhRDuQr7hudUrtiOl05RM.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: Revised home isolation guidelines released, specify conditions||The central government on Thursday issued fresh guidelines governing home isolation for Coved 19 patients barring those suffering from immune-compromised status as seen in HIV infected individuals, transplant recipients or patients undergoing cancer therapy, from home isolation. The revised order also states that elderly patients above 60 years along with those suffering from comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease etc, shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer.The order also specifically adds that the home isolation has to be prescribed by the treating doctor after he or she has satisfied himself or herself that the patient doesn’t need hospital care.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe new guidelines supersede the guidelines issued on 10th May, 2020 and have been extended to include asymptomatic positive cases also besides very mild and pre-symptomatic cases in order to widen the net of monitoring and medical care in the view of a large number of asymptomatic cases being detected, says the revised guideline.The revised guideline also lists the condition when a patient under home isolation will be considered to have recovered.“Patient under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for 3 days. Thereafter, the patient will be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for further 7 days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over,” says the revised guideline. It adds that every discharged person must receive a fitness certificate by the field team.The new guidelines have also put out a detailed protocol for monitoring of cases under home isolation. It says that all such cases have to be monitored on a daily level by the state apparatus including either through personal visit or follow up by a dedicated call centre.“The clinical status of each case shall be recorded by the field staff/call center (body temperature, pulse rate and oxygen saturation). The field staff will guide the patient on measuring these parameters and provide the instructions (for patients and their caregivers), as detailed in Annexure II. This mechanism to daily monitor those under home isolation shall be strictly adhered to,” the guidelines state.Tea, Haritaki extracts may have therapeutic properties, help fight Covid-19: IIT Delhi studyIt also directs authorities to update records of patients under home isolation on COVID-19 portal and facility app and makes senior state and district officials responsible for monitoring of the process.It adds that the state/UT authorities must develop a mechanism to shift patients in case of violations or need for treatment. It also makes it mandatory to monitor and test all family members and close contacts of a positive patient under home isolation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-revised-home-isolation-guidelines-released-specify-conditions/story-GPyEyzrZ4zW2kab57d5XfL.html
02-07-2020||India||NIA arrests “transportation module” member of Jaish in Pulwama attack||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested a member of Jaish-e-Mohammad’s “transportation module” in connection with the Pulwama terror attack of February 2109 that killed 40 CRPF troopers, an official said.The accused, Mohammad Iqbal Rather (25), a resident of Budgam, allegedly ferried a terrorist who helped in making bomb that was used by a suicide car bomber to attack the CRPF convoy.NIA Spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement that Rather had facilitated the movement of Muhammad Umar Farooq, a JeM terrorist and a key conspirator in the case, to south Kashmir after he infiltrated into the Indian territory in Jammu region in April, 2018, from the national highway near international border.“Farooq, along with others, had assembled the bomb used in the February 14, 2019 attack (in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed). Rather had been undergoing judicial custody since September, 2018 in another Jaish-e-Mohammed related case investigated by NIA,” Narang said.“As such, he was produced by the jail authorities before the NIA Special Court, Jammu on Thursday and was taken into seven days’ custody for his interrogation. Initial examination has revealed that Rather was in constant touch with Pakistan-based leadership of Jaish-e-Mohammed and was in communication with them over secure messaging applications. He was part of the ‘transportation module’ of Jaish-e-Mohammed,” Narang added.The NIA had earlier arrested five persons in the course of the probe into the bombing in Pulwama. Shakir Bashir Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, a young girl – Insha Jan and her father Tariq Ahmad Shah were nabbed in last week of February and first week of March this year, over a year after the terror strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-transportation-module-member-of-jaish-in-pulwama-attack/story-ZYP2VhJaUOdpHQfFLMm9XJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Odisha to start plasma therapy in 4 hospitals as Covid-19 cases soar past 7,500||The Odisha government on Thursday decided to launch plasma therapy in the state soon in four of its hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients as the number of coronavirus cases surged past 7,500.Health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das who chaired a high-level meeting said plasma therapy will be started in the SCB Medical College and Hospital and Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack and SUM Hospital and KIIMS Hospital in Bhubaneswar. Das said a technical committee would be formed to outline the treatment plan for plasma therapy and prepare a blueprint for its successful introduction in the state. The committee will also create awareness among people regarding plasma therapy and submit a detailed report to the government. Convalescent plasma therapy involves the use of antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to treat other infected people.Das said Odisha has already received its first batch of Remdesivir drug for use in case of critically ill Covid-19 patients. Besides, Fabiflu has also reached the state to be used for patients with mild to moderate symptoms.Meanwhile, 3 more districts - Kendrapara, Bolangir and Dhenkanal - today announced weekend shutdowns for the month of July in addition to 10 districts as 229 new coronavirus cases were identified today. Among the new cases are 17 people including four members of a deputy superintendent of police-rank officer in Cuttack district. The DSP had tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 has risen to 27 in the district. In the Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district, a worried administration on Thursday prohibited all non-essential vehicular movement in the region till July 31 as a precautionary measure to stop the surge of cases. Ganjam collector Vijay Amrita Kulange took to Twitter and urged people of the district not to travel in vehicles without an emergency situation. He, however, said agricultural activities, essential goods transportation and movement of health services would be allowed.The curbs came as market places in Berhampur town of the district witnessed unprecedented crowds with people resorting to panic buying violating social distancing guidelines on Wednesday. The district administration on Saturday had imposed a complete shutdown in the city for four days.In Bhubaneswar, the state government announced that all its offices in Lok Seva Bhawan, Krishni Bhawan, Rajiv Bhawan and Kharavela Bhawan would be out of bounds for people till July 31. In Jajpur district, another Covid-19 hotspot, the administration has made all government offices out of bounds for people till the midnight of July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-start-plasma-therapy-in-4-hospitals-as-covid-19-cases-soar-past-7-500/story-VxNVlLpbuGPWNEkN5i06wL.html
02-07-2020||India||Karnataka hikes contractual doctors’ pay, state sees highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Thursday hiked the pay of MBBS doctors working under contract from Rs 45,000 to Rs 60,000 per month according to a release by the health department. The move came amid demands by contractual doctors that their services be made permanent. Health and family welfare department minister B Sriramulu appealed to the contractual doctors not to go on strike and said that some of their demands, including a hike in remuneration have been considered.On Thursday, Karnataka also registered its biggest single- day spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,502 new cases being recorded taking the total to 18,016 cases, which includes 272 deaths and 8,334 recoveries. Bangalore Urban contributed 889 of those new cases and with 5,505 active cases accounts for more than half of the statewide tally of 9,406 active cases. Bharath Shetty, the BJP party MLA representing Mangalore - North constituency has also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hikes-contractual-doctors-pay-state-sees-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-FdlaEnavHkqWahEm5epENN.html
02-07-2020||India||Dry spell continues in Delhi; rains likely on weekend||The national capital sweltered under the stifling heat on Thursday as rains continued to play truant.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dry weather for the next two days and rains on the weekend.  The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 39.7 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Most places in the city recorded the maximum temperatures between 39 degrees and 42 degrees Celsius.Humidity levels oscillated between 55 and 80 per cent.Though the IMD has predicted a normal monsoon for Delhi, rains have remained subdued since the wind system reached the national capital on June 25.  Since June 1, the city has recorded 30.5 mm rainfall as against the average precipitation of 65.8 mm – a deficiency of 54 per cent, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dry-spell-continues-in-delhi-rains-likely-on-weekend/story-9soyBJ8EuMvNpqQaOj3IsN.html
02-07-2020||India||Punjab Police books banned outfit SFJ’s Pannun, another member for sedition||The Punjab Police on Thursday registered two separate cases against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and his associates on charges of sedition and secessionism. The two cases were registered at Amritsar and Kapurthala.An active Sikhs for Justice member, Joginder Singh Gujjar, was also booked on similar charges.US-based Pannun was among nine wanted men who were designated as terrorists under the provisions of the anti-terror law, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the Centre on Wednesday.ALSO READ | 9 wanted men designated as terrorists under anti-terror law, includes Pannun, Khalistani forcesThe Ministry of Home Affairs designated Pannun a terrorist for actively running a secessionist campaign against India and motivating Sikh young men from his home state Punjab to revive militancy in the state.The others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA include - Paramjit Singh of Babbar Khalsa International, Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force, Gurmit Singh Bagga of Khalistan Zindabad Force and Ranjeet Singh from the same outfit, among others.The Dalit Suraksha Sena (DSS) had filed a complaint against Pannun and his associates, and a case was registered against him at a police station in Amritsar for allegedly burning the Indian Constitution and the National Flag besides instigating others to do something similar.In its complaint, the Dalit Suraksha Sena said Pannun, the self-styled legal advisor of the US-based the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his accomplices were seen dishonouring the Indian Constitution and the National Flag in a video. They were seen setting a copy of the Constitution and the flag on fire, while shouting slogans of Khalistan Zindabad, they said. Pannun was also seen inciting the entire Sikh community against the Indian Constitution and in favour of the Referendum 2020, according to the complaint.The second FIR registered at Bhulath in Kapurthala is based on inputs of the entry of Joginder Singh Gujjar, alias Goga, into the country in February 2020, a police spokesperson said, adding that Pannun and his associates had been charged with seditious and secessionist activities in the case.The spokesperson said that Joginder Singh is a prominent and active member of the banned SFJ.Joginder Singh in collaboration with Pannun, with whom he is in regular contact for promoting the activities of the SFJ, was reportedly providing financial help to the organization and to members based in Punjab and abroad, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-books-banned-outfit-sfj-s-pannun-another-member-for-sedition/story-vcEz4SsjyJIEry1sCkzY6I.html
02-07-2020||India||Over 1.6 mn affected by flood in Assam, 80% of Kaziranga National Park inundated||Flood caused by heavy rains continued to wreak havoc in Assam on Thursday affecting not just people in 22 of the state’s 33 districts but also the animals at the world-famous Kaziranga National Park.Nearly 80% of the sanctuary, world’s biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos spread over 430 sq km, is inundated by flood waters. Twenty five animals have been killed due to various causes including drowning and vehicle-hit while trying to cross roads during floods.According to park authorities, 73 of the 223 camps used by forest personnel to patrol the park have been inundated and six of them have been vacated. Carcass of a rhino, which died due to natural causes, was recovered on June 26.Meanwhile, 1.6 million people in 2,053 villages in 60 revenue circles of the flood-hit districts were affected by floods, according to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). On Thursday, one person died due to drowning in Goalpara district taking the total deaths this season to 34.Authorities rescued 2,852 persons stranded due to flooding during Thursday. Several instances of damage to embankments, roads, bridges and erosion were reported from many parts of the state.A total of 12,597 people uprooted by flooding are taking shelter in 163 relief camps set up in 16 of the affected districts. Over 72,000 hectares of crop area have been inundated by flood waters.According to Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra continued to flow over the danger mark at Nematighat, Goalpara and Dhubri, Dhansiri breached the danger mark at Numaligarh, Jia Bharali at Sonitpur and Kopili at Dharamtul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-6-mn-affected-by-flood-in-assam-80-of-kaziranga-national-park-inundated/story-s4xq0391wQUNy3ulZVnFXI.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid 19: Maharashtra creates another daily record with 6,330 new cases, tally at 1,86,626||The state of Maharashtra created yet another daily record for coronavirus cases with 6,330 new infections registered on Thursday taking the total number of positive cases registered so far to 1,86,626. Thursday’s health bulletin also attributed 125 deaths to the disease taking the state death toll to 8,178. Maharashtra’s previous highest single-day spike in Covid cases was registered on Wednesday, when 5,537 new infections were added to the tally.Out of the 125 deaths, 110 took place in the last 48 hours, while the remaining have been reconciled as Covid-19 fatalities after audit of deaths, taken place previously, by the state authorities.However, in a good news, a record 8,018 Covid patients were declared to have been cured from the disease taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 1,01,172.Mumbai has contributed little less than half of all Maharashtra cases with its tally rising to 80,262 after the addition of 1,554 new cases on Thursday. It also recorded 57 new deaths in the last 24 hours to take the death toll to 4,686.Mumbai’s Covid tally past 80,000 mark with 1.5k new cases, Dharavi added only 19A total of 10,20,368 samples have been tested so far in the entire state of Maharashtra.Maharashtra is nearing 2 lakh cases, which would be little less than a third of India’s tally of 6,04,641cases as on Thursday. 19,148 new coronavirus infections were reported in the last 24 hours nationally taking the count beyond 6 lakh mark.With 434 deaths reported, the national death toll due to the disease has gone up to 17,834.Maharashtra, however, is also among the top 15 states in terms of absolute numbers of recoveries so far. Maharashtra tops the chart with 93,154 recoveries followed by Delhi’s 59,992 and Tamil Nadu’s 52,926.Gujarat with 24,030, Uttar Pradesh with 16,629 and Rajasthan with 14,574, are the following three states on the list.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWith the Covid situation in Maharashtra remaining grim, many district and civic administrations have re-imposed a hard lockdown for the next 8 to 10 days.Apart from Thane, Mira-Bhayandar, Kalyan-Dombivali corporations, districts such as Nashik, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg have hardened the norms of the lockdown, while others like Jalgaon are planning to follow suit to contain the spread of the virus.In Mumbai, people are being prevented from stepping out of the house unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-creates-another-daily-record-with-6-330-new-cases-tally-at-1-86-626/story-k66vT4g1drGOHNkJt0KDvI.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally goes over 92K, casualties rise to 2,864||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reached 92,175 on Thursday with the addition of 2,373 new cases while the death toll climbed to 2,864, the state health department said. A total of 3,016 patients were discharged during the day taking the number of recoveries to 63,007. The national capital now has 26,304 active cases.There were 61 casualties on Thursday that took the death toll to 2,864.A total of 20, 822 tests were conducted including 10,978 RT-PCR tests and 9,844 rapid antigen tests. Shortly before the Delhi health department released Thursday’s figures, Union Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region (NCR) in a high-level meeting that chief ministers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana besides the Union Health minister attended.Shah emphasised on carrying out more Covid-19 tests using rapid antigen kits and suggested that focus should be on reducing mortality rate by ensuring early hospitalisation of patients.Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the capital’s first plasma bank at the at state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal said Covid-19 patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery and hoped that plasma therapy will help in reducing Covid-19 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-goes-over-92k-casualties-rise-to-2-864/story-r1HnwQoWwEIFCUZjNHhnCM.html
02-07-2020||India||Mumbai’s Covid tally past 80,000 mark with 1.5k new cases, Dharavi added only 19||Mumbai’s coronavirus tally has risen to 80,262 cases on Thursday with the addition of 1,554 new cases. The Maximum City also recorded 57 deaths in the last 24 hours to take the toll to 4,686, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said PTI.The municipal body also said that the disease hotspot of Dharavi, Mumbai’s biggest slum, reported just 19 more Covid-19 cases to take the total of infected patients in the area to 2,301. Dharavi has only 551 active Covid-19 cases since 1,664 people have been cured of the disease, PTI said quoting a BMC official.Earlier today, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope ruled out that the disease could have entered the community transmission phase in India’s worst-affected state.In order to stem the rising graph of the disease, a 10-day long hard lockdown has been enforced in Thane and two other civic administration limits adjoining Mumbai city beginning today. Additionally, curfew has been clamped for eight days in Beed, Aurangabad to contain Covid 19 spread, officials quoted by PTI said.Stricter lockdown derails Maharashtra’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaignIn another related development, the BMC registered an FIR against the well-known Nanavati Hospital located in suburban Santacruz for allegedly over- charging a coronavirus patient. The FIR was registered under IPC section 188 --disobeying the order duly promulgated by a public servant. The hospital is alleged to have promised to scrutinize the complaint of overcharging.In an important direction, the Bombay High Court asked the Maharashtra government to follow the guidelines of ICMR and other agencies to safeguard jail inmates from coronavirus infection and said that screening, hygiene and social distancing in prisons must be done and family members of inmates must get regular updates about the health status of infected prisoners.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe HC also added that the right to life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution included the right to live with human dignity and that the convicted inmates do not lose all fundamental rights.In another case, the Railways told the Bombay High Court that it was not feasible to convert train coaches into intensive care units for treatment of Covid-19 patients due to extensive structural changes required for such up gradation.The Railways had informed the court that it had converted 482 non-air-conditioned coaches on 24 rakes into makeshift isolation centres along with other 410 non- AC coaches into quarantine facilities for use in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-covid-tally-past-80-000-mark-with-1-5k-new-cases-dharavi-added-only-19/story-SFAj6OhgIO2OtcP6ndlWFL.html
02-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Telangana coal mine workers on strike against Centre’s move to privatise and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Telangana coal mine workers on strike against Centre’s move to privatiseThe Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS), affiliated to ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the state, also lent support to the strike, but announced that it would take part in the agitation only for one day. Read moreIndia entitled to compensation, but can’t prosecute Italian marines: UN CourtA UN court ruled on Thursday that India is entitled to compensation in connection with the 2012 killing of two crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker, an incident that had taken bilateral ties to an all-time low. Read moreTrump spotted a pattern in China’s standoff with India. Here are 21 reasonsPresident Donald Trump on Thursday waded right in the middle of India’s dispute with China, asserting that Beijing’s aggressive stance in Ladakh fits with the larger pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world. Read moreChina holds out WTO threat over ban on 59 mobile apps. India bursts the bubbleIndia has shown caution so far even as it has a long list of Beijing indulging in restrictive trade and investment practices such as the imposition of internet censorship through ‘Great Firewall’, restrictions on long-term visa and non-tariff barriers on investments. Read moreNovak Djokovic and his wife test negative for coronavirusThe top-ranked player tested positive for the virus after playing in an exhibition series he organized in Serbia and Croatia amid the pandemic. No social distancing was observed at the matches in Belgrade and Zadar, Croatia. Read moreChinese apps ban brings back focus on Indian ecosystem, privacyShould India also discuss privacy and data regulations as the focus shifts to the homegrown Indian internet companies? What will it take for the local alternatives to make it big? Read moreDressed in Dreams: Freida Pinto, Gabrielle Union team up for adaptation of Tanisha C Ford’s critically acclaimed bookThe duo are coming together for a series based on the criticially-acclaimed book “Dressed in Dreams: A Black Girl’s Love Letter to the Power of Fashion” by author and culture critic, Tanisha C Ford. Read more‘Learning with a human feel’: Manish Sisodia’s plan to bridge digital divideDelhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia spoke on a new plan to bridge to the ‘digital divide’ due to online classes. Sisodia, while speaking about online classes in school, said there is a fear of the digital divide. The deputy CM said students should ‘learn with a human feel’. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-telangana-coal-mine-workers-on-strike-against-centre-s-move-to-privatise-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9aN7mVJ0H3nm8r91W7fYzK.html
02-07-2020||India||Spike in locally-transmitted Covid-19 cases new cause for concern in Kerala||With local transmission of Covid-19 continuing to rise in the state, Kerala has tightened its virus control measures and enforced lockdown in many areas of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram and commercial hub Kochi.With 160 new cases on Thursday, the total number of cases since the outbreak began in January went up to 4752. Out of this, 2678 people have recovered and active cases are 2088, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. The state has reported 25 deaths so far and 1,78,099 people are under observation now. Among the new cases, 146 are imported, either came from abroad or other states and 14 were infected locally.In locally- transmitted cases, health authorities are finding it difficult to pinpoint the source of infection in many cases. The state’s proven track, trace and treat strategy is under deep stress due to this, admit health officials. The Covid-19 cluster among Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in Kannur remained a worrying point and health officials later found that poor facilities at the camp triggered the mass infection-- at least 60 personnel have been infected so far.State health minister K K Shailaja said vigil on home quarantine facilities will be monitored and services of Covid volunteers will be used. The government had earlier formed a volunteer service comprising mainly youth to help grassroot units of the virus management teams. They will keep an eye on those flouting quarantine norms and check possible super spreaders.In May first week, the state was on the verge of flattening the curve but cases increased after expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country flocked to the state. At least 1.50 lakh expatriates and 2.50 lakh people from other state arrived in Kerala since lockdown norms were relaxed. At least, 2.50 lakh expatriates are expected from Gulf countries this month and on an average 40-50 flights are coming to four international airports of the state.As cases increased health workers have started house-to-house surveys in many areas. Since institutional quarantine is leaving a big hole on the state exchequer the government is giving more emphasis on home quarantine these days. It has also tweaked its treatment strategy-- now patients can be discharged after they turn negative for the first time. Earlier the state used to insist for three consecutive negative results for discharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-locally-transmitted-covid-19-cases-new-cause-for-concern-in-kerala/story-r43Ng6pcyTF21ROE8fvcfO.html
02-07-2020||India||India entitled to compensation, but can’t prosecute Italian marines:UN Court||A UN court ruled on Thursday that India is entitled to compensation in connection with the 2012 killing of two crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker, an incident that had taken bilateral ties to an all-time low.The five-member arbitral tribunal under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), however, decided by three votes to two that the marines are entitled to immunity in relation to their acts during the incident and that “India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing: “India has taken note of the [tribunal’s] award and will be in touch with relevant entities on the matter.”The tribunal began hearing the case after Italy contended in December 2015 that India had violated the rights and immunity of the marines – Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone – by detaining them. Italy also argued that India had violated its exclusive right to institute penal proceedings against the marines under UNCLOS.The two marines, accused of killing fishermen Ajesh Binki and Valentine Jalastine, crew members of the fishing boat St Anthony, were granted conditional bail by India’s Supreme Court and allowed to return to Italy in 2014 and 2016.The tribunal upheld the conduct of Indian authorities during the incident under the provisions of UNCLOS and held that the actions of the Italian marines breached India’s freedom of navigation under the convention.The tribunal unanimously ruled that India is “entitled to payment of compensation in connection with loss of life, physical harm, material damage to property...and moral harm suffered by the captain and other crew members of the ‘St. Antony’, which by its nature cannot be made good through restitution”.It said the two sides should hold consultations to reach agreement on the amount of compensation. It added the tribunal would retain jurisdiction if either side or both sides wished to apply for a ruling from the court regarding the quantum of compensation. However, if no application is received within a year after the date of the ruling, the proceedings will be closed.The tribunal unanimously ruled set aside Italy’s contention that India had breached provisions of UNCLOS, but decided by three votes to two that the Italian marines were “entitled to immunity in relation to the acts that they committed during the incident of 15 February 2012, and that India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.The tribunal also decided by three votes to two that India must take “necessary steps to cease to exercise its criminal jurisdiction over the Marines” in view of Italy’s commitment to “resume its criminal investigation into the events of 15 February 2012”.Italy’s foreign ministry contended in a statement the tribunal had agreed on its position that the marines, being members of the Italian armed forces engaged in the official exercise of their duties, “cannot be tried by Indian courts”. It also said Rome’s public prosecutor had already opened an investigation into the incident.“The ministry wishes to emphasise that the award of the tribunal does not make any determination of criminal responsibility in connection with the incident, which it will now be for the Italian judicial authorities alone to ascertain,” it added.The tribunal rejected Italy’s claim for compensation for the detention of the marines , who were part of an anti-piracy deployment on board the Italian tanker.The row over the killing of the fishermen had disrupted bilateral ties for several years, though people familiar with developments said the two sides have now decided to move on from the incident in view of their growing convergence on both bilateral and multilateral issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-entitled-to-compensation-but-can-t-prosecute-italian-marines-un-court/story-Qc8XyN1hfH9x6iqe6WMfNK.html
02-07-2020||India||I am lucky to be in industry at this point of time: Gagan Arora||Acting was never on actor-model Gagan Arora’s mind. In fact, he was fascinated with the process of film making. Last seen the film ‘Ujda Chaman,’ series ‘College Romance’ and ‘Girls Hostel’, he said, “Acting was the last thing on my list. During my graduation in Delhi, I got associated with college dramatics group where we used to do street and stage plays. I got completely involved in the process of acting and direction. And, by the end of third year, I knew I wanted to take up film making.”He left for Mumbai to study filmmaking for a year. “Before taking up different jobs I got a chance to assist in feature film ‘Stree’,” said the fun-loving actor over the phone.Talking about the turning point of his career, as an actor, he said, “Series ‘Collage Romance’ where I played the role of a Punjabi teenager Bagga became an instant hit. It was an iconic character and even today it’s difficult for me to break that image. I remember how overnight after the series went on air that I received thousands of followers on social media accounts. Many projects are happening and I am lucky to be in the industry at this point of time.”Gagan feels job of an assisting director is very excruciating and has long working hours. “Yes, there is just no fixed pattern and you finish up running around for almost 18 hours a day and the schedule can go on for 20-25 days. By the end of it, we were like zombies and that is when I took a break. It was then I got a call from one of my juniors from theatre who was then working with a lifestyle channel. They were looking for actors and suggested me to audition. I auditioned and then I got back to acting.”His first Bollywood break was completely unexpected. “When I was working AD, I was taking a walk with casting director-actor Abhishek Banerjee, who was also one of the characters in ‘Stree’. He just looked at me and randomly asked ‘Tujhe actor banna hai na!’ I was all clueless. Then I got busy with my series and after two months I got a call from his office to meet him. I gave three rounds of auditions and got the part in ‘Ujda Chaman’,” said Gagan who was part of a webinar held in Lucknow , recently.As the shoots have resumed Gagan too wants to restart all his stuck projects like OTT series ‘Actress’ with Bollywood diva Madhuri Dixit, second season of ‘College Romance’ and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-am-lucky-to-be-in-industry-at-this-point-of-time-gagan-arora/story-MaGK7uD3SYdVnWk3ZXMqEL.html
02-07-2020||India||Telangana coal mine workers on strike against Centre’s move to privatise||Coal production in 18 open cast and 27 underground mines of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) in northern Telangana came to a halt on Thursday with nearly 48,000-odd coal mine workers commencing their 72-hour strike in protest against the Centre’s decision to auction 41 coal blocks for commercial mining.The strike was called by six coal mine workers’ unions affiliated to national unions: All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), Hindustan Mazdoor Sangh (HMS), Confederation of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) and Indian Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU).The Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS), affiliated to ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the state, also lent support to the strike, but announced that it would take part in the agitation only for one day.The coal mine workers belonging to the Singareni Collieries in four erstwhile combined districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Warangal and Khammam, along Godavari river belt, abstained from work and raised slogans against the Central government’s decision.The police made elaborate security arrangements at all mines to ensure that the workers would not resort to violent agitations. However, the strike went off peacefully as the workers did not assemble in huge gatherings due to Covid-19 restrictions.AITUC leader of Singareni Collieries Vasireddy Seetharamaiah told reporters at Kothagudem that the Centre was trying to weaken the coal industry by permitting discriminative outsourcing in the Coal India Limited and SCCL.He also demanded increased wages for all contract workers and immediate payment of 50 per cent wages to employees as per National Coal Wage Agreement, which was deferred in March.Former Nizamabad MP and former honorary president of TBGKS Kalvakuntla Kavitha demanded that the Centre roll back its decision to privatise coal mines. “Today, across the Nation, thousands of coal mine workers are on strike demanding that the central government roll back the decision to auction coal blocks to private companies. We demand that this privatization move be rolled back,” she tweeted.TBGKS general secretary Miriyal Raji Reddy said the workers were worried about their future as the public undertaking company might not face the competition from private companies. “It will adversely impact Singareni coal mines in Telangana. How can it create an atmanirbhar Bharat?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-coal-mine-workers-on-strike-against-centre-s-move-to-privatise/story-ileqvvyRy8G0eJexecjJQM.html
02-07-2020||India||Amit Shah reviews Covid-19 situation in NCR, stresses on use of Rapid Antigen Test Kits||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday stressed on the extensive use of Aarogya Setu and Itihaas App to help map Covid-19 in the National Capital Region (NCR) during a meeting to review the management of the pandemic in NCR and discuss a unified strategy to tackle it.The high-level meeting chaired by Shah was attended by the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi -- Yogi Adityanath, Manohar Lal Khattar and Arvind Kejriwal and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, besides others.Shah favoured the use of Rapid Antigen Test kits to help reduce Covid-19 transmission rate, the MHA said.“Adoption of more testing using Rapid Antigen Test Kits to help reduce infection transmission rate. These kits can be provided by GoI to UP and Haryana,” the MHA spokesperson said in a tweet.Shah also underlined early hospitalisation to reduce mortality rate.“Focus on early hospitalization to reduce mortality rates. Extensive use of Aarogya Setu & Itihaas App to help mapping of COVID in NCR,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.In the NCR which contains parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally is the highest at over 92,000. Haryana’s overall tally is almost 15,000 while Uttar Pradesh has over 24,000 cases of the infection.At the review meeting, Shah also underlined that UP and Haryana can bank on the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the battle against Covid-19.“UP & Haryana can avail AIIMS-Telemedicine consultation through which patients will get advice from experts. Small hospitals in both states can take guidance from AIIMS thru Tele-videography,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-ncr-stresses-on-use-of-rapid-antigen-test-kits/story-i7FmEIzu0o1bNsmy95ORKN.html
02-07-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s allegation on Karachi attack, rubs it in with reminder to Khan’s ‘martyr’ remark||India on Thursday rejected Pakistan’s allegation that the June 29 terrorist attack on Karachi stock exchange was New Delhi’s response to 2008 Mumbai terror attacks as “absurd” and chided Islamabad for attempting to shift the blame for its own domestic problems.The external affairs ministry added that Pakistan needed to reflect on its government’s attitude towards terrorism in the light of their Prime Minister Imran Khan’s recent comments describing slain al-Qaeda leader and global terrorist Osama Bin Laden as a “martyr”.A day after the terror attack on Karachi stock exchange, Imran Khan had claimed in Pakistan’s national assembly that the attacks had been “planned by our neighbouring country India”. Soon after, China circulated a draft of a press statement for the UN Security Council to issue, condemning the Karachi attacks. However, interventions by countries friendly to India such as Germany and the United States led to more than 24-hours delay in its release on Wednesday.“India rejects these absurd comments on terrorist attacks in Karachi. Pakistan cannot shift the blame on India for its domestic problems,” Anurag Srivastava, the official spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs was quoted by news agency ANI as having said.The delay in passing the statement at the UN security council is being seen as a message disapproving Pakistan’s continued support for terrorism in the south Asia region.How UN Security Council condemned Karachi attack, and PakistanThe UN statement had been written by China on Pakistan’s behalf and it was expected to be timed for release with Pakistan government’s efforts to blame the attack on India, without explicitly saying so in the statement. It was also noted by UN diplomats closely associated with the process, that the statement could have also been an attempt by Pakistan to portray itself as a victim of terrorism instead of being the leading sponsor of terrorism in the region.On Thursday, the Indian government added that Pakistan needed to revisit its position towards terrorists following Imran Khan’s description of Osama bin Laden as a martyr, during an address in the parliament on June 25.“We would ask Pakistan that they may wish to reflect on this and on their own government’s position including their PM’s description of a global terrorist as a martyr,” Anurag Srivastava was quoted as saying by ANI.Imran Khan’s gratuitous reference to the former chief of Al-Qaeda, the global terrorist organization behind 26/11 attacks on the US soil, was widely criticized even in his own country.“They came into our country and killed Osama Bin Laden, martyred him, all the world criticised us instead.” Imran Khan had said while claiming that despite Pakistan’s cooperation US held it responsible for abetting terrorism.UN experts appalled by enforced disappearance of Pakistani human rights activist Idris Khattak, call for impartial probeLaden was killed in a military operation by US Navy Seals in 2011 in Abbottabad in Pakistan.The last US state department’s annual report on terrorism has accused Pakistan of continuing to be a “safe haven” for terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Muhammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-allegation-on-karachi-attack-rubs-it-in-with-reminder-to-khan-s-martyr-remark/story-CrTFwcBA7lSGCydgjhIElJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Private trains to begin plying by 2023, will have competitive pricing: Railways||The operation of private trains along 109 routes is scheduled to begin by 2023, Chairman Railway Board VK Yadav said on Thursday adding that the fares will be decided by the private players based on competitive pricing.Fares will be based on competition with other modes of transport in the same segment, including airfares and fares of air-conditioned buses, he said.“We need to note that this is the era of competition, IRCTC had also run a few private trains. The fares that private train operators decide will weigh in factors including airfares that come in the same segment and also AC bus fares and we will fix the fares after comparing with them. I do not think that the fares fixed by private train operators will be too high ultimately if they want to keep financial viability,” Yadav said at a virtual press interaction on Thursday.Railways is currently operating in losses in the passenger segment, Yadav said and it aims to meet its expenditure through a minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to the national carrier.“Bids have been designed in such a way that Railways will be able to recover cost i.e. the minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to us….Right now we are making a loss in the passenger segment operation and basically we cross subsidise with the freight segment. In this particular project, what we have devised is that railways is not going to lose anything and ultimately the minimum cost which the private operator is going to pay will be able to meet the expenditure of the Railways and whatever revenue we get over and above will be profit for the Railways,” he said. The Railway ministry on Wednesday began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.The ministry issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for a private company to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.“Our target is that the first set of trains will start running by April 2023, and the bidding process which we have initiated the timeline is such that we should be able to open the tender sometime in February-March and finalize sometime in April and then we will then invite the Request For Proposal,” he said.The bidding and procurement of trains and coaches will be done under the government’s ‘Make in India’ policy.“Train sets have to be bought by private operators and maintained by them. We are expecting that the private train operations will begin by April 2023. All the train sets and coaches will be procured under this project and will be at par with the Make in India policy…We have had a few meetings with the stake holders and will hold a pre-bid conference also after 15-20 days,” he said.The ministry said the planned investment will come to around Rs 30,000 crore, the rakes will need to be manufactured in India, and the private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains.On whether Chinese firms will be allowed to bid, Yadav said, “As far as the question on Chinese companies arises, there are guidelines under the Make in India Policy by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and we will follow them.”Hindustan Times reported in September that the national carrier is considering the idea of handing over operations of more trains to private players on several important routes with improved services and amenities for passengers.Yadav said the ongoing situation of Covid-19 and restrictive measures in place to avoid the spread of coronavirus will impact the Railways’ privatisation plan.“As far as the ongoing Covid-19 situation is concerned, yes there is an issue, it’s a global pandemic and that is the reason we delayed our RFQ for some time but now we have realised that economic activities are gradually opening up and that is why we decided we should go for the bids. Since we are expecting the first trains to run in April 2023, we have enough time and our estimation is that by that time the Covid-19 situation will stabilize,” he said. Opposition leaders on Thursday criticised the move. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the government has snatched the lifeline of the poor. “Rail is the only lifeline of the poor and the government is taking it away from them,” he tweeted.Yadav said that the fares of 95% trains that will be operated by the national carrier will be fixed by the Railways and the fares will not be increased. “The poor will get a huge advantage with this, on the same price they will get better facilities as technology and safety will improve,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-trains-to-begin-plying-by-2023-will-have-competitive-pricing-railways/story-vcC4nowTyq1R9c2DKjKi5J.html
02-07-2020||India||Conduct random testing of inmates, deploy additional forces for prisons: HC to state||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Maharashtra government and state prison authorities to conduct random coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests of inmates and also scrupulously comply with the guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) while disposing of a clutch of public interest litigations (PILs)The PILs were filed expressing concerns about the health condition of prison inmates after four undertrials had tested Covid-19 positive after their death a few weeks ago.The HC on Thursday directed the prison authorities to deploy additional forces at jails and 36 makeshift jails in 27 districts in Maharashtra, where inmates have been kept under quarantine and also undergoing treatment for the viral infection.The court also directed the Maharashtra government to implement all the measures that it had earlier formulated in the modified draft guidelines based on the suggestions of the petitioner, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), for containing the pandemic in prisons and other correctional homes.It stressed on the need to share regular health updates of inmates with their family members while adhering to ICMR guidelines and other standard operating procedures (SOPs), which are being issued periodically.A two-member division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice MS Karnik, pronounced its judgement on the PILs filed by PUCL, through senior counsel Mihir Desai along with advocates Isha Khandelwal and Kritika Agarwal; Geeta Bharat Jain, a politician represented by advocate Sunny Punamiya; Archana Rupawate also represented by senior counsel Mihir Desai and advocate Afreen Khan; and Devmani Shukla represented by advocate Bhavesh Parmar.The bench read out the operative part of the judgement and accepted the assurances given by the state government regarding the precautionary measures that have been taken for the well-being of the inmates and prison staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conduct-random-testing-of-inmates-deploy-additional-forces-for-prisons-hc-to-state/story-4EG9pNipQJ6PmCkrikOH9L.html
02-07-2020||India||Denied cremation over Covid-19 scare, siblings in Odisha bury man’s body||The stigma attached to Covid-19 patients forced the siblings of a man in Odisha who died after showing symptoms of the disease to bury him by the roadside after villagers refused to let them cremate the body.The incident which took place on Monday came to light after the photos and video of the incident were widely shared.Somnath Patra, a travelling salesman in Kabisuryanagar block in Ganjam district was suffering from fever and cough for the past 10 days. When his condition deteriorated on Monday, his brother and sister took him to a Covid-19 hospital at Sitalapalli in an ambulance.However, Somnath died on the way to the hospital. When his brother Kedar and sister Sanjukta returned to the village with the body in the ambulance, villagers did not allow them to enter the village suspecting that Somnath had died of Covid-19 though no test had been conducted.The siblings then requested the villagers to help them to take the body to the cremation ground but no one came forward over fears that the young man died of Covid-19.“Though we had some relatives, no one came fearing that my brother died due to Covid-19,” said Sanjukta. “Our neighbours also looked the other way when we asked for help.”After waiting for a few hours, the ambulance driver asked the brother-sister duo to take out the body from the ambulance and cremate it.Left with no choice, the siblings wrapped the body in a plastic sheet and dragged it to a marshy land by a road where to bury it.Seeing the plight of the siblings, some people informed the local administration following which an excavator was sent for digging a pit to bury the body. Kabisuryanagar tehsildar Prakash Mishra said the way the locals refused to help in the cremation of the body was shameful. “The dead deserve respect and dignity. Stigmatising a person on the suspicion that he died of Covid-19 is very unfortunate,” he said.There have been several cases of stigma attached to Covid-19 in Odisha over the last few months. In May, a videographer in Ganjam district had to stay in his car for a few days after villagers refused to let him in over fears of Covid infection. In another incident, a migrant worker of Ganjam district was forced to stay in a forest for few days after villagers refused to let him in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-cremation-over-covid-19-scare-siblings-in-odisha-bury-man-s-body/story-BSSocAfwrMPegCvkEwoHEJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Trump spotted a pattern in China’s standoff with India. Here are 21 reasons||President Donald Trump on Thursday waded right in the middle of India’s dispute with China, asserting that Beijing’s aggressive stance in Ladakh fits with the larger pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world. President Trump’s office did not elaborate on China’s aggression elsewhere but is seen as a clear reference to Beijing’s efforts to enlarge its position on border disputes. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had recently called it China’s “rogue attitude” as he announced the movement of US supercarriers in the Indo Pacific region to counter China’s aggressive posture.According to Beijing watchers, China has traditionally suffered from xenophobia against foreigners. The Middle Kingdom’s fears were exacerbated in the past two centuries as a result of which China believes that it is the only civilizational power in the world and the rest are either tributary states or barbarians.China has had territorial disputes with 21 neighbours including India over its claims on land and sea. Here is a complete list of its disputes.BruneiChina claims the southern part of the Spratly Islands chain. Brunei, on the other hand, claims part of South China Sea nearest to it as part of its continental shelf and Exclusive Economic ZonePhilippinesChina and Philippines disagree over parts of the South China Sea including the Spratly Islands. Philippines took the dispute to the International Court of Justice where they won the case but the Chinese side did not abide by the order of the ICJ. Tensions have continued between the two countries despite economic incentives offered by China.IndonesiaChina’s nine-dash line overlaps the Natuna Sea/Exclusive Economic Zone of Indonesia leading to disputes. China claims fishing rights in waters near the islands. Indonesia government argues that China’s claims are not recognised under the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Indonesia irked China in July 2017 when it renamed parts of the South China Sea as North Natuna Sea to underscore its claim.MalaysiaChina’s dispute with Malaysia also revolves around parts of the South China Sea, particularly the Spratly Islands. Its claims cover only islands included in its Exclusive Economic Zone of 200 miles as defined by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. Malaysia has a military presence on three such islands that it considers to be part of the continental shelf.SingaporeSingapore is not a claimant state in the South China Sea disputes but is closely aligned to the United States and allows the presence of US naval forces in Singaporean waters. It does not want to antagonise China by openly taking sides though it does advocate freedom of navigation and resolution of all disputes in line with the UN Convention of Law of the Seas.LaosChina claims large areas of Laos on historical precedent of China’s Yuan Dynasty during 1271-1368CambodiaChina has, on occasions, claimed part of the country on historical precedent (China’s Ming dynasty 1368-1644)ThailandThailand opposes China’s dredging on the Mekong River since 2001 for large ships to carry goods from its landlocked Yunnan province to ports in Thailand, Laos and remaining southeast Asia. China has also built hydropower dams on the main stream of the Mekong River, altering the natural flood-drought cycle, affecting ecosystems as well as economies of countries on the lower Mekong River.The Thai Cabinet scrapped a Chinese-led dredging project in February 2020 to blast rapids on the Mekong river. This had already led to fall in water levels and fers that it would lead to drought and affect 6 million people in Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and VietnamJapanJapan’s dispute with China centers around South China Sea, particularly Senkaku Islands, Ryukyu Islands and the overlapping Air Defence Identification Zone and Exclusive Economic Zone in the East China SeaVietnamVietnam, which fought a bloody war with China in 1979 when Beijing tried to teach its former ally a lesson, has stood its ground on its territorial claims over parts of the South China Sea, and the Macclesfield Bank, Paracel Islands and the Spratly Islands. Last month, a Chinese ship rammed a Vietnamese fishing boat operating in the Paracel Islands that was seen as an effort by Beijing to flex muscles to enforce a unilateral fishing ban in parts of the South China Sea against vessels from another nation.IndiaChina occupies 38,000 sq km Indian territory in the Aksai Chin region apart from staking claim on Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh. It was this expansionist policy that led to the ongoing standoff between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA that escalated into a violent scrap in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. Another 5,163 sq km of Shaksgam valley was illegally ceded by Pakistan to China in 1963. Hence, the total Indian territory occupied by China is over 43 ,000 sq km.NepalNepal and China have pending border issues over three boundary pillars in Dolakha and two in the vicinity of Mt Everest. There have, however, been reports that China has illegally occupied strategic land at 12 places across Nepal. China has also claimed part of Nepal dating back to the Sino-Nepalese war in 1788-1792, claiming that some parts of Nepal are part of Tibet and therefore, part of China.TaiwanChina claims all of Taiwan but particular disputes are Macclesfield Bank, Paracel Islands Scarborough Shoal, part of South China Sea and the Spratly Islands. The Paracel Islands, also called Xisha Islands in zvietnamese, is a group of islands in the South China Sea whose sovereignty is disputed.North KoreaThe two countries have a continuing dispute over Mount Paektu and Yalu and Tuman rivers. China has also claimed Baekhu Mountain and Jiandao. Beijing has, on occasions, claimed all of North Korea on historical grounds (Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368)South KoreaSouth Korea and China have an overlapping Air Defence Identification Zone and a continuing Exclusive Economic Zone dispute over Leodo (Socotra Rock) in the East China Sea. China has also, on occasions, claimed entire South Korea on historical grounds (Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368)MongoliaChina and Mongolia have settled their boundary dispute but China has claimed all of Mongolia on historical precedent (Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368).BhutanBhutanese enclaves in Tibet, namely Cherkip, Gompa, Dho, Dungmar, Gesur, Gezon, Itse Gompa, Khochar, Nyanri, Ringung, Sanmar, Tarchen and Zuthulphuk. Bhutan has lost a substantial chunk of area under dispute including the Kula Kangri peak to slow encroachments by China. Beijing claims Kula Kangri and mountainous areas to the west of this peak in addition to the western Haa district of Bhutan.TajikistanThe two sides have a bilateral dispute dating back to 1884 when a border demarcation agreement between the Qing Dynasty and Tsarist Russia left large segments of the frontier in the sparsely-populated eastern Pamirs without a clear definition.The Chinese claims are based on historical precedent (Qing Dynasty 1644-1912).In 1991, Tajikistan inherited from the Soviet Union three disputed border segments constituting about 28,000 sq km which China and the Soviet Union had been unable to resolve.In 1999, Tajikistan and China signed a border demarcation agreement defining the border in two of the three segments. Under this deal, Tajikistan ceded about 200 sw km lands to China. In 2002, Tajikistan agreed to cede 1,122 sq km or about four percent of the territory that Beijing had claimed. China has, in all, settled for 3.5 per cent of the claimed territory.KazakhstanChina has laid claim to a territory in Kazakhstan stretching from Semirechie to Lake Balkhash covering 34,000 sq km. In May 2020, a Chinese website ‘Sohu.com’ published an article claiming that Kazakhstan is located on territories that historically belong to China.China has settled for 22 per cent of its claim over Kazakh territory. Despite a border demarcation treaty with China in 1994 and claim by Kazakh state media that the Kazakhstan government had succeeded in retaining 56.9 percent of the disputed territory, critics had opined that the remaining 43.1 per cent of the land also belonged to Kazakhstan for which a new deal should be signed.KyrgyzstanChina lays claim to the whole of Kyrgyz territory. In May 2020, Chinese website tutiao.com published an article on such a claim and argued that under the Han Dynasty, the entire Kyrgyz territory was part of the Chinese mainland before the Russian empire captured it.Chia has settled for 32 percent of its claim over Kyrgyz territory. Under the 1999 agreement, Kyrgyzstan handed over 1,250 sq km to China.RussiaDespite signing bilateral agreements in 1991 and 1994 to delimit the estern and wester section of the Russia-China border, a few sectors remain unresolved. There are 160,000 sq km still unilaterally claimed by China despite signing several agreements.In October 2004, the 4,300 sq border was finally demarcated in its entirety, thus resolving a 300-year-old territorial dispute. In 2005, the Russian Parliament ratified the agreement in 2008, a part of the Abagaitu Islet, the entire Tarabarov Bolshoi Ussuriysk Island and some adjacent river islets were handed over to China.dusta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-spotted-a-pattern-in-china-s-standoff-with-india-here-are-21-reasons/story-nJS76GTlHlssm1tB9q5NAN.html
02-07-2020||India||India in talks with US, Canada, others on establishing air travel bubbles: AAI||India is in talks with the US and Canada and the countries in European and Gulf regions on establishing individual bilateral bubbles which will allow airlines of each country in the pact to operate international flights, said Arvind Singh, Chairman, Airports Authority of India (AAI), on Thursday. The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) had on June 23 said India is considering establishing “individual bilateral bubbles” with the US, the UK, Germany and France. Singh said, “This morning, I took a brief from the key point person (from the MOCA) who is negotiating with the countries, and he said that we are in constant touch. We are working on a consensus to restart the international flights. This is going to be through air bubbles.” “Talks are mainly going on between India and the US, India and Canada, India and Europe and India and the Gulf countries to start flights in these bubbles,” he said at a webinar called “Reposing the faith in flying” organised by the GMR group. Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Singh said the MOCA official has informed him that the discussion with the countries is at a “very advanced” level and the effort is to restart international flights at the earliest. “I am sure there would be a positive outcome of the talks with the US, Canada and with the Gulf countries and the negotiations are going on,” he noted. The EU has presently banned the flights from India as the number of coronavirus cases are rising in the country, Singh said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on June 20 said the government will start thinking on the resumption of scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before the coronavirus. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25. However, it had then allowed the airlines to operate the maximum 33 per cent of their pre-COVID flights. The MOCA increased the limits on June 26 from 33 per cent to 45 per cent. The MOCA on June 23 had said, “As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-US, India-France, India-Germany, India-UK. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished. Final decisions pursuant to negotiations are expected to be taken soon.” “We have received requests from authorities in several countries including the US, France, Germany among others requesting that their air carriers be allowed to participate in the transportation of passengers along the line being conducted by Air India under Vande Bharat Mission. These requests are being examined,” it added. Air India started international chartered flights under the Vande Bharat Mission from May 6 to help people stranded due to the pandemic reach their destinations. The MOCA’s June 23 statement had come after the US Department of Transport (DOT) said on June 22 that it appears that Air India may be using its passenger repatriation charter flights as a way of circumventing the government of India-imposed prohibition of all scheduled international services.   “We are taking this action (of allowing only those Air India flights from July 22 that have DOT’s approval) because the Government of India has impaired the operating rights of the US carriers and has engaged in discriminatory and restrictive practices with respect to the US carrier services to and from India,” the DOT had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-talks-with-us-canada-others-on-establishing-air-travel-bubbles-aai/story-8A1kUj2CFFGEkhyRRz6TTI.html
02-07-2020||India||China holds out WTO threat over ban on 59 mobile apps. India bursts the bubble||The Chinese propaganda that India’s ban on Chinese apps is “selective and discriminatory” is completely misplaced, on the contrary, New Delhi has a long list of Chinese discrimination against trade and investments with certain countries, including India, officials with direct knowledge of the matter said requesting anonymity.India has shown caution so far even as it has a long list of Beijing indulging in restrictive trade and investment practices such as the imposition of internet censorship through ‘Great Firewall’, restrictions on long-term visa and non-tariff barriers on investments, two officials working in two different ministries said requesting anonymity.According to a PTI report on Thursday, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has slammed China’s action of restricting access to Indian newspapers and media websites and urged the Indian government to expeditiously take steps to ban access to Chinese media in the country.Chinese mouthpiece Global Times on Thursday tweeted quoting China’s commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng, “To date, China has not adopted any restrictive or discriminatory measures targeting India’s products and services.”The officials brushed aside Beijing’s contentions and its veiled threat to drag India to the World Trade Organization (WTO) over New Delhi’s Monday’s (June 29) decision to ban 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing concerns that these are “prejudicial to sovereignty of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.One of the officials, who is the government’s legal expert on strategic matters said, “Beijing has no basis to challenge New Delhi’s June 29 decision. Is there any agreement on this matter with China? No, not to my knowledge. India can defend [it] easily under the clause of national security interest and sovereignty of the country.”“Therefore, the official Chinese reaction on June 30 was subdued and did not mention any bilateral or multilateral [WTO] agreement,” he added.Sino-Indian tensions have shot up after a violent brawl between Chinese and Indian soldiers on June 15 along the Line of Actual Control in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian army personnel were killed.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on June 30 said, “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles. Practical cooperation between China and India is mutually beneficial. Deliberate interference in such cooperation will not serve the interests of the Indian side.”TS Vishwanath, principal advisor at law firm APJ-SLG Law offices said, “This decision is taken based on national security concerns, therefore, India is very much within its right in the WTO agreement to take any action to protect its national security interest.”The second official, who works in the economic ministry, said China is indulging in illegal and unfair trade practices as such routing its goods through a third country with which India has preferential trade arrangements to avoid paying higher duty, and dumping of cheaper Chinese products in India to harm Indian industries.“The government is aware and agencies have been told to take action against such violations,” the official said. HT reported it on July 1.Data suggests significant indirect inflow of Chinese goods and investments through locations with which India has free trade agreements (FTAs), preferential trade agreements (PTAs) or other bilateral commercial arrangements. It shows that total foreign direct investment (FDI) from China is minuscule, but many Indian firms have received Chinese investments. Similarly, imports from China have registered a minor decline recently, but at the same time imports from Hong Kong and Singapore have surged, officials said.The latest official data shows foreign direct investment from China between April 2000 and March 2020 was $2.378.71 billion, which is 0.51% of the total FDI inflow into the country in the two decades.According to the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), while India’s trade deficit with China narrowed by $6.05 billion to $51.25 billion in 2019, the gap with Hong Kong widened sharply by $5.8 billion in 2019, nullifying almost all the gains. Similarly, India trade deficit with Singapore was $5.82 billion in the previous financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-propaganda-that-india-s-ban-on-59-apps-is-selective-is-misplaced-officials/story-7SygfVodaNjNX4sExWXXxK.html
02-07-2020||India||PM Modi, President Putin vow to strengthen Indo-Russia ties, discuss Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed the coronavirus crisis on Thursday and resolved to strengthen the Indo-Russia ties for jointly addressing the challenges of the post-Covid world.During a telephonic conversation, the two leaders agreed to maintain the momentum of bilateral contacts and consultations, leading to the annual bilateral summit to be held in India later this year.  The prime minister conveyed his keenness to welcome Putin in India for the bilateral summit.The leaders took note of the effective measures undertaken by the two countries to address the negative consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and agreed on the importance of closer India-Russia ties for jointly addressing the challenges of the post-Covid world, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said.Putin thanked Modi for the phone call and reiterated his commitment to further strengthening the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries in all spheres.During their conversation, Modi congratulated Putin on the success of the celebrations marking the 75th anniversary of the victory of the Allied Forces in the World War 2, and also for the successful completion of the vote on constitutional amendments in Russia, the statement said.The prime minister noted the participation of an Indian contingent in the military parade held in Moscow on June 24 as a symbol of the abiding friendship between the people of India and Russia.An official statement issued by the Russian side said the two leaders discussed topical issues on the Russian-Indian agenda and confirmed their mutual commitment to further strengthening the privileged bilateral strategic partnership and close cooperation both in the bilateral format and within international organisations and associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-putin-vow-to-strengthen-indo-russia-ties-discuss-covid-19-crisis/story-8wlIYZvgWWymPp5N1KeGNP.html
02-07-2020||India||All monuments can be opened from July 4, says Union Tourism Minister||All monuments that have been closed amid the Covid-19 pandemic can now be opened from July 4, Centre said Thursday. “@ASIGoI It has been decided that all the monuments can be opened with full security from 4th of July,” Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said in a tweet.Under Unlock 2 which got underway on July 1, the government is trying to open up more activities outside containment zones. But the surge in the Covid-19 pandemic in many parts of the country has meant that people have largely kept away from monuments.Many monuments that draw a large volume of tourists have been closed even before the lockdown began on March 25. The Taj Mahal has been closed since March 17. The Agra fort has also remained closed. Under Unlock 1 that began on June 8, the Union culture ministry had announced that 820 centrally-protected monuments with places of worship on their premises would be thrown open to the public. But Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Odisha had said the ASI monuments under their jurisdiction will not be opened in light of the coronavirus threat.In Delhi, the monuments that were allowed to open include the Afsah-wala-ki-Masjid situated outside the west gate of Humayun’s Tomb, the Qutub Minar and Nizamuddin Dargah.Rajasthan started allowing visitors into monuments under Unlock 1 without tickets for 15 days. It later halved ticket prices to the monuments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-monuments-can-be-opened-from-july-4-says-union-tourism-minister/story-b1XdouPIXVXg6jChtKfyYO.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi announces learning with ‘human feel’ to bridge ‘digital divide’ during Covid crisis||Delhi government on Thursday announced a plan to bridge the possible “digital divide” resulting from the continuation of online classes after the summer vacation in state-run schools due to restrictions imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic outbreak.The plan stresses on “learning with human feel” through teachers’ interaction with individual students, both with and without the facility to attend online classes. A broad outline of the concept was announced by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who said the new programme was an attempt to minimise the loss to education and the experience of classroom learning, tough to replicate in an online learning environment.Watch | ‘Learning with a human feel’: Manish Sisodia’s plan to bridge digital divide For Coronavirus Live Updates“We are stressing on learning with human feel, as simply conducting online classes doesn’t constitute proper learning. Our attempt is to retain the human feel which generally goes missing in online classes,” Sisodia said.He added that the biggest fear with online classes related to a possible digital divide between the haves and the have nots—those with means to attend digital classes and those without it—which could lead to a learning divide, creating a social and learning gap, which will be hard to bridge. While Delhi schools have been ordered to remain shut till July 31, the education through implementation of this scheme will from July 3 onwards, said Sisodia.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The new programme focuses on reaching out to students without digital facilities and also on connecting with every student on an individual level even while conducting online classes.“It is imperative for every teacher to connect with every student,” said Sisodia and added that online classes often follow a detached routine of delivering lectures to a mass of students and just playing audio video modules were taking away from the experience of learning. “The experience of going to the school, peer learning, practical classes, visiting the library, learning together and the one to one connect with the teacher can not be substituted through digital learning,” he added elaborating on the need for the new programme that aims to address some of these issues.According to the broad outlines provided by the deputy CM. Teachers of classes between KG and standard VIII will stay connected with students and assign work on WhatsApp groups and individually interact with every individual.He added that according to the assessment done by the Delhi government, around 20% students may not have WhatsApp facility and parents of such children will be contacted by teachers for sharing teaching material and such they will also maintain a connection with the children over the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-announces-learning-with-human-feel-to-bridge-digital-divide-during-covid-crisis/story-4IYzaGARzFD7lbl7Pf2eGM.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19 patients, elderly can vote in elections via postal ballot: All you need to know||The Ministry of Law and Justice on Thursday issued a notification for the Conduct of Elections (Amendment) Rules 2020 for extending the postal ballot facility for voters  above the age of 65 years as well as Covid-19 patients under home or institutional quarantine.Elderly people over the age of 65 are vulnerable to the infection, along with pregnant women and those suffering from chronic health parameters like diabetes, hypertension and renal ailments. The Union health ministry has been continuously discouraging vulnerable people from venturing out when the country is recording a surge in coronavirus infections. The postal ballot facility had so far been reserved only for people over the age of 80 and those voters involved in essential services who are not posted in their home state.Here’s all you need to know about the change in voting rules:* In the new notification issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, people over the age of 65 years will now be able to vote by postal ballot in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.* This facility will also be extended to people infected with coronavirus or those who are suspected of having caught the infection and are in institutional quarantine. Those people who have mild symptoms and are not in any medical facility, but in home quarantine can also vote through postal ballot.* The notification was issued ahead of the Bihar assembly polls which is scheduled to take place somewhere between October and November. West Bengal’s assembly elections are also due to be held in early 2021.* According to the law ministry notification, the Centre after consulting the Election Commission of India (ECI) framed new rules to further amend the Conduction of Election Rules, 1961.* The notification said that in the rule 27A, clause (aa) of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961, after the words “or persons with disability” occurring at the end, the words, “or the Covid-19 suspect or affected persons” shall be inserted.* In clause (e), for the figures and word “80 years”, the figures and word “65 years” shall be substituted.* In an attempt to ensure that social distancing norms are followed amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has decided that Bihar will have more polling stations to avoid crowding. * Auxiliary polling stations will be set up in the same building or premises of the original polling station to spread out voters for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections. If the auxiliary polling stations cannot be set up in the same building or premises, it would be set up at a nearby place.* After the outbreak of the coronavirus in India, Bihar will be the first state to have assembly polls. The state has nearly 7.20 crore voters and the term of the 243-member assembly ends on November 29 this year. The new assembly has to be formed before November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-elderly-can-vote-in-elections-via-postal-ballot-all-you-need-to-know/story-1TkE1L2boVNVKEcdHvFnPL.html
02-07-2020||India||Private Doctors can now prescribe Covid 19 tests as Centre widens net||The Central government, in a decision to remove a major bottleneck for ramping up Covid 19 testing, has allowed all registered doctors to prescribe coronavirus testing while following the ICMR guidelines laid out in this respect. The move announced on Thursday is expected to bring in more people into the testing ambit while increasing the utilization of testing capacity and reducing the pressure on government doctors and institutions, who were earlier alone saddled with the responsibility to prescribe the tests.“COVID-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner, and not exclusively a Government doctor. The Centre has strongly advised States/UTs to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe COVID test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per ICMR guideline,” the health ministry order released on Thursday afternoon stated.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has been following the three-pronged strategy of ‘Test-Track-Treat’ for early detection and containment of the coronavirus outbreak. The decision to allow even private medical practioners to recommend test is aimed to help in this direction. The government order also asks states and Union Territories to ensure full utilization of their Covid-19 testing capacity, especially, those in the private sector.The government has also made it clear that private laboratories should be free to test any individual in accordance to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and that states must not restrict an individual from getting tested, since early testing has been identified as one of the containment tools for saving lives.In another measure to increase testing, the Central government has asked states to use Rapid Antigen tests in addition to RT-PCR, since it is quick, simple, safe and offers ease of conduct.In other suggestions given to states for casting the testing net wider, the Central government has suggested testing campaigns by organizing testing camps and use of mobile testing vans etc.Covid 19 latest: India’s top 15 states with highest recovery rate and numbers“This shall effectively take Covid-19 tests to the people’s doorsteps in high incidence areas to collect samples of all symptomatic individuals as well as their contacts, and get those samples tested by using rapid antigen tests,” the health ministry release states.The government also noted that Covid-19 testing in India was likely to soon cross one crore mark, which will be a significant achievement and take up country’s tests per million figures a notch higher. As on date, 90,56,173 tests have been conducted with the assistance of 1,065 testing labs including 768 in the public sector and 297 in the private sector. The per day testing capacity has also grown to cover as many as 2,29,588 sample testing on Wednesday, according to the government data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-doctors-can-now-prescribe-covid-19-tests-as-centre-widens-net/story-0Q9raoSv8buqry7lSQvmzI.html
02-07-2020||India||Kolkata’s iconic Coffee House, hub of literatti reopens after 3 months with limited seats||The iconic Coffee House in Kolkata’s College Street reopened after more than three months with less than half the seating capacity, sans porcelain cups and dishes and limited items on the menu.Entry has been banned without masks and at the entrance a poster has been displayed which says ‘No mask. No entry’. Each customer was being checked by a waiter, donning the usual white uniform and the headgear, with thermal scanners.“We have reopened after more than three months. One may find many old items such as the white porcelain cups and dishes and the glasses missing. We are starting with a limited number of food items and beverages. One may not find the cutlet for now,” said Tapan Kumar Pahari, secretary of the Indian Coffee House.Even though there are seating arrangements both on the ground floor and on the first floor, as of now only 25 tables instead of the usual 50 have been arranged on the first floor. The first floor hasn’t been reopened yet.The Coffee House became integrated with the city’s heritage and culture - a meeting place for poets, artistes, literatti and people from the world of art and culture.“I came here after almost 16 years. I had come to College Street for some work and just stepped in to have a cup of tea. It is giving me a nostalgic feeling,” said Subhashish Ghosh, one of the first customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-s-iconic-coffee-house-hub-of-literatti-reopens-after-3-months-with-limited-seats/story-5xkXOhYBMha5RzhoSGITSP.html
02-07-2020||India||ICAI cites ‘operational problems’ to conduct CA exams||New Delhi: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is having second thoughts on conducting the May cycle of chartered accountants (CA) examinations in 500 centres across the country, beginning July 29, owing to a spike in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in several states.In June, ICAI had allowed an “opt-out” scheme enabling candidates, who are unable to sit for the examinations, to appear in the November examination cycle.The scheme was challenged before the Supreme Court (SC), which had asked ICAI to be flexible in a bid to accommodate “opt-out” requests until a week before commencement of examinations.Last week, the apex court had permitted ICAI to come out with a draft notification spelling out that if a student is unable to appear for the complete set of examinations, then the candidate would be entitled to a second chance in November, irrespective of whether the candidate chose the “opt-out” scheme.On Thursday, ICAI informed the SC that it was reassessing the feasibility of holding examinations in the wake of a spike of Covid-19 cases across many states.Senior advocate Ramji Srinivas, who represented ICAI, said: “There are some operational problems at certain centres, where examinations are scheduled to be held. We need time to contact examination centres in a bid to assess the ground situation.”The three-member Vacation Bench, comprising Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, accepted the plea and adjourned the matter for July 10.Nearly 3.46 lakh students have registered to take the CA examinations.ICAI informed the SC that less than 60,000 students had applied for the “opt-out” scheme and also opposed the petition filed by Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who had challenged the option.ICAI was also not agreeable to petitioner’s demand for increasing the examination centres.Earlier the bench had observed, “The present situation is dynamic. You have to be flexible to change according to the requirement of each area and concerns of students in that area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icai-cites-operational-problems-to-conduct-ca-exams/story-4utO5lDGG6zynKUtPXY0MJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Govt extends postal ballot facility to those over 65 and Covid-19 patients in big change in voting rules||Those over the age of 65 years and people infected with coronavirus or suspected of having contracted the infection will be allowed to vote by postal ballot after the government amended the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. Those people who have mild symptoms and are not in any medical facility, but in home quarantine can also vote through postal ballotIn several health advisories, people over the age of 65 have been asked not to venture out as they are particularly vulnerable to catching the highly contagious virus.The move comes ahead of the Bihar elections. The coronavirus pandemic has brought political activities to a juddering halt. Earlier, casting votes through postal ballots was available only to armed forces and officials assigned poll duties.In February, Delhi became the first state to experiment with postal ballots, extending the facilities to those with severe disabilities or above the age of 80 years.The elections to fill 19 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha in nine states were originally to take place in March but were deferred after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. They were then held in June and arrangements were made to allow members who are unwell to vote through postal ballot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-postal-ballot-facility-to-those-over-65-and-covid-19-patients-under-home-quarantine/story-JRQjGe3ZZJ50jaCvM9qIeI.html
02-07-2020||India||Defence Ministry approves purchase of 33 new fighter jets including 21 MiG-29s from Russia||The Defence Ministry on Thursday approved a proposal to acquire 33 new fighter aircraft including 12 Su-30MKIs and 21 MiG-29s along with upgradation of 59 MiG-29s at a cost of Rs 18,148 crore.“Addressing the long felt need of the Indian Air Force to increase its fighter squadrons, the DAC also approved the proposal for procurement of 21 MiG-29 along with upgradation of existing 59 MiG-29 aircraft and procurement of 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Thursday after a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) under the chairmanship of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh .While the MiG 29 procurement and upgradation from Russia is estimated to cost Rs 7418 cr, the Su-30 MKI will be procured from HAL at an estimated cost of Rs 10,730 cr. The decision comes in the wake of high tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been in a standoff position for several weeks now.The DAC also approved acquisitions of various platforms and equipment required by the Indian Armed Forces for an approximate cost of Rs 38,900 cr.It also cleared the acquisition of 248 Astra Beyond Visual Range air-to-air missiles for the Indian Air Force and the Navy. Design and development of a new 1,000 kilometres strike range Land Attack Cruise Missile by the DRDO has also been cleared.“Acquisition of new/additional missile systems will add to the fire power of three Services. While acquisition of Pinaka missile systems will enable raising additional regiments over and above the ones already inducted, addition of Long Range Land Attack Missile Systems having a firing range of 1000 Km to the existing arsenal will bolster the attack capabilities of the Navy and the Air Force. Similarly induction of Astra Missiles having Beyond Visual Range capability will serve as a force multiplier and immensely add to the strike capability of Navy and Air Force,” the statement said.The IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, teh IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters.The IAF and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the People Liberation Army-Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-acquire-33-new-fighter-jets-from-russia-as-defence-ministry-approves-project-worth-rs-18-148-cr/story-kqQeDYwVnBUSDHVA7JqFXK.html
02-07-2020||India||YES Bank fraud: Rana Kapoor given interim protection from arrest till July 11||Mumbai: The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Mumbai on Thursday granted protection to Rana Kapoor, YES Bank’s co-founder, former managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO), from arrest by CBI until July 11 in two cases registered against him in connection with the bank’s fraud case.Earlier in March, CBI had registered two cases against Kapoor.One first information report (FIR) had alleged that the bankrupt YES Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) between April and June, 2018.In lieu, Kapoor was allegedly paid “kickbacks” to the tune of Rs 600 crore by DHFL promoter, Kapil Wadhawan.DHFL had sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, the CBI had stated in its FIR.Kapoor’s three daughters -- Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor and Radha Kapoor -- are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.It is on the basis of the CBI case that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) began its probe into allegations of money laundering by Kapoor and subsequently arrested him in early March.In the second case, CBI alleged that Kapoor and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than it’s market valuation.In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of Rs 600 crore, but he sold it for Rs 380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd, when Kapoor’s wife was a director of the company.On March 20, CBI had obtained production warrant to arrest Kapoor after he was remanded to judicial custody by the Prevention of the Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court.The agency, however, had not executed the warrant.Kapoor had moved special CBI court last month for anticipatory bail.The special CBI court had directed the agency to file a reply on Kapoor’s plea.On Thursday, when the plea came up for hearing, Kapoor’s lawyers, Abad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav, sought for interim protection against the arrest. The central agency is yet to submit its reply on the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-rana-kapoor-given-interim-protection-from-arrest-till-july-11/story-G7Sz7RzkXy0WH8BuPWVHdN.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: India’s top 15 states with highest recovery rate and numbers||While India’s coronavirus cases crossed the 6 lakh mark on Thursday to reach 604,641 cases, a total of 3,59,859 patients have also been declared to have recovered from the disease so far. The government has released data listing the top 15 states/UTs with the highest recovery rate from the infection disease.Chandigarh tops the list with 82.3% recovery rate, followed by Meghalaya at 80.8% and Rajasthan at 79.6% against the national recovery rate of 59.52%.Here’s the list of 15 states with the highest recovery rate as a percentage of the total Covid 19 patients registered in the respective territories.1. Chandigarh – 82.3%2. Meghalaya- 80.8%3. Rajasthan- 79.6%4. Uttarakhand- 78.6%5. Chhattisgarh- 78.3%6. Tripura- 78.3%7. Bihar – 77.5%8. Mizoram – 76.9%9. Madhya Pradesh- 76.9%10. Jharkhand – 76.6 %11. Odisha – 73.2%12. Gujarat – 72.3 %13. Haryana 70.3%14. Ladakh – 70.1 %15. Uttar Pradesh - 69.1 %Also Read: Rajasthan reports 5 more Covid-19 deaths, 115 fresh cases Gujarat with 24,030 recoveries so far, has registered most in terms of absolute numbers among these 15 states mentioned above, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 16, 629 recoveries, Rajasthan’s 14,574 and Madhya Pradesh’s 10,655 recoveries.Also Read: Stricter lockdown derails Maharashtra’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaign In terms of absolute numbers, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat not only contribute the most Covid 19 positive patients to the national tally, they have also recorded the most number of recoveries in terms of absolute numbers. Here’s the list of top 15 states with most number of recoveries.1. Maharashtra – 93,1542. Delhi- 59,9923. Tamil Nadu- 52,9264. Gujarat – 24,0305. Uttar Pradesh - 16,6296. Rajasthan-- 14,574 7. West Bengal- 12,5288. Madhya Pradesh -- 10,6559. Haryana- 10, 49910. Telangana- 8,08211. Karnataka- 8,06312. Bihar – 7,94613. Andhra Pradesh- 6,98814. Assam- 5,85115. Odisha- 5,353According to the health ministry, presently, there are 2,26,947 active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-india-s-top-15-states-with-highest-recovery-rate-and-numbers/story-Y06lSApdPpXr7ZNYNKdvpL.html
02-07-2020||India||Near-stampede as villagers queue to submit documents to get Amphan relief||It was a near-stampede situation as thousands of villagers, without face masks and physical distancing, lined up since 6 am to submit documents for Amphan relief near a government office in south Bengal on Thursday. Few people were injured in the melee.The Villagers had started gathering outside the Block Development Officer’s office at Kultali in South 24 Parganas, one of the worst cyclone-hit areas, since early morning. Around 10 am, when the gates opened, there was complete chaos as people made a dash for the counters.While the Trinamool Congress said that it was propaganda spread by the opposition that led to the chaos, the BJP said that villagers lost faith in the ruling party because of corruption and hence rushed to the BDO’s office to get their names enrolled for relief.“We had gathered at 6 am to submit our documents. The crowd was swelling every minute. Around 9:30 am there was a huge rush and several women, including me, fell down. Some people walked over me to reach the counter,” said Sandhya Mondol, who was dragged out by a man and escaped unhurt.Such was the rush that at least three women had to be rushed to a local hospital, where they were treated and later discharged.Locals said that most of the people who had gathered at the spot were not wearing masks and there was no social distancing.“There were hardly any police personnel to maintain the queue. People were fighting for their turn. Hardly anyone was wearing a mask,” said Manas Halder, a resident of Kultali.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the district magistrates that BDOs should prepare a list of villagers who have been affected by the Cyclone after a wave of protests erupted over allegations of corruption in the distribution of relief work and compensation.“The process was going on smoothly. But some political parties spread a word that July 2 was the last date of submission of documents to get relief. People gathered in large numbers. It is true that there was no social distancing and many were not wearing masks,” said Manturam Pakhira, Sunderbans affairs minister.He however said that only one woman was injured and had to be rushed to the hospital. Later, a large police contingent was deployed to bring the situation under control. More counters were also opened. “The people are confused and have lost faith in the government. One day they are hearing they need to submit papers with the panchayat. Then their names are omitted because of corruption. The day after they get to know that they need to submit the documents with the BDO. This is what happens when there is no system,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of BJP’s West Bengal unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/near-stampede-situation-as-villagers-line-up-for-amphan-relief-in-bengal/story-DyKrgE3AaV5xman6z00b0L.html
02-07-2020||India||Shiv Sena mocks Centre’s move of banning Chinese apps, calls it ‘digital revenge’||The Shiv Sena mocked at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance government (NDA) on Thursday, a few days after the Centre banned 59 Chinese applications (apps), citing threat to national security, and called the move a “digital revenge” for the violent hand-to-hand combat between Indian and Chinese troops along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) on June 15.The clash that had occurred in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley along the LAC had left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The Sena in a scathing editorial in the party’s Marathi mouthpiece, Saamana, questioned the timing of the ban and asked the reason for the Centre’s delay if the intelligence agencies knew the apps posed a threat to national security.It also contrasted the decision to ban Chinese apps with the surgical strike at Balakot in Pakistan after terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama in September 2016 and February 2019, respectively. On Monday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok and SHAREit.The Centre stated that it has received many complaints from various sources, including several reports about the misuse of these apps for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers, which are based out of India.The ban is being projected as a bid to protect the sovereignty of Indian cyberspace and to ensure the interests of crores of Indian mobile phone users and also a major blow to China’s Digital Silk Route ambitions.The editorial said that banning apps would not impact the Chinese economy, as the Asian powerhouse’s businesses and investments in India are huge. It cited the permission given to Chinese telecom giant Huawei to start fifth-generation (5G) trials in India, which is akin to handing over the “keys of India’s future economy” to Beijing. It also reminded the government to persist with its “digital awakening” programme.The Centre, according to the editorial, claimed that users’ data was used by the Chinese intelligence agencies and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). “If there was a threat to national security, then why were these apps allowed to function and their businesses thrive for all these years?” it asked.The editorial said there has been no change in the ground realities, despite the ban on these applications.“The Chinese troops are still in Galwan Valley and are refusing to withdraw from there.”In a sarcastic remark, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party alleged that apps such as TikTok encouraged vulgarity and took a dig at some “TikTok stars”, who have recently joined the BJP.The Sena asked rival BJP to answer about the future of these “Tik Tok” stars-turned-saffron party leaders amid the ban on the Chinese app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mocks-centre-s-move-of-banning-chinese-apps-calls-it-digital-revenge/story-g8Y5V0PlLqdwEz3T4XAT9N.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi gets its first plasma bank for Covid-19 treatment||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inaugurated the national capital’s first plasma bank at state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal said Covid-19 patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery. He expressed hope that plasma therapy will help in reducing Covid-19 casualties. “The plasma bank has begun operations at Delhi govt’s ILBS Hospital and will provide plasma to Delhi’s Covid hospitals,” the CM tweeted.He said those aged between 18 and 60 and weighing not less than 50 kg can donate their plasma for COVID-19 patients, according to PTI.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stands at close to 90,000 and over 2,000 people have died of the disease.Under plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 are taken and transfused into a coronavirus infected patient to boost the immune system to fight the infection. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Earlier this week, the Delhi government had announced that it will set up a plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients in the city.The services of the plasma bank can be availed by patients admitted in both government and private hospitals, but it has to be recommended by a doctor, Kejriwal had said.Last week, the chief minister had said that plasma therapy in Lok Nayak Hospital has helped reduce death rate by around 50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-gets-its-first-plasma-bank-for-covid-19-treatment/story-h2UwM7KGhWm4OUBuplk2jK.html
02-07-2020||India||India logs a Covid-19 recovery rate of 59.52%, with 3.6 lakh cured patients||India’s recovery rate from the coronavirus infection has climbed a notch higher and currently stands at 59.52%, with 11,881 Covid-19 patients having recovered in the last 24 hours. The fresh batch of recoveries has taken the total figure of patients who have recovered from the viral infection to 3,59,859, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.The country now has 2,26,947 active coronavirus cases and all the patients are under proper medical supervision, according to the ministry.Maharashtra apart from being the state which accounts for almost one-third of the total coronavirus cases in the country and the worst-hit by the pandemic, also leads the nation in the number of recoveries it has logged till date. National capital Delhi follows a close second with a high recovery rate from the infection.ALSO READ | Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hoursThe top 15 states in terms of absolute numbers of patients who have recovered from the infectious coronavirus disease are Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, MP, Haryana, Telangana, Karnataka, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Odisha, the health ministry’s data indicated.Thursday is the sixth consecutive day when coronavirus infections increased by more than 18,000 in India. There has been a surge of 4,14,106 Covid-19 cases from June 1 till date. According to the ICMR, the number of tests for detection of the disease crossed the nine million mark on Thursday.India’s Covid-19 tally soared past the six lakh mark on Thursday with a single-day spike of 19,148 cases, barely five days after it crossed the five-lakh mark. The death toll rose to 17,834, according to Union Health Ministry data.ALSO READ | ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’: Oxford expert explains how the pandemic is likely to end It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach the first one lakh mark, while just 44 days more to go past the six-lakh mark. The country’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 6,04,641 on Thursday, while 434 people have succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data showed.With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,59, 859 while one patient has migrated. There are 2,26,947 active cases of the coronavirus infection presently in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-a-covid-19-recovery-rate-of-59-52-with-3-6-lakh-cured-patients/story-40EQnKfcEK1lz4sIs6jd1O.html
02-07-2020||India||4 killed as container truck rams into car in Andhra’s Guntur district||Four persons, who were travelling by car, were killed when a container truck had a head-on collision with their vehicle near Thimmapuram village in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district on National Highway (NH) 16 on Thursday early morning, the police said.While two of them died on the spot, the two others passed away at Guntur General Hospital. The deceased were identified as Athuluri Balaram (26), a resident of Inumetla village of Rajupalem block in Guntur district, and Sheik Feroz Ahmed (35), Vinjamoori Harikrishna (27) and Medasani Venkata Sri Chandu (25) of Narsaraopet town.The police said the accident victims were travelling from Narasaraopet to Vijayawada late on Wednesday night. “The car had a head-on collision with a Guntur-bound truck near Thimmapuram village on NH-16 on Thursday early morning,” the police said.Two persons on the front seat were crushed to death, as the car was smashed by the impact of the collision, and the two on the rear seat suffered grievous injuries.“Local villagers came to the accident victims’ rescue. Though the injured were shifted to Guntur General Hospital, they succumbed to their injuries later on Thursday morning,” the police said.Preliminary investigations revealed that the driver of the container truck lost control over the steering wheel, which led to the accident.“The driver has been taken to custody for questioning. An investigation is on,” the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-as-container-truck-rams-into-a-car-in-andhra-s-guntur-district/story-MU7EkD3YnXEuNcjzobwqfI.html
02-07-2020||India||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expands Cabinet: Complete list of 28 new ministers||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expanded his Cabinet of Thursday, inducting 28 new ministers. The ministers were sworn in by acting governor Anandiben Patel at the Raj Bhavan. Of the new ministers, 20 ministers are of Cabinet rank and the rest are ministers of state rank.Here is a list of the newly-inducted ministers: Cabinet ministers: Gopal Bhargava, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhra Raje Scindia, Bhupendra Singh, Brijendra Pratap Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Prem Singh Patel, Omprakash Saklecha, Aindal Singh Kansana, Usha Thakur, Arvind Bhadoria, Mohan Yadav, Hardeep Singh Dang, and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon.Ministers of State: Bharat Singh Kushwaha, Inder Singh Parmar, Ramkhelawan Patel, Ram Kishor Kanware, Brijendra Singh Yadav, Girraj Dandotia, Suresh Dhakad, and OPS Bhadoria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-expands-cabinet-complete-list-of-28-new-ministers/story-EKqh06h001eIoHumz9DtlI.html
02-07-2020||India||Centre’s notice over bungalow revives Priyanka Gandhi’s Lucknow plan||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra planned to move to Lucknow in February, said an aide of hers, to provide more ballast to the Congress unit in Uttar Pradesh. The notice yesterday to vacate her Lutyens’ Bungalow may work as a catalyst for the Congress general secretary to decide on her future course of action.According to sources, a house too has been identified for the Congress leader.“She has readied a home (late Congress leader Sheila Kaul’s house) there, and if it wasn’t for the pandemic, she would have moved there already. Now, we don’t know whether she will move there, but it was the plan before coronavirus struck,” a party aide said on the condition of anonymity.The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday cancelled the government accommodation provided to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at Lodhi Estate, on the grounds that she is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and so was not eligible for living in the bungalow in the elite Lutyens’ Delhi . The Congress leader was also asked to clear her dues, which she did immediately online.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed the move to evict her “frustrated decisions of the authoritarian government”.Priyanka Gandhi has been active on the ground in Uttar Pradesh. Just recently, she had a run-in with the local administration over organising buses to transport migrant workers stranded in other states back to Uttar Pradesh. She is a general secretary of the party in charge of the state.If the shift does come about, it will see Priyanka Gandhi, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mayawati, and the state chief minister Yogi Adityanath all in the same city. Firebrand Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad, who launched his Azad Samaj Party in March, adds to the mix.The Congress general secretary, who is yet to contest an election, has been regularly highlighting the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh: from Coronavirus to job losses, teacher scam to migrant crisis to even wishing state students on their board results. The Congress leader’s last visit to Lucknow was in December 2019, in the aftermath of violent protests over the anti-Citizenship Act. She alleged that the police caught her by the neck and pushed to the ground as they tried to stop her from meeting a retired IPS officer who was arrested for opposing the citizenship law.Just recently, Priyanka Gandhi took a swipe at Mayawati, who said she stands by the BJP on China, saying some opposition leaders were the “undeclared spokespersons” of the BJP.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Gandhi campaigned for her brother Rahul and mother Sonia, but the results were nothing to talk about. Rahul Gandhi lost her seat to BJP’s Smirti Irani. Congress has just one MP from Uttar Pradesh: Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-notice-over-bungalow-revives-priyanka-gandhi-s-lucknow-plan/story-fYocA6XINEL1Hr0KYs9LtM.html
02-07-2020||India||With 845 fresh Covid-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh logs a tally of 16,097||Andhra Pradesh detected 845 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the Telugu state’s total number of coronavirus cases to 16,097, the state health department said on Thursday.At present, there are 8,586 active cases in Andhra Pradesh. With the five fatalities, the death toll due to the coronavirus has now risen to 198 in the state. The coronavirus curve in the southern state has been rising steeply for the past one week, recording a surge in positive patients. A day earlier, on Wednesday, an addition of 657 fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh to 15,252.ALSO READ | Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hoursSix coronavirus deaths were reported on the preceding day.Kurnool and Krishna districts reported three deaths each, taking the individual tally to 68 and 66 respectively, the highest in the state.On Wednesday, the state also crossed the nine-lakh mark in the number of coronavirus sample tests, totalling 9.18 lakh till date.India’s Covid-19 tally soared past the six lakh mark on Thursday with a single-day increase of 19,148 cases, just five days after it crossed the five-lakh mark, while the death toll rose to 17,834, according to Union Health Ministry data. It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach one lakh, while just 44 days more to go past the six-lakh mark. The country’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 6,04,641 on Thursday, while 434 people have succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data showed.With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,59, 859 while one patient has migrated. There are 2,26,947 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-845-fresh-covid-19-cases-andhra-pradesh-logs-a-tally-of-16-097/story-Uio8kMkPoXsc2jEZi2jJ1M.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Covid-19 tests in India to soon touch 1 crore-mark’: Government||Many steps have been taken to enhance coronavirus testing in the country and remove bottlenecks as a result of which, the total number of Covid-19 tests in India will soon touch the one crore-mark, the government said on Thursday. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said that six lakhs people have contracted coronavirus in a country which has over 135 crore people. “Out of these 6 lakh people, 3 lakh 60 thousand people have recovered and gone home. Most of the patients are in a position to recover and go home. The death rate is the lowest in the world at 2.94 percent. There is nothing to panic,” he said on Thursday.India’s Covid-19 recovery rate has reached almost 60 percent and the doubling rate has reached 21-22 days, the minister added.The government announced a significant step on Wednesday through which Covid-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner and not exclusively by a government doctor. The move will ensure more testing of people for coronavirus. Also read: ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’ - Oxford expertThe total no. of people being tested for #COVID19 tests in the country will soon touch one crore. This has been possible due to removal of all bottlenecks by GoI. Various steps taken by Central Government have paved the way for enhanced testing for COVID-19: Government of IndiaAccording to the government data, 90,56,173 tests have been conducted through diagnostic testing network so far across India. There are 1,065 testing labs across the country - 768 in the public sector and 297 in private labs. As many as 2,29,588 people got tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the government said. The officials of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that the daily testing capacity is also growing rapidly across the country, adding that it was around 1.5 lakh per day on May 25 and has gone up to more than three lakh per day now. The Centre has strongly advised states and Union Territories to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private ones, to prescribe Covid-19 test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per the ICMR guidelines. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tests-in-india-to-soon-touch-1-crore-mark-government/story-IgGG66DdXRAoN23VTxazaI.html
02-07-2020||India||Four drown in Telangana’s Godavari river in two incidents||In two separate incidents, four persons drowned to death in Godavari river on Wednesday in Telangana’s Jayashankar Bhupalpally district, the police said.The accident victims had gone to the river for taking a holy dip on Wednesday on the auspicious occasion of “Tholi Ekadasi”, a Hindu ritual.The police recovered two bodies at two different places on Wednesday night and two more on Thursday morning.Panthangi Pradeep (20), Akula Karthik (22), and Thota Ravinder (13), who lived in Lenkalgadda village under Palimela Mandal, went for a holy dip in the river on Wednesday afternoon.“However, all three were washed away by the river’s strong water current,” said an official from Bhupalpally police station.Expert swimmers were pressed into the rescue operation.“Pradeep’s body was fished out late at night on Wednesday and the other two were recovered on Thursday morning,” the police said.On Wednesday night, the body of Tungala Srisailam (21) of Pothavada in Mahadevapur was also recovered.“We have sent the bodies for post-mortem examination and registered a case of accidental death. Investigations are on,” the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-four-drown-to-death-in-godavari-river-in-two-separate-incidents/story-Mshvrb79Sk7ikBhnvoO0LP.html
02-07-2020||India||Smriti Irani video thanking TikTok for donating 4 lakh PPE suits gives ammo to TMC||Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra late on Wednesday night tweeted a video showing Union minister Smriti Irani thanking the Indian arm of Tik ok for donating 4,00,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) suits for frontline health workers in the fight against Covid-19. Earlier this week, the Centre banned TikTok, a Chinese app for short-form mobile videos along with 58 others citing threat to India’s sovereignty, defence, security and public order. Moitra said the video was taken weeks before the ban and questioned the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) claim that PPE kits were provided by the PM Cares Fund. In the video, Irani can be heard thanking Nikhil Gandhi, CEO of TikTok India and his team for collaborating with the two Union ministries of health and textiles and donating 4,00,000 PPE suits. She also says the suits met the technical specifications advised by the World Health Organisation and ministry of health. “Thank you TikTok India for putting India first,” Irani said in the video. “Watch a Cabinet Minister boldly advertising a Chinese company weeks before it was banned for “activities prejudicial to sovereignity of India” Are we that hungry for PPE kits? Didn’t @BJP say PMCARES was paying for them?” Moitra wrote in the tweet that went viral. Watch a Cabinet Minister boldly advertising a Chinese company weeks before it was banned for "activities prejudicial to sovereignity of India"Are we that hungry for PPE kits? Didn’t @BJP say PMCARES was paying for them ? pic.twitter.com/axEupDDkWDThe Bengal BJP reacted by saying that not just PPE kits but even ventilators are now being made in India and these are no longer imported from China.“TMC has faith in corruption but not in the Prime Minister. TMC is talking about the 59 banned Chinese apps such as TikTok. There was a time when PPE, testing kits, ventilators et al were imported from China. But not anymore. These are made in India now,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha.The Congress on June 28 had hit back at the BJP for raising the issue of funding of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), alleging that the PM Cares Fund was accepting donations from Chinese firms when the armies of the two countries were engaged in a border standoff in Ladakh.Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his “18 meetings” with Chinese President Xi Jinping in the last six years and asked why he has not yet called China “an aggressor.”“What is most worrying and alarming for national security is the fact of donations received by Prime Minister Modi from the Chinese companies in his (seemingly personal) PM CARES Fund,” Singhvi added.Over the past few days, the BJP has released details of contributions made to RGF by various state-owned companies, government departments and the Chinese embassy.RGF is a private trust while the PM CARES Fund was set up in March this year to deal with any emergency arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It has already funded the purchase of around 50,000 ventilators by government hospitals across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-video-thanking-tik-tok-for-donating-4-lakh-ppe-suits-gives-ammo-to-tmc/story-FaN2BqxeabtMYn79Grz2gO.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Delhi inches toward grim milestone, cases near 90,000; death toll over 2,800||Coronavirus cases in the country have crossed the 6 lakh mark. On Thursday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to 604,641. With nearly 60 percent of recovery rate, as many as 359,859 patients have recovered from coronavirus across the country while the death toll stands at 17,834. The national capital and Tamil Nadu are two states that are rapidly racing toward one lakh-mark with respect to coronavirus cases. Maharashtra, which leads the state tally, has a total of 180,298 cases. Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka are also witnessing a rapid surge in Covid-19 numbers. Also read: ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’ - Oxford expertHere’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 180,298 on Thursday. Over 93,154 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,053 have died.Tamil NaduWith 94,049 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,264 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 52,926.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 89,802 on Thursday. As many as 59,992 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,803 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratThe state has seen Covid-19 cases reach 33,232 on Thursday. The state has seen 24,030 people recover from coronavirus while 1,867 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 24,056 while the number of recoveries has touched 16,629. The state death toll stands at 718.RajasthanThe state has reported 19,170 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 413 while 14,220 patients have recovered.West BengalAs many as 18,559 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 12,528 recover from coronavirus while 683 people have been killed.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 17,357 coronavirus cases. While 8,082 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 267 in the state.Karnataka The South Indian state has witnessed 16,514 coronavirus cases till date while two hundred and fifty-three people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 8,063 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. HaryanaThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 14,941 while the death toll stands at 240. Over 10,000 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Other statesOver 13,800 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. Andhra Pradesh has 15,252 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar crossed the 10,000-mark on Wednesday, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 7,695. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 7,316 while Assam has reported 8,582 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 5,668, and the number of cases in Kerala is 4,593.States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Mizoram, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-delhi-inches-toward-grim-milestone-cases-near-90-000-death-toll-over-2-800/story-itKubjn3iieWAhX9j5hIPP.html
02-07-2020||India||Need a law for proper regulation of data: KN Govindacharya||An overarching law to protect the country’s data and a detailed investigation into all Chinese investments in the country, particularly in start-ups, are some of the demands being made by the Rashtriya Swayamseval Sangh (RSS) and its affiliates such as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) amid a growing strain in India-China ties.KN Govindacharya, the former general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and an ideologue of the RSS, wants the government to bring a law to secure the country’s data and sovereignty.Govindacharya, who has been seeking regulation of social media platforms and has filed a petition in the Delhi high court (HC) for rules to make companies such as Facebook and Google establish their servers in India, has also been urging the government to refrain from using social media platforms and Google mail for official purposes.He welcomed the Union government’s decision to ban 59 Chinese applications. “This is the first step. What we need is a proper law, which needs to cover an entire gamut of aspects. This needs to be well thought out,” he said.This week, the Centre has banned Chinese applications, including popular platforms such as Tik Tok and Camscanner, citing “emergent threats” to the country’s sovereignty and national security. The ban comes on the back of violent hand-to-hand combat between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 that had left 20 Indian soldiers dead.However, the opposition has questioned the government, asking the reasons for not banning these Chinese applications, if they were perceived to be a threat to national security.China has said India’s decision could be in contravention of the legitimate rights of international investors.Govindacharya, however, said the country’s national interests override trade obligations.“There are many aspects that need to be examined such as tax evasion and other security-related details. While taking steps to protect the national security if that means withdrawing from trade obligations that can be done. What is important is to first state intent and determination,” he said.SJM, which has been vocal about a blanket ban on Chinese goods and applications, has also welcomed the government’s move but wants a scan of all Chinese investments in India.Ashwani Mahajan, national co-convenor, SJM, said, the government is free to rethink trade agreements. “The WTO (World Trade Organisation) is clear that when it a matter of national security or in the case of a pandemic, a country’s interests prevail. The government is rightly concerned about the security and the onus is on the applications to prove they did not share data with the Chinese government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-a-law-for-proper-regulation-of-data-govindacharya/story-KPXPosrggfTIXrKw5J3FjM.html
02-07-2020||India||Housing for govt officials gets costlier with hike in licence fee||Government accommodation allotted to officials under the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) category is set to get costlier starting in July. The Centre has issued an order to increase the flat rate of license fee recoverable for the accommodation throughout the country.The ministry of housing and urban affairs has issued an order, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, increasing the license fee rates for all types of government accommodations -- from type I to type VIII-- based on the level of pay matrix under the 7th Pay Commission.A vast majority of government officials live in accommodation allowed by the Central government.To be clear, license fee is deducted monthly from the salaries of officials who are allotted government accommodation. “it is deducted from the gross salary of central government employees. Nearly 80-90% of officers and staff occupy government quarters. A nominal rent is fixed for the sake of upkeep and that will increase,” an official said, requesting anonymity.“In terms of the provisions of the Rule 74 of the “central Government General pool Residential Accommodation Rules. 2017”, the Government has decided to revise the flat rates of licence fee recoverable for the residential accommodation available in General Pool and also in Departmental Pools of Ministries/Departments of the Government of India throughout the-country,” the order said.“The revised rates of licence fee would be effective from 1st July, 2020. Al ministries/departments are requested to take action to recover the revised license fee in accordance with these orders in respect of accommodation under their control all over the country,” it added.To be clear, the order exempts accommodations provided to serving personnel of the ministry of defence and accommodation under the control of ministry of railways.According to the order, the revised flat rates of license applicable for GPRA from July 1 for type VIII accommodation, allotted to officials from level 17 and 18 of the pay matrix of the 7th Pay Commission has been increased from Rs 3,890 to Rs 4,610. Type I accommodations for level 1 of the pay matrix under the 7th Pay Commission have been revised from Rs 150 to Rs 180.Charges for servant quarters and garages has also been nominally increased from Rs 70 to Rs 80 and Rs 40 to Rs 50, respectively. The Centre has also increased the cost of hostel accommodation.To put things in perspective, for a government official to get government accommodation, House rent allowance (HRA) of the basic salary has to be forgone and upon that a nominal rent (license fee) is deducted from the gross salary. “The HRA accounts for nearly 27% of the salary and one also has to pay the nominal rent amount,” another official said. At present, a secretary level officer residing in a type VII accommodation in New Moti Bagh in New Delhi pays Rs 70,000 as HRA plus the license fee (Rs 2180) for the accommodation. A joint secretary level officer living in a type VI A flat at East Kidwai Nagar pays around Rs 50,000 HRA and Rs 1550 license fee.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the GPRA Act under the administrative control of the directorate of estates.There is a shortage of accommodation provided to government officials in the country, especially in Delhi and Chandigarh, union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri informed Parliament in February. There is a total shortfall of 20,054 houses in Delhi with only 61,291 available against demand for 81,345 houses. In Chandigarh the shortfall is of 207 houses with 2,521 available against a demand for 2,728 houses, he said.Puri said the shortage of General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) is “due to non-availability of land at central locations in Metropolitan Cities and the fact that House Rent Allowance (HRA) admissible at the Metropolitan Cities is not commensurate with the actual rent in these cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/housing-for-govt-officials-gets-costlier-with-hike-in-licence-fee/story-1gXNxrZH8TR0oj5fQ223VJ.html
02-07-2020||India||UP man dies by suicide after his eatery shuts down due to lockdown: Police||A 48-year-old dhaba owner allegedly died by suicide by jumping in front of a train near Mansurpur railway station in the district, police said on Thursday.The family of the deceased, Shyam Kumar, who identified his body said he was worried due to the shutting down of his dhaba during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. He allegedly jumped in front of a goods train on Wednesday, police said.In another incident, a body was found near Rajbaha canal near Pinna village under Kotwali police station in the district on Wednesday.Police said the body has not yet been identified and has been sent for postmortem examination. Further investigation is on, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-dies-by-suicide-after-his-eatery-shuts-down-due-to-lockdown-police/story-ZXpQSaOiiX3Zr45Ln1XL2L.html
02-07-2020||India||Stricter lockdown derails Maharashtra’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaign||Mumbai: Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again campaign, which had started from June 8 in a bid to revive economic activities amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, has been derailed because of the local administrations’ enforcement of stricter lockdown restrictions that are creating confusion among the public.On Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had stated during his interaction with the public via a social media platform that though the prevailing lockdown restrictions were extended till July 31, the efforts were on to give more relaxations in a calibrated manner.Many district administrations and civic authorities have announced the reimposition of a stricter lockdown because of a spike in the Covid-19 positive cases.Besides Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan-Dombivili corporations, stricter lockdown norms have also been announced in Nashik, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg districts.The densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises the urban agglomeration around the city, has reported a spike of Covid-19 positive cases within a week from 1,014,96 to 1,29,088 that works out to 71% of the total viral load of Maharashtra.On Wednesday, a state government official, while requesting anonymity, told HT: “There were plans of allowing more people to operate in red zones and inter-district transport services to function in non-red zones, as per the Mission Begin Again campaign. However, the sudden surge in Covid-19 positive cases has put a spanner in the works. Local authorities have reinforced stricter lockdowns to contain the spread of the disease.” Earlier, many experts had warned of a spike, if relaxations were not carried out in a calibrated manner.Dr. Peehu Pardeshi from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) had said, “There have been new spurts because of the relaxations. It has been observed in many other countries. Phase-wise relaxation should be accompanied by stricter monitoring and ensuring social distancing norms. The public also needs to take adequate precautions.”On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded its sharpest single-day jump in Covid-19 positive cases, as it reported 5,537 fresh infections and the overall tally stands at 180,298.In Mumbai, 1,487 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded, and the city’s total viral load is 79,145.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stricter-lockdown-derails-maharashtra-s-mission-begin-again-campaign/story-U0zNyFBzV6KnKfRgZDqIcM.html
02-07-2020||India||UP cop arrested, dismissed from service for masturbating before woman||A police officer in Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district who was caught on camera masturbating before a woman complainant has been arrested and also dismissed from service, the state police said on Thursday. Condemning the officer’s behaviour, the state police underlined its zero tolerance policy towards crimes against women. “We condemn the disgraceful & unpardonable conduct of Inspector Bhishmpal, Ex. S.H.O. Police Station Bhatni, Deoria. He has been arrested & also dismissed from service. U.P. Police affirms it’s zero tolerance policy to Crime against Women, Insensitivity & Corruption,” tweeted the Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh. We condemn the disgraceful & unpardonable conduct of Inspector Bhishmpal, Ex. S.H.O. Police Station Bhatni, Deoria. He has been arrested & also dismissed from service.U.P. Police affirms it's zero tolerance policy to Crime against Women, Insensitivity & Corruption.@CMOfficeUPAn FIR under sections 166 (public servant disobeying law), 354-A (sexual harassment) and 509 (act with intent to insult the modesty of woman) of the IPC has already been registered against inspector Bhishmpal Singh, who was absconding after the incident came to light.A police official of Deoria said the initial investigation had revealed that the offending video was recorded on June 22 when the inspector was posted as in-charge of Bhatni police station. Narrating the sequence of events, the official said the inspector was seen masturbating on his chair while the two women, seated opposite him, were talking about a land dispute with their relatives.The complainant said she, along with her mother, visited Bhatni police station at least thrice but their complaint was never heard. She said the inspector in-charge Bhismhmpal Singh was touching himself in front of the two when they visited him.“I ignored him at least twice before deciding to record his act on camera and expose him in front of his seniors and public,” she emphasised.She said she secretly shot the video when the inspector repeated the act on June 22 and later shared it with some senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cop-arrested-dismissed-from-service-for-masturbating-before-complainant/story-9rmwNPMfddSdCepos1CiaO.html
02-07-2020||India||Maoists kill policeman in Bijapur district of Bastar division||The outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) rebels killed an assistant constable of Chhattisgarh Police and also grievously injured his parents in Bastar division’s Bijapur district late at night on Wednesday.The parents are undergoing treatment at a district hospital.“The deceased assistant constable, Somaru Poyam, was posted at Farsegarh police station. He was on medical leave for the past 20 days because he was suffering from some abdomen-related ailment,” said Sunderaj P, Inspector-general of police (IGP), Bastar range, Chhattisgarh.The incident occurred at Maatwada village under the jurisdiction of Jangla police station limits late at night on Wednesday night when about a dozen Maoists killed the assistant constable with sharp-edged weapons in front of his parents, the IGP said.“His parents sustained serious injuries while trying to save their son. They have been admitted to a district hospital and are stated to be out of danger,” he added.Police have launched a combing operation in the area after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-policeman-in-bijapur-district-of-bastar-division/story-apKylbDOaM1D16ODzGfEaN.html
02-07-2020||India||Bihar: Four, including a senior section engineer of rail factory, injured in blast at Bela rail factory||Four employees, including a senior section engineer, were injured in a blast at Bela rail factory in Bihar’s Saran district on Wednesday evening. Harkishore Rai, superintendent of police (SP), Saran, said preliminary investigation has revealed that the blast occurred after a hot chemical liquid fell from a crane on a spot that was waterlogged.The powerful blast damaged the factory shed and the glass front of the crane.Locals said two women from nearby villages fainted because of the deafening blast and window panes of some houses in the vicinity were also shattered.Uttam Kumar, chief administrative officer of the factory, said four persons have sustained burn injuries due to the blast. Senior section engineer Pramod Kumar and crane operator Amit Kumar’s injuries are critical and they have been shifted to a private hospital in Patna.The other two injured persons have been admitted to a hospital in Saran, Kumar said.An investigation is underway to ascertain the cause of the explosion, said DK Mishra, assistant security commissioner of the factory.The Bela rail factory manufactures rail wheels and was established when Lalu Prasad was the railway minister. The foundation stone of this factory was laid on July 29, 2008, and the construction work was completed three years later at an estimated cost of Rs 1,450 crore.Production started in 2013 and the factory has an annual target of manufacturing one lakh rail wheels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-four-including-a-senior-section-engineer-of-rail-factory-injured-in-blast-at-bela-rail-factory/story-Mclnq0Y60oQimEvIgTh4pJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand to reconsider tourism projects with China amid boycott call in country||The Uttarakhand tourism department has decided to reconsider all its contracts with Chinese companies, if any, across tourism development projects amid calls to boycott China. This comes in the backdrop of the brutal Ladakh face-off with China wherein 20 Indian soldiers were killed last month. The development came after state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Tuesday evening asked the tourism secretary to ‘make a list of all the projects in which China is involved in any manner.’Maharaj, while informing about the move said, “After what happened in Galwan Valley and amid the efforts of our country to decrease our dependency on China, I have directed the tourism secretary to make a list of all the projects in which China is involved. Once it is done, we will reconsider all contracts or agreements with them.”Also read: ‘Banning Chinese apps a digital strike’ - Union minister Ravi Shankar PrasadMaharaj said that the projects “may include the ropeway development ones, developing any tourist destination or any other project where the raw material is to be bought from China.”The minister, however, refused to say whether the department will cancel all such agreements with the Chinese companies.“We will reconsider all of them and take necessary action after discussing the move with other officials of the government,” said Maharaj. The tourism minister said that gradually the state would move towards disengaging all projects with China to lessen dependency on it. He also hailed Centre’s recent move of banning 59 Chinese mobile applications. “Recently, PM Narendra Modi banned one of the popular apps called TikTok which is a significant move considering the fact that it was spying upon the data of its user. This cannot be ruled out for the Chinese companies involved in tourism projects also,” said Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-reconsider-tourism-projects-with-china-amid-boycott-call-in-country/story-MiIXWGepNLC4jpYqurjVuK.html
02-07-2020||India||Thunderstorm kills two in Barmer, causes massive damage||Two children died and three other persons were injured at a village in Rajasthan’s Barmer district late at night on Wednesday following heavy rains and an accompanying thunderstorm.Tin sheds were blown away by the thunderstorm and walls collapsed at a house in Balasar village under Sheo police station area in Barmer district. Two children, Lalit Kumar (10) and Kavita (8), died on the spot because of the wall collapse.While Meera Devi (26), Kheta Ram (6) and Ramesh Kumar (5) sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at a nearby primary health centre.Many parts of the district were reeling under oppressive heat for the past two weeks. However, the weather pattern changed suddenly late Wednesday evening, as it received heavy rains accompanied by the thunderstorm. Intense rains damaged many makeshift structures. At least 87 electricity poles were uprooted and snapped power supply in several villages, said Pradeep Dawani, assistant engineer, Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB).It could take up to four days for the power supply to be restored in the affected villages, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-kills-two-in-barmer-causes-massive-damage/story-qHnLHgVBo5fdofYhrRifgI.html
02-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 28 ministers inducted in Madhya Pradesh cabinet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.28 ministers inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinetMadhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a major cabinet expansion on Thursday around three months after unseating the Congress’s Kamal Nath government, as 28 ministers were sworn in. Read moreFirst time ever: Indian Railways achieves 100% punctuality of trainsThe Indian Railways on Thursday achieved 100 per cent punctuality of trains - the first time that this milestone has been achieved. News agency ANI quoted the railways ministry to say that all the trains were on time. Read moreLeft leaders visit Bengal Congress HQ, pay homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra RoyIn a bid to cement ties with the Congress and bolster the joint movement against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Bengal’s Left leaders on Wednesday visited the state Congress headquarters and paid homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy. Read moreAt least 50 dead in landslide at jade mine in Northen Myanmar: ReportAt least 50 people died on Thursday after a landslide at a jade mine in northern Myanmar trapped workers under a mound of refuse, the country’s fire service department and an information ministry official said. Read moreGoogle Play Store blocks all 59 Chinese apps banned by Indian governmentGoogle has said that it has temporarily blocked access to the banned 59 China-linked apps on its India Play Store. The company said it is reviewing the interim orders from the government and has already notified the affected developers. Read moreKhatron Ke Khiladi 10 participant Rani Chatterjee alleges harassment: ‘Might die by suicide as I am in depression’An actor named Rani Chatterjee who participated in Khatron Ke Khiladi 10 has written a detailed note addressing Mumbai Police, asking for help. She has claimed harassment at the hands of a person she names as Dhananjay Singh. Read moreMumbai Police’s post on ‘Dark’ habits is something to abide byMumbai Police has done it again. They have used a reference from a popular web series to put forth an essential advisory message. It is such a note of caution that everyone should follow to stay safe in these perilous times. Read more#DobaraPoocho: Deepika Padukone launches powerful mental health awareness campaignDeepika Padukone has always been a strong advocate of mental health awareness, and has done extensive work towards the same with The Live Love Laugh foundation, the mental health organisation she has founded. Read moreWatch| ‘Closely monitoring the developments in Hong Kong’: Indian Envoy to UN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-28-ministers-inducted-in-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JJ2Kd9X5Jn2G5FccCnULwI.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Deadline for 2019-20 tax-saving investments extended till July 31’: Income tax dept||The Income Tax department has extended the deadline for tax saving investments/payments for the financial year 2019-20 up to July 31. The move comes in a bid to provide relief to taxpayers amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.In a tweet, the I-T department on Thursday said that, “tax Saving Investments/Payments for FY 2019-20 can be made upto 31st July, 2020”. Understanding & keeping in mind the times that we are in, we have further extended deadlines. Now, Tax Saving Investments/Payments for FY 2019-20 can be made upto 31st July, 2020. We do hope this helps you plan things better.#ITDateExtension#FacilitationDuringCovid#WeCare pic.twitter.com/HZZJSmN8g7The department said that the move has been taken “understanding and keeping in mind the times that we are in”“Filing of original as well as revised ITRs for FY 2018-19 is extended to 31st July, 2020,” the tweet read.Understanding & keeping in mind the times that we are in, we have further extended deadlines. Now, filing of original as well as revised ITRs for FY 2018-19 is extended to 31st July, 2020.#IncomeTaxDateExtension#FacilitationDuringCovid#WeCare #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/MBQUzmh2pgThe department hoped the move will help citizens “plan things better” amid the crisis.As a result, taxpayers will now be able to make investments for claiming deductions under the Income Tax Act for the financial year 2019-20 up to July 31. Deductions can be claimed under various sections such as 80C (for life insurance (LIC), public provident fund (PPF), national savings certificate (NSC) equity-linked saving scheme (ELSS), among others. Last week, the Centre announced that the deadline for filing of original as well as revised income-tax returns for the FY 2018-19 (AY 2019-20) has been extended to July 31, 2020.In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that the due date for the income tax return for the FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) has been extended to November 30, 2020. ”Hence, the returns of income which are required to be filed by July 31, 2020 and October 31, 2020 can be filed by November 30, 2020. Consequently, the date for furnishing tax audit report has also been extended to October 31, 2020,” it stated.The government had also allowed individuals to claim I-T exemption on conveyance allowance received from employers under the new lower tax regime .The CBDT amended Income Tax rules to prescribe certain exemptions which can be availed by the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-2019-20-tax-saving-investments-extended-till-july-31-income-tax-department/story-Icwg0uDvsRODw8L5AhgpbK.html
02-07-2020||India||MHA seeks CAPFs views on recruiting ‘transgender’ assistant commandants||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has broken the glass ceiling in the 10-lakh-strong central paramilitary forces and asked the authorities concerned to share their views for recruiting transgender people in the rank of the assistant commandants (ACs).In a letter to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the MHA on Wednesday asked the forces to send their comments for incorporating the issues on transgender as ‘third gender’ along with male/female in the rules of CAPF (central armed police forces) AC Examination, 2020.The annual examination for recruiting ACs, who are Grade A officers, for this year, is scheduled to be held in December and if the MHA gets a positive response from the paramilitary forces, their comments will be shared with the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), which will then incorporate transgender people as the third gender in the application forms.MHA data showed 7,859 ACs are currently employed with all the paramilitary forces. The CRPF has maximum ACs in its ranks at 3,054, followed by BSF (1,888), ITBP (716) ITBP, CISF (725) and SSB (542).The paramilitary forces, which have a combined strength of around 10 lakh, are deployed in securing the country’s borders with Pakistan, China, Bangladesh, and Nepal, anti-Naxal operations, counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir as well as law and order duties in various states.Officials familiar with the development said the government first wants to start with the officers’ rank through the Staff Service Commission (SSC).At present, there is no provision of hiring transgender people in the central paramilitary forces or even in the Indian Army.The development comes after Parliament passed the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2019 last December.The law states that no establishment shall discriminate against transgender persons in matters relating to employment, recruitment, promotion, and other related issues. It also provides for grievance redressal mechanism in each establishment and the establishment of a National Council for Transgender Persons.Based on the new Act, on April 20, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had asked all central government departments to include “transgender” as a separate category of gender for recruitment in civil services and other posts.The DoPT order said that the matter regarding the inclusion of “Third Gender/any Other Category” in the application forms in recruitment to various posts under the central government was under consideration of the government for quite some time.The Civil services examination rules, 2020, have already been notified on February 5, providing for inclusion of ‘Transgender’ as a separate category of gender for the said examination.“All ministries/departments of the government of India are requested to modify the relevant examination rules providing for inclusion of ‘Transgender’ as a separate category of gender, so as to make the said Rules in conformity with the provisions of The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2019,” DoPT order had said.K Durga Prasad, former director-general (D-G), CRPF, said: “This is the time of giving equal opportunities. We have to take care of is setting different parameters like training, job profile, etc”.Chayanika Shah, a queer rights activist, asked: “We are creating a category and you remain in that category forever. But, the big question is: how do you deal with the situation? Why recruit only for the post of ACs and not other categories?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-authorities-to-share-views-on-recruiting-transgenders-as-assistant-commandants/story-M4Rwr2q77OhpTHjpAOZvpM.html
02-07-2020||India||Under pressure to resign, PM Oli cabinet prorogues parliament’s budget session||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who has been under intense pressure from rival factions within the communist party, on Thursday decided to prorogue the ongoing Budget session of parliament, according to news agency ANI. PM Oli’s cabinet cleared the formal recommendation at a meeting convened shortly after the prime minister called on President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, sparking off buzz about the fast-moving developments in the Himalayan nation.This was PM Oli’s second meeting with the President in two days.PM Oli has been under pressure from PM Oli’s meeting with the President followed several rounds of discussions in the Nepal Communist Party’s standing committee meeting over the last week that saw PM Oli clashing with co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal, Madhav Nepal, Jhalanath Khanal and Bamdev Gautam. Dahal, also known as Prachanda, had stepped up his attacks in recent days to demand that PM Oli step down from the twin posts that he holds, the party’s co-chair and the prime minister.PM Oli doesn’t have a majority in the communist party’s standing committee but a senior leader insisted that support within the standing committee wasn’t the only barometer. But it is clear that the prime minister is in trouble.Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa, who supported PM Oli at previous meetings, also appeared to switch sides, according to a report in the Kathmandu Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-pressure-to-resign-pm-oli-meets-president-convenes-cabinet-meet/story-hWiHgXSp2WrkxCEYgpEjMM.html
02-07-2020||India||Pakistan army resorts to firing along LoC in two sectors in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||Pakistani troops resorted to firing in various forward areas in twin sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Thursday, prompting the Indian Army to give a befitting reply, officials said.“At around 0930 hours today, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along the LoC in Kirni and Shahpur sectors of Poonch district,” a defence spokesperson said.“The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly,” he said.Firing and shelling between the two sides were continuing when the last report came in, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-army-resorts-to-firing-along-loc-in-two-sectors-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch/story-FvsvhgiKsA5XINL2RWvvgN.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Banning Chinese apps a digital strike’: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said New Delhi’s decision to ban 59 China-linked apps days after violent brawl between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley was a “digital strike”. “We banned Chinese apps to protect data of countrymen; it was a digital strike,” the telecom and IT minister was quoted as saying by news agency Press Trust of India. This is the first time a minister has described the ban as a “strike” against China. On social media, many drew a comparison with India’s air strike, carried out in response to the Uri attack, against Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camps in Pakistan’s Balakot.The minister also underlined, much like PM Modi did, that India is for peace but if “somebody casts an evil eye we will give a befitting reply”.Some of the banned apps are TikTok, UC Browser, CamScanner, WeChat, Weibo, Baidu Map, Xender, among others.Indian intelligence agencies had been pushing for restrictions on the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country where they could be used to intrude into the privacy of citizens.Chinese companies have long been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, one reason why many governments across the world have been uneasy at the prospect of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.On Wednesday, Prasad said the ban on Chinese mobile apps is a great opportunity to help Indians come up with good apps of their own and end foreign dependence for such things.“In the wake of the ban which we have imposed...I think it is a great opportunity. Can we come up with good apps made by Indians? Let the dependence on foreign apps, with their own agenda for a variety of reasons, stop,” the minister said yesterday.A statement from the information technology ministry said the decision was taken as these applications were “engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.Beijing on Tuesday said it was “strongly concerned” about New Delhi’s decision to ban Chinese mobile applications. It stressed on cooperation between the two countries and underlined that the ban would go against “India’s interests”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banning-chinese-apps-a-digital-strike-union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-XQQbTVt4bauqeBHfXC75iM.html
02-07-2020||India||Left leaders visit Bengal Congress HQ, pay homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy||In a bid to cement ties with the Congress and bolster the joint movement against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Bengal’s Left leaders on Wednesday visited the state Congress headquarters and paid homage to Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy. Dr BC Roy was the state’s second chief minister and a Congress stalwart.In the 1950s and early 60s, the Marxists were a bitter critic of Roy despite him being revered as the ‘architect of West Bengal’ and for his industrial, education and administrative policies between 1948 and 1962. Roy was also a legendary doctor and every year his birth anniversary, July 1, is observed as the National Doctor’s Day. He was awarded Bharat Ratna in 1961, a year before he died. Dr Roy’s death anniversary also falls on July 1.Also read: Mamata Banerjee remembers former Bengal CM Bidhan Chandra Roy on National Doctors’ Day Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator Sujan Chakraborty, Revolutionary Socialist Party state secretary Manoj Bhattacharya, Forward Bloc state secretary Naren Chatterjee and other Left leaders went to Bidhan Bhawan, the state Congress headquarters named after Roy, and placed a wreath before his statue.“It is a fact that once we politically opposed him but there is no denying the fact that he was a legendary person,” said Chakraborty.Incidentally his party, the CPI(M), once accused Roy of rigging elections and of being instrumental in banning the undivided Communist Party of India. “It was our leader Jyoti Basu who named Salt Lake township Bidhan Nagar. We showed respect to Roy in several ways,” he added.“This is the new way forward. The Congress, Left parties and other like-minded forces will move as one force against the Centre’s policies and atrocities by the TMC,” said state Congress president Somen Mitra.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh too paid his homage to Roy. “On the birthday of Bidhan Chandra Roy, the second CM of Paschim Banga, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Dr B C Roy as well as to all the doctors, frontline warriors and those who are tirelessly serving the society,” Ghosh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-leaders-visit-bengal-congress-hq-pay-homage-to-dr-bidhan-chandra-roy/story-md14rjZFW1hCptlh1KMYWN.html
02-07-2020||India||Sandesara scam: ED officials at Ahmed Patel’s house for third round of questioning||A team of Enforcement Directorate reached the residence of Congress leader Ahmed Patel to question him in connection with bank fraud and money laundering cases.Patel is being questioned for his purported links with the Sandesara brothers of the Sterling Biotech group, who fled the country in 2017 after allegedly swindling several banks of several thousand crore rupeesThe Sandesaras are being probed by multiple agencies including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the income tax department as well.This is Patel’s third round of questioning. The first round of questioning had lasted for eight hours on June 27. He was again questioned on June 30.He was allowed questioning at home by the agency after the Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat refused to visit the ED office citing prevailing Covid-19 guidelines that discourage senior citizens from going out.Officials said that Patel’s statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Patel, also the Congress party treasurer, has earlier served as the political secretary to UPA chairperson and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was considered one of the most powerful persons in the party.The money laundering case is connected to an alleged Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud that is said to have been perpetrated by the Vadodara-based pharma firm Sterling Biotech and its main promoters and directors - Nitin Jayantilal Sandesara, Chetankumar Jayantilal Sandesara and Deepti Sandesara - all of whom are absconding. Nitin and Chetankumar are brothers.They are said to be hiding in Nigeria. An Interpol red corner notice request is pending against the Sandesara brothers and efforts to extradite them are on.In June 2019, the ED attached moveable and immovable properties worth Rs 9,778 crores belonging to the Sandesaras including four oil rigs and oil fields in Nigeria and several ships apart from a Gulfstream aircraft and flat in London.Ahmed Patel’s son Faisal Patel and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui were questioned by ED in this case last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sandesara-scam-ed-officials-at-ahmed-patel-s-house-for-third-round-of-questioning/story-zNhdhZu1b5z4uiTCJDYAMO.html
02-07-2020||India||28 new ministers inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made a major Cabinet expansion on Thursday around three months after unseating the Congress’s Kamal Nath government, as 28 ministers were sworn in.Acting MP Governor Anandiben Patel administered the oath of office and secretary at the Raj Bhavan.Of the 28 new ministers, 20 and eight are of Cabinet and ministers of state rank, respectively.Rajya Sabha member and new entrant to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jyotiraditya Scindia’s imprint was evident in the Cabinet expansion, as 12 of 22 former lawmakers, who are considered to be his loyalists, found ministerial berths. Earlier in March, 22 lawmakers had rebelled against Kamal Nath and later joined the BJP.All these 12 ministers will have to be elected to the state assembly in the next six months to retain their position as ministers as per the constitutional provision. Eight of these ministers are from the Gwalior-Chambal region, where 16 assembly by-polls will be held in the coming months.The cabinet ministers are Gopal Bhargava, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhra Raje Scindia, Bhupendra Singh, Brijendra Pratap Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar.While Prem Singh Patel, Omprakash Saklecha, Aindal Singh Kansana, Usha Thakur, Arvind Bhadoria, Mohan Yadav, Hardeep Singh Dang, and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon have become cabinet ministers for the first time.Four of them --- Imrati Devi, Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, and Pradyumn Singh Tomar -- were ministers in the then Kamal Nath cabinet as well.The ministers of state include Bharat Singh Kushwaha, Inder Singh Parmar, Ramkhelawan Patel, Ram Kishor Kanware, Brijendra Singh Yadav, Girraj Dandotia, Suresh Dhakad, and OPS Bhadoria. All of them have become ministers for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cabinet-expansion-28-new-ministers-take-oath/story-8C2AKPmfFpzkZFXhN0d9xM.html
02-07-2020||India||First time ever: Indian Railways achieves 100% punctuality of trains||The Indian Railways on Thursday achieved 100 per cent punctuality of trains - the first time that this milestone has been achieved.News agency ANI quoted the railways ministry to say that all the trains were on time. “The previous best was 99.54 per cent on June 23 with one train getting delayed,” the railways further said.Last month, the railways had sent a missive to its zones to ensure 100 per cent punctuality in the running of 230 special trains, which is less than two per cent of the 13,000 trains that normally run on the entire network.According to news agency PTI, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told all general managers and divisional railway managers to ensure that the 15 pairs of Rajdhani special trains and 100 pairs of passenger trains maintain their schedule without any delays.He said that since the number of trains being run on the network is currently small, the punctuality has to be 100 per cent, PTI further reported.The milestone was achieved a day after the railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network. On Wednesday, it invited request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains.The project would entail a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore, it said. This is the first initiative for private investment for running passenger trains on the Indian Railways network. It began last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) introducing the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express.Currently, the IRCTC operates three trains - the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas.According to Wednesday’s statement, the “private entity shall pay to Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process”.The operation will have to conform to key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains etc, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-time-ever-indian-railways-achieves-100-punctuality-of-trains/story-dE6nE35tlqIYs7VWRgWQlO.html
02-07-2020||India||‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’: Oxford expert explains how the pandemic is likely to end||Oxford University professor Sunetra Gupta, an epidemiologist, has been tagged ‘Professor Reopen’ for her argument against lockdowns as a countermeasure against the Covid-19 pandemic. In a conversation with Hindustan Times, professor Gupta explained why most people won’t need a Covid-19 vaccine and how lockdowns are not a long-term solution to contain the spread of coronavirus.“What we’ve seen is that in normal, healthy people, who are not elderly or frail or don’t have comorbidities, this virus is not something to worry about no more than how we worry about flu,”  professor Gupta told HT. Watch | Why most of us won’t need Covid vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The Record She said that the vaccine, when it will come into existence, will be used to support the vulnerable, “most of us don’t need to worry about coronavirus,” she said.Also read: Lockdown a drastic strategy to eliminate coronavirus, says Oxford University donGupta said that she thinks the coronavirus pandemic will end naturally and will become part of our lives just like influenza.“Hopefully with a lower death toll than influenza. I think it is fairly easy to make a vaccine for coronavirus. By the end of this summer, we should have proof that the vaccine works,” she added. The professor described the lockdown as a sensible measure but not enough to keep the virus out for long.  “A lockdown is a noble and a sensible idea to keep the virus out but is very difficult to put in place without non-pharmaceutical interventions,” she stated. Also watch: Why most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The Record Gupta said what has been described as the second wave of the virus outbreak is essentially the first wave reaching a different geographical region. “However, there have been countries that have successfully managed to implement the lockdown and are now facing a resurgence of the virus,” she noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-us-won-t-need-covid-19-vaccine-oxford-expert-explains-how-the-pandemic-is-likely-to-end/story-WfEpXIWK3HuHlQiS9zFMmM.html
02-07-2020||India||Separate rules for Noida and Ghaziabad under ‘Unlock 2’: All you need to know||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday came out with a set of guidelines for Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad for the second phase of ‘Unlock’, billed as ‘Unlock-2’ amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, the district magistrates have been directed to take a call on restrictions on commute and traffic. However, the situation regarding the Delhi border has not been clarified.While the ban has been removed from the borders across all states, as per the guidelines, the district magistrates of Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad can consult district authorities, the police and the health department and take a call on imposing a separate ban on the border areas.Also read: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hoursThe guidelines, issued by the state chief secretary on behalf of the Uttar Pradesh government, stated that night curfew will be in place from 10 pm to 5 am across the state except for the Meerut division and Gautam Buddh Nagar.Movement of people and vehicles, except for essential services, has been banned from 8 pm to 6 am till July 10 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, an official order stated.For the districts falling in the Meerut division, the night curfew will be from 8 pm to 6 am till July 10. Night curfews are not applicable to those working in multiple shifts in industrial units. Section 144 in Gautam Buddh NagarIn the view of Covid-19 crisis, Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code - which bans unlawful assembly of people - was extended in Gautam Buddh Nagar district till July 31 on Wednesday.Fifty-eight more people tested positive for coronavirus here on Wednesday, pushing the tally of cases to 2,362, the highest for any district in Uttar Pradesh, official data showed on Wednesday.“Restrictions under CrPC section 144 will remain in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar till July 31,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Ashutosh Dwivedi said.Political, social, sporting or religious congregations, protest rallies or processions will remain banned across Noida and Greater Noida during the period, the Gautam Nagar district police said, adding that nobody would be allowed to move in or out of containment zones in Gautam Buddh Nagar except for medical personnel and essential service providers. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-rules-for-noida-and-ghaziabad-under-unlock-2-all-you-need-to-know/story-4KlHp8TZP19p3Djymg4nqJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Indian Railways to allow private players to operate passenger trains||The Railways on Wednesday formally kick started its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains, the national transporter said.The project would entail a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore, it said. This is the first initiative for private investment for running passenger trains on the Indian Railways network. It began last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) introducing the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express.Currently, the IRCTC operates three trains -- the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas.“The objective of this initiative is to introduce modern technology rolling stock with reduced maintenance, reduced transit time, boost job creation, provide enhanced safety, provide world-class travel experience to passengers,” the Railways said. The 109 origin-destination routes have been formed into 12 clusters across the Indian Railway network. Each train shall have a minimum of 16 coaches, it said.The Railways also said that majority of these modern trains are to be manufactured in India as ‘Make in India’ and the private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. “Trains shall be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. There would be a substantial reduction in journey time. The running time taken by a train shall be comparable to or faster than the fastest train of the Indian Railways operating in the respective route,” it said.The concession period for the project shall be 35 years and the private entity shall pay the Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process, the transporter said.“These trains shall be operated by the driver and guard of Indian Railways. The operation of the trains by the private entity shall conform to the key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains etc,” the Railways said. Operation and maintenance of the passenger trains would be governed by standards and specifications, and requirements specified by Indian Railways, it said. The entire process of handing over certain routes to private players will be completed in two parts. The first started on Wednesday with invite for RFQs wherein private bidders will qualify. The second step will be Request for Proposal (RFP). The details of revenue generation and routes will be decided during the latter process. In the pre-COVID times, companies such as R K Catering, Adani Ports and MakeMyTrip and airlines, including Indigo, Vistara and SpiceJet, had shown interest in participating in operating private trains, sources said. Other players whose attention has been attracted by this are global majors like Alstom Transport, Bombardier, Siemens AG and Macquarie, they said.Aimed at offering airline-like services to train passengers, the national transporter has said that the private players, apart from fixing fares, have to also provide facilities like catering, cleaning and supply of beddings to passengers. Earlier this year, the Niti Aayog and the Indian Railways came out with a discussion paper for running 150 trains on 100 routes by private operators, envisaging an investment of Rs 22,500 crore.The discussion paper titled ‘Private Participation: Passenger Trains’ has identified 100 routes, including Mumbai Central-New Delhi, New Delhi- Patna, Allahabad-Pune and Dadar-Vadodara.Other prominent routes include Howrah-Chennai, Howrah-Patna, Indore-Okhla, Lucknow-Jammu-Tawi, Chennai-Okhla, Anand Vihar-Bhagalpur, Secunderabad-Guwahati and Howrah-Anand Vihar.Each bidder would eligible for award of maximum three clusters, according to the paper.The Railway Board had in October last year formed an empowered group of secretaries, headed by Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, to chalk out the modalities of the bidding process and take other decisions to fast-track awarding of bids to private players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-allow-private-players-to-operate-passenger-trains/story-HSlfnmIzFtWXR6BSJOLZCO.html
02-07-2020||India||CBI files case against GVK group over alleged Rs 705 cr scam in development of Mumbai airport||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against the GVK Group - the company that runs the Mumbai airport - its chairman Dr GVK Reddy, his son GV Sanjay Reddy and several other companies for alleged irregularities worth over Rs 705 crore in the development of Mumbai airport, officials familiar with the developments said.The agency has named 13 persons including GVK Reddy and his son GV Sanjay Reddy who is the managing director of joint venture company – MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited). The agency has registered a case against them for criminal conspiracy, cheating under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Officials familiar with the development said the CBI even carried out searches after registering the FIR.The MIAL is a PPP (public-private partnership) between the AAI (Airports Authority of India), the GVK and foreign entities in the name of MIAL. The GVK has a shareholding of 50.5%, the AAI holds 26% while the remaining shareholding rests with foreign companies.The AAI entered an OMDA (operation, management and development agreement) in April 2006 for the modernization and up-gradation, operation and maintenance of the Mumbai airport as part of the joint venture called the MIAL. As per the agreement, it was decided that the MIAL will share 38.7% of their revenue as annual fee with the AAI and that the government authority will have the first right on the revenue.“The essence of agreement was to create a world-class facility and at the same time protecting the interests of the government of India, promoters and passengers,” the CBI stated in its FIR.“Despite there being a clear cut understanding in the OMDA, the promoters of the GVK group in the MIAL, in connivance with their executives and the unknown officials of the AAI, resorted to siphoning of funds fraudulently adopting various modus operandi,” the CBI said.For the project, around 200 acres of an undeveloped parcel of land was given to the MIAL around the airport so that it can develop the area and generate revenues.“The MIAL entered into fake work contracts during 2017-18 with at least nine companies on the pretext of real estate development. the MIAL transferred the funds to them but these projects have never been executed on the ground and the transactions were only on papers. Using this modus operandi, Rs 310 crore have been fraudulently siphoned off which resulted in a wrongful loss to the AAI and corresponding gain to themselves,” the FIR stated.These nine companies, CBI added, have also availed fake credit Input Tax Credit (ITC) and cause further revenue loss to the government exchequer based on these fake invoices.“Source information has also revealed that there are many more such fake contracts which the MIAL has fraudulently entered into with non-existing/non-functional entities and have embezzled the funds of the MIAL,” the CBI added. In another modus operandi, from 2012 onwards, the GVK used the surplus of the MIAL to the tune of Rs 395 crore to finance their other group companies. “They fraudulently created forged Board Meeting Resolutions of the MIAL, authorizing to keep the reserve/surplus funds of the MIAL as FDRs with public sector banks at Hyderabad,” the CBI stated.Interestingly, the MIAL is a Mumbai based company but they chose to deposit the FDRs in Hyderabad branch of Bank of Baroda, the agency added.“The GVK Group raised loans/overdraft facilities against these FDRs and used these funds for the benefit of their Hyderabad-based company at the expense of the MIAL,” it added.It said that surplus funds have been deposited to other bank branches as well in Hyderabad.The CBI said that the promoters of the GVK also embezzled funds by resorting to inflating the expenditure of the MIAL. For example, “they shifted the staff of their head office in Hyderabad and the employees of their group companies on the payrolls of the MIAL. So, in contravention of the agreement, employees who were not part of the MIAL were being paid for all these years,” the CBI stated.Subsequently, the CBI FIR alleges that the GVK group connived with their family members, relatives and employees. They assigned the premium retail areas of Mumbai airport to their family members at exorbitantly low rates thereby reducing the revenue of the MIAL on account of rentals and sales. The GVK group even used funds of the MIAL by entering into agreements with a company owned by family members, relatives, employees to book train, air travel tickets and hotel booking for personal interest as well as for group employees of the GVK who were not connected to the MIAL, it added.The CBI further said that the AAI officials were aware of all the irregularities but turned a blind eye and let these practices of siphoning, diverting and misusing of funds of the MIAL to continue.For now, the agency has estimated the loss to be around Rs 705 crore but officials - who didn’t wish to be named - said the figure could be much higher and may go over a few more hundred crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-gvk-group-over-alleged-rs-705-cr-scam-in-development-of-mumbai-airport/story-k0jTOcFcsmngv7c703vxFP.html
02-07-2020||India||Behind Hurriyat boss SAS Geelani’s exit, a bitter power struggle and greed||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, one of the most well-known faces of the Kashmiri separatist movement, announced his exit from the Hurriyat Conference faction that he headed for 17 years this week after an intense power struggle within the Pakistan-backed group including its chapter in occupied Kashmir.As he stepped down from the leadership role of the group that he had once aspired to lead for the rest of his life, 90-year-old Geelani and his aides also appeared to out some of the problems within the separatist movement and the grouping of around two-dozen separatist outfits.Like the cross-border narcotics trade, also sponsored by Inter Services Intelligence, that the Pakistani establishment had been running via terrorist groups in Kashmir. This wasn’t the first time that he had flagged the issue. Geelani has been known to occasionally refer to the involvement of Pakistan, or land of the pure, in Kashmir’s drug trade.Geelani, however, had been most upset about his weakening grip over his grouping’s faction in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Also Read: A reset in Kashmir policy | HT EditorialThe ISI had been promoting lesser known younger leaders in the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir chapter and encouraged differences within this chapter. Geelani did fight back and nominated Abdullah Gilani to the top post. Abdullah is the brother of Delhi University professor SAR Gilani who was acquitted in the Jaish-e-Mohammad-led 2001 Parliament attack case that killed eight security personnel and a gardener.Also Watch l SAS Geelani quits Hurriyat Conference, lashes out at cadre in his letter But the ISI had Geelani’s directive rescinded and engineered the election of Mohammad Hussain Khateeb as the PoK chapter’s convenor to embarrass the leading face of the Kashmiri separatist movement.A red-faced Geelani listed a litany of complaints. Geelani had been sore that representatives of the PoK chapter had been sending their relatives to the PoK assembly over the last two years, were indisciplined, engaged in rampant corruption; essentially out of his control.“The leaders there were trying to be part of government and ministries. There was internal bickering, fear of losing posts, financial irregularities, and many other issues. Recently after investigations, some people were expelled and as the investigations were going on against other people, the representatives of your parties started calling separate so-called meetings which led to the dissolution of the chapter till further orders,’’ Geelani said in a letter announcing his decision to step down from the hurriyat conference.Back in Srinagar, the ISI wanted to push out the old guard and bring in younger members of the PoK chapter to assume a leadership role so that they are more aggressive in challenging India.The ISI has been disappointed with the Kashmiri separatist leaders for their inability to provoke people to hit the streets after the Centre last August scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in the Constitution. Geelani pinned the blame for this lapse on other hurriyat leaders in Kashmir, pointing that he had nudged leaders to take a lead role but didn’t get a response.The Kashmiri diaspora in the UK and Europe has reacted sharply to Geelani’s exit, blaming the emerging leadership in PoK for conspiring with the Pakistan government to create the circumstances that led to Geelani’s resignation. There has also been speculation that some other Hurriyat leaders such as Shabir Shah of the Democratic Freedom Party were also looking at their continuation under the banner of the hurriyat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behind-hurriyat-boss-sas-geelani-s-exit-a-bitter-power-struggle-and-greed/story-qRYxtRQpzvidszpd3ekjNL.html
02-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths case: 4 more cops held, people celebrate arrests by bursting crackers||The Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) on Thursday arrested four people in connection with the deaths of two people in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Tuticorin. Those arrested include Inspector Sridhar, who reportedly asked other policemen to thrash the father-son duo after their arrest.Sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh was arrested on Wednesday. Total five policemen - one inspector, one sub-inspector and three constables - have so far been arrested in the case.People came out in large numbers and burst crackers to celebrate the arrests in Sathankulam, where the incident took place.P Jayaraj (59) and his son J Bennicks (31) were arrested on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the main market of Sathankulam town open during a curfew imposed during coronavirus lockdown.Jayaraju and Benicks were allegedly tortured during the police custody after which they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22. While the son died on the same night, the father breathed his last on the morning of June 23.A policewoman is the only eyewitness in the case, and she told Judicial magistrate M S Barathidasan, who investigated the incident, that both Jayaraj and Bennicks were beaten through the night on June 19.“There were blood stains on the lathis and a table,” she said and asked the magistrate to obtain them immediately.The state government has decided to give full protection to the woman head constable.On Tuesday, the Madras High Court directed the CB-CID’s Tirunelveli Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar to probe the death of the two traders. Though the Tamil Nadu government has already handed over the cases to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the court directed a CB-CID probe into the matter saying it feared that evidence could disappear by the time CBI took over the probe.The probe team conducted enquiries with the family members of the deceased and also in the market where the two men ran their mobile phone shop.Investigators also visited the Sathankulam police station which has since been brought under the Revenue department under the high court’s direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-case-4-more-cops-held-people-celebrate-arrests-by-bursting-crackers/story-BQvFruyCDTGTxkf6lNuLcN.html
02-07-2020||India||Indian Railways to upgrade speed of trains on two long routes||Indian Railways is preparing to upgrade the speed of trains up to 130 kilometers per hour on two routes, from Delhi to Mumbai and from Delhi to Howrah, allowing the faster passenger movement in a shorter time period.Speaking on the issue, Member (Signal & Telecom), Railway Board Pradeep Kumar said, “The Delhi-Howrah and Delhi-Mumbai routes are almost ready for fitness and signalling consideration. The trains on this route can run at a speed of 130 km per hour. In this financial year, trains are expected to run at this speed on these two routes.”Adding to this, Kumar said, “As announced earlier, we will be running the trains at the speed of 160 km per hour on these routes in the future. For this, work is going on on all the projects.”“For the last few years, there has been a continuous effort by the railways to improve the speed of the trains. We have been technically upgrading all the tracks, signals, coaches, etc,” he added.Kumar further added, “Our efforts are to introduce new Linke-Hofmann-Busch (LHB) coaches for most of the trains which will improve travel comfort and to increase the speed at 120-130 km per hour, provided that the track fitness, signals and other technical things are in favorable conditions.”It is worth noting that the speed of Rajdhani and Shatabdi Express trains has been increased on many routes. Also, the semi-high speed trains like Vande Bharat are also being operated by the Railways. In such a situation, it can be expected that the number of semi-high speed trains will increase in the coming time and some new routes will also be ready to operate with these trains, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-upgrade-speed-of-trains-on-two-long-routes/story-bSSaMKjETKOphKSZ8URaNM.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 6 lakh mark with over 19,000 cases; 434 fatalities in last 24 hours||The number of coronavirus disease cases in India reached 6,04,641 on Thursday after 19,148 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Four hundred thirty four people died in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll up to 17,834, the Union health ministry data showed at 8 am.The number of active cases in the country are 2,26,947, while 3,59,859 patients have been cured or discharged, the health ministry data showed.This comes a day after the country recorded its biggest single-day spike of 18,653 new infections. It also registered the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths at 507 on Wednesday.Also Read: What you need to know todayThe recovery rate from the coronavirus disease in India, the fourth worst-hit country in the world, has improved to 59.43 per cent. There are 347,978 people who have been discharged from hospitals across the country.Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the country with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior officials of their ministries, officials said.Apart from Vardhan, others who attended the meeting included top officials of the health and home ministries.India has added nearly two lakh cases to its Covid-19 tally in the last 12 days. Maharashtra and Delhi have been the worst-hit, though Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 situation in the national capital was on a worrying trajectory until a few weeks ago but a concerted effort helped turn the situation around.He, however, cautioned people that the outbreak could spike again if they become complacent.India reported its first case of Covid-19 on January 30 from Kerala when a student who had returned from Wuhan, China tested positive.In a bid to halt the rapid surge in new infections, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Manipur and Nagaland are among the states which have extended the lockdown beyond June 30 for varying periods up to July 31 without any more relaxations.The second phase of ‘Unlock ‘ also came into force from Wednesday after the month-long ‘Unlock 1’, a graded exit from the national lockdown imposed on March 25, ended on Tuesday. Though there will be “phased re-opening” of activities that had been barred to contain the spread of coronavirus, educational institutions, Metro rail services, cinema halls and gyms will continue to remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-6-lakh-mark-with-over-19-000-cases-434-fatalities-in-last-24-hours/story-jX0CFtD0mlMpgBy6opXeEK.html
02-07-2020||India||8 army personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, Char Dham shrines open for pilgrims||With 66 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Wednesday, the Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand jumped to 2,947. The recovery rate also crossed 78 percent with 86 fresh recoveries reported on Wednesday.The 66 fresh cases were reported from districts like Almora (5), Haridwar (2), Champawat (2), Dehradun (20), Nainital (22), Tehri Garhwal (4), Udham Singh Nagar (2) and Uttarkashi (9).Of the 66 patients, one case was a healthcare worker from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), eight cases were of army personnel with travel history to Chennai, Haryana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Jabalpur and West Bengal. Nine were those with no travel history, 18 cases were of people who were found as contacts of earlier detected Covid-19 positive patients.The others had returned to the state from places like Afghanistan, Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab.Also read: Nearly 2 lakh new cases in past 12 days in IndiaA total of 86 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Wednesday. The patients recovered from districts like Almora (5), Bageshwar (1), Dehradun (4), Haridwar (5), Nainital (5), Pauri Garhwal (2), Pithoragarh (8), Uttarkashi (13) and Udham Singh Nagar (43)The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 46.72 days in the state with a recovery rate of 78.62 percent.Districts like Dehradun with 712 cases, Nainital with 496 cases, Tehri Garhwal with 420 cases and Haridwar (315 cases), have the highest number of cases in the state. Champawat district with 57 cases has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 70,000 samples of which results of over 5,100 are awaited. The state has 93 containment zones reported from five districts with 68 such zones from Haridwar district, 15 from Dehradun, two from Udham Singh Nagar, five in Tehri Garhwal district and three in Uttarkashi district.Meanwhile, as Char Dham shrines opened for pilgrims from Uttarakhand on Wednesday, 422 online registrations were made on the first day.Pilgrims can register themselves on the website www.badrinath-kedarnath.gov.in for obtaining the e-pass required for visiting the shrines. For Kedarnath shrine, 165 bookings were made - 154 for Badrinath, 55 for Gangotri and 48 for Yamunotri.Ravinathan Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that arrangements for thermal screening, sanitization, masks have been made at Badrinath and Kedarnath shrines.“Touching of idols in the temple, distribution of offerings is prohibited and the bells are also covered. Passenger rest houses at Guptkashi and Sonprayag on Badrinath and Kedarnath yatra route have been opened for the pilgrims,” said Raman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-army-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-char-dham-shrines-open-for-pilgrims/story-QA8iodCIuss8hq0F2khhuJ.html
02-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion today, over 20 ministers likely to be inductedThe Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet will be expanded on Thursday with some of the former Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March expected to get ministerial berths. Read moreAnother spike in Covid-19 numbers in Karnataka, active cases now more than curedKarnataka on Wednesday witnessed yet another spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,272 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours. More worryingly for the state, the number of active cases at 8,194 was higher than the 8,063 cured ones bringing the recovery rate to less than 50 per cent. Read moreIf elected in 2020 US polls, Joe Biden has a promise for ‘natural partner’ IndiaDemocratic presidential candidate and former vice-president Joe Biden said that if he wins the November elections, strengthening relationship with India which is the US’ “natural partner”, will be a high priority for his administration. Read moreSTik with this STok, WeChat over tea: Amul dedicates new doodle to India’s ban on Chinese appsIndia’s most well-known dairy brand, Amul, is also very well-known for one other thing: it’s timely doodles that are well-known for their ‘pun’ny captions while also making a comment on the current situation.  Read moreHarsh Goenka tweets about ‘restaurant visit’ after 3 months. But there’s a catchIf you’re missing the good old days of going to your favourite restaurant or checking out a new café or simply going out for lunch or dinner, this tweet by business tycoon Harsh Goenka may offer an idea. All you need is a little creativity and some effort. Read moreSara Ali Khan takes fans inside her colourful home, shows her ‘happy place’. See picsSara Ali Khan gave her Insta-fam a glimpse of her home, where she is currently staying with her mother Amrita Singh, brother Ibrahim Ali Khan and their dog Fuffy. On her Instagram stories, she shared a picture of a cosy corner of her apartment, where she likes to read. Read moreThe greatest Test XI never to feature on the Lord’s Honours BoardThe Lord’s honours board includes names of some of the all-time best, but at the same time, eludes a list of equally glittering cricketers. Some of the best Test cricketers, despite their chequered careers, have missed out getting their names etched on the historic Lord’s boards, which celebrates players who have scored a century, taken five wickets in a single innings, or taken 10 wickets in a match in either a Test or One Day International (ODI) at the iconic venue. Read moreWhy most of us won’t need Covid vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The RecordOxford university’s Professor Sunetra Gupta, an epidemiologist, has been tagged ‘Professor Reopen’ for her argument against lockdowns as a countermeasure against the Covid-19 pandemic. In this conversation with Hindustan Times’ national political editor, Sunetra Choudhury, Professor Gupta explains why most of us won’t need Covid vaccine. She also explains why lockdowns are not a long term solution to contain the spread of the virus. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expansion-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZPX5IViRP9iVD4U9il0keK.html
02-07-2020||India||‘We had ensured we would shoot first’: Remembering the Entebbe Raid||Forty-four years ago, Israeli commandos carried out what is rated as the most incredible military operations in history: the Entebbe Raid. On the anniversary of the raid, two of its participants, Mossad agent Avner Avraham and special forces officer Rami Sherman, spoke about what they experienced.A nurse from Manchester began the intelligence process. As the hijacked Air France flight was en route to Entebbe in Uganda, a British-Israeli nurse Patricia Martel deliberately cut herself and, bleeding profusely, claimed she was having a miscarriage. The four hijackers, two German and two Arab, let her off when the plane stopped in Benghazi in Libya to refuel.Said Rami Sherman, a member of the crack Israeli Sayeret Matkal and veteran of the Entebbe raid, “She flew back to London from Benghazi and was immediately met by agents of MI6 and Mossad. They gave her thousands of photographs. She identified the terrorists, told how many there were and what kind of weapons they had.”In theory, there had been advance information. One old lady passenger, when the four hijackers boarded the flight in Athens with large bags, had called out, “They’re terrorists!”Sherman said, “Of course, no one paid attention.” Hijacking in those days was common. In 1972 there was a hijack every month. It was Sunday, June 27, 1976.The plane flew to Entebbe. There the passengers were separated, Israelis and other Jews on one side, everyone else on the other. Said Sherman, himself a concentration camp survivor, “This news: Germans with guns selecting Jews from a captive group. It evoked the Holocaust.” But the Israeli government still this as something best left to France to handle.Over a hundred non-Jewish passengers were released and sent to Paris. Mossad agents met them and interrogated them.Avner Abraham, a former Mossad agent who served on the operations room, describes how information was collected. Uganda’s brutal ruler, Idi Amin, had received Israeli military training when he was a soldier. One of his former trainers got on the line and “spoke with him on the telephone five times” to glean what was on his mind. An Israeli engineer showed up with blueprints of the airport terminal where the hostages were being held. His company had won the tender to construct the building. Another enterprising Israeli, using a small Cessna propeller plane, flew repeatedly over the airport taking photographs and flew back home to deliver the photographs to the then prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin.The Israeli government was divided over the raid. The army chief of staff felt the raid was too risky, an operation from a “James Bond movie.” Israel had no intelligence assets in Uganda, though they had plenty in neighbouring Kenya. Even while this was going on, says Sherman, “Defence minister Shimon Peres insisted we should go ahead, prepare and plan.”The terrorists announced that after Thursday noon they said would shoot two hostages every hour. Playing for time and in violation of Israeli policy, Rabin announced his government would concede to the terrorists’ demand to release over 50 Arab prisoners. But the Israeli government now accepted that this was now their responsibility.“From morning until 6 pm on Friday the plan was finalised,” said Sherman. “The intelligence operations were over and it was now left to us to rehearse.” The commando debated what they would do on the ground. “We concluded there was one important question. How do we ensure we surprise the terrorists? How do we ensure we are the ones to shoot first? This was a key question.”As is well-known, Mossad procured a Mercedes Benz limousine of the variety used by Idi Amin. Avraham says, “When we brought the Benz, it was grey. It had to be black. It was Saturday and the shops were closed but we tracked down the owner of one shop in a synagogue and got black spray paint from him.” In total, four C-130 Hercules and two Boeing 707s would go on the 4000 km trip, carrying a total of 180 soldiers, 40 aircrew and 21 doctors and other staff. The single Hercules that would land at Entebbe would carry the Benz, a jeep and 33 soldiers.Sherman says that even as they were rehearsing the attack and learning to land the C-130 on runways without lights, “We all though the government wouldn’t make the decision to let us go. It was simply too risky.”On Saturday 230 pm, he was in the main C-130 among the assault team lead by Yoni Netanyahu, brother of the present Israeli prime minister, as it left Sharm el Sheikh. Even then, the government had yet to give a green light. “We flew for three hours, most of the time at 30 meters above the ground. There was so much turbulence some of us were throwing up.”At 6:30 pm, when the plane was over Ethiopia, they received the go ahead. Operation Thunderbolt was on. “We flew three more hours, part of it through a terrible thunderstorm, before we found ourselves approaching the airport. We arrived at 23:01 hours, just one minute behind our scheduled time.”The plane landed, 33 soldiers disembarked with a Benz and a Landrover jeep. “It was a beautiful night, sky was full of stars. What I remember the most was the quietness, especially after a very noisy flight,” says Sherman. The soldiers, dressed in Ugandan uniforms but wearing white hats to avoid friendly fire, headed to the terminal building. Two Ugandan soldiers waved them down. “We had too little time to talk our way through. Yoni Netanyahu and another soldier shot them.”The element of surprise, however, was now lost. The Israelis began exchanging fire with the terrorists and Ugandan soldiers in the control tower. Netanyahu was hit and died soon afterwards, the only Israeli soldier to die. “I fought with the people in the control tower,” says Sherman. The battle was over in seven minutes. Other soldiers ran into the terminal to the hostages. “My last duty was to lead the hostages from the terminal building to the waiting airplane,” says Sherman. “They had been awoken from sleep by the shooting, some had no shoes while others had babies, they were in shock.”Another commando detachment raided a nearby Ugandan airbase and destroyed 11 MiG fighters parked there to they would not be scrambled in pursuit. “It was also a favour to the Kenyans who were helping us,” says Sherman.Between the C-130 landing with the commandos and then taking off with the hostages, 52 minutes had elapsed. The plane flew to Nairobi for refuelling. Says Avraham, “The local Mossad cell head was waiting at the airport with some local Israeli businessmen.” The businessmen took the injured to local hospitals, others were taken to the Boeing 707 field hospital.Sherman said his heroes in the operation were the Israeli pilots who “stretched everything to the limit,” Air France captain Michel Bacos who refused to leave his passengers even when given an opportunity, and Prime Minister Rabin for taking the decision. Rabin had dictated a resignation letter to his secretary in the eventuality of the mission failing. The prime minister, himself a former chief of staff, had decided that “over 30 casualties” would constitute failure.It was a mission that ended up defining modern Israel. Benjamin Netanyahu, then a businessman in the United States, would receive a phone call informing him of his brother’s death and decide to enter Israeli politics. Operation Thunderbolt was renamed Operation Yonatan in his brother’s honour. One of the military intelligence officers handling the operation, Ehud Barak, was to become a future prime minister. And Israel’s present foreign minister, Gabi Ashkenazi, was among those on the C-130s that flew to Entebbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-had-ensured-we-would-shoot-first-remembering-the-entebbe-raid/story-nlAjymYVrg976XIzE0J5OJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura to distribute pineapple and lemon juice to boost people’s immunity||The Tripura government would distribute free Vitamin C enriched fruits, mainly pineapple and lemon, to people of urban areas from July 4 in order to boost their immunity in fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19.Both pineapple and lemon, grown in the state extensively, are known to be rich in Vitamin C and act as anti-oxidants to prevent any virus attack.The distribution programme would be a part of the state government’s month-long ‘Mukhya Mantri Corona Pratirodhak Abhiyan (Chief Minister Public Immunity Campaign against Corona)’.The Vitamin C enriched fruits would be distributed every Saturday from 12 pm to 4 pm at 25 local urban bodies and sub-divisional offices. “We are going to start distributing lemon and pineapple juice among people in the urban areas to increase their immunity power from coming Saturday (July 4). We bought these fruits directly from the farmers so that they could also earn benefits,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on social media. The National Urban Livelihood Mission would monitor the scheme at the grassroots level, he added. On the issue, law minister Ratan Lal Nath said that the government would spend Rs one crore for the scheme. An official from horticulture department said that the project is implemented by urban development department as nodal authority.“The horticulture department was requested earlier to share list of places where pineapple and lemons are growing including the farmers involved in growing these fruits. We have provided the list to the urban development department. We are unaware of the rest of the proceedings,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tripura-to-distribute-pineapple-and-lemon-juice-to-boost-people-s-immunity/story-tafaggDCppUuSP3DLodknL.html
02-07-2020||India||Tripura intern doctors protest over non-payment of stipends||While Tripura was observing World Doctors’ Day on Wednesday, nearly 90 intern doctors of Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) protested over non-payment of their stipends for the past two months.The protest ended in the evening after medical superintendent Dr Debasish Roy, including other medical officials, assured to solve the issue within a week. The interns are given a stipend of nearly Rs. 18,000 as per the regulations. Also read: Nearly 2 lakh new cases in past 12 days in India“This is unfortunate that we were not paid our stipend even after working for 16 hours or beyond in the hospital. After we protested, we have been assured redressal to our problem,” said a medical intern.Dr Roy said, “ It takes time to process the first stipends and they have joined as interns recently. We have talked to them and assured that their stipends would be credited to their bank accounts within a week. The health services are also normal now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-intern-doctors-protest-over-non-payment-of-stipends/story-eFZvfhTpXDWt78g9h9JBDO.html
02-07-2020||India||Another spike in Covid-19 numbers in Karnataka, active cases now more than cured||Karnataka on Wednesday witnessed yet another spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,272 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours. More worryingly for the state, the number of active cases at 8,194 was higher than the 8,063 cured ones bringing the recovery rate to less than 50 per cent. Bangalore Urban with 4,649 active cases account now for more than half of all the active cases across the other 29 districts in the state. In just the last week, Bangalore Urban has seen its active cases quadrauple.To address the continued spurt in cases, the state government has announced a slew of measures over the past few days including complete lockdown on Sundays starting July 5. It also has advanced curfew by one hour with no movement of traffic - except for essential services - permitted between 8 pm to 5 am.The government had drawn considerable flak after numerous videos appeared on social media of the cavalier manner in which the Covid-19 dead patients were seen unceremoniously being dumped by sanitation workers in mass graves - in some instances using earthmovers.While initially such acts were reported from Ballari, it has now emerged that similar incidents have been recorded in Davangare and Yadgir too. Addressing a press conference in Bangalore, chief minister B S Yediyurappa condemned the manner in which the dead bodies of Covid-19 victims were handled by authorities and said the government would ensure that such acts would not be repeated.Health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu too condemned handling of the bodies of Covid-19 patients. “I have ordered the suspension of eight workers involved in this act (in Ballari). I have sought a detailed enquiry into the whole incident and we will take action against those responsible,” he said on Wednesday. The DC of Ballari on Tuesday had expressed his regrets and apologised for the manner in which the bodies were handled.Meanwhile, the Karnataka commissioner of health and family welfare services Pankaj Kumar Pandey on Wednesday issued a notice to nine leading private hospitals seeking their explanation after a Covid-19 positive patient named Bhawarlal Sujani was turned away by them without providing any medical assistance. Sujani later died due to lack of medical attention.The hospitals have been asked to reply to the show-cause notice within 24 hours as to why action should not be initiated against them under provisions of Karnataka Private Medical Establishments act as well as State Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-spike-in-covid-19-numbers-in-karnataka-active-cases-now-more-than-cured/story-jzQRP2sDf8ocQXgYCwJ6dJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Maoist with Rs 29 lakh bounty nabbed in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon||The police in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon nabbed a Maoist commander on Wednesday after an encounter in which he was injured. The encounter took place in the forest of Rajnandgaon on Tuesday night.Police said that David alias Umesh, a native of Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, was one of most wanted Maoists of newly formed MMC (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh) of CPI (Maoist).“We detained him on Wednesday morning and admitted to a hospital. His arrest will be made after his recovery,” Rajnandgaon Superintendent of Police (SP) Jitendra Shukla told Hindustan Times.An AK-47 rifle, three magazines, 54 live cartridges, one pistol, one walkie-talkie set, medical items and other stuffs of daily use and Rs 772 cash was also recovered from David’s procession.Shukla further said that encounter took place when a police team was out of an anti-Maoist operation.“The team laid an ambush on Katenga-Pendridih road and sensing presence of security personnel the Maoists opened fire. The encounter lasted for about 30 minutes after which the Maoists fled from the spot. A search operation started after the encounter and we nabbed David in the Khobha village,” the SP said.The total reward on his head is of Rs 29 lakh in three states including Maharashatra, MP and Chhattisgarh.“David was one core member of Maoists team engaged in the expansion of new zone MMC in three states. His arrest is very important development for the police,” said a senior police officer posted in Raipur.It is worth mentioning that the Maoists have built a new red corridor in the tri-junction of three states - Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh - in 2016-17. Many documents recovered suggest they are continuously moving in that area to strengthen the new zone and recruit some cadres.Senior police officers of Chhattisgarh believe that that now there about 200 armed Maoists in the Vistaar Dalam of the MMC zone, who are trying to established their grip. The new zone is said to be a refuge of hardcore Maoists of Bastar and other regions. Most of the cadres in this region were recruited from South Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-with-rs-29-lakh-bounty-nabbed-in-chhattisgarh-s-rajnandgaon/story-zrQdd9NznRPzh3YGE7p8eM.html
02-07-2020||India||Nearly 2 lakh new cases in past 12 days in India, death toll crosses 60k in Brazil: Covid-19 wrap||Coronavirus cases across the globe have crossed the 10 million mark and are rising unabated. The viral disease has claimed over 5 lakh lives across the world till date. Amid the pandemic, many countries are have been trying to lift the lockdown restrictions in a staggered manner, including India. Although the number of coronavirus cases in the country inch toward a grim milestone and has already crossed the 6 lakh mark, the Ministry of Health says that a low death rate and an improving rate of recovery, presently nearly 60 percent, are positive indicators.Here’s a list of Covid-19 developments from India and across the globe:• With 604,993 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 6-lakh mark while the death toll stands at 17,847.• Delhi chief minister said that the Covid-19 outbreak in the national capital is now under control but there is a need to stave-off complacency as the virus is unpredictable.• Patanjali Ayurved’s ‘Coronil’ drug is an immunity booster and not a cure for coronavirus, says AYUSH ministry. The company has been allowed to market and sell the drug for Covid-19 management and immunity-boosting but not as a cure.• Decorated Delhi police inspector dies of Covid-19, 2,000 police personnel have been infected so far.• The Centre has asked state governments to step up rapid antigen tests in fight against Covid-19.• Bengaluru continues to battles a surge in Covid-19 cases, ICUs in government hospitals are full of patients. Of Karnataka’s 16,000 Covid-19 patients, nearly 5,300 come from Bengaluru. • India added nearly 2 lakh cases to its Covid-19 tally in the last 12 days.• As the number of coronavirus cases rise to 10,653,987 across the globe, Greece witnesses a wave of first tourists. Global Covid-19 death toll stands at 515,504.• In Brazil, the number of coronavirus deaths have crossed the 60,000-mark.• California in the United States has rolled back reopening of bars, restaurants amid a surge in cases.• A high number of cases are being reported in US’ meat processing units.•US President Donald Trump has said that the “he is all for masks” but believes that the virus will disappear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-2-lakh-new-cases-in-past-12-days-in-india-death-toll-crosses-60k-in-brazil-covid-19-wrap/story-mtpG3NyhFU98RTqwKxEMtO.html
02-07-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion today, over 20 ministers likely to be inducted||The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet will be expanded on Thursday with some of the former Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March expected to get ministerial berths.While the names were yet to be announced, BJP sources claimed that about two dozen new ministers will be inducted.The oath of office will be administered by Governor Anandiben Patel at Raj Bhawan at 11 am, officials said.Patel, who is Uttar Pradesh governor, has been given additional charge as Madhya Pradesh governor in view of incumbent Lalji Tandon’s hospitalisation. Patel took oath as MP governor earlier in the day. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan confirmed that the cabinet expansion will take place on Thursday.Asked about the delay in cabinet expansion, Chouhan avoided a direct reply and turned to mythology.“Only ‘amrit’ (elixir) comes out of ‘manthan’ (churning), vish (poison) is consumed by (Lord) Shiva,” the 61-year-old BJP leader said without elaborating but indicating the difficult task before him. BJP national vice president Vinay Sahastrabuddhe arrived here on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the expansion, BJP sources said. A BJP leader said that Sahastrabuddhe, Chouhan and state BJP chief V D Sharma were holding meetings on Wednesday night with party legislators at the CM’s house to give final touches to the list of new ministers.They were also trying to mollify some senior BJP legislators who would not get a cabinet berth, he said.Former Union minister and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia will arrive on Thursday morning to participate in the oath-taking ceremony. Around two dozen new ministers including some former Congress MLAs (who joined the BJP in March alongwith their leader Scindia) are likely to be inducted into the cabinet, BJP sources said.The initial “mini” expansion of the Chouhan cabinet took place on April 21 with the induction of five ministers, including two former Congress MLAs close to Scindia -- Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput. Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23 this year, after Kamal Nath resigned from the post following rebellion by 22 MLAs of the Congress. Sources close to Scindia said that besides the remainingfour ministers who had quit the Kamal Nath government, six others from his camp are likely to be inducted into the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-led-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expansion-today-over-20-ministers-likely-to-be-inducted/story-Qk8nheMH0iY87vEZrsU0CJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Former chief minister Harish Rawat shakes Uttarakhand politics with his spate of protests||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat has been holding protests against the ruling BJP on various issues. His protests in the last three days have stirred the state politics, forcing the ruling BJP to come up with a counter as well as leaving his party opponents uneasy. Rawat was in quarantine as per Covid-19 norms after returning from Delhi. He launched the protests after finishing his 14-day home quarantine.On Monday, Rawat held a bullock cart rally in Dehradun on the issue of fuel price hike followed by a sit-in protest on Tuesday near Governor house against the state government for booking Congress leaders on ‘false cases.’On Wednesday again, the Congress leader held an agitation against the BJP-led NDA government on fuel price hike in Dehradun.During the protest, he attacked chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat by accusing him of doing politics through BJP’s virtual rallies across the state but asking him (Rawat) to “stop doing politics in the pandemic”.“The CM had said today that I should stop doing politics in the pandemic through my various events which is just ridiculous. It is actually he and other BJP leaders who have been doing politics through their virtual rallies across the state in which they have been attacking Congress. I want to ask, if that is not politics in then is it ‘Gita Paath or Ramayan’s Choupai’?” said Rawat.“However, paying heed to his request of postponing my protest events amid pandemic, I have decided to do the same for my upcoming events. But we will keep raising the issues of the public against the government,” he said. His protests have rattled the ruling BJP with its senior leaders coming out to counter him. Former BJP state president and present MP from Nainital-US Nagar, Ajay Bhatt, termed these protests a “drama”.“The protests of Harish Rawat are just show-offs and mere drama. It would have no effect on us because Rawat knows that Congress is under attack for taking money from China as well as misusing the PM Relief Fund during their rule. He and other Congress leaders have no answer to them, hence this drama,” said Bhatt. Not only the BJP, Rawat’s opponents within the party have also become uneasy with his protests which have been grabbing all the attention. A senior party leader who didn’t wish to be named said, “Of course Rawat has made his opponents in the party uneasy because they cannot tolerate that he alone with his protests have been grabbing the eyeballs. These antics actually dampen their efforts to sideline him in the party and Rawat being a highly seasoned politician knows that very well.”The political experts also believe that it’s very difficult to keep Rawat out of the political picture of Uttarakhand. MM Semwal, political expert and professor of political science in Garhwal Central University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal, said, “Rawat has got his reach to every corner of the state as he has worked on grassroots. He knows how to shake the government as well as his opponents within the party and that is exactly what he is doing.”“Apart from that, Rawat is doing what an actual Opposition should do - to not let the government sit in its comfort zone. If the government and his opponents think that they can silence him, they are totally wrong,” said Semwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-chief-minister-harish-rawat-shakes-uttarakhand-politics-with-his-spate-of-protests/story-Hj3bUxheBHRr0uid79jaYL.html
02-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There are reports of a new swine flu in China, and some news outlets claim it could be the next potential pandemic, but I’m going to ignore it for two reasons. One, we are still dealing with one pandemic which originated in China and is currently raging through the world (10.4 million cases and 510,000 deaths, and still counting). Two, China remains a black box when it comes to information — we still do not know a lot about the origin and the early growth of the coronavirus disease in that country, nor do we know enough about its current status in remote provinces.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhich is why the US is a good country for India’s health policy mandarins, researchers, and epidemiologists to study. Sure, India’s population is much larger (1.3 billion compared to the US’s 330 million) but the US is larger by geographical area (7.7 million sq km to India’s 3.3 million sq km). And like India, the US is also divided into many states, and has many large cities (although its population density is lower than India’s). There’s more and better information coming out of the US too.As this column pointed out last week, things have taken a turn for the worse in that country. On Tuesday, at least 48,000 Covid-19 cases were registered in the US, the highest single-day tally thus far, and driven almost entirely by a rising number of cases in previously relatively unaffected states such as Arizona and Texas.That is an important learning for India.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu accounted for 61% of the new cases on June 30, continuing a trend that has been in play for almost two months, maybe even longer, but there are signs (and I’ve discussed them in detail in recent instalments of this column) that things could get better in Delhi and Tamil Nadu, barring a sudden spike caused by what can only be described as moments of collective madness (for instance, the curious instance of the crowd in the vegetable market in Chennai). By the third week of July, if not the middle of the month, these states (fine, one city-state and a state) could see a sustained decline in new cases. Delhi has also been seeing the number of daily deaths stabilise in the mid-60s (for the past two weeks).I won’t discuss Maharashtra because (again, as I have said before in this column) the state is most likely paying for decades of neglect of health-, civic-, urban-, and transport-infrastructure and simple overcrowding. But, if the US trend is any indication, then, as cases come down in Delhi and Tamil Nadu, and as India continues to open up, allowing more movement and activities, new hot spots will emerge in other states.Sure, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are still hot spots (the first saw 2,199 new cases on Tuesday and the second 3,943), but if they seem to have gotten their hands and heads around managing the pandemic, it is on the basis of extensive testing. Delhi has tested close to 28,000 per million of its population, and Tamil Nadu 17,200. The rest of India isn’t testing as much as Delhi, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra. These three states account for 2.67 million of the 8.82 million tests carried out in the country. When the tests and the populations of these three states are included, India has tested around 7,000 people per million of its population; when they are excluded, it has tested 5,780 per million. And some states have tested far fewer, perhaps in an attempt to show that they are managing the pandemic well.They should increase testing now, instead of leaving it till too late. As China has shown (in Wuhan where there was a potential flare-up of infections, and now Beijing), and, closer home, as Delhi and Tamil Nadu have, it is possible to rapidly increase testing. Sure, the price of doing this will be an initial increase in number of new cases as testing increases, but, over time, this will come down; such testing will also provide the state with information it currently doesn’t possess — the prevalence of the disease in the region.Testing, tracing, and isolation remain the best way to manage the spread of the viral disease. Just as masks remain the best way to prevent being infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-7d622suVZSnXAWsW4KtuAP.html
02-07-2020||India||Railways opens doors for private trains||The railway ministry on Wednesday began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy. The ministry issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for a private company to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.“This is the first initiative of private investment for running passenger trains over Indian Railways network,” the ministry said on Wednesday. “The objective of this initiative is to introduce modern technology rolling stock with reduced maintenance, reduced transit time, boost job creation, provide enhanced safety, provide world class travel experience to passengers,” it said. The ministry said the planned investment will come to around ₹30,000 crore, the rakes will need to be manufactured in India, and the private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains.“Trains shall be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. There would be a substantial reduction in journey time. The running time taken by a train shall be comparable to or faster than the fastest train of Indian Railways operating in the respective route,” the ministry’s release said.The initiative for private investment for running passenger trains began in a limited way last year with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) -- a Railways subsidiary -- introducing the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express. Currently, IRCTC operates three trains -- the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas. These are the only ones not run by the Indian Railways itself, as has been the practice in its 167-year history.Opposition leaders criticised the move. “Now the govt is in a desperate mood to sell a great chunk of one of our largest national asset #IndianRailways, privatization cannot be construed as a panacea of railways malady, it is the inefficiency of the railways itself,” said Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who was the junior railway minister in the United Progressive Alliance - 2 government.Hindustan Times reported in September that the national carrier is considering the idea of handing over operations of more trains to private players on several important routes with improved services and amenities for passengers.It proposed the following routes for long distance travel: Delhi-Mumbai, Delhi-Lucknow, Delhi-Jammu/Katra, Delhi-Howrah, Secunderabad-Hyderabad, Secunderabad-Delhi, Delhi- Chennai, Mumbai-Chennai, Howrah-Chennai and Howrah-Mumbai.In October, the Union government and the think-tank Niti Aayog decided to set up a task force “drive the process”. On January 7, the ministry and the government’s think-tank Niti Aayog uploaded a draft RFQ, expanding the number of routes to 100 from the previously planned 50 routes. According to Wednesday’s statement, the “private entity shall pay to Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process”.The operation will have to conform to key performance indicators like punctuality, reliability, upkeep of trains etc, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-opens-doors-for-private-trains/story-pN96IjtxbDM02i6U7jku4I.html
02-07-2020||India||Situation much better than month ago, but remain cautious: Kejriwal||The Covid-19 situation in the Capital was on a worrying trajectory until a few weeks ago but a concerted effort helped turn the situation around, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday, cautioning people that the outbreak could spike again if they become complacent. “Today, I am happy that we have waded through the tough times we had seen at the beginning of June. Our hard work has paid off. Today, only around 26,000 active cases are there in Delhi against our projection of 60,000 cases. This projection was made based on a portal created by the government of India,” he added. Kejriwal also pointed to other data points such as availability of beds and recovery rate to back his statement.  Delhi ended Wednesday with 89,802 cases of which 27,007 are active. It has so far seen 2,803 deaths, and 59,992 people have recovered from the coronavirus disease. In a digital press conference, Kejriwal steered clear of claiming that the worst of the pandemic is behind the city-state -- as indicated by numbers of the last week -- and instead urged people to strictly follow the only regimen known to prevent infections: wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, and distancing socially. Delhi saw a peak of 3947 cases on June 23, but the number has come down steadily since then despite the number of tests increasing. In the eight days since (including Wednesday, July 1) the city has seen, 3788, 3390, 3460, 2948, 2889, 2084, 2199, and 2,442 cases. The daily positivity rate (number of people testing positive to number of tests), which was hovering around a peak of 32% in mid-June has since fallen and was 12.24% on Wednesday. Although Kejriwal asked people not to rely on reports circulating in social media that the peak of Covid-19 cases in Delhi was over., he did admit that “the situation now is not as scary as it was around a month ago.” “But, this does not mean we get complacent and stop preparing. This virus is totally unpredictable. It is possible that the cases suddenly spike again. Some experts are saying in social media that Delhi has already seen its peak and now the cases will only decline. I request all of you not to pay attention to these experts at the moment. Keep wearing masks, follow social distancing and keep washing or sanitising your hands,” he said. The chief minister said his government would continue to prepare more beds and other Covid logistics at a war footing. “There is a proverb in English – hope for the best and prepare for the worst. We are preparing for the worst-case scenario.”  With cases peaking in the middle of June, there were fears about the availability of hospital beds. The prediction then was that 15,000 beds would be required by June-end, Kejriwal said. Hospital admissions were so high that every day, at least 250 new beds were required to be added, he added.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia cited projections that said Delhi could see 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July, a move that Union home minister Amit Shah said in an interview earlier this week caused “fear” and forced the Union government to take a hand in helping the city-state’s Aam Aadmi Party government deal with the issue. Things have improved since, Kejriwal said. “But, today the situation is just the opposite. In the last one week, bed occupancy has reduced by 450 instead of increasing. It is also an indication that serious patients of Corona are also decreasing. Today we have 15,000 beds ready in Delhi for Covid-19 in various hospitals and of this, only 5,800 are occupied. Until a month ago, we had only 8,500 beds for Covid.” According to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday, the city has 15,242 hospital beds, up from around 13,600 a day before. The chief minister added that the recovery rate is also on the rise. He said that a month ago, the recovery rate was 38%, and that this has now increased to 64%.“Delhi has seen a total of over 87,000 cases so far, of which over 58,000 have recovered. On June 23, nearly 4,000 cases were recorded and yesterday (Tuesday), around 2,200 new cases were. So, in the past one week, the daily (number of) fresh cases also appears to have reduced by a half. But, this may again spike,” he said. The chief minister also said the number of daily deaths due to Covid-19 have declined. Covid deaths in Delhi peaked in the first half of June. “There was a day when nearly 125 deaths were recorded. Today, the daily Covid deaths are hovering aorund 60-65. We have to reduce this further.” Kejriwal said Delhi has scaled up testing across the city and that the positivity rate has seen a decline over the past two weeks. “Earlier, of every 100 tests, 31 would test positive. Now, 13 positive cases are found per 100 tests,” he said. According to the Hindustan Times dashboard, Delhi has carried out 29,037 tests for every million of its population. According to government data, at the beginning of June, Delhi used to conduct around 5,000 tests every day. This now has been scaled up to 17,000-20,000 every day.Three types of tests are currently being conducted in Delhi. The first one is the RT-PCR test, which is a confirmatory test, but whose results come in after a minimum of five hours. The second one is the rapid antigen test (which is highly accurate in identifying positive cases) where the results take 30 minutes to come. The third is antibody tests, which is being conducted as part of the serological survey in Delhi (and which are not being used for identifying cases) to understand the extent of the spread of the virus. “I think it is too early to say whether the situation has stabilised in Delhi. We have to wait and watch, at least for the 14-day incubation period to see what happens. If the numbers keep coming down, great. But, there is a possibility that as the number of cases in the current containment zones come down with people in the area already having had the infection, newer hotspots might emerge,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-much-better-than-month-ago-but-remain-cautious-kejriwal/story-H5LRqoteLeSM4gYIthLPII.html
02-07-2020||India||Central India, west coast set for intense monsoon||Northeast and eastern India, which have reported flooding this week, will continue to receive widespread and heavy rains over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Intense monsoon activity is now likely to begin over central India and the western coast as IMD issued an alert to authorities to remain prepared for any emergencies.The region covering eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, and Sikkim have been receiving very heavy and extremely heavy rain since June 26. According to IMD’s weekly weather report released on Wednesday, Assam received 104%, Meghalaya 141%, Sikkim 304%, and Bihar received 99% excess rain over the past week from June 24 onwards. The rain has triggered flooding in Assam, landslides in Sikkim, and created a flood-like situation in parts of Bihar. IMD on Wednesday issued an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rains in eastern Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, central Maharashtra from Friday to Sunday. Orange alert implies that authorities should be prepared for any related emergencies. National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said the intensity of rain has reduced marginally over the northeast and eastern India but rain will continue for a few days. “Intense and widespread rains will start in central India including Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and parts of the west coast like Konkan, Goa and coastal Karnataka.”Devi said weather stations in the northeast have been recording extremely heavy rains (over 20 cm) since last week. “This was a result of orography [topography of mountains] and the moisture laden south-south westerly winds blowing over the region.”The monsoon trough shifted to the north around June 26 with a convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal over the northeast and eastern India. Now the trough is gradually moving back to its normal position.IMD bulletin said a cyclonic circulation is lying over south Gujarat and another over eastern Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood in lower and mid-tropospheric levels. “Under its influence, fairly widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely along the west coast, Gujarat and interior Maharashtra during the next 5 days,” it said. It added extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Konkan and Goa on Friday and Saturday and over Madhya Maharashtra on Saturday. R K Jenamani, a senior IMD scientist, said there will be a high convergence of strong moist westerly and south-westerly winds from the Arabian sea very likely along western coast till Sunday and over northwestern plains and central India from Friday. “All conditions are favourable for intense monsoon activity over the west coast and central India. Monsoon progression and rains have been very good so far.”The country over the last month has received 15% excess rains. The monsoon accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall and is critical to the country’s agricultural sector. At least 700 million people are dependent on agriculture in India for their livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-india-west-coast-set-for-intense-monsoon/story-R8kCeXrvHidK9e0NlOBQQO.html
02-07-2020||India||CBI case against GVK group that runs Mumbai airport over alleged Rs 705 crore scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against Dr G V K Reddy, Chairman of GVK group, the company that runs the Mumbai airport – MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited), and others for alleged irregularities worth ₹705 crore in the development of Mumbai airport.MIAL is a joint venture between AAI (Airports Authority of India), GVK and foreign entities. The AAI entered an agreement in 2006 for modernization and up gradation, operation and maintenance of Mumbai airport as part of joint venture called –MIAL.The agreement stated that the revenue share has to be given first to AAI and then the balance earnings of MIAL shall be used for modernisation and upgradation, operation and maintenance and the essence of the agreement was to make it a world class facility.CBI FIR alleges that the GVK group connived with their family members, relatives and employees to give undue monetary advantage to them and to cause corresponding unlawful loss to AAI. As part of the conspiracy, they assigned the premium retail areas of Mumbai airport to their family members at exorbitantly low rates there- by reducing the revenue of MIAL. The GVK group even used funds of MIAL by entering into agreements with a company owned by family members, relatives, employees to book train, air travel tickets and hotel booking for personal as well as group employees of GVK who were not connected to MIAL.The agency has named total 13 persons and companies as accused as well as unknown public servants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-gvk-group-that-runs-mumbai-airport-over-alleged-irregularities-of-rs-705-cr/story-NYJTJbpffn9av261LUQTSP.html
02-07-2020||India||In the Congress, the dilemma on nationalism and Modi||After the Indian Air Force (IAF)‘s Balakot strike to avenge Pulwama, the Congress had reached out to three domain experts to help it formulate its political responses. They included two former foreign secretaries and a general who once headed the northern command. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had built the February, 2019 attack on a terror hideout in Pakistan into a major plank for the April-May parliamentary polls. Broadly, the experts told the Congress leadership to hold fire and not rush into launching fusillades without getting a full sense of the complexities of the situation. The party’s first responses in the military-diplomatic state of play were very much in order. Priyanka Gandhi cancelled a press conference scheduled in Lucknow on February 14, the day the Central Reserve Police Force convoy came under attack from a suicide bomber. She refused to talk politics, observing instead a two minute silence in memory of the jawans who died. Rahul Gandhi was, then, the president of the Congress. His first tweet on February 26 saluted the IAF pilots who staged the airstrike. In that watershed moment, the entire political class was on the same page, barring Mehbooba Mufti who sounded sceptical on the outcome of the pre-dawn swoop. Unravelled by the exigencies of poll-time politics, the consensus was short-lived. The Congress expended the good advice that had come its way. It forgot the lessons of the May-July Kargil war of 1999 — India’s first televised armed conflict that ran parallel to the campaign for the September-October parliamentary polls the same year. The party’s sniper shots at Atal Bihari Vajpayee — especially on the import of sugar from Pakistan — didn’t cut ice with the people. The war had happened within weeks of the Congress having toppled him as prime minister (PM), but having failed to put together an alternative regime. The mountain battle was the result of a lax border vigil that helped Pakistani troops walk deep inside on our territory. The intelligence-security failure would have brought down the personal ratings of any prime minister. Yet, such was the principal Opposition’s crisis of credibility that it let the incumbent win as a caretaker PM. The BJP’s tally stayed static but the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) gained over a dozen seats. Its aggregate of 270 was tantalisingly close to the magic 272 that had eluded the Congress after it dislodged Vajpayee by one vote. The Congress hasn’t evidently learned much from the political costs it paid for taking on a charismatic adversary without a formidable counter-narrative. The mistakes of 1999 that it repeated in 2019 are evident again in the face of the India-China military stand-off. The Congress-BJP duel after the June 20 all-party meeting on the Galwan valley clashes is a replay of the post-Balakot name-calling. Coincidentally, an electoral joust is also due this year to the Bihar assembly where the NDA is seeking to grab the first-mover advantage by eulogising the men of the Bihar regiment who died fighting the Chinese. While the BJP is reaching out to the people with its story of Ladakh, the Congress struggles to cull a cogent script out of a host of issues — China’s military challenge; the pandemic; the sliding economy: loss of jobs; and human suffering of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers. The Opposition had sound reasons to not be satisfied with the PM’s statement at the all party meet. But legitimate questions get delegitimised when posed petulantly. Little wonder then that Rahul’s ‘Surender Modi’ taunt — reminiscent of his 2019 chowkidardig at the PM — found oblique disapprovals at the June 23 Congress Working Committee (CWC) parleys. A major United Progressive Alliance partner and former defence minister Sharad Pawar was more in-the-face when he referred to the territory India lost in the 1962 war with China. His call against politicisation of issues of national security came after the CWC meeting. There was a “silence of acquiescence” when a CWC member, who spoke before Rahul and Priyanka, underscored the pitfalls of personalising the political discourse. He reminded the gathering that the party defeated the NDA in 2004, not by besmirching Vajpayee but by taking down his “India shining” plank. The short-point he made was that policy and governance-failures, for which the ruling side must be criticised, can get clouded by individual mud fights. He wasn’t contradicted till Rahul took the floor, forcefully stating that he wasn’t, unlike others, scared of taking on Modi. The assertion fetched him ‘polite support’ from others, including Priyanka. A frontline Congress parliamentarian was prompted nevertheless to correct the impression that other leaders were loathe to dare Modi. He drew attention to the speeches he had made to make the PM accountable to the House. Another party veteran had an interesting caveat to the imperative of questioning Modi: “We must question him, but not in the manner of Mani Shankar Aiyar...” The allusion was to Aiyar’s chaiwala taunt that cost the Congress dear in the 2014 polls. The hiatus on how to deal with the conundrum that’s Modi came out starkly when a first-time CWC member complained that Rahul’s tweets weren’t often re-tweeted by other colleagues. The irony inherent in the complaint was hard to ignore. For, many among those present believed that being led by Twitter isn’t the best way to deal with a rival who is better received across media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-congress-the-dilemma-on-nationalism-and-modi/story-d5aE41PhremHHrsQFAElnK.html
02-07-2020||India||Six more die in Assam floods, nearly 1.5 million people affected in 21 districts||Floods in Assam claimed six more lives on Wednesday taking the total number of deaths in the state this season to 33. Nearly 1.5 million people in 21 of the state’s 33 districts are affected.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), three people died due to drowning in Barpeta district and one each in Dhubri, Nagaon and Nalbari.Around 1.5 million people in 2,197 villages of 59 revenue circles have been affected by floods with Barpeta (nearly 6 lakh) and South Salmara (nearly 2 lakh) being the worst affected districts. Over 15,000 people uprooted due to flooding were residing in 254 relief camps in 15 affected districts.Over 4,200 people who were stranded due to floods were rescued by boats during Wednesday. Crops in over 87,000 hectares have been affected due to inundation, the ASDMA report said.According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the Brahmaputra continued to flow above the danger mark at Nematighat, Tezpur, Guwahati, Goalpara and Dhubri. The Dhansiri crossed the red-mark at Numaligarh, Jia Bharali at Sonitpur and Kopili at Kampur. FLOODS IN KAZIRANGAAccording to a report by the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, a total of 107 of the 223 camps used by forest personnel in the park area had recorded 49% inundation and 6 of them were vacated on Wednesday.A total of 18 animals had died during the floods. Two animals-one swamp deer and one wild boar-had died due to drowning and 7 hog deer died after being hit by vehicles while trying to cross the national highway adjoining the park.Carcass of a male adult rhino, which died due to natural causes, was recovered from the western range of the park on June 26. Flooding was also reported at the Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park.FIRE CONTROL WORK AT GAS WELL AFFECTEDHeavy rainfall and flooding have affected work on controlling the fire at Oil India Limited’s (OIL) natural gas well at Baghjan in Tinsukia district. The gas well had a blow out on May 27 and caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters.According to an OIL release, due to incessant rain, debris removal from near the well, which is an important part of the work to control the fire, was halted on June 27 and June 28.“Currently, there is only one road available (to the site), which was also kept closed for two days by the district authority due to floods. An alternate road is being repaired for entry into Baghjan and 90% of the repairing job has been completed,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-more-die-in-assam-floods-nearly-1-5-million-people-affected-in-21-districts/story-NpIn9NtWbWwoc5DpkP6qBL.html
02-07-2020||India||Thousands flee Hyd fearing a lockdown||Hyderabad: Thousands of people from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, who live in Hyderabad, have left the city for their homes since the Telangana government indicated it could re-enforce a complete lockdown amid growing Covid-19 cases. This has prompted the Andhra government to make entry into the state conditional and forced many without travel passes to return to Hyderabad.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday announced the state cabinet would meet in three or four days to discuss a suggestion from the health department and medical experts to reimpose lockdown in the limits of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for at least 15 days. Hyderabad has reported 11,080 cases since June 1 that has taken the city’s tally to 12,696 til June 30. It is XX worst-hit city in the country after XXXX. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown until the end of this month even as the Centre issued guidelines for the second of a three-phase plan--Unlock 2.0--to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19 in March.Traffic jams were reported from Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway and near inter-state borders as people began rushing back to Andhra Pradesh. Many migrant workers, who had returned to Hyderabad after the national lockdown restrictions were eased this month, were also rushing back to their native villages. Akella Gnani (27), a sanitisation contractor, could not go to his native place Bhimavaram in West Godavari on Tuesday, as he was stopped at the check post on Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway.“I have not registered my name in Spandana as I decided on my travel in the last moment, after coming to know that the Telangana government might impose lockdown again. But at the check post, after being caught in the traffic for two hours, I was not allowed to enter AP as I had no travel pass. So, I had to return. I will apply for the travel pass tonight,” he said.Many travellers were stopped at check posts and the Andhra police allowed only those to cross the inter-state border who had registered themselves on a state government portal and obtained travel permits.“It was a shock for us, as the Union government guidelines for unlock 2.0 clearly said there shall be absolutely no hindrance on inter-state or intra-state movements of individuals or goods and that no separate permits or passes will be required,” said S Narasimha Rao, who was stopped at Garikapadu check post with his family.Andhra Pradesh police chief Gautam Sawang said the state has powers to decide on the inter-state transport. “Since people are coming from Hyderabad, which has reported growing Covid-19 cases, we are taking precautions in allowing them into the state.”Sawang said those with travel permits would be allowed into the state. “We shall allow them only after conducting the mandatory thermal screening. These restrictions will continue till further notice and people should cooperate with us in their own interest,” Sawang said.Pass-holders were also being stopped at the check posts after 7 pm. “The travel permits are valid only between 7 am and 7 pm. The borders will be sealed after 7 pm, except for essential services,” Sawang said.An official release from the chief minster’s office said if the lockdown is imposed in Hyderabad and surroundings, it would be implemented strictly. “Even flights and train services have to be stopped. A decision will be taken at the cabinet meeting,” the official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-flee-hyd-fearing-a-lockdown/story-fe6dNDsLV4csrO2IJgOZXN.html
02-07-2020||India||Centre asks states to step up antigen tests||The government moved to make access to Covid-19) testing easier for people on Wednesday , asking states to involve private laboratories up to their full capacity, and also allow both government and private doctors to prescribe Covid-19 testing, including antigen based testing, for diagnosis.Union health secretary, Preeti Sudan, and secretary, department of health research, Dr Balram Bhargava, jointly wrote to all states to ramp up Covid-19 testing using rapid antigen based tests, to early detect cases for containing the pandemic.An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body, especially the production of antibodies, and its presence determines a present infection, which is why the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended it for diagnosis along with real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. The Centre asked states to start antigen-based testing in “campaign mode” by setting “camps/mobile vans” in high incidence areas. The positive people should be treated as per protocol and negative tests need to be re-confirmed using RT-PCR test. “It is important to maintain strict vigil and continue to make all possible efforts to minimize the damage that can be caused by the pandemic. With the start of Unlock 2, focus will continue to be on saving lives and also protecting livelihood as more and more economic activities are expected to pick up gradually. Since test-track-treat is the key strategy for early detection and containment of the pandemic, it is important to augment testing for Sars-Cov-2 in all parts of the country. This is the only way to detect the infection early and prevent its spread,” read the letter to states.“…ICMR has also recommended use of a rapid point-of-care antigen test kit for diagnosis, and more such kits are being validated to increase the available options to the citizens,” it added.Like RT-PCR test, antigen-based test also requires naso-oral swab samples but does not need an advanced laboratory for analysis. The results can be out between 15 min and 30min, making it ideal for mass scale testing, and testing in remote, inaccessible areas where advanced testing laboratories are not present.Hospitals, both government and private, have either begun testing using antigen kits or are in the process of starting.“Yes, we have started antigen based Covid-testing in our hospital,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. Many private hospitals have either begun testing or are in the process of procuring kits. The cost of antigen testing is between ₹900-1000 in most private labs performing the test.Delhi’s big corporate hospitals such as Apollo Hospitals, Max Healthcare and Ganga Ram Hospital have begun testing, confirmed spokespersons of all three hospitals. However, a valid prescription from a registered doctor is required for testing.ICMR made it easier for labs, especially private labs, to conduct Covid-19 testing, provided government guidelines are duly followed.“ICMR strongly recommends that laboratories should be free to test any individual in accordance to the ICMR guidelines and state authorities must not restrict an individual from getting tested, as early testing will help in containing the virus and saving lives,” said the letter to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-step-up-antigen-tests/story-S71KlX5GFoO1vqEzCrqCKJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Home-made masks effective, says study||Homemade quilted cotton masks are likely more effective than those made from handkerchiefs or even commercially available cone masks to contain the spread of Covid-19, according to a study published in the American Institute of Physics journal.“The reason is the weaving pattern and the string thickness,” the study’s lead author, Dr Siddhartha Verma, associate professor (ocean and mechanical engineering), Florida Atlantic University, told HT in an email.“The quilting cotton (most effective) we used had a tight-weave with thicker threads, in addition to having two layers stitched together, all of which impeded droplets significantly. One quick test that some people have suggested is to hold up the fabric to a light, and see how well it blocks the light,” Verma added.The study, which is peer-reviewed and published on June 30, involved simulating a cough through a manikin. For the experiment, Verma and his team covered the manikin’s mouth with four commonly used non-medical grade masks: a folded handkerchief, a stitched quilted cotton mask, a bandana and a cone mask (which is a non-medical grade mask available over the counter).Researchers followed instructions from the US government to make quilted cotton masks. The guidelines are similar to those recommended by the Indian government.Wearing masks in public places is mandatory in India, which follows World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. WHO recommends a three-layer fabric or non-medical mask in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.Researchers illuminated cough droplets using a green laser and measured how far they travelled. Without the mask, a typical cough will have droplets that travel almost 12 feet, which is almost double the six-feet social distance recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) of the US. However, a majority of the droplets fall to the ground by this distance. With masks, the distance droplets travel is greatly reduced, but it is the stitched quilted mask that reduces forward movement the most — to just 2.5 inches.“The basic recommendation is in agreement with our experiments. The important thing to keep in mind is that whenever possible, it is better to use good quality fabric that is tightly woven, and mask designs that fit well and comfortably on the face,” Verma said.Reviewing the study, Ashwini Agrawal, head of department of textile and fibre engineering at IIT-Delhi, stressed the importance of breathability and filtration efficiency.“When we speak of cloth masks — whether they are quilted, non-quilted or multiple layers — their efficiency can vary between 20% and 50%,” Agrawal said. “Anything that is a little thick will be uncomfortable to wear. The next thing to look for is breathability, which the study is silent on. Something would be comfortable to wear if the breathability is good. When you cover your face, the moisture starts to build up and reduce breathability that would happen in hot and humid weather. I would recommend a person to wear a mask with high filtration and fitting well around the nose, which the study shows is a major leakage area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-made-masks-effective-says-study/story-6vNcyEAo5tdDNelBDFfL2N.html
02-07-2020||India||Kerala announces rehabilitation project for expats who returned home||The Kerala government on Wednesday announced the “Dream Kerala Project” to rehabilitate expatriates who returned amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at least 60 per cent of the returnees have lost their jobs and it is the duty of the government to rehabilitate them and make use of their expertise. “Their contributions are immense. They played a key role in the development of the state. It is our duty to help them,” he said. The CM said ideas will be invited from expatriates and public for new projects and after vetting them they will be implemented in a time-bound manner. “We have formed three different committees and we are planning to start these projects in 100 days. We will engage them and make use of their expertise for the development of the state,” the CM said adding these projects include IT, biotech, small-scale units, farming and food processing. But he did not spell out the exact plan allocation for the project.He said 870 flights arrived from six west Asian countries since the first week of May, out of which 446 were from the United Arab Emirates. Almost 1,50,000 expatriates have returned and the state is expecting at least 2.50 lakh more, he said. When the state government started a website for those who want to return in May first week at least 4.50 lakh registered. There are an estimated 18 lakh people from the state working in Gulf countries. Many of the expatriates were rendered jobless amid the pandemic and were forced to return.Meanwhile, as Covid-19 cases continue to rise, the government has also decided to include private hospitals in Covid-19 treatment. It has also asked teachers and government servants to be part of the ongoing fight against the pandemic. “It is a joint fight. All should be part of it,” he said. After 60 CISF personnel tested positive in Kannur airport the state government has deputed a senior officer to coordinate their treatment. Some of these personnel have joined duty after long leave infecting others also, health officials said.Kerala reported 151 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 4,592. Out of this figure, 2,435 have recovered while 2,130 are active cases. The state has reported 25 deaths so far. Its death rate is under one per cent and the recovery rate is the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-rehabilitation-project-for-expats-who-returned-home/story-h4u0blmGifIzEfzrapK04K.html
02-07-2020||India||Food aid extension may have grassroots impact||India’s overflowing granaries and a longer-than-anticipated recovery time to normalcy from the Covid-19 crisis are the two key factors behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the free foodgrain programme for 800 million poor people for another five months, people aware of the matter said.Two people involved in the discussions before Modi announced the extension of the Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna on Tuesday added that it was also felt that such action would also have a “direct impact” at India’s “grassroot level” on mitigating the impact of the crisis.While the discussions had been going on for the past couple of weeks, a detailed meeting chaired by the Prime Minister took place on Monday to prepare the final plan. Modi’s decision to continue the handout was well-received by experts and political circles.“Sufficient availability of food grains provided the much-needed support for the scheme. But as the procurement has been quite good, there is also a need to distribute the produce to create space for fresh crops,” said a functionary involved in the planning, requesting anonymity.Food Corporation of India (FCI), the centre’s main grain trading agency, undertook the largest procurement of food stocks ever this year.“Procurement operations were delayed due to the first phase of the lockdown, starting 15 days late on April 15. The government was able to buy record wheat harvests of 38.2 million tonnes by June 16,” food minister Ram Vila’s Paswan told HT.He said he was constantly in touch with states where offtake, or drawing of grains and distribution, was less than 90% of the stocks received. “We will hold states food ministers’ meetings shortly to push states to utilise the free foodgrains till the next five months so that apart from 810 million people with ration cards... 80 million undocumented migrants get their ration quota,” he said.Since the government expects another bumper harvest from Kharif or summer-sown crops, the food ministry, based on its stock position, favoured extension of the offer of free foodgrains during discussion with the PMO, an official of the ministry said. In the first phase, the garib kalyan anna yojna was targeted for three months but as the battle against Covid drags on, the government had to extend its free foodgrain scheme.“As we review the situation, it is clear that it normalcy will take longer-than-anticipated time. There is also a limited reverse movement of migrants in larger cities as many of them prefer to stay home in these uncertain times. So, the government planned something to give direct relief to the grassroots for a longer period,” said another functionary involved in the planning.The final decision to cover all important festivals till Chhat puja and convey it much in advance was aimed at assuring people that they don’t need to worry about food during celebrations and thereby send the right political message. “Many people may point out that the government mentioned that the anna yojna will cover Chhat puja keeping in mind Bihar elections, but don’t forget that Bihar has received three million migrant workers—the highest after UP’s 3.7 million,” said another functionary.The scheme to give 5kg free rice or wheat to each member of a family and 1kg of free pulses monthly to each family has seen lifting of 113 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain by the states till June 20. More than 700 million people benefitted from the scheme in April and May.The government has paid about Rs 73,500 crore in liquid cash, or money in hand, to 4.2 million farmers till June 17 for the record procurement. Eleven chief ministers had made a demand for extension of the free food grain scheme, which was forwarded to the Prime Minister’s Office.The FCI currently has 38.8 million tonnes of wheat and 74.5 million rice in federally held stocks, which is several times more than the four million tonne of buffer or emergency stocks the government must compulsorily set aside, according to official data. This excludes ongoing purchases that have not reached the FCI’s silos. The government ordinarily needs 5.5 million tonnes of foodgrains to meet requirement of ration distribution to 810 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act 2013 and other welfare schemes. Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, the government has set a distribution target of 0.8 million tonnes of foodgrains to an estimated 80 million migrants who are not covered under the National Food Security Act or any state scheme. They are being given 5 kg of foodgrain per person free of cost per month. Under the PMGKAY, a total of 10.1 million tonnes of rice and 1.5 million tonnes of wheat have been drawn by states and Union territories. In May, a total 3.6 million tonnes (91% of stocks taken) foodgrains were distributed to 720 million beneficiaries and in the month of June so far, 2.8 million tonnes (71% of stocks received) foodgrains have been distributed to 560 million beneficiariesAlong with cereals, the government is bearing 100% of the cost of Rs 5,000 crore for distribution of pulses. So far, 0.570 million tonnes of lentils have been dispatched to states, while 0.440 million tonne has been distributed, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-aid-extension-may-have-grassroots-impact/story-UgtPORfcjo75GAJiIGNahJ.html
02-07-2020||India||Odisha cop held for raping 13-year-old girl||Odisha police on Wednesday dismissed and arrested a police inspector for raping a 13-year-old tribal girl repeatedly in the police station and getting her pregnancy terminated.Director general of police Abhay dismissed inspector Anand Kumar Majhi of Biramitrapur police station in Sundargarh district from service after initial investigations revealed that he had raped the minor in a room of police station in March this year. After successive sexual assaults, the girl got pregnant and the inspector then forced her to terminate the pregnancy at a clinic.The 55-year-old inspector, who had been in hiding for over a week, was arrested from a forest in Angul district by a special CID team. Additional director general of police (CID) Soumendra Priyadarshi said Majhi had kept his mobile phones switched off so tracking him had been difficult.DGP Abhay later tendered a public apology for Majhi’s act calling it “shameful”. Six persons, including the inspector, doctor and the girl’s stepfather, have been named as accused in the FIR.The survivor had gone to visit a fair at Maoist-affected area of Biramitrapur in Sundargarh district on March 25 but the event was cancelled due to the lockdown. A police patrol team found her roaming near a bus stand and took her to the police station. There, Majhi allegedly raped her and let her go the next morning. After that, she was often called to the police station and raped by some policemen, including the inspector.The matter came to light after the child, who was seen crying outside the police station last week, was rescued by a local NGO and handed over to the district child protection officer who lodged a complaint with Raiboga police station.CID officials said the charge sheet would be filed within 60 days for trial before a fast track court.Meanwhile, the girl has been medically examined and is being kept at a child shelter home in Bisra area of Sundargarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-held-for-raping-13-yr-old-girl/story-HTSCKV4toI5zyxw9LAOnfL.html
02-07-2020||India||Terror tag for 9 pro-Khalistan operatives||The Centre on Wednesday declared nine Khalistani terrorists, including US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) who has been spearheading a campign under the banner of “Referendum 2020” for a separate Khalistani state, as ‘individual terrorists’ under recently amended fourth schedule of UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Amendment Act), an official statement by ministry of home affairs said.Others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA are Babbar Khalsa International’s UK chief Paramijit Singh, Canada-based head of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Germany-based members of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) Gurmeet Singh Bagga and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, and Pakistan-based terrorists – head of BKI Wadhawa Singh, Lakhbir Singh (International Sikh Youth Federation), Ranjeet Singh (Khalistan Zindabad Force) and Paramjit Singh (Khalistan Commando Force).Earlier, Pakistan-based terror group chiefs – Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Maulana Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Muhammed Saeed, 26/11 Mumbai attacks co-mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim - were declared individual terrorists in September 2019 under the new law. The new law, which came into effect in August 2019, gives additional powers to the investigation agencies, particularly National Investigation Agency (NIA), as it allows investigators to put an embargo on arms and seize assets. A statement by MHA said on Wednesday, “Reinforcing the commitment to strengthening national security and its policy of zero tolerance to terrorism, the MHA under the leadership of the home minister Amit Shah, today declared the nine individuals as designated terrorists under the provisions of the UAPA Act 1967 (as amended in 2019) and included their names in the Fourth Schedule of the said Act.”“These individuals are involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and from foreign soil. They have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilizing the country, by trying to revive militancy in Punjab through their anti national activities and through their support to and involvement in the Khalistan movement,” it added.SFJ has been banned by the government. Its leader-cum-legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun has been leading a campaign “Punjab Referendum 2020 for Khalistan”, launched in a rally in June, 2014 in New York. While testifying before a UAPA tribunal last year, NIA DIG Sonia Narang said, “SFJ is presently propagating ‘Referendum 2020’ in a very big way on the social media as well as on ground by holding meetings across USA and other countries where Sikhs are in large numbers. Further, a website was also launched by name www.referendum2020.org which is full of pro-Khalistani posts and anti-India insinuations.”The Khalistanis get support from Pakistan and its spy agency ISI, according to Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-tag-for-9-pro-khalistan-operatives/story-SRYgEwxdajXxV0M21rIvAJ.html
02-07-2020||India||New probe against Nath nephew over non-payment of dues: Cops||Delhi police has launched a probe against Ratul Puri, the nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath for allegedly not paying dues, including gratuity, to over 1,800 employees of Moser Baer India Ltd and Moser Baer Solar Ltd, officials familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.Puri is already being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in different cases, including the Rs 3,726 crore VVIP Chopper (Agusta Westland) case, and has already been charged with money laundering in the matter. Last week, CBI filed a case against him and his mother Nita Puri (Nath’s sister) for allegedly cheating a consortium of banks led by Punjab National Bank of Rs 787 crore.The Delhi police first information report (FIR), registered this February but not reported until now, names Ratul Puri, his father Deepak Puri, mother Nita Puri, and two others. The FIR, reviewed by HT, was registered on a complaint from Dori Singh, secretary of the Moser Baer Employees’ Union, who alleged that around Rs 90 crore dues, including gratuity of 1,883 workers of Moser Baer, were not paid after the company went into liquidation in September 2018.Singh’s complaint, on the basis of which FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to cheating (Section 420) and conspiracy (Section 120-B), said that “at least 1,883 employees of Moser Baer are suffering day and night because they are not getting due payments, their inalienable right, because Devendra Singh (resolution professional) in connivance with Deepak Puri, Nita Puri, Sunita Mowdgal (former directors of Moser Baer India Limited), and Ratul Puri (Director of Hindustan Power Projects Private Limited) diverted funds from Gratuity Trust Account which amounts to an offence Under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code”.O P Mishra, Joint Commissioner (EOW) Delhi Police told HT, “We are investigating the case.”When contacted, Ratul Puri’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal contended that the FIR had no basis. “Delhi police has already filed a report in the court that no offence has been committed, and subsequent to the date of FIR, the order of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) clearly states that the gratuity dues of all employees have been paid. Moreover, my client Ratul Puri is neither named nor concerned with this FIR, and it is a matter between the liquidator and the workmen which got finally settled,” he said.“The records which were made a part of the application reveal that gratuity was processed to 112 employees preferentially. The e-mail dated February 7, 2019 by Devendra Singh to Anil Kohli, proves the fact. It is written that he had allowed gratuity preferentially. Those people were seriously ill/ bedridden/ expired,” the FIR said.The FIR added that the examples cited by the liquidator in his application before the National Company Law Tribunal (Principal Bench), which was disposed of by an order dated February 19, 2019, reveals that employees were made to resign from Moser Baer India, and were either appointed or transferred to Moser Baer Electronics Limited (a subsidiary of Moser Baer India). “This transfer was shown as a break in service... It is settled law that if there is a transfer of an employee/workman from the parent to the subsidiary company, then calculation of gratuity should be counted continuously,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-probe-against-nath-nephew-over-non-payment-of-dues-cops/story-ivdTnOOirTToauqLv2j9yL.html
02-07-2020||India||Ayush ministry clears Patanjali drug for sale as immunity booster||Patanjali Ayurved’s Coronil ayurvedic drug will soon be available for sale across the country, the company’s founder, yoga guru Baba Ramdev, said on Wednesday, announcing the resolution of issues with the government over the launch of the product that Patanjali billed as a cure for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) before reclassifying it as an immunity booster.In New Delhi, the ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH) clarified that it has approved the drug as an ayurvedic immunity booster, and not as a cure or treatment for the disease.“Ayush ministry has only given permission to sell this particular formulation as immunity booster, and not as a medicinal cure for Covid-19,” said Suvidha Kumra, a spokesperson for the ministry. The ministry did not seem to have a problem with the name of the formulation, which suggests an ability to fight the coronavirus disease for which there is, as yet, no confirmed cure, although there are several experimental ones that have been approved. Last week, Patanjali’s Divya Pharmacy claimed it has found a cure for Covid-19, following which the AYUSH ministry asked the company to validate the “facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study”. The ministry also directed Divya Pharmacy to immediately stop advertising the product until its claim was verified.In its latest order, the ministry asked the Uttrakhand licensing authority to ensure that the ayurveda kit launched by Patanjal was not marketed as a cure for Covid-19. In Haridwar, where Patanjali is based, Ramdev said at a press conference that Coronil had been allowed to be marketed as a “Covid-19 management drug”.“All issues with the AYUSH department have been resolved and our ayurvedic drug has been labelled a Covid-19 management drug. This is appropriate and proves that Patanjali has done nothing wrong but followed all due legal processes,” the 54-year-old said.“Our Covid-19 immunity boosters are solely abstract and compounds of ayurvedic herbs like Giloy, Tulsi, Ashwagandha and have been effective during the treatment of coronavirus patients. Soon, this Covid-19 immunity booster kit will be available across the country, and we are in talks with those states also where due to confusion Coronil sale was being opposed,” said Ramdev.However, he referred to the controversial clinical trials carried out by the company and NIMS Medical College in Jaipur, which claimed the company’s ayurvedic formulations completely cured Covid-19. The clinical trial application filed with the regulator clearly mentions the title of the study as “Impact of Indian traditional Ayurvedic treatment regime for nCov-2 (Covid-19)”. It subsequently emerged that only mild and asymptomatic cases of Covid-19 were enrolled in the trial, which also excluded people with co-morbidities. On Wednesday, Ramdev insisted that Patanjali also carried out research on serious patients. He also played the nationalist card. The drug mafia, MNCs [multinational companies] and anti-national forces want me in jail,” he said.Acharya Balakrishna, Ramdev’s aide, said Patanjali had carried out clinical trials on diseases like dengue, hypertension, asthma and swine flu and it was not the first time the company has conducted virology trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-clears-patanjali-drug-for-sale-as-immunity-booster/story-mNRqjrUv6kHu4kLVDnfZVK.html
02-07-2020||India||Railways scraps thermal cameras tender after firms allege advantage China||New Delhi: Railways has scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for Covid surveillance following complaints from Indian firms alleging that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese firm, Hikvision . Railways’ telecom arm Railtel Corp of India Ltd (RCIL) in June, sought expressions of interest (EOI) for artificial intelligence (AI) based surveillance cameras . These can detect elevated body temperatures of people and can be used to screen people. Railtel has decided to issue a fresh tender with modified specifications. “EOI for selection of partner for thermal temperature screening solution to RCIL’s customers stands cancelled with immediate effect. Fresh EOI will be published soon,” a notice by the state-owned company said. This comes at a time when the Indian government has banned 59 Chinese apps (or apps with Chinese links), citing data security and privacy issues. The ban comes against the backdrop of escalating tension between India and China. In a letter written to Railtel, one of the vendors said the pre-qualification criteria laid down has some anomalies and ambiguities. Hindustan Times has seen a copy of the letter.“ Specifications issued are biased to Chinese OEM i.e. Hikvision, Specs clearly mentioned DeepinMind technology which is proprietary feature of Hikvision NVRs,” the letter said. OEM stands for original equipment manufacturer and NCR for network video recorders. DeepinMind is Hikvision’s proprietary AI technology. The name is a rip-off of DeepMind, an AI pioneer currently owned by Google parent Alphabet Inc. “As per latest Revised Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Policy dated June, 4 2020, wherein various provisions related to local suppliers and purchase preference has been appended. This policy has clearly stated in clause no. 3(a) in procurement of all goods, services or works, in respect of which the nodal ministry/department has communicated that there is sufficient local capacity and local competition, only “class-1 local supplier”, as defined under the order, shall be eligible to bid irrespective of purchase value. It is also stated that Global tender inquiry shall not be issued except with the approval of competent authority. (in case estimated value of purchase is less than Rs 200 crore,” the vendor added in the letter.Indian firms have alleged that artificial intelligence technology - DeepInMind which is specified in the tender is a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company part owned by the Chinese government. While the initial tender for these cameras issued on June 9 excluded a crucial specification called “black body” temperature -- the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has fever or not and the DeepinMind technology specification, they were included in the revised tender issued on June 23.Railtel wanted to buy 800 such camera systems.Hindustan Times on November 10, reported the national carrier is planning a complete overhaul of security at railway stations through the use of facial recognition technology backed by artificial intelligence.It also planned to link the facial recognition system (FRS) with existing databases such as the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) to identify criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-scraps-tender-for-thermal-cameras-after-indian-firms-allegations/story-Flwl2rl72wazhv9KAARiFM.html
02-07-2020||India||Military steps up vigil on LoC as tensions simmer along LAC||At a time when India and China are locked in a standoff along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the military is also keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict, officials and China watchers said on Wednesday.Reports prepared by the parliamentary standing committee on defence over the last decade have delved into the threat China and Pakistan could pose together. Pakistan was likely to step up hostilities if China were to launch offensive operations against India, a senior Indian Air Force (IAF) officer told the committee in 2014. He, however, stressed that China might not pose a collusive threat if hostilities were to break out between India and Pakistan.Officials tracking recent military developments in the region discounted the likelihood of India being drawn into a war on two fronts, but asserted that the armed forces were ready to ward off all threats.“The possibility of a two-front war is unlikely. But we have to stay militarily prepared to tackle a combined threat from China and Pakistan,” said an official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Indian military describes a collusive threat from China and Pakistan as “Contingency-III” , a second official said, asking not to be identified. Contingency 1 and 2 refer to individual threats from the two countries.“Three nuclear-armed countries may not go to war at the same time. But China and Pakistan have deep-rooted military links. No matter how remote the possibility of a two-front threat, the Indian armed forces must stay prepared for any eventuality,” said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), a former Northern Army commander.The army has moved around 30,000 soldiers, several squadrons of frontline tanks, additional artillery pieces and fully-ready mechanised infantry squads to the Ladakh sector as part of its expanding efforts to strengthen its deployments in response to fortified Chinese military presence in the region, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some of the assets have been drawn from formations in the western sector where favourable combat ratios exist to deal with Pakistan.The armed forces have raised their guard and are prepared to respond to any provocation or threatening actions along India’s borders, a third official, who too did not want to be named, said.“Recent encroachment by China in the Depsang plains and Galwan Valley have strengthened the possibility of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) attempting to cut through northern Ladakh and link up with the Pakistani forces in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in a war scenario,” strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney told HT.Tensions along LAC have flared up after an ugly India-China skirmish in Galwan Valley on June 15, which killed 20 Indian Army soldiers and an undisclosed number of PLA troops. According to India’s assessment, China’s casualties were twice the number on the Indian side.In his deposition before the parliamentary standing committee two years ago, a senior army officer said the modernisation of both Chinese and Pakistani militaries was going on in full swing, and it was critical to stay prepared for a joint threat from the neighbours.“China is competing to reach the levels of the United States. It is important that we remain deterrent as far as these are concerned. The possibility of a two-front war is a reality…It is important that we are conscious of the issue and pay attention to our modernisation and filling up our deficiencies,” he told the panel that tabled its report in Parliament in March 2018.The panel said it was important to channelise sufficient budget to modernise the Indian military and fill capability caps to take on the two-front challenge, referring to the “deficiencies and obsolescence” of weapons, stores and ammunition in the Indian military arsenal.Some of these gaps have been addressed, the third official said. “Several capabilities have been added. New fighter jets are about to be inducted, attack and heavy-lift helicopters have joined service, we have new air defence systems and the army has got new artillery guns and several other weapons,” the third official said on Wednesday.The military has been conducting exercises to deal with a two-front threat. Prominent among those drills was the Gaganshakti-2018 exercise that tested the Indian Air Force’s readiness and stamina for a two-front war. The largest-of-its-kind exercise saw IAF move its frontline assets from the western sector to the eastern front in less than 48 hours.Another report dealing with the challenges of a two-front war was tabled in Parliament as recently as January 2019. “In order to meet the challenges of a two-front war, IAF has to be equipped with essential combat capabilities and modern ground facilities,” the report stressed. IAF has increased its combat potential manifold during the last five to six years and it is capable for carrying out any task assigned to it in any sector, said a fourth official. Things, however, didn’t look as good a few years ago when the IAF admitted that it would be difficult for it to tackle a combined threat from China and Pakistan.In March 2016, then IAF vice-chief Air Marshal BS Dhanoa (later air chief) said the IAF did not have sufficient number of warplanes to fight a two-front war. “Our numbers are not adequate to fully execute an air campaign in a two-front scenario,” Dhanoa then said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-steps-up-vigil-on-loc-as-tensions-simmer-along-lac/story-MKsTw6ZufRjsUB6YPoKFEJ.html
02-07-2020||India||CBI files case in Rs 6,744-crore deal involving arms dealer Bhandari||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case in a deal worth Rs 6,744 crore by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in which the alleged bribe paid to the fugitive arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari is suspected to have been used to buy a London property linked to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra.To be sure, Vadra is not named as accused in the latest CBI FIR but Enforcement Directorate (ED) has repeatedly claimed in the court that this property at – 12 Ellerton House, Brynston Square (London), bought for 1.9 million pounds, belongs to Vadra.The CBI claimed that the deal for this property was stipulated to be completed on or before end of August 2009, just after Rs 22 crore (USD 5 million approx.) were transferred on June 13, 2009 in the Dubai account of Bhandari’s company Santech International FZC by Samsung Engineering Co Ltd (SECL).Vadra has repeatedly denied the allegations against him. “They can keep saying whatever. It has no meaning,” he told HT.The controversial deal was signed on February 10, 2009 for Rs 6,744.32 crore by ONGC with a consortium of M/s Linde AG, Germany and SECL, South Korea, for a Dual Feed Cracker Unit (DFCU) by ONGC Petrol Additions Limited or OPaL, for its mega petrochemical project at Dahej, Gujarat.In its FIR, registered on Tuesday, CBI named a former senior manager of SECL – Hong Namkoong, UK based company FosterWheeler Energy Ltd and unknown officials of ONGC and OPaL along with Sanjay Bhandari. The ED, in first week of June, filed a charge sheet against Bhandari for laundering money. The CBI is investigating him another Rs 2,895 crore-deal for 75 Pilatus basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force in 2009. Bhandari fled to the UK in December 2016 via Nepal and is said to be hiding in London. An Interpol red notice request is pending against him.CBI has alleged in its FIR, reviewed by HT, that Bhandari, was hired by Samsung Engineering for consultancy services for USD 10 million was to be paid to him. Email conversation between Bhandari and Namkoong allegedly revealed that the latter agreed to pay 50% advance within 30 days of ONGC making an advance payment to Samsung while the rest of 50% consultancy was to be paid within next six months.This was in violation of contract that stated that Linde and SECL will not involve any agent/consultant in India or abroad. However, SECL didn’t disclose that they had hired Bhandari’s company. Subsequently, there was no provision of making advance payment by OPaL/ONGC to the private company but the OPaL board decided to approve the provision of advance linking it to payment for progress of work.OPaL made an advance payment to SECL on February 24, 2009 after which SECL transferred USD 49,99,969 in the account of Bhandari’s firm Santech in June 13, 2009.“Enquiry further revealed that Bhandari is the beneficial owner of one Vertex Management Holdings Ltd from December 2009 to November 2012. Bhandari has acquired a property no – 12 Ellerton House Brynston Square (London) by purchasing 100% shares of Vertex Management Holdings Ltd, UK in his own name for 1.9 million GBP. The deal was stipulated to be completed on or before end of August 2009 i.e. just after the transfer of USD 5 million (Rs 22 crore) on June 13, 2009 (by SECL in Santech). It is further revealed that the said property was sold by Bhandari to an entity – Skylite Investments FZE, incorporated in UAE in 2011-12,” the CBI FIR said.ED has claimed in court documents that Skylite, floated by an associate C C Thampi, was nothing but a front for buying property for Vadra. Thampi was arrested in January this year.ONGC, SECL didn’t respond to email queries. FosterWheller company spokesperson could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-in-6-744-crore-deal-involving-arms-dealer-bhandari/story-TK1WJXetbF06AACmvaasGP.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally nears 90K mark, death toll now over 2,000||Delhi’s Covid-10 tall neared 90,000 with 2,442 new cases on Wednesday even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the situation in the national capital seemed to be improving.The new cases have taken Delhi’s tally to 89,802 including 27,007 active cases, the state health department said. A total of 59,992 patients have recovered/discharged/migrated cases while the death toll rose to 2,803 with 61 casualties on Wednesday.A total of 19,956 tests were conducted on Wednesday including 9,913 RT-PCR tests and 10,043 rapid antigen tests.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned against complacency while saying that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi seemed to be improving in the last few days. Kejriwal said that nearly one month ago when the lockdown was relaxed, it was assumed the cases would increase in the national capital.“After much effort, we have come out of the situation that was a month ago. We will continue our team work. There is a proverb - ‘Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst’. We will continue our preparations to deal with any situation,” he said.The chief minister also described the national capital’s recovery rate as “very good” which now stands at 64%, up from 38% a month ago. He also said that the Covid-19 death rate in Delhi has also come down.Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia also reviewed the preparedness at the 500-bedded Covid Care Centre being set up by Delhi government at the Commonwealth Games Village.The facility is likely to accept patients from Monday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-nears-90k-mark-death-toll-now-over-8-000/story-RaXeb5CvKWKLuwabOdz53M.html
02-07-2020||India||Delhi govt offers incentives to hire intensive care specialists||The Delhi government is considering to offer a host of incentives such as bonuses, health insurance for the entire family, and commendations to draw trained medical professionals to staff the intensive care units in government hospitals, officials familiar with the development said. The suggestions have been put up to the Delhi cabinet and will be sent to the lieutenant governor for approval, the officials said. The development comes close on the heels of the Centre giving an additional 575 ventilators to the Delhi government. Delhi already has 789 ventilator beds in its Covid-19 facilities but it is short of specialists to provide care to such patients. “The intensive care unit is not about just getting a bed and putting on a machine, adequate number of doctors and nurses are needed to continuously monitor the patients. There is a shortage of trained staff and even though the hospitals have advertised the posts, nobody is really willing to join. Why should they? The salary is the same, there is no additional incentive, and they have to work with corona-affected patients in challenging circumstances. This is the reason why the government is looking at various measures to address the shortage,” said an official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe shortage of trained staff was one of the major reasons for delays in scaling-up ICU facilities in Delhi government hospitals, as per the health minister-level discussions held two weeks ago. With over 70% of ICU beds earmarked for treating Covid-19 patients in the city – in both government and private hospitals – already occupied, the Delhi government is working on augmenting facilities in its hospitals.Currently, there are 1,693 ICU beds in the city, of which 789 have ventilators, according to the Delhi Corona App. Of these, 197 ventilators are in three Delhi government-run hospitals and 185 in Central government-run hospitals.According to estimates given by Covid-19 hospitals, one nursing staff is needed for each ventilator bed and one doctor for every four hours. The government had decided to recruit final year students of MD/MS/ DNB (post-graduate medical courses) and final year student of undergraduate and postgraduate nursing courses to staff the hospitals, in the health minister-level discussions held two weeks ago. In addition, Dr Mahesh Verma, vice chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, who had been tasked by the government to help solve the manpower issue, has also suggested hiring Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and homeopathy (AYUSH) practitioners and dentists, who can work in the non-critical areas of the hospitals, freeing up trained staff for the critical operations. All the special hiring will be for a period of six months that can be extended up to a year, it was suggested in the discussions.The government had hired 700 nurses through the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board, according to another government official.“There is a need to hire specialists – intensivists and anaesthetists – who can staff the ICUs in the hospitals. To ensure that the well-qualified MD/MS/ and DNB students are able to work at the hospitals as senior resident, IP University has expedited the final exams and I have asked the Delhi University to also do so. The students will not have to wait for the results of the examination and will qualify for the posts of resident doctors on submission of a certificate of having given the exam from their colleges,” said Dr Verma.Lok Nayak hospital, which has received 175 of the 575 ventilators given by the Centre on Tuesday, is yet to operationalise most of the machines, according to doctors from the hospital. The hospital plans to increase its ICU beds to 500 – of these, 100 ventilator beds are already working, 140 more will be added in the surgical block and 60 in the emergency block by next week. Another 48 ICU beds will be set up in the operation theatre (OT) complex of the hospital and 116 in the medical block, as per the hospital’s plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-offers-incentives-to-hire-intensive-care-specialists/story-9WCmTyaxJKlIdYwtQ4WLPK.html
02-07-2020||India||New genus of freshwater fish found in Maharashtra named after Manipur professor||A team of scientists from Maharashtra and Kerala has discovered a new species of freshwater fish found in the Western Ghats and named it after a well-known professor of the Manipur University.The new fish genus is called ‘Waikhomia hira’. ‘Waikhomia’ is derived from the surname of Professor Waikhom Vishwanath, a well-known taxonomist with the department of life sciences of the Manipur University, while hira means diamond.“The name ‘Waikhomia’ for the new genus is a tribute to Professor Vishwanath Waikhom for his exemplary contributions to improving our knowledge on freshwater fish of north-east India, and for promoting fish taxonomy as a science in the country,” said Dr. Rajeev Raghavan, an assistant professor of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS).“Professor Vishwanath has discovered and described the maximum number of freshwater fishes than any other living fish taxonomist in India,” he added. So far, Professor Vishwanath’s team has discovered around 100 freshwater fish species since the discovery of Puntius jayaremi locally known as Heikak Nga in 1986, and added over 200 fish species in Manipur alone.Dr. Raghavan, along with Unmesh Katwate of Bombay Natural History Society, Mumbai; Pradeep Kumar of Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Pune; and Neelesh Dahanukar of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune; described the new fish genus and results of their work was published in the leading international journal, Zootaxa, on Monday.‘Maharaja Barbs’, a member of the freshwater family and endemic to the high-altitude streams of the northern Western Ghats are currently represented by a single species, Puntius sahyadriensis. It was described from the streams of the Yenna river basin close to Mahabaleshwar in the Western Ghats mountain range in 1953.“But our studies have shown that this species does not belong to the genus Puntius. Hence, we assigned a new genus name, ‘Waikhomia’. While undertaking this study we found that there is an additional species to (Puntius) sahyadriensis and we described it as ‘Waikhomia hira’,” Dr. Raghavan added.The journal reported that the population of ‘Waikhomia’ was recorded from several tributaries of the east-flowing Krishna river system, including in the upstream regions of the Venna river -- the type locality of Waikhomia sahyadriensis -- and the Koyna river in Maharashtra; Tunga river near Kudremukh in Karnataka, and from the other independent west-flowing rivers such as Sharavati, Aghanashini and the Kali – the type locality of ‘Waikhomia hira’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-species-of-freshwater-fish-found-in-maharashtra-named-after-manipur-professor/story-sMryQvRIbQBDGy3f0cbfeP.html
02-07-2020||India||California state sues Cisco for caste-based workplace bias||The US state of California on Tuesday filed a lawsuit against Cisco System Inc for alleged caste-based workplace discrimination against an Indian American employee, who was described as a “Dalit” in the filing.The victim had not been identified in the lawsuit. News agency Reuters, which first reported the case, had named the managers, who were named as the defendants along with Cisco. They both appeared to be Indian Americans, going by their names. They were no longer with the company.Caste-based discrimination does not appear to be rare in the United States. A 2018 survey cited by the lawsuit said 67% of Dalit employees had reported being treated unfairly at American workplaces, presumably by, though it was not mentioned, their Indian American colleagues. It could not be immediately ascertained if this was the first lawsuit about caste-based workplace discrimination in the United States.Also read: US Congressman applauds joint efforts of India, United States against terrorThe complainant and his managers had worked at Cisco’s San Jose headquarters, which has a dominant South Asian workforce, said the California’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH), which filed the lawsuit.The managers at the facility “harassed, discriminated, and retaliated against an engineer because he is Dalit Indian,” the department said in a statement on the lawsuit.The complainant was “expected to accept a caste hierarchy within the workplace where he held the lowest status within a team of higher-caste colleagues, receiving less pay, fewer opportunities, and other inferior terms and conditions of employment because of his religion, ancestry, national origin/ethnicity, and race/color,” the statement added.The case has been filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits workplace discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex and national origin.“It is unacceptable for workplace conditions and opportunities to be determined by a hereditary social status determined by birth,” said Kevin Kish, DEFH director. “Employers must be prepared to prevent, remedy, and deter unlawful conduct against workers because of caste.”A Cisco spokesperson said in a statement to Hindustan Times, “Cisco is committed to an inclusive workplace for all. We have robust processes to report and investigate concerns raised by employees which were followed in this case dating back to 2016, and have determined we were fully in compliance with all laws as well as our own policies. Cisco will vigorously defend itself against the allegations made in this complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/california-state-sues-cisco-for-caste-based-workplace-bias/story-vwVclAR7uL48ox9Zb9uOGN.html
