03-07-2020||India||Central agencies detect Rs 512 crore GST evasion in one year after raids in Indore||The directorate general of GST Intelligence (DGGI), responsible for checking indirect tax evasion, claimed to have detected goods and sales tax (GST) evasion of approximately Rs 512 crore in the past one year leading to seizure of several bank accounts and properties in Indore apart from arrest of five persons, according to a Friday official release by the enforcement agency under the ministry of finance.According to the agency, the tax evasion estimate may rise further after assessing the data related to more dummy firms that may have provided raw material to the firm that was raided in Indore.“Operation Kark, (launched) to counter illicit sale of pan masala/tobacco/cigarettes, which was initiated on May 30, has till now detected GST evasion of about Rs 512 Crore in the last one year, while five persons have been arrested in this operation. In order to protect the government revenue, six immoveable properties and 14 bank accounts have been provisionally attached. In one month period, the officials of Central GST Intelligence have conducted more than 50 searches under this operation,” said the release issued by additional director general, DGGI in Bhopal, PK Singh.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAs per the official information, Rs 5.7 crore was seized in cash, besides 28 machines during the raids conducted at various places in Indore.“Search by officials of Central GST Intelligence was conducted at the premises of the supplier of filters used in cigarettes on June 25, 2020. Investigations revealed that this unit had declared invoices to have provided cigarette filters to three dummy firms, but actually the filters were supplied to the firm that was raided,” said the release. It added that one proprietor of the dummy firm was found to be an employee of a newspaper publications private limited.“In the searches conducted during the second fortnight of June, as many as 8 machines and huge quantities of raw materials used for cigarette/ cigarette filter manufacturing and cigarette packing have been detected and seized, since they were kept in undeclared premises for clandestine manufacture,” said the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-agencies-detect-rs-512-crore-gst-evasion-in-one-year-after-raids-in-indore/story-L3iWDIg7ZTaWdvGE0CdWYI.html
03-07-2020||India||Covid-19 cases cross 3000-mark in Uttarakhand, CM allocates Rs 11.25 crore for more tests||Covid-19 positive cases crossed the3000-mark with 64 fresh cases reported in the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand on Friday, state health department officials said.The state’s tally of coronavirus cases has now increased to 3,048, out of which 2,481 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state to 81.4%.Most of the fresh cases on Friday have been reported among people who had travel history from Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Afghanistan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Mangalore and Ghaziabad.Six of the new cases included contacts of an earlier Covid-19 positive case and two are healthcare workers in US Nagar district. Seventy-six Covid-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Friday with a maximum of 14 each from Dehradun and Pauri districts.According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Friday evening, the 64 fresh cases included a maximum of 21 from Dehradun district, followed by Nainital (13), US Nagar (12), Almora (8), Bageshwar (3), Chamoli (2), Champawat (2), Haridwar (2) and Pithoragarh (1).The state had reported its first positive Covid-19 case on March 15. The cases started increasing after May 23, when people started returning to the state in huge numbers.A total of 42 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with four patients dying due to the contagion, according to health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to co-morbidities and other causes, health officials said.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 53.9.56 days, while the infection rate is 4.6%. The state has so far tested 73,000 samples of which results of over 5,700 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 91 containment zones in five districts including a maximum 68 such in Haridwar, followed by 10 in Dehradun, 5 in Tehri Garhwal, 4 each in Uttarkashi and US Nagar.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday said the state government has approved Rs 11.25 crore for increasing testing facilities and infrastructure for Covid-19 in the state. Of this Rs 11.26 crore, Rs 3.75 crore each will be provided to government medical colleges at Dehradun, Haldwani and Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-cross-3000-mark-in-uttarakhand-cm-allocates-rs-11-25-crore-for-more-tests/story-LyusRxfmmHI7zjFaQf5StO.html
03-07-2020||India||Kerala not in favour of withdrawing case against Italian marines: CM Vijayan||Chief Minister Pinayrai Vijayan on Friday said that Kerala was not in favour of withdrawing the case against Italian marines from Supreme Court on a day when the central government informed the apex court that it has agreed to accept and abide by the award by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the case which relates to the killing of two Indian fishermen by Italian marines off the coast of Kerala in 2012.The chief minister also said that Kerala wants the Union government to explore the possibility of a review petition.India had accused the two marines – Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone on board the vessel MV Enrica Lexie – of killing two fishermen – Jalastine and Ajesh Binki in February, 2012. The ship was intercepted by naval ships after the incident and brought back to Kochi waters. Though the marines were arrested, they were later granted conditional bail by the Supreme Court and allowed to return to Italy in 2014 and 2016.The case led to a new low in relations between India and Italy on the issue of jurisdiction.The tribunal began hearing the case after Italy contended in December 2015 that India violated the rights and immunity of the marines – Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone – by detaining them. Italy also argued that India violated its exclusive right to institute penal proceedings against the marines under UNCLOS.On Thursday, the tribunal ruled that India is entitled to compensation in the case but, at the same time, the five-member arbitral tribunal under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) decided by three votes to two that the marines are entitled to immunity in relation to their acts during the incident and that “India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.Following the ruling, the Centre on Friday filed an application requesting the Supreme Court to dispose of the proceedings pending before the top court in relation to the incident.However, CM Vijayan said that Kerala will inform the Centre about its opposition to the withdrawal of the case.“We are not in favour of withdrawing the case from the Supreme Court. We will inform the Centre about this,” said the CM.Earlier state fisheries minister J Mercikutty Amma said the state has sought a copy of the verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-not-in-favour-of-withdrawing-case-against-italian-marines-cm-vijayan/story-V0GgE18jRgwRZC4PkGuEUN.html
03-07-2020||India||Taj Mahal to reopen on July 6 amid relaxations in coronavirus lockdown||Taj Mahal is set to reopen for tourists on July 6, after being shut for around three months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.The iconic monument which drew tourist on a daily basis wore a deserted look amid the lockdown. Traders and small businessmen who were on the verge of unemployment after the closure of the monument have welcomed the decision of its reopening.People associated with the World Heritage Site, including guides, shopkeepers, rickshaw drivers, hotels, etc. are hopeful of getting employment once the heritage site reopens. “We had said earlier also when the monument was closed, that we can make necessary arrangements. All the things that we are doing today could have been done earlier as well, and it is good that the monument is being reopened. This would also improve the conditions of the local businessmen who were on the verge of starvation,” said Munawar Ali, President of National Monument Security Committee. “It’s good news! Work that was closed for months will now start again. This would not only help the guides but all those who are dependent on tourists for survival. I request the government to reduce the rates here to attract tourists,” said Shamshuddin Khan, President of Approved Tour Guide Association, Agra.“All the workers and artisans associated here have faced a lot of financial trouble due to the lockdown. It is a good thing that the government is reopening Taj Mahal, as it would help small as well as large businessmen and they can start earning,” said Ashok Jain, a shopkeeper at Taj Mahal’s Pakhimi Gate.Earlier, Union Minister of Tourism and Culture Prahlad Singh Patel announced that all monuments can be reopened with complete precautions from July 6 onwards, amid relaxations in the Covid-19 lockdown.“Have decided that all monuments can be opened with complete precautions from 6th July,” said Prahlad Singh Patel in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-to-reopen-on-july-6-amid-relaxations-in-coronavirus-lockdown/story-CpM4LgTJgvTreUuhAxJTDJ.html
03-07-2020||India||Bengal police constable shoots himself at Writers’ Buildings in Kolkata||A Kolkata Police constable shot himself with his service rifle at the iconic Writers’ Buildings on Friday afternoon. He was declared dead by doctors when rushed to the hospital, police said.The constable Biswajit Karak, 34, was posted at gate number 6 on the ground floor of the Writers’ Buildings, which till 2013 used to house the state secretariat. He shot himself around 3:30 pm, said the police.Police said he was suffering from depression and was on medication.“Prima facie it appears that Karak shot himself with his service rifle. Investigation is on,” said Sudheer Kumar, deputy commissioner (central division) of Kolkata Police.Kolkata’s iconic Indian Coffee House reopens after 103 days after Covid-19 lockdownKarak was a constable with the fifth battalion of Kolkata Police. Even though he hailed from West Midnapore district, he used to stay at Lake Town with his wife and son.In 2013 the state secretariat moved to Nabanna building in Howrah and the Writers’ Buildings was being renovated. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s office is at Nabanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-police-constable-shoots-himself-at-writers-buildings-in-kolkata/story-RIJudlCTcMFgO4gZtDbJDI.html
03-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu crosses 1 lakh mark with fresh surge of 4,329 Covid-19 infections||Tamil Nadu on Friday crossed the one lakh mark in Covid-19 cases with the southern state recording a surge of 4,329 fresh infections and 64 deaths, pushing the death toll to 1,385.With the addition of the new cases the state’s coronavirus tally now stands at 1,02,721, the health department said in its daily medical bulletin.Out of the 4,329 new cases, 2,082 patients were from capital city Chennai alone and the number of positive cases in the city has touched 64,689.The total number of patients who have recovered from the deadly pathogen has risen to 58,378, with 2,357 people being discharged from medical facilities on Friday.With the Tamil Nadu government ramping up testing, 35,028 samples were tested on Friday, pushing the count to 12,70,720.According to the health department data, there are 42,955 active coronavirus cases in the state, including those in isolation wards. Sixty-five people who tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours have returned from various locations, according to the data.Six of those who succumbed to the virus were without co-morbidities which include a 27-year-old man from Kancheepuram district. Besides Chennai, Chengalpet recorded a spike of 330 cases on Friday; Madurai detected 287 and Kancheepuram 121.Of the total fatalities in the state, Chennai’s death toll is 996. As many as seven districts in Tamil Nadu have recorded a surge in the number of cases on Friday.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the country currently stands at 60.73 per cent, the Union health ministry said as the number of India’s coronavirus cases soared by over 20,000 in a single day for the first time, taking the country’s tally to 6,25,544, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 18,213 with 379 new fatalities.“Early detection and timely clinical management of coronavirus cases have resulted in increasing daily recoveries. During the last 24 hours, a sharp rise of recoveries was observed with 20,033 Covid-19 patients having been cured, taking the total figure to 3,79,891,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-crosses-1-lakh-mark-with-fresh-surge-of-4-329-covid-19-infections/story-XKLMSOUBoHnKl4ai6htLTK.html
03-07-2020||India||Covid-19: UK opens quarantine-free travel corridors for 60 nations; excludes India from list||The UK on Friday allowed quarantine-free international travel to nearly 60 “lower risk countries”, excluding India and the US, as it released a list of exempt nations posing “a reduced risk” from the deadly coronavirus. The UK Foreign Office Travel Advisory related to India remains unchanged as part of its wider advice for British nationals to avoid “all non-essential international travel”. India and the US are among the countries excluded from the list of nearly 60 low-risk countries. The list containing countries posing “a reduced risk” from the deadly coronavirus includes European destinations of Germany, France, Spain and Italy as well as Australia and New Zealand. Some of the Asian countries considered low risk include Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Vietnam, with popular holiday destinations in the Caribbean as well as Mauritius and the Seychelles also making the UK’s travel corridor cut. “Today marks the next step in carefully reopening our great nation. Whether you are a holidaymaker ready to travel abroad or a business eager to open your doors again, this is good news for British people and great news for British businesses,” said UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps. “The entire nation has worked tirelessly to get to this stage, therefore safety must remain our watch word and we will not hesitate to move quickly to protect ourselves if infection rates rise in countries we are reconnecting with,” the minister said. Under COVID-19 lockdown related rules brought in last month, most travellers from any part of the world coming into the UK currently have to self-isolate, or quarantine, for two weeks. The new measures, which will come into force from July 10, mean that people arriving from selected green or amber zone destinations will be able to enter England without needing to self-isolate, unless they have been in or transited through non-exempt countries in the preceding 14 days. The devolved administrations will set out their own approach to exemptions, and so passengers returning to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland could be subject to slightly different quarantine rules until they confirm their travel strategies to control the spread of coronavirus. The UK government said its expectation is that a number of the exempted countries will also not require arrivals from the UK to self-isolate. This will mean that holidaymakers or business travellers travelling to and from certain destinations will not need to self-isolate on either leg of their journey. The exempted countries and territories will be kept under constant review, so that if the health risks increase self-isolation measures can be re-introduced to help stop the spread of the disease into England, the Department for Transport said. The UK Foreign Office is also set to change its blanket advice against all non-essential foreign travel from Saturday and make it more region-specific in line with the traffic light system. The transport ministry said the graded travel system follows a risk assessment has been conducted by the Joint Biosecurity Centre, in close consultation with Public Health England and the Chief Medical Officer. The assessment draws on a range of factors including the prevalence of coronavirus, the numbers of new cases and potential trajectory of the disease in that destination. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 10 million people and killed more than 521,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2.7 million cases and more than 1,28,000 deaths. The UK has over 285,000 cases with more than 44,000 fatalities. The COVID-19, which originated in China’s Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a “severe recession”. Scientists are racing against time to find a vaccine or medicine for its treatment. PTI AK CPS AKJ CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uk-opens-quarantine-free-travel-corridors-for-60-nations-excludes-india-from-list/story-ijH9Mm8JQZVp0G82Cosk8M.html
03-07-2020||India||Over 5 lakh Indians repatriated under Vande Bharat Mission since May 7: Govt||More than 500,000 Indians stranded in countries across the world because of the Covid-19 pandemic have been repatriated under the Vande Bharat Mission since it began on May 7.In less than two months, a total of 503,990 stranded Indians have returned from 137 countries, including from remote areas, the external affairs ministry said on Friday.“Considering that the initial target to bring stranded Indians with compelling reasons was only two lakh, this is a significant achievement,” it said.Kerala received the largest number of stranded Indians (94,085), followed by Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.The largest number of stranded Indians returned by Vande Bharat Mission flights from the United Arab Emirates (57,305), followed by Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the US.Another 91,193 Indians returned from Nepal through land border check posts, while 95,220 returned through land border check posts with other neighbouring countries.Vande Bharat Mission has so far involved 860 Air India flights, 1,256 charter flights and repatriation missions by eight naval ships.The number of stranded Indians who have returned by Air India flights so far is 164,121, while Indian Navy repatriated another 3,987 Indians from the Maldives, Iran and Sri Lanka. Chartered flights brought back 230,832 people and foreign carriers brought back 3,969 people. About 60 people returned in air ambulances.This massive operation was carried out with the support and cooperation of Indian missions abroad, the civil aviation, home and health ministries and state governments. The external affairs ministry designated senior officers to coordinate with states to ensure the operations were carried out smoothly at all levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-lakh-indians-repatriated-under-vande-bharat-mission-since-may-7-govt/story-YUqZk8hLsw80V4d8yVZp8N.html
03-07-2020||India||Siddaramaiah alleges corruption of Rs 2,200 crore on govt’s purchase of Covid-19 equipment||Senior Congress leader and former chief minister and current leader of opposition in the Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday alleged that there was a Rs 2,200 crore scam in the purchase of Covid-19 related equipment -- including PPE kits, ventilators, masks, scrubs, oxygen cylinders, hand sanitizers and other essentials. “Prima facie it appears that the government has paid more than two-three times the market prices for the procurement of equipment used to treat Covid-19 patients. The government till now has made purchases worth more than Rs 3,000 crore and it looks like nearly Rs 2,200 crore might be involved in misappropriation,” he said.Siddaramaiah demanded that the government release a whitepaper on all expenditure incurred. He also cited various prices which he claimed the government had overpaid for, including ventilators which cost Rs 4 lakh and had been purchased at Rs 12 lakh, a PPE kit which costs Rs 995 but had been brought at triple the price, surgical gloves costing Rs 200 at Rs 400 per piece. He said that there has been massive corruption in the purchase of Covid-19 related equipment.He also claimed that lack of coordination between various ministers has led to the government’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation leading to a spike in the number of cases in the state. However, Medical Education minister Dr K Sudhakar refuted Siddaramaiah’s charges. “There is perfect coordination amongst all of us in the government and we are working under the leadership of CM Yediyurappa to combat the tough situation. It is unbecoming of a former CM to allege corruption in procurement of essential equipment to treat people. All procurement has been done in a transparent manner,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-alleges-corruption-of-rs-2-200-crore-on-govt-s-purchase-of-covid-19-equipment/story-5TLUvDFK7buzUOAiSzOuoL.html
03-07-2020||India||Congress says MP CM Shivraj Chouhan violated constitutional norms in cabinet expansion, will move court||A day after Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expanded his cabinet, the Congress accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of violating the constitutional norm of capping the number of ministers under 15% of the state assembly strength and threatened to move the court.The Opposition party has also questioned Chouhan’s decision to induct Jagdish Devda as a minister in his cabinet even though it was not clear if he had resigned from the position of pro-tem speaker in the state assembly.In the second and major expansion of Chouhan’s cabinet that took place on Thursday, more than three months after he assumed office and two months after the first expansion, as many as 28 new ministers were sworn in to fill all the ministerial berths in the cabinet except one.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn the 230-member state assembly, the number of ministers should not exceed 35. However, since the assembly strength has been reduced to 206 due to 24 vacant seats, the Congress claims the ministers’ number should be based on the existing strength and not the total number of assembly seats. Thus, they claim that the number of ministers shouldn’t exceed 31.Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member, Vivek Tankha said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has violated the law once again. He ran the government without any minister for a month. When I complained to the President of India, he inducted five ministers whereas this number should have been 12. Now, he has inducted 28 ministers and the total number of ministers exceeds 15% of 206 lawmakers in the state assembly. Congress will move the court against this illegal cabinet.”MP Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “Pro tem speaker of the state assembly is a constitutional post. A man can’t hold two constitutional posts simultaneously. There is no notification from the governor about his resignation, if it was tendered from the pro tem speaker’s post.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Reacting to the charges, home and health minister Narottam Mishra said, “There is no illegality in the cabinet expansion. It’s completely legal and I am saying this based on a study. However, if someone wants to challenge the same in the court, he is free to do it.”Meanwhile, according to some BJP leaders, several followers of a few BJP lawmakers, who couldn’t get ministerial berths, protested in their respective districts and a section of them even reached the state BJP office on Friday to lodge a protest. The reports of protests came from at least 7 districts including Indore, Mandsaur, Dewas, Sagar, Jabalpur etc. Supporters of BJP MLA from Sagar, Shailendra Jain, observed a ‘Jal Satyagrah in Sagar by standing in knee-deep water. They raised slogans and demanded induction of their leader in the cabinet.On Thursday, while followers of senior BJP lawmaker Ramesh Mendola staged a protest in Indore, one of his followers doused himself in kerosene in an attempt to self-immolate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-mp-cm-shivraj-chouhan-violated-constitutional-norms-in-cabinet-expansion-will-move-court/story-bjU4gUVQkH577B3mFWyayN.html
03-07-2020||India||Delhi logs 2,520 fresh Covid-19 cases, capital’s count swells to 94,695||The national capital on Friday detected a fresh batch of 2,520 new Covid-19 cases taking Delhi’s total coronavirus tally to 94,695, the state health department said. Fifty nine more patients succumbed to the viral infection in Delhi in the last 24 hours.The death toll in the capital city which has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases over the past month has now risen to 2,923.There are at present 26,148 active coronavirus patients in Delhi, while 65,624 people have recovered from the infection and been discharged.ALSO READ | Plasma therapy has helped reduce Covid-19 deaths by more than 50% at LNJP Hospital: KejriwalDelhi has once again slipped to the third spot in the list of states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases as Tamil Nadu on Friday crossed the grim milestone of one lakh Covid-19 cases with the state reporting 4,329 fresh infections and 64 fatalities, pushing the death toll in the southern state to 1,385.Early detection and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases have resulted in better daily recoveries, with the recovery rate of coronavirus patients crossing 60 per cent in the country on Friday, the Union health ministry said.India’s recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has improved further and now stands at 60.73 per cent, as the tally of India’s coronavirus cases soared by over 20,000 in a single day for the first time, taking the country’s tally to 6,25,544.ALSO READ | ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’: Oxford expert explains how the pandemic is likely to endThe death toll due to the coronavirus disease climbed to 18,213 with 379 new fatalities.Eight states, which include Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have contributed 85.5 per cent of the active Covid-19 caseload in the country and 87 per cent of the total deaths due to the disease in India has occurred in these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logs-2-520-fresh-covid-19-cases-capital-s-count-swells-to-94-695/story-pZURZLQq9MSHINOylArDrK.html
03-07-2020||India||‘We’re bringing modern technology from around world for armed forces’: PM Modi at Ladakh||On a surprise visit to Ladakh in the midst of heightened tension between India and China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told soldiers that modernisation of the armed forces is a priority and that the spending on border infrastructure has almost tripled. In an address to troops, Modi said India is manufacturing critical weapons and bringing modern technology from around the world for the armed forces as the government is paying lot of attention for their requirement. “If India is enhancing its powers on land, air and water, then it is for the welfare of mankind,” he said.  “India is manufacturing modern weapons today. We are bringing modern technology from around the world for the armed forces. The spirit behind it is the same. If India is building modern infrastructure at a fast pace, then the message behind it is the same,” he added.Modi said the government is paying a lot of attention to bring modern weapons for the armed forces.“Now the spending on border infrastructure in the country has almost tripled. This has also led to speedy development of border areas including construction of bridges and laying of roads,” he said. “One of the biggest advantages of this is that now the goods reach you in a short time. The country is strengthening its armed forces at every level today,” he added.The prime minister also heaped praise on soldiers for their bravery and courage and said they are serving the country under challenging circumstances. “Your courage is higher than the heights where you are serving today. When the safety of the country is in your hands, then there is a belief. Not only me, but the entire nation believes in you. We all are proud of you,” he said.In the midst of the border standoff with China, the defence ministry on Thursday approved procurement of 33 frontline fighter jets, a number of missile systems and other military hardware at a cost of Rs 38,900 crore.The government has also approved procurement of 248 ASTRA beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missile systems and a significant number of long range land attack cruise missile systems. The prime minister also mentioned about efforts to strengthen the national security apparatus.He highlighted recent initiatives of the government such as creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff, construction of a grand national war memorial, implementation of the one rank one pension scheme and steps to ensure the well-being of the families of the armed forces personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-re-bringing-modern-technology-from-around-world-for-armed-forces-pm-modi-at-ladakh/story-rPKKOhyU3ebfEookwm7KcJ.html
03-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Jyotiraditya Scindia says he opposed Emergency even when in Congress and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Opposed Emergency even when in Congress’: Jyotiraditya ScindiaJyotiraditya Scindia, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member, on Friday said that Emergency was imposed in the country for the sake of sticking to power whereas the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was working for welfare of people.Read more. ‘No party should complicate border tension’: China after PM’s Ladakh visitComplication of tension at the Sino-Indian border should be avoided, China said on Friday, within hours of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh in the backdrop of the ongoing hostile situation between the two Himalayan neighbours.Read more. 10 important things to know about recent earthquakes in Delhi and NCRAn earthquake measuring 4.7 on the Richter scale, centred 63km southwest of the millennium city of Gurugram in Haryana, shook the national capital region (NCR) on Friday even as the residents had begun to put behind a series of tremors experienced till June 8 last month. Here are 10 important points that will help in understanding the recent earthquakes.‘Expansionism era over, your fire and fury seen’: PM to soldiers in LadakhPrime Minister Narendra Modi, in an unannounced visit to a forward post in Ladakh this morning days after a violent border clash with China, told troops that the age of expansionism is over and underlined that the country’s enemies have seen the “fire and fury” of its armed forces.Read more. ‘PM did not name China as the aggressor, why?’: ChidambaramFormer finance minister P Chidambram on Friday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unwillingness to term China as the aggressor in the face of violent clashes that took place last month along Line of Actual Control in Ladakh’s Galwan valley.Read more. Mum records sweet interaction between daughter and their hearing impaired delivery manThe beautiful bond of friendship can genuinely blossom in the most extraordinary places. Eight-year-old Tallulah’s connection with a hearing-impaired delivery man named Tim further proves this idea. Tallulah’s mum, Amy Roberts, posted this 15-second-long clip on her Twitter account on June 19. Read more. ‘Not writing him off, no question whatsoever’: Michael Hussey on MS Dhoni’s comebackThe coronavirus pandemic has led to the postponement and cancellations of several sporting events. For Indian fans, the biggest disappointment has been the indefinite postponement of the Indian Premier League (IPL), which is a huge draw for the cricket crazy nation.Read more. Shah Rukh Khan’s wife Gauri posts about work, actor leaves cute comment: ‘Can you refurbish my Red Chillies office?’Actor Shah Rukh Khan left a humorous comment on his wife, interior designer Gauri Khan’s new Instagram post. Gauri on Friday shared a post about ‘the fifth wall’ of our rooms: ceilings.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jyotiraditya-scindia-says-he-opposed-emergency-even-when-in-congress-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CF2ejQatWgxvLuI1kTIiVM.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi calls Assam CM, assures all help to tackle flood situation||Prime Minister Narenda Modi called Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday and assured all help to tackle the flood situation in the state.“Spoke to Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal and reviewed the situation in the wake of flooding and landslides in parts of the state. Assured all possible support from the Centre to help those affected,” the prime minister said in a tweet.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), over 1.3 million people in 20 of the state’s 33 districts are still affected by floods. One more death due to drowning was reported on Friday, taking to total deaths so far in this season to 35.While the flood situation eased a bit on Friday due to break in heavy rainfall in most parts of the state, a total of 11,741 persons uprooted by flooding are still taking shelter in 156 relief camps.According to Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra was flowing over the danger mark at Nematighat and Dhubri, Jia Bharali overflowing at Sonitpur, Kopili at Dharamtul and Beki at Barpeta.Nearly 70% of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve continued to remain submerged on Friday. According to the park authorities, 48 of the total 223 camps used by forest personnel have been inundated.A statement issued from CM Sonowal’s office said that besides floods, the PM also inquired about the prevailing Covid-19 scenario in Assam and the steps taken by the state government to control the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-assam-cm-assures-all-help-to-tackle-flood-situation/story-7pRnBj8yPqPIb1Tyocbk6O.html
03-07-2020||India||With 211 new Covid-19 cases, Kerala to increase tests, tighten quarantine norms||With 211 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest since the outbreak began, Kerala on Friday decided to increase the number of tests and tighten quarantine norms across the state. Addressing the media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in some cases the source of infection was unknown and it was a worrying point.In the last 12 days, the daily number of cases crossed 100 every day but there is some relief as the rate of recovery also increased proportionally. “We have managed the disease with our strict protocol of track, trace and treat so far. But in some cases we could not trace the source of infection and it is putting pressure on us,” said the CM adding the state will increase the number of tests it conducts. Now the state’s testing rate is 5,000 daily and it will be doubled in the coming days.He said strict action will be taken against those who ostracise people who came from other states or abroad. He was referring to the case of a mother and her two minor children in Kottayam, who were refused entry into their house even after the 14-day institutional quarantine. She was also denied entry into her house and later she was shifted to a care home.“We have made rapid strides in the fight against the pandemic so far. But incidents like this sully our image. Out main enemy is the disease, not the infected. They need our compassion and care. We will take action against those who ostracise them,” he said. He said he has written a letter to the union government seeking more flights from Saudi Arabia. With 211 new cases, the total number of coronavirus cases has risen to 4,964 in the state. Out of this 2,098 are active cases and 2,849 people have recovered. At least, 90 per cent of the new cases are either expatriates or people who have returned from other states. The state has reported 25 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-211-new-covid-19-cases-kerala-to-increase-tests-tighten-quarantine-norms/story-JXPDvWlgQSoHJitRR4hpKM.html
03-07-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: Maharashtra’s record run continues with 6,330 new cases, 198 fatalities||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 34 more coronavirus cases than the previous single-day high of 6,330 recorded on Thursday to create a new unenviable record of daily surge in Covid 19 infections in the state, according to the state health department’s data. The total number of cases in the southern state have reached 1,92,990 with Friday’s tally of 6,364 new cases. 198 deaths due to disease were added on Friday to take the death toll to 8,376. The number of recoveries in the state stand at 1,04,687, while a total of 10,49,277 samples have been tested in the state for the disease.Mumbai reported fewer new cases than Thursday as the Covid tally for India’s financial capital rose to 82,0741 with 1,338 new coronavirus cases. The total number of deaths registered due to the disease in the city has climbed to 4,762.Maharashtra had logged 6,330 new infections on Thursday, the first instance of the daily numbers going past the 6,000-mark. The previous high was 5,537 infections recorded just a day before on Wednesday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe number of Covid-19 cases in Amravati reached 640 after 23 people tested positive for the disease. In Beed, an eight day curfew was clamped to contain the spread of the disease.Earlier today, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the state’s coronavirus situation in a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar. The meeting comes a day after the state health minister had suggested that the state could have entered the community transmissions phase of the contagious disease.On June 29, Uddhav had extended the lockdown in the state till July 31 while retaining the restrictions in force during the Unlock-1 phase which ended on June 30. He had earlier indicated that additional relaxations will be given keeping in mind the need to give push to economic activities.Due to the rising trend of daily cases, seen in the last couple of weeks, some of the municipal corporations in the Mumbai metropolitan region, like Thane and Mira Bhayandar, have announced lockdowns in their respective areas.State health minister Rajesh Tope had taken stock of the situation in Thane on Thursday and stated that the state government has been making all efforts to break the chain of coronavirus transmission.In a related development, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar directed the Pune district and city administrations to appoint an IAS officer to oversee coronavirus testing in one of the worst affected cities in the state. The Covid case count in Pune is nearing 25,000.Pawar also asked the officials to implement strict measures to prevent the spread of the virus in containment zones and take action against those who are not wearing masks in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-maharashtra-s-record-run-continues-with-6-330-new-cases-198-fatalities/story-3Dz7S1CWk2uRNJTPsM4f7L.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Expansionism era over, your fire and fury seen’: PM to soldiers in Ladakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an unannounced visit to a forward post in Ladakh this morning days after a violent border clash with China, told troops that the age of expansionism is over and underlined that the country’s enemies have seen the “fire and fury” of its armed forces. In an address to troops, Modi paid tributes to those 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clashes, and said tales of the bravery and valour of the armed forces are echoing in every part of the country. An unspecified number of Chinese soldiers also died in the clash.“Bharat Mata’s enemies have seen your fire and fury,” Modi said in an apparent reference to the military clashes between the Indian and Chinese troops. He stressed that bravery is a prerequisite for peace and that the weak can never accomplish it.The PM’s visit to Ladakh is seen as a strong message against China’s aggressive posturing along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the region.“We are the same people who pray to the flute-playing Lord Krishna, but we are also those who idolise and pray to the same Lord Krishna who carries the ‘Sudarshana Chakra’,” he said amid chants of ‘Vande Mataram’.Without naming China, the PM said history is proof that “expansionists” have either lost or perished.“The era of expansionism has ended. This is the age of development. If someone becomes stubborn for expansionism, then it creates danger for world peace. History is witness that such forces have either been eliminated or forced to turn back.The entire world has made up its mind against expansionism,” he said.The PM arrived in Ladakh accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane in the morning. Later, he interacted with personnel from the Army, Indian Air Force and the ITBP in Nimu. Located at 11,000 feet, Nimu is among the toughest terrains, on the banks of river Indus and surrounded by the Zanskar range. In the afternoon, Modi visited a military hospital in Leh where he interacted with soldiers, who were injured in the Galwan Valley clashes and are undergoing treatment.“Whether during the world wars or peace, the world has seen the victory of our brave soldiers and their efforts towards peace,” Modi said in his address.Several steps have been taken for the wellbeing of India’s armed forces and to further strengthen India’s security preparedness, said the PM. From ensuring availability of modern weaponry, increased border infrastructure, border area development and expanding the roads network, several steps have been taken for the well-being of India’s armed forces and to further strengthen India’s security preparedness, said the PM. Modi also underscored how virtues of peace, friendship and courage have been a part of India’s culture since time immemorial. He recalled that India has always given a befitting reply to anyone who has tried to disturb the prevailing atmosphere of peace and progress.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expansionism-era-over-your-fire-and-fury-seen-pm-to-soldiers-in-ladakh/story-vORV6ty5OoX05v7mldrksN.html
03-07-2020||India||Cop shot by service rifle in Bengal govt’s old secretariat building||Biswajit Karak (34), a police constable deployed at Writers’ Building, the Bengal government’s old secretariat building in the heart of Kolkata, was shot in the head by his own service rifle on Friday afternoon.The incident took place at around 3.30 pm. Karak was on duty at Gate No 6 which is meant for visitors. He was sitting on a bench near the gate and was close to the pavement outside the building. Policemen who were on duty at the spot said it was not clear whether he tried to commit suicide or got shot accidentally. He was taken to the Medical College and Hospital in a very critical condition. The bullet exited though the left side of his head. Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam, deputy commissioner (central division) of Kolkata Police said it appeared from circumstantial evidence that Karak may have tried to kill himself. “He is under treatment,” the DCP told reporters.A probe was initiated and security camera footage was being examined. Karak was attached to the fifth battalion of the Kolkata Armed Police. Although the chief minister’s office and other important departments have shifted to Nabanna, the new secretariat building in Howrah district, some departments still operate from Writers’ Building. The heritage structure, which is undergoing renovation, was built by the British government. It was the seat of power of the Congress and the Left Front governments. The complex is located very close to Lalbazar, the headquarters of the city police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-shot-by-service-rifle-in-bengal-govt-s-old-secretariat-building/story-pTNJ0YjtapiXZqQHlrOfzK.html
03-07-2020||India||Why is PM Modi talking about unnamed ‘enemy’ to Indians, jawans in Ladakh, asks Chidambaram||Former finance minister P Chidambram on Friday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unwillingness to term China as the aggressor in the face of violent clashes that took place last month along Line of Actual Control in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. “For the third time in a week, PM did not name China as the aggressor, why? What is the purpose of talking about an unnamed ‘enemy’ to the people of India and the jawans in Ladakh?” Chidambaram asked in a series of tweets.Chidambaram also raised questions about PM’s continued silence on where exactly the clashes between Indian and Chinese troops took place and whether China intruded into India’s territory. “PM has still not answered our questions about where the violent clashes took place on June 15-16 between Chinese and Indian troops and if the Chinese have intruded into Indian territory at several points,” he said in a tweet. “Nor has the government answered our questions on the satellite images showing Chinese troops occupying key positions in places hitherto considered as undisputed Indian territory,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-pm-modi-talking-about-unnamed-enemy-to-indians-jawans-in-ladakh-asks-chidambaram/story-II6YlFYXhFgO0nSWJMUYgN.html
03-07-2020||India||10 important things to know about recent earthquakes in Delhi and NCR||An earthquake measuring 4.7 on the Richter scale, centred 63km southwest of the millennium city of Gurugram in Haryana, shook the national capital region (NCR) on Friday even as the residents had begun to put behind a series of tremors experienced till June 8 last month. The latest tremor is likely to trigger fresh curiosity over earthquakes in the region and raise questions over safety of residents from seismic activities. There is no proven technology in the world to predict earthquakes with certainty in terms of location, time and magnitude, therefore information and awareness are considered key tools for better understanding of the phenomenon.Here are 10 important points that will help in understanding the recent earthquakes. 1. A series of 16 earthquakes or so were recorded in the NCR from April this year till June 8 with the last one in the series being a mild one centred near Delhi with an intensity of 2.1 magnitude. The epicenter of the tremor was recorded south east of Rohtak in Haryana at latitude 28.85 and longitude 76.76. Most of the earthquakes registered in the series were mild barring a couple above 3.5 magnitude including a 4.5 magnitude earthquake that had hi Rohtak on May 30.2. The National Centre of Seismology has said that the tremors were being monitored and studied by a team at the national centre. It had also termed the occurrence of mild tremors in this region as a normal phenomenon. J L Gautam, head of operations at the NCS had said that it was not abnormal to record several earthquakes within a couple of months in the NCR.3. Delhi and NCR is also vulnerable to quakes because of its proximity to Himalayas. There are many faults, ridges and lineaments transverse to the Himalayan arc. A major earthquake in the Himalayan seismic belt may be a threat to Delhi-NCR. However, the experts also described these events as “non-linear” to suggest they shouldn’t be seen as events connected on a timeline. NCS said the several mild earthquakes in a very short period could be attributed to “minor adjustments” of the tectonic plates.4. Delhi-NCR is in the second highest seismic hazard zone which comes under Zone IV. The tremors in the NCR could be a result of shifting in any of the several fault lines in the region incuding the Mathura fault; Moradabad fault; Delhi Haridwar ridge; Delhi Sargoda fault; Mahendergarh and Dehradun fault. The vulnerability of a region can be understood from past seismicity, calculation of strain and mapping of active faults.5. The NCS has also said that the occurrence of a series of small earthquakes can neither be extrapolated to predict a big earthquake in the region nor can it be used to rule it out. In other words, the agency has made it clear that earthquakes cannot be forecast. The Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology also made a similar point and said that small magnitude tremors in Delhi-NCR do not necessarily indicate that a bigger one was around the corner.6. According to experts, sometimes a vulnerable zone remains quiet or experiences small magnitude earthquakes that do not indicate any bigger earthquake, or can receive a sudden jolt by a big earthquake without any warning. All the quakes recorded in Delhi-NCR are due to the release of energy, which have accumulated as a result of northward movement of the Indian plate and its collision with the Eurasian plate, through the fault or weak zones.7. The experts at NCS have maintained that while there is no need to panic, it was important to be prepared and take precautionary measures to mitigate the risks associated with a big earthquake.8. A petition was moved in Delhi High Court last month seeking directions to Delhi government and the civic authority to prepare an action plan to safeguard structures in the national capital against a big earthquake. The court had asked the AAP government, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the three municipal corporations (MCD) to respond to questions on preparedness to deal with a major tremor. The court also directed the authorities to make the public aware about the action plan in place.9. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had requested the state government in the region to take steps to ensure compliance of building bye laws for the safety of upcoming constructions. They bylaws specify requirements to make buildings earthquake resilient.10. The NDMA had also suggested that the states identify the vulnerable structures including lifeline buildings and retrofit them to reduce their vulnerability to moderate to severe earthquakes. It also called for the retrofitting of private buildings in a phased manner. It also suggested that regular mock exercises were conducted and governments released SoPs for immediate response after an earthquake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-important-things-to-know-about-recent-earthquakes-in-delhi-and-ncr/story-n1aKl6NFRcvPA8KKMUGyQP.html
03-07-2020||India||Nagaland bans import, trade and sale of dog meat||Nagaland government on Friday banned the import, trading, and sale of dog meat in the north-eastern state. Earlier, the Mizoram government had taken a similar decision in March.“The state government has decided to ban the commercial import and trading of dogs and dog markets and also the sale of canine meat, both cooked and uncooked,” Nagaland chief secretary Temjen Toy tweeted after the decision was taken at a cabinet meeting.“This is a progressive move. In this day and age, positive social media activism and advocacy has an enormous impact on policymakers. Congrats and thanks to all,” Abu Metha, advisor to Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, tweeted.While there was not much clarity on what prompted the decision, there has been a recent online campaign against the sale of dogs and canine meat in Nagaland by several organisations, including the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisation (FIAPO).“We are again hit by shock and horror at recent images that have emerged from the ‘animal bazaar’ in Dimapur, where dogs are seen in terrifying conditions, tied up in sacks, waiting at a wet market, for their illegal slaughter, trade, and consumption as meat,” FAIPO had said in an appeal to Nagaland government on Thursday, urging it to enforce an immediate ban.In a statement issued on Friday, Humane Society International (HSI) and People For Animals (PFA), which had earlier demanded an end to canine meat sale in Nagaland, welcomed the state government’s move and dubbed it as a “major turning point” to end cruelty against dogs.“The decision by the Nagaland cabinet will end the import, trade, and sale of dogs and canine meat. We welcome this decision as a major turning point in ending the cruelty of the country’s illicit dog meat trade,” the statement read.Canine meat is consumed by some sections of the Nagaland population. Stray dogs caught from neighbouring states and even West Bengal, are routinely smuggled to Nagaland for sale as canine meat in Dimapur, the commercial hub of the state, and other districts and towns as well.Since the trade is unregulated, no data is available on the volume of dog meat consumed annually in the state, government officials said.However, according to HSI and PFA’s estimates, around 30,000 dogs are smuggled annually to Nagaland, where they are sold in markets and “beaten to death with wooden clubs”.However, the government didn’t share details about how it would plan to enforce the ban, as the trade is informal and unregulated.The government decision has met with some opposition by civil society groups and eminent persons, who termed the move as an infringement on food habits of the local Naga population.“The government may have some reasons why they decided to impose the ban. But, it will have an impact on food habits as dog meat is consumed by a section of the local population. I have no idea how the government will restrict food habits and implement the ban,” said Theja Therieh, secretary, Naga Tribes Council.“I am a dog lover and don’t consume dog meat. But consumption of dog meat has been part of our culture, so instead of taking a hurried decision based on a campaign, mostly from outside the state, the government could have talked to the stakeholders first,” said Alobo Naga, a popular local musician.In March, the Mizoram assembly had passed the Animal Slaughter (Amendment) Bill, 2020, removing dogs from the list of animals suitable for slaughter, effectively imposing a ban on sale and purchase of canine meat in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-bans-import-trade-and-sale-of-dog-meat/story-VqPnIBleACAeqimnD9fYYM.html
03-07-2020||India||WHO endorses tests by ICMR, 2 others for TB diagnosis, drug resistance detection||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has endorsed tests by three research bodies, including ICMR, for initial diagnosis of tuberculosis and detection of resistance to a drug most commonly used to treat the disease.The three research bodies said their tests -- “rapid molecular Truenat assays -- have been endorsed by the global health body for initial diagnosis of tuberculosis and subsequent detection of rifampicin resistance in adults and children.Rifampicin is a standardized drug and the most commonly used first-line treatment of tuberculosis.The three research bodies -- the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND), Molbio Diagnostics and the Indian Council of Medical Research said drug-resistant tuberculosis poses a particular challenge, with growing resistance to rifampicin and other drugs that treat the disease. Truenat is a novel molecular test that rapidly detects tuberculosis and rifampicin-resistance. All the three tests are run on the portable, battery-operated Truenat device and provide results in less than an hour, the bodies said in a joint statement. “Both Truenat MTB and Truenat MTB Plus (tests) detect Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria for TB diagnosis, while Truenat MTB-RIF Dx (test) identifies resistance to rifampicin, they said in the statement.Truenat MTB, Truenat MTB Plus  and Truenat MTB-RIF  are names of the tests endorsed by WHO.  Noting that tuberculosis remains the leading cause of death from an infectious disease worldwide, with around 10 million cases and 1.5 million deaths in 2018, they said drug-resistant tuberculosis poses a particular challenge, with growing resistance to rifampicin and other drugs that treat the disease.“In 2018, around half-a-million new cases of rifampicin resistant TB were diagnosed. Urgent action is needed to close the gap in tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment, particularly in low-resource settings, to reach the WHO target of ending tuberculosis by 2030,” the statement said.To that end, bringing sensitive TB diagnosis and drug susceptibility testing closer to patients is a key priority for global TB control, but requires robust point-of-care diagnostic tests that are easily implementable at lower levels of the healthcare system, it said.“This is a matter of pride for ICMR, Department of Health Research (DHR), New Delhi. It was a long journey to advance indigenous diagnostic technologies for diagnosis of tuberculosis and MDR/XDR-TB. Truenat is already accepted for use under the NTEP (National TB Elimination Program) in India.“Endorsement of Truenat by WHO will enable other low-and middle-income countries to procure Truenat for diagnosis of tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance, thus supporting tuberculosis elimination in developing countries,” the statement quoting Balram Bhargava, Secretary DHR and Director General - ICMR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-endorses-tests-by-icmr-2-others-for-tb-diagnosis-drug-resistance-detection/story-ZOqAaD45vtRRlmKTv53V4J.html
03-07-2020||India||YSRC appeals to Lok Sabha speaker, seeks to disqualify rebel party MP||Andhra Pradesh’s ruling YSR Congress party on Friday sought disqualification of party MP Kanumuru Raghurama Krishnam Raju from the Lok Sabha membership in the wake of his anti-party activities in the recent past.A memorandum to this effect was submitted by a delegation of YSRC MPs to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla in New Delhi this afternoon. The memorandum was signed by YSRC MP from Rajahmundry Margani Bharat on behalf of president and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy.Apart from Bharat, the delegation included parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy, Rajampet MP P Mithun Reddy, Narsaraopet MP Lavu Krishna Devarayalu and Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh.ALSO READ | YSRC MP revolts, seeks Centre’s security over threats to life from own partyThe MPs conveyed to the Speaker that Raghurama Krishnam Raju, representing Narasapuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, had violated the party discipline by openly commenting against the party president, opposing the policy decisions of the government, making wild allegations against party MPs and even questioning the status of the party.“We requested the Speaker to disqualify Raghurama Krishnam Raju who had indulged in gross violation of party discipline under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India,” YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy told reporters later.Sai Reddy alleged Raghurama Krishnan Raju had abused the party leaders in foul language. He joined hands with opposition party leaders and questioned the policies of the government. If he had any issues, he could have taken them up with the party president. Instead, he chose to speak to the media. It is pretty evident that he has been talking against the party for his political gains,” Sai Reddy said.Another party MP, P Mithun Reddy said, Raju had not given a proper reply to the show-cause notice served on him. “Jagan has given him a lot of importance in the party. Though there were senior MPs in the party, he made Raju a member in the parliamentary standing committee. He has misused the freedom and value given by the party,” Reddy said.A YSRC leader familiar with the development said the party was adopting the strategy adopted by Janata Dal (U) president and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in getting senior politician and 10-time MP Sharad Yadav disqualified from his Rajya Sabha membership in December 2017.After the Election Commission recognized Nitish Kumar’s group as the real Janata Dal, Sharad Yadav was declared a rebel. The Nitish Kumar group submitted all the evidence to Rajya Sabha chairman and vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu to show that Sharad Yadav had resorted to anti-party activities. Venkaiah went by the rule book and disqualified Sharad Yadav from RS membership.Meanwhile, the Narsapuram MP moved the state high court seeking to stall the attempts of the YSRC to disqualify him from the Lok Sabha membership and suspend him from the party.“I have not resorted to any anti-party activities. I was served show-cause notice on YSR Congress party letterhead, while my party’s name as per the EC records is Yuvaja Shramik Rythu Congress party. I brought it to the notice of the Election Commission. Till there is a clarification from the EC, I request the court to stall my suspension from the party as well as any action on my disqualification,” Raju appealed in his petition to the high court.The petition is expected to come up for hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-appeals-to-lok-sabha-speaker-seeks-to-disqualify-rebel-party-mp/story-xtU7iG5WAh7uENREtKcqOK.html
03-07-2020||India||Odisha logs 561 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, biggest single-day spike||Odisha reported its biggest single-day surge of 561 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of cases past the 8,000-mark as the state government enforced weekend shutdowns in 18 of the 30 districts from July 4.Of the 561 new cases, 425 were from quarantine centres while 136 were local cases. Ganjam, the Covid-19 hotspot district reported 283 cases, followed by 81 in Cuttack and 76 in Rayagada. Two more Covid-19 positive persons with co-morbidity conditions, like diabetes and hypertension, also died of the disease taking the death toll to 29 in the state.Health and Family Welfare department sources said of the 561 cases, 77 cases were detected from three premier hospitals - 55 from Acharya Harihar Post Graduate Institute of Cancer in Cuttack and 11 each from SCB Medical College and Hospital at Cuttack and AIIMS-Bhubaneswar. In Acharya Harihar Post Graduate Institute of Cancer, 18 patients tested coronavirus positive.In the southern district of Rayagada, 74 cases were detected from a village in Gunupur sub-division area. District collector Pramod Behera said the 74 in Bijaypur village who tested positive were infected by a 3-member family of superspreaders who had returned from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu last month. The family then infected 13 others taking the total infection in the village to 90.As cases continued to surge in the districts despite weekend shutdowns in 11 of the districts, including Ganjam and Khurda, in June, the state government has now decided to enforce it in 18 districts that now account for 84 per cent of the total cases. The districts where weekend shutdown will be enforced in July are Ganjam, Gajapati, Cuttack, Khordha, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Jagatsinghpur, Balasore, Rayagada, Nayagarh, Kandhamal, Bolangir, Koraput, Kendrapara, Bargarh and Dhenkanal.Any person violating the weekend shutdowns will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other legal provisions as applicable.In addition to the weekend shutdowns, some districts announced additional restrictions. In Dhenkanal district, known for its Shiva shrines, the collector banned entry of the devotees/Kaudias in various Shiv temples during the month of Shravan, The Koraput district allowed opening of shops and business establishments between 7 am and 2 pm. Ganjam has banned non-essential vehicular movement till July 31 as a precautionary measure to stem the rise in cases. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation prohibited labourers belonging to hotspot states or districts from working in the industrial, construction, hotels/hospitality sector till July 31.For Odisha, the surge of cases has been a major worry as they are peaking despite lockdown and shutdowns. In Odisha, the first 1000 cases were recorded in 65 days, while the last 1000 cases were reported in just four days.The weekend shutdowns have not led to any dramatic change in the Covid-19 cases count as the month of June saw cases double in the 11 districts where shutdown was in place. In the 11 districts, the cases doubled from 2142 to 4887 during the shutdown period. On Friday, the Ganjam district administration tweeted a photo of people congregating in a place without wearing masks following which Covid spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said if any citizen neglects his/her life or other’s life, the government will be forced to take tough and bold steps.“When the night curfew started at 7 PM people used to crowd at the shops at 5 PM as if it was ‘Bali Jatra’, now even after the government relaxed the timing people are still crowding the shops in a similar manner at 7 PM.“You and I, we all have a responsibility not to put life in peril. If we continue with our irresponsible behaviour, the government will be forced to take more stringent steps than earlier, there should be no doubt in that,” said Bagchi.The Covid spokesperson said anyone with Covid-19 symptoms will be sent to Covid care centres where they will be tested, and if found positive, the persons would be shifted to Covid hospital. To find out the spread of the disease, the government has started a 45-day door-to-door surveillance programme with the help of ASHA workers.“In case the person is found negative, but has symptoms, he or she will remain in home quarantine. Trace, test and treat is the principle of this survey. Be responsible citizens and cooperate with the government,” he said on the day Odisha conducted 6851 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-logs-561-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-biggest-single-day-spike/story-Xq5Rt8bBZHhgD3uOnsruKO.html
03-07-2020||India||Ordinance on industries won’t hurt land rights of indigenous people, asserts Assam govt||Assam government, which has been battling perception regarding an ordinance that has allowed micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to set up industries by only submitting a self-declaration, on Friday clarified the move wouldn’t hurt the land rights of the north-east’s most-populous state’s diverse indigenous population.States industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary stated that contrary to popular apprehensions, it wouldn’t allow setting up of industries in all categories of lands and the conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes would be off-limits.On Monday, in a bid to fast track industrialisation amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has roiled the state economy like in other parts of the country, Assam cabinet had allowed setting up of MSME units by submitting a self-declaration without taking any permission or clearance for a period of three years.The ordinance also allowed land for setting up industries would be “deemed converted”.The move had led to apprehensions that industrialists from outside the state would make a beeline for Assam and purchase agricultural land, which would later be converted for industrial purposes without any checks and balances, hurting the land rights of the local indigenous population.Opposition parties and several organisations had sought repeal of the ordinance at the earliest.However, the ordinance is yet to be approved by Assam Governor, Jagdish Mukhi.“This ordinance won’t affect the land rights of the state’s indigenous population, as safeguarded under the Assam Agricultural Land (Regulations of Reclassifications and Transfer for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Act, 2015,” Patowary said while addressing a press conference on Friday.“The ordinance doesn’t affect the restrictions on sale or transfer of agricultural land for non-agricultural purpose because it is protected under the Act. It won’t allow any person to buy or sell any agricultural land for the non-agricultural purpose,” he added.Patowary said the ordinance wouldn’t allow setting up of industries in restricted land like grazing reserves, wetlands, eco-sensitive zones, heritage, historical and archaeological sites, those meant for religious institutions and those falling under tribal belts and blocks.“An enterprise can’t set up industry related to hazardous products without obtaining prior permission, as mandatory under the central government laws,” Patowary said.While the ordinance allows setting up of industries without any permission, except for fire services and electricity, but on expiry of the three-year period, enterprises will be required to obtain all clearances within six months.No one would be able to sale or purchase agricultural land to set up industries, as “genuine owner” of agricultural land are allowed to set up MSME units in their own plots, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordinance-on-industries-won-t-hurt-land-rights-of-indigenous-people-asserts-assam-govt/story-FcotmydXrhJvAanwmjpoxM.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Opposed Emergency even when in Congress’: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Jyotiraditya Scindia, Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member, on Friday said that Emergency was imposed in the country for the sake of sticking to power whereas the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was working for welfare of people.The BJP leader made the comments while addressing the party workers through a virtual rally across the state to mark 100 days of Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh.Besides Scindia, union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar, chief minister Chouhan and state BJP president VD Sharma addressed the rally.“When many countries shuddered to think how to control coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a firm decision on lockdown. On one side, there is a party which had imposed Emergency on the country to stick to power and on the other another party’s leader made an appeal to people with folded hands to comply with lockdown and 130 crore people of the country responded to his request with a positive mindset,” Scindia said comparing Congress with the NDA government at the Centre. “Many people will say that Scindiaji since you have changed the party you are talking of Emergency, but I wish to tell them I always opposed Emergency and even when I was in the Congress. What is true is true and what is wrong is wrong. At the end of the day a human being has to live with himself. If you see yourself in the mirror and find yourself a liar you will not be able to sleep comfortably,” said Scindia.The leader underscored how PM Modi’s early decision to go into lockdown proved right for the country, comparing it to other countries that witnessed heavy casualties due to coronavirus. “ He (Modi) saved thousands and lakhs of lives with the timely lockdown decision,” said Scindia. Taking a dig at his former colleague, Kamal Nath, Scindia asked if the then Congress chief minister took any steps to help check the coronavirus situation in the state. Scindia then praised Shivraj Singh Chouhan for his “single-handed” fight against the epidemic. “I wish to ask the then chief minister Kamal Nath if his government held any meeting on how to control the disease and did he visit any hospital or any poor’s house? Instead, what happened in the last 14 days of the then Congress government were appointments on various posts and he held a meeting on IIFA award function instead of Corona. He had no funds for fighting Covid-19 but had Rs 700 crore for the IIFA award function,” Scindia alleged.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar praised Scindia for backing Centre’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status even while he was in the Congress. “Scindia ji appreciated the central government’s decision on Article 370 even when he was in Opposition. He raised several issues concerning people in Madhya Pradesh but the then Congress government was arrogant enough not to address his concern. In 2018, BJP could have formed its government by causing a defection but our principles didn’t allow us to do so,” said Tomar.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan again targeted Kamal Nath for not taking any steps to control coronavirus in the state.“The government has come to know that moneylenders fleeced people during Covid situation. A law would be enacted so that people from weaker sections of society and tribals don’t have to repay loans taken from such moneylenders who don’t have a licence for the business and are authorised to take back their valuables they have pledged with moneylenders,” said Chouhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposed-emergency-even-when-in-congress-jyotiraditya-scindia/story-1TsMt8P8Bx6MuFaWc3Sa4J.html
03-07-2020||India||4.7 magnitude earthquake jolts Delhi-NCR, epicentre near Gurugram||Delhi-NCR experienced an earthquake of the magnitude of 4.7 on the Richter Scale on Friday evening at 7 pm. The epicentre of the quake was 60 km south southwest of Gurugram in Haryana, according to the National Centre of Seisomology.The tremors were felt for a few seconds. There has been no report of any damage to life or property so far.It was the seventeenth quake to occur in the region in the last two months.Delhi witnessed the last earthquake on June 8, measuring about 2.1 on the Richter scale.The series of earthquakes or tremors have sparked concerns that a bigger quake could strike the national capital region. Seismologists say the increased frequency does not necessarily imply that a major one may be in the offing but emphasize that monitoring the tremors is the key to being prepared. Unlike many other natural disasters, earthquakes cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tremors-felt-across-delhi-ncr/story-n7bbG4iGPSJ5mmWlg2U9HO.html
03-07-2020||India||2 boys promise 7-year-old girl coronavirus cure, rape her||A 7-year-old girl was raped allegedly by two minor boys who kidnapped her on the pretext of providing coronavirus treatment in Chhattisgarh’s Gaurela- Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) district, police said on Friday.The incident took place on July 1 and the two boys were detained on Thursday, said Marwahi Station House Officer Sunil Kumar.“When the girl returned home after collecting wood from the forest, the two boys reached there and told her she had contracted coronavirus infection and took her along on the pretext of providing treatment,” he said.“The girl was taken to the house of one of the accused, which was empty, where she was raped. She reached home and told her kin about the incident after which a case was registered,” he added.The boys were booked under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 376D (gangrape) of IPC and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have also been invoked, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-boys-promise-7-year-old-girl-coronavirus-cure-rape-her/story-889zlz7nInWnC9xXVe4DjN.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Won’t be spared’: Yogi Adityanath takes a vow to nab Kanpur gangsters||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that those responsible for the death of eight policemen during the Kanpur encounter with gangsters last night won’t be spared. He also announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs one crore for the next of kin of the deceased cops along with pension and a government job for a member of the family.UP chief minister added that the sacrifice of the policemen will not go in vain. His comments follow opposition criticism of the law and order situation in India’s largest state including allegations of alleged nexus between the criminals and the powerful in the state, made by Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav.Kanpur encounter: Opposition parties slam Yogi Adityanath govt over law and order situation“In Kanpur encounter, our 8 policemen lost their lives and two criminals died. Sacrifice of our policemen won’t go in vain. People responsible for this, won’t be spared. The government will provide an ex gratia of Rs 1 crore each to kin of deceased, pension and a government job,” Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Eight policemen including deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devendra Mishra, sub-inspectors Mahesh Yadav, Anup Kumar, Babulal and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra, and Babloo were killed in the firing during a raid to nab gangster Vikas Dubey late at night on Thursday. Two gangsters were also killed during the exchange of fire. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack.Yogi Adityanath had earlier today visited Kanpur to pay tributes to the slain policemen and offer condolences to their families.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe police team heading to arrest Vikas Dubey, a history-sheeter with more than 60 criminal cases, was first attacked by goons stationed on a rooftop in Bikru village on Thursday midnight. The attackers snatched weapons from the dead and the wounded policemen after the ambush and fled.They were later engaged in an encounter with cops, who sealed the entire area and started a combing operation leading to the second encounter with Dubey’s men in Nivada village. Two criminals, Prem Prakash and Atul Dubey, were killed here.Search continues for the other members of the gang and the rest of the weapons snatched from the cops. The snatched weapons included an AK-47 rifle, an INSAS rifle, a Glock pistol and two .9mm pistols, a police spokesman quoted by PTI said.The raid at Vikas Dubey was carried out following a complaint alleging his involvement in an attempt to murder case. Dubey is also suspected of involvement in murder of senior BJP leader-- Santosh Shukla-- inside a police station in 2001. Dubey already carries a reward of Rs 25,000 for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-be-spared-yogi-adityanath-takes-a-vow-to-nab-kanpur-gangsters/story-Vqz1Musb48vJXCtNejAtOL.html
03-07-2020||India||At $500 billion, India has world’s fifth-largest foreign exchange reserves||India has accumulated the world’s fifth-largest foreign exchange reserves at more than $500 billion, making it a bright spot in an otherwise dismal economy.The reserves were bolstered by a rare current-account surplus in the first quarter, a return of inflows into the local stock market and foreign direct investment, including into a unit of Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s largest company by revenue. That allowed the central bank to mop up close to $25 billion in foreign exchange to add to its reserves in the quarter through June, according to analysts such as Anubhuti Sahay, chief India economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai.A strong reserve buffer is a cushion against market volatility, and gives foreign investors and credit rating companies added comfort that the government can meet its debt obligations despite a deteriorating fiscal outlook and the economy’s first likely contraction in more than four decades.Here is a deeper look at India’s external finances:Bigger PileThe level of reserves is enough to cover 13 months of imports and is equivalent to nearly a fifth of the country’s gross domestic product. It’s also the fifth-largest in the world after China, Japan, Switzerland and Russia, according to the International Monetary Fund. Data from the central bank on Friday showed reserves were at $506.8 billion as of June 26.“FX reserves are more than sufficient on the adequacy metrics,” said Samiran Chakraborty, chief India economist at Citigroup Inc. in Mumbai, noting that the last five-year average was 11-months cover. “Short-term debt would be around 20% of FX reserves, and even volatile capital flows have likely dropped to below 80% of reserves,” he said.Falling ImportsIndia’s trade gap narrowed to a 13-year low in May, as imports declined faster than exports. While the contraction reduces the need for dollars to fund purchases for now, it does highlight a worrying trend -- that demand in the economy has been hit hard amid one of the world’s strictest pandemic lockdowns. As a growing and emerging market economy, India needs to import capital goods and machinery to keep its industrial sector humming. Cheaper oil also helped lower the import bill.On BalanceIndia’s current account, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, is likely to remain in surplus in the April-June period, but a recovery in imports might tilt the balance for the full year.“Improvement in economic activity over next few quarters is likely to push the current account back into deficit,” said Standard Chartered’s Sahay. “Lower commodity prices and weak global demand are likely to negatively affect remittances inflows and services exports, weighing further on the current account balance.”Capital FlowsAfter outflows in March amid a global market sell-off, foreign investment into Indian stocks have picked up in the past two months as risk appetite returned. In addition, inflows have increased with the sale of stakes in blue-chip companies like Reliance, which divested from its Jio digital platform, and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. Net FDI flows made up 51.7% of total capital flows in the year ended March 31, according to Deutsche Bank AG.“We expect similar trend in FY21 as well, with net FDI flows likely to account for nearly 65% of total capital inflows,” said Kaushik Das, chief India economist at Deutsche Bank in Mumbai.External DebtData from the central bank show India’s external debt rose to $558.5 billion as of March 2020 from $474.4 billion five years ago. While the level has gone up, the ratio of foreign exchange reserves to overall debt has also risen to 85.5% from 72% in 2015.The level of debt that foreigners are likely to hold, including sovereign bonds, is likely to go up as India works to open its debt market to non-residents. The country is aiming for a 7% weighting in indexes tracked by global investors, with an inclusion likely to attract billions of dollars at a time when public finances are deteriorating.“The government intends to open up more to foreign capital in the next few years as a source of deficit financing, but foreign investors’ tolerance for government debt at current levels, with a significantly larger portion of external debt, remains to be tested,” Fitch Ratings Ltd. wrote in a recent report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-500-billion-india-has-world-s-fifth-largest-foreign-exchange-reserves/story-b1hQZrxpAVYidGzhLrIK8I.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Do judges want to run govt?’: Andhra Pradesh speaker kicks up a row||Andhra Pradesh state assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram has triggered a controversy by accusing the judiciary of interfering in the policy decisions of the popularly elected state government.“If the court can decide as to what the state government should do, what is the purpose of elections, why should people elect MLAs and MPs, why should the chief minister be there to rule, why is there an assembly and a speaker? Do the judges want to directly run the government and rule the state from court halls?” the assembly speaker told reporters after having darshan of Lord Venkateswara in Tiurupati.Sitaram’s comments come in the wake of a series of judgments by the state high court in the recent past that went against the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSR Congress Party government.The judgments range from ordering a CBI probe into the assault on a Dalit doctor, reinstatement of retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as state election commissioner, removal of YSRCP colours on the government buildings and striking down the suspension of former state intelligence chief AB Venkateshwar Rao.“We have seen some judgments from the courts in the recent past. The Constitution of India has enunciated certain duties, responsibilities and powers to legislature, executive and judiciary and indicated that they should not interfere into each other’s functioning. Yet, the courts are directly trespassing the powers of the popularly elected government,” Sitaram said.The state speaker questioned how the courts could direct the state government to take or not to take decisions. “The authors of the Constitution would not have expected that such a situation would arise in future. Otherwise, they would have suggested some way out,” he said, adding that the intellectuals should debate on the recent court decisions dictating terms to the government.If the governments did something wrong, the speaker continued, the people who voted a party to the power would defeat it in the next elections. “We have to respect the people’s mandate. The governments will run in tune with the people’s aspirations,” he said.Senior TDP leader and Rajya Sabha member Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar on Friday said it was not correct on the part of the assembly speaker to attack the courts just because they delivered judgments against the government.“If power goes to one’s head, one would only find fault with the judiciary and Constitution. Sitaram should make it clear whether he had made the comments in the capacity of the assembly speaker of the YSR Congress Party member,” he said.Kumar said the Supreme Court had made it clear several times in the past that the governments, irrespective of the majority they have in the legislature, should function within the limits of the Constitution.“The courts will definitely interfere, if the governments take decisions in violation of the Constitution. The judiciary has the powers to review the government’s decisions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-judges-want-to-run-govt-andhra-pradesh-speaker-kicks-up-a-row/story-rG2t6mL5MXm1D6jpbDPwLM.html
03-07-2020||India||Wards in India’s largest Covid 19 hospital to be named after Indian Army soldiers killed in Galwan Valley clash: DRDO||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has decided to name different wards at India’s biggest Covid 19 treatment facility in Delhi after Indian Army soldiers who died fighting the Chinese Army in the Galwan Valley on June 15, according to news agency ANI. It attributed the development to the technology advisor to the DRDO chairman.Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel is India’s largest hospital erected temporarily on the south Delhi premises of a religious organization with the capacity to house and treat 10,000 coronavirus patients at the same time.The makeshift facility, operationalised recently, is set up in a 1755 sqft by 703 sqft area and is roughly the size of 20 football fields combined. The hospital is being managed by medical experts from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) following a request by the union home ministry. While ITBP is the nodal agency to operate the Chhattarpur facility, the Delhi government is pitching in with administrative support. Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas have also been roped in to run the treatment centre.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe development comes on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a day long visit to Leh in Ladakh, where 20 army soldiers were martyred in clashes with Chinese forces that were seeking to alter the status quo on the Line Of Actual control (LAC). The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel centre has two segments- Covid Care Centre (CCC), for treatment of asymptomatic positive cases and Dedicated Covid Health Care (DCHC) for treatment of more serious cases. The CCC has 90% beds while DCHC has 10% beds. The DCHC is for the treatment of symptomatic cases and is equipped with an oxygen support system.Top 10 quotes from PM Modi’s address to soldiers of Indian Army in LadakhThe makeshift hospital is divided into blocks and each block consists of 100 beds.The DRDO is also associated with creation of a 1000 bed Covid hospital with 250 ICU beds at New Delhi in association with Tata Sons. The facility is being operationalised in a record 10 days and it will be operated by the Armed Forces Medical Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wards-in-india-s-largest-covid-19-hospital-to-be-named-after-indian-army-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley-clash-drdo/story-lO9TOrSIwfa37T3dkn2O6L.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi meets soldiers injured in Galwan Valley clash, says they make 130 cr Indians proud||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday met soldiers injured in the Galwan Valley clash with China and told them that 130 crore Indians were proud of their valour. The prime minister visited the injured soldiers in hospital in Leh, soon after he addressed soldiers deployed in Ladakh.“Our country has never bowed down and will never bow down to any world power, and I am able to say this because of braves like you,” PM Modi said while interacting with the soldiers, who were injured in the June 15 clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.ALSO READ | PM Modi wraps up Ladakh visit with a swipe at China, says times have changedIn a veiled reference to China, the PM said that the country will never bow to any other power in the world.“I have come here to thank each one of you. Our India is self-reliant. Our country has never bowed down and will never bow down to any world power. I pay my respects to you as well as to the mothers who gave birth to braves like you. Hope everyone gets well soon,” he said. Earlier in the day, addressing soldiers in Nimu, Prime Minister Modi, in an apparent swipe at China said the age of expansionism was over and added that the new age of development was the one nations should focus on.“From Leh, Ladakh to Siachen and Kargil...and Galwan’s icy waters...every mountain, every peak is witness to the valour of Indian soldiers. Age of expansionism is over; this is the age of development. History has witnessed that expansionist forces have either lost or were forced to turn back,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also mentioned that the people of Ladakh had rejected every attempt to create separatism in the region.Praising the soldiers for their bravery on June 15, the Prime Minister said, “The braves who left us, they did not depart without reason, all of you gave a befitting reply. Your bravery, the blood you shed will inspire our youth and countrymen for generations.”ALSO READ | ‘No party should complicate border tension’: China after PM’s Ladakh visit“You are in a hospital that’s why you may not know that 130 crore citizens are proud of you. A message has gone to the world about the valour shown by you bravehearts. The way you stood up to the powers, the world wishes to know who are these bravehearts? What is their training? What is their sacrifice? The world is analyzing your bravery. The blood you have shed is an inspiration to our country,” PM Modi said. The India-China border situation continues to remain tense after 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in a violent face-off in the Galwan Valley on June 15-16 when Chinese troops attempted to unilaterally change the status quo during the de-escalation. India and China have been involved in talks to ease the ongoing border tensions since last month.Earlier today, the Prime Minister made a surprise visit to Ladakh and was briefed by senior officers at Nimu amid ongoing tensions with China. The Prime Minister was accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-soldiers-injured-in-galwan-valley-clash-says-130-cr-indians-proud-of-you/story-FWHw7GY8ktkNrmlXIYNhLN.html
03-07-2020||India||Sonia writes to PM on denial of reservation to OBCs in state medical colleges||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing concern over the denial of the reservation to candidates from the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) under the All India Quota in state-run medical colleges.The quota is filled through the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in medical education institutions in states and union territories (UTs).Under the All India Quota, 15%, 7.5%, and 10% seats are reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), and economically weaker section (EWS) candidates, respectively, in both central and state-run medical colleges.However, at present, the reservation for OBC candidates under the quota is restricted only to central institutions.On May 11, a controversy erupted, when the All India Federation of Other Backward Classes Employees’ Welfare Association wrote to the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC), claiming that OBC candidates have been denied reservations under the All India Quota both in undergraduate and postgraduate courses since 2017.Gandhi quoted the data compiled by the federation to claim that OBC candidates lost over 11,000 seats, in All India Quota, due to non-implementation of OBC reservations in medical colleges in states and UTs.“Denial of reservations to OBCs in state medical institutions in All India Quota, being administered by the central government, violates the very objective of the 93rd Constitutional Amendment and is a barrier to access medical education for deserving OBC candidates,” the Congress chief wrote in the letter.The 93rd Constitutional Amendment has special provisions for the admission of socially and educationally backward classes, or for the SCs, or the STs in educational institutions, including private ones, whether aided or unaided by the state, other than the minority institutions.“In the interest of equity and social justice, I strongly urge the Union government to extend the reservation for OBC candidates in All India Quota of medical and dental seats, even in medical education institutions in states and UTs,” Gandhi said.The issue took a political turn when the Congress; the Communist Party of India (Marxist), CPI (M), the Communist Party of India (CPI); the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) moved the Supreme Court (SC) in June, challenging the Centre’s decision not to grant 50% reservation to OBCs as per Tamil Nadu law in medical seats surrendered by the state in the All India Quota for undergraduate, postgraduate and dental courses for the academic session 2020-21.The SC had refused to entertain their pleas and instead asked them to approach the Madras high court in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-writes-to-pm-on-denial-of-reservation-to-obcs-in-state-medical-colleges/story-zbcfBh97r9Ap2nvgRV4ZdJ.html
03-07-2020||India||Kanpur encounter: Opposition parties slam Yogi Adityanath govt over law and order situation||Opposition parties in the state launched a sharp attack on the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh (UP) government on Friday after the killing of eight police personnel by criminals in Kanpur district the previous night during a raid to nab Vikas Dubey, a dreaded gangster.Leaders the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Congress, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), tweeted, hailing the slain police personnel for their bravery and demanded stringent action against the guilty. Akhilesh Yadav, national president, SP, described the incident as unfortunate, as he paid tributes to the police personnel, who were killed in the line of duty.“This is the most shameful incident in UP, where duty-bound police personnel paid the price with their lives for the nexus between criminals and people in power. The criminals should be caught alive and the state government must be exposed,” Yadav tweeted in Hindi.The SP leader also demanded Rs 1 crore compensation for the next of kin of each of the slain police personnel. Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra, Congress’s general secretary and in-charge of UP, tweeted, urging stern action against the criminals.“My condolences to the families of the martyred policemen. Law and order situation in UP has worsened, criminals have become fearless, while the public and the police are feeling unsafe. The chief minister himself holds the charge of the home department. He should take stern action after such a horrific incident,” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi and asked the UP government: “Here is another evidence of ‘Gunda Raj’ in UP. When police are unsafe, how can the public feel safe?”BSP chief Mayawati, in her tweet, called the incident “sad, shameful, and unfortunate”. “It is clear that the UP government needs to be more alert and prepared, especially in the matter of law and order,” Mayawati tweeted in Hindi.“The government must not spare the criminals, at any cost, in such a sensational incident even if it requires a special operation. The BSP demands that the state government must pay appropriate ex-gratia to the families of the policemen as well as a government job to a member of the family of slain cops,” she tweeted.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devendra Mishra, sub-inspectors Mahesh Yadav, who was the station officer of Shivrajpur police station, Anup Kumar, Babulal and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra, and Babloo died in the firing during a raid to nab gangster Dubey late at night on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-encounter-opposition-parties-slam-yogi-adityanath-govt-over-law-and-order-situation/story-vRy4p69YuyA9uE0jpobpHP.html
03-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India protests over 2,400 ceasefire violations on LoC by Pakistan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India lodges protest with Pakistan for more than 2,400 ceasefire violations on LoCIndia on Friday registered a strong protest with Pakistan over more than 2,400 unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces along the Line of Control (LoC) and the international boundary this year that have killed 14 Indians.Read MorePM Modi wraps up Ladakh visit with a swipe at China, says times have changedOn a quiet visit to Ladakh designed to deliver a loud message to China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told soldiers posted along the Line of Actual Control that the courage they had demonstrated had sent a message to the entire world. Addressing soldiers deployed in Ladakh, PM Modi said tales about their valour were being spoken in every house across the country.Read MoreSri Lanka police calls off 2011 WC final fixing probeThe Sri Lankan Police on Friday ended its investigation into allegations that the country’s 2011 World Cup final loss to India was fixed, saying it found no evidence after recording statements of stalwarts like Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardene.Read MoreTikTok-rival Chingari app crosses 10 million downloads on Google Play StoreChingari is one the few TikTok rivals seeing huge surge in downloads and users ever since the ban on Chinese apps. The app has now crossed 10 million downloads on Google Play Store.Read MoreBosco on Saroj Khan’s death: ‘We were going to team up for my debut directorial’Choreographer Bosco Leslie Martis shares fond memories of working with the late choreographer Saroj Khan, and why he thinks Bollywood would be ‘adhoora’ without her being around. He also reveals that they missed out on working together on his debut film as a director.Read MoreJEE Main, NEET 2020: NTA, expert panel to submit recommendations to MHRD todayNational Testing Agency (NTA) is expected to submit its recommendations on feasibility of conducting the JEE main and NEET 2020 examination today . The HRD ministry had on Thursday sought a report from a panel of experts headed by National Testing Agency (NTA) chief Vineet Joshi on whether the situation is conducive for conducting the NEET and JEE exams slated in the second half on this month.Read MorePeople say this picture of a bathroom makes them dizzy. What do you think?A seemingly normal picture of a bathroom has gone viral with many saying it makes them feel dizzy or gives them a headache. Posted on June 17, this picture has collected over 41,000 shares. Read MoreLipstick under my mask: Creative ways to wear makeup during the pandemicAs wearing masks has become mandatory in order to keep the virus at bay, the pandemic has caused a major downfall for the cosmetics industry, especially lipsticks as the mouth remains completely obscured by the mask.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-protests-over-2-400-ceasefire-violations-on-loc-by-pakistan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zNPcNDn80rr5yNVd5NEpFN.html
03-07-2020||India||UP Congress leaders want Priyanka Gandhi to shift base to Lucknow||Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Friday urged party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra to shift base from the national capital to Lucknow in a bid to strengthen the organisation ahead of the assembly polls, due in another two years.The plea was made two days after the Centre asked Priyanka Gandhi to vacate her government accommodation in Delhi within a month.Pradeep Mathur, former Congress legislative party (CLP) leader in UP, said her presence in the state would not only help strengthen the party, but would also unnerve the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Our rivals are already afraid of her. She has rattled them. You can see that from the reactions of BJP leaders, including Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and also Mayawatiji. They are all suffering from Priyanka Gandhi phobia,” Mathur added.UP, the key battleground state that sends the maximum number of lawmakers to Lok Sabha at 80, is also caught between an ongoing political slugfest between Priyanka Gandhi and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati.Last week, Priyanka Gandhi called Mayawati an “undeclared BJP spokesperson”. Earlier, the BSP had hit back at her over her offer to ferry stranded migrant workers by buses to their native places across UP as nothing but a“political ploy”.“If Priyankaji comes to live in Lucknow, it’ll boost our party workers’morale and strengthen our organisation base,” said Gaurav Kapoor, a party leader from UP. “She has been working tirelessly for the uplift of marginalized sections in UP: whether her visit to Umbha village to arranging buses to ferry stranded migrant workers back to their native places. Personally, for young leaders like me, this will come as a big shot in the arm, as we get emboldened to challenge the ruling BJP in the run-up to the 2022 assembly elections,” he added.Congress leaders, who are perceived to be close to Priyanka Gandhi, said she stays at close relative and former Union minister Sheila Kaul’s residence in Lucknow, whenever she visits UP.The house at Gokhale Marg in Lucknow was “refurbished” last October to enable her to stay there for a longer duration, said a leader familiar with the development.“She doesn’t need to look for a house in Lucknow. However, she needs to take a call whether she wants to shift her base to Lucknow permanently,” he added.UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu also remained non-committal about her Lucknow plans.“It would be too soon to say if she would stay in Lucknow permanently,” he told media persons.UP Congress leaders have been urging Priyanka Gandhi to spend more time in the state for better management of organisational matters after she took charge as the party general secretary in January 2019.They have been pressing her, citing her easy accessibility helped in galvanising the party workers.Her aides, however, categorically said that she would stay on in Delhi because her family is based here. “She is looking after eastern UP from Lucknow, and the state’s western part can be managed from Delhi,” an aide said.Besides, she still has around a month to look for a house in Delhi since the eviction notice was served on her on Wednesday, the aide added.Congress functionaries also said they were expecting such a move from the government after the withdrawal of the Special Protection Group (SPG) cover to her and other members of the Gandhi family last year.“This didn’t come as a surprise to us,” said a central leader.Earlier in March and ahead of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country, Congress leaders from Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh had proposed to send Priyanka Gandhi to the Rajya Sabha from their respective states, but she had declined the offer. Then, she had insisted on strengthening the party organisation in UP, added the central leader quoted above.The Congress is struggling to make headway in UP after its decimation in 2017 assembly polls and followed by a rout in the parliamentary elections last year.The Congress had always dominated UP politics till the BJP emerged as a potent force over the twin issues of Mandal Commission and Ram Mandir in Ayodhya in the late 1980s. The party has been relegated to the margins over the past three decades. It even lost its traditional bastion Amethi in last parliamentary elections, as contender BJP’s Smriti Irani vanquished former party president Rahul Gandhi.Priyanka Gandhi, considered as a party’s trump card in UP, has her work cut out, as she seeks to galvanise the party workers and also win back the support of the communities that have shifted their loyalties to other parties amid the Congress’s dwindling fortunes through the years.Lok Sabha member Karti Chidambaram has demanded that Priyanka Gandhi be declared the party’s CM candidate for UP for the 2022 polls and suggested that she should be primarily based in Lucknow to lead from the front.“The path for a national revival of the Congress is via UP. The clearest statement of intent will be to declare Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra as the CM candidate of the Congress in UP. PGV must be primarily based in Lucknow and lead the charge,” he has tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-congress-leaders-want-priyanka-gandhi-to-shift-base-to-lucknow/story-xMdpyuBCFaTJ3FGh1Vz8wJ.html
03-07-2020||India||982 new Covid-19 cases take Uttar Pradesh’s tally to 24,825, Meerut records most deaths||Uttar Pradesh reported 982 new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 24,825, Uttar Pradesh Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said on Friday.Till date, at least 749 patients have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in Uttar Pradesh.There are 7,451 active cases and 17,557 patients have been cured and discharged so far in the state, the official said.Over 35 per cent of all active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh are in the six districts of the Meerut administrative division, where chief minister Yogi Adityanath wants special attention to fight the pandemic, according to health ministry data.ALSO READ | Antibody tests may help detect Covid-19 infection if used at right time: ScientistsMeerut division which comprises Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Meerut and Baghpat districts, has reported over 28 per cent of the total deaths recorded in the state due to the coronavirus.The maximum Covid-19 positive cases are in Ghaziabad (931) followed by Gautam Buddh Nagar (929), Meerut (272), Bulandshahr (141), Hapur (127) and Baghpat (56), the data showed.The maximum deaths too were reported in Meerut (87), followed by Ghaziabad (57), Gautam Buddh Nagar and Bulandshahr (22 each), Hapur (14) and Baghpat (five), according to the data.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on Thursday directed state government officials to pay special attention to the Meerut division to tackle the outbreak of the infectious disease, according to officials.ALSO READ | ‘Most of us won’t need Covid-19 vaccine’: Oxford expert explains how the pandemic is likely to endA special 10-day coronavirus screening campaign began on Thursday in these six districts, which are also part of the National Capital Region (NCR), which has seen a spurt in Covid-19 cases throughout June.According to the CM’s orders, 2,375 surveillance teams in rural areas and 1,516 in urban areas have been set up by the Health Department in the division, which have been provided with 50,000 additional antigen testing kits to ramp up tests for the infection. India’s coronavirus tally soared by over 20,000 in a single day for the first time taking the country’s total count to 6,25,544 on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 18,213 with 379 new fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data. The country recorded 20,903 coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours till Friday 8 am, with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana and Karnataka being the major contributors to the single day rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/982-new-covid-19-cases-take-uttar-pradesh-s-tally-to-24-825-meerut-records-most-deaths/story-nWXtGhii9AT5SY7W9blC2H.html
03-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand forms expert panel to study best Covid-19 containment practices around globe||Uttarakhand government on Friday announced the constitution of a technical committee to provide inputs to the state government for effective containment of Covid-19 in the Himalayan state. The committee has been mandated to analyse best practices adopted in other states of the country or anywhere in the world. The committee has also been mandated to analyse published studies to suggest actionable points.“In the present scenario of Covid-19 infection transmission in Uttarakhand state, it becomes imperative to develop data-driven policies and evidence-based action (plan) for containment of Covid-19 and Dengue. It is pertinent to form a technical committee comprising senior public health experts from medical colleges in the state. The committee is expected to provide technical inputs to the government for informed decision making”, said an order issued on Friday by Pankaj Kumar Pandey, secretary (in-charge) health department.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to the order, the chief operation officer of the state’s Covid control room will be responsible for providing available data to the committee on a weekly basis at a scheduled time, preferably by each Friday evening.The committee can also acquire data from respective chief medical officers in districts. The committee has been asked to prepare a weekly report preferably every Monday.The committee has been mandated to look into a range of issues like risk factors associated with Covid-19 transmission, causal analysis of Covid 19 deaths, in-depth analysis of socio-demographic profile, testing patterns, co-morbidities, symptomatology and severity of the virus spread.Unlock 2.0: Uttarakhand exempts VIPs from quarantine, no restriction on tourists with negative Covid-19 reportThe committee will also look into infection prevention and control among healthcare workers and workplace safety, epidemiological/lab surveillance in containment zones, the impact of Covid-19 on healthcare facilities, and overall health impact assessment.The committee comprises Prof Devrat Roy, associate professor at Government Doon Medical College Dehradun as its chairman. Other four members of the committee include Dr Sadhna Awasthi, associate professor at government medical college Haldwani, Prof Amit Singh from government medical college Almora, DR Arjit Kumar, associate professor from government medical college Srinagar and Dr Vikas Sharma from WHO unit Uttarakhand.So far 2,984 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the state till Thursday evening since the reporting of the first case on March 15 more than three months ago. A total of 42 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 57.56 days in the state, while the recovery rate has reached 80.60%. Uttarakhand has so far tested over 72,000 samples, of which, results of over 5,900 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forms-expert-panel-to-study-best-covid-19-containment-practices-around-globe/story-pGMhewnXexFrxtvHf2c5oM.html
03-07-2020||India||No change in Jammu and Kashmir situation despite demonetisation, Article 370 move: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government over the “status quo” in the security situation in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K).The BJP ally-turned-rival questioned how the government’s bid to bifurcate the erstwhile state into two union territories --- J&K and Ladakh -- last year following the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution and demonetisation in 2016 to wipe out terror financing has backfired on it.The Sena took a dig at the “strong” government at the Centre for unabated terror activities in J&K.“It’s status quo, despite the scrapping of Article 370 (that gave special status to J&K) and bifurcation of the erstwhile state. There is blood on the streets every day and there is loss of innocent lives. Despite demonetisation, there is no respite from terror activities and circulation of fake currency notes, which was touted as a big challenge for the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA),” said an editorial in Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, a Marathi daily. The editorial said civilians are being targeted by terrorists with impunity.Referring to an incident in Sopore, north Kashmir, on Wednesday where a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan and a civilian were killed by terrorists, the Sena said that the picture of a three-year-old infant sitting near the body of his slain grandfather is reminiscent of conflict-hit Syria and Afghanistan.It blamed the government for the spiralling violence in Kashmir Valley while claiming that the tragic picture has hurt the country’s image on the global stage.“The little boy was trying to wake up his slain grandfather... Some Central ministers tweeted this picture. These ministers should understand that the picture underscores the Central government’s failure. The onus is on the government regarding improving the security situation in the Kashmir Valley. Such pictures are similar to conflict-hit nations like Syria, Egypt, Somalia, and Afghanistan and are doing no good to the country’s image on a global stage,” it said.The Sena slammed the government and Amit Shah, in particular, for his inability to rein in the violence in the Kashmir Valley, which the party claimed has spiked since he took charge of the MHA.“Infiltration has increased in the last six months. Though our jawans have killed many terrorists in the past few months, the number of our jawans getting martyred is no less. It is said that there are about 170 active terrorists in the Valley,” it added.The Sena reminded the government that despite repealing of Article 370, the ghar wapasi, or homecoming, of Kashmiri Pandits, remained a distant dream.It also cited the killing of a Kashmiri sarpanch, Ajay Pandita, in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district in June, as a case in point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-change-in-jammu-and-kashmir-situation-despite-demonetisation-article-370-move-shiv-sena/story-HXPyAhXMfO7m7AANLIqYnL.html
03-07-2020||India||‘No party should complicate border tension’: China after PM’s Ladakh visit||Complication of tension at the Sino-Indian border should be avoided, China said on Friday, within hours of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh in the backdrop of the ongoing hostile situation between the two Himalayan neighbours.The Chinese foreign ministry also said New Delhi should avoid “strategic miscalculation on China.”“India and China are in communication and negotiations on lowering the temperatures through military and diplomatic channels. No party should engage in any action that may complicate the situation at this point,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, said at the regular ministry briefing on Friday.Modi, during his Ladakh visit, was accompanied by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.Watch: China responds to PM Narendra Modi’s Ladakh visit The PM toured one of the forward locations in Nimu where he interacted with personnel of the Army, Air Force and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).Modi’s visit to the border is being closely monitored in China as New Delhi begins a calibrated response – including economic steps - after 20 Indian army soldiers were killed in eastern Ladakh in a violent clash with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops on June 15. An unspecified number of Chinese soldiers also died in the clash.Asked about India planning to ban Chinese companies from building roads in the country, Zhao said New Delhi should focus on “common interests in bilateral relations”.“Certain politicians in India have been issuing remarks that are detrimental to our bilateral relations. Our bilateral relations need to be held with the concerted efforts, Indian side should work with us towards the same goal, to uphold the general picture of our common interests in bilateral relations,” Zhao added.“Setting artificial blocks to our concrete and practical cooperation will also harm India’s interest. We will take necessary measures to uphold legitimate rights of Chinese businesses in India,” Zhao said. Zhao sidestepped a question about New Delhi’s security-related concerns that prompted it to ban 59 Chinese mobile apps on Monday.“…we should also be aware that India and China are major developing countries, accelerating the renewal and development are historical missions for both of us. To this end we have to respect and support each other. This is also in the long-term interest of both sides,” he said.“If we show misgiving and engage in conflicts, this is not the right way and also go against the shared aspiration of our people. So, we have to follow the consensus reached between the leaders of our two countries, and proceed from the overall picture of our bilateral relations.”“The Indian side should not have strategic miscalculation on China. We hope it will work with China to uphold the overall picture of our bilateral relations,” Zhao added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-party-should-escalate-border-tension-china-after-pm-s-ladakh-visit/story-paQWsjGSrsrEuPL5V5zpsK.html
03-07-2020||India||Top 10 quotes from PM Modi’s address to soldiers of Indian Army in Ladakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the soldiers of the Indian Army deployed in the eastern Ladakh sector along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China on Friday and paid glowing tribute to their valour while delivering a strong message to China by recounting India’s history of repulsing attacks by ‘invaders’. Here are the top 10 quotes by PM Modi1. “Your bravery and your dedication to safeguard mother India’s honour is not comparable. Your endurance is not inferior to anyone in the world. No one in the world can compete with the tough situations and the heights you embrace while serving mother India. Your courage is taller than the heights you are deployed in. Your resolve is stronger than the valleys you walk every day and your arms are as strong as the rocks that surround you. The strength of your will is indomitable like the mountains around you. I can feel it and see it today, as I am amongst you.”2. “The knowledge that the country’s security is in your hands and is protected by your strong resolve offers reassurance not just to me but to the entire country, which has unflinching faith in you. The fact that you are guarding the borders, serves as an inspiration for the fellow countrymen to work day and night for the motherland. The resolve of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ becomes stronger because of you, your sacrifices and bravery.”3. “The bravery that you and your compatriots have shown recently, has sent a message to the world about India’s strength. I am looking at women soldiers in front of me. In the battlefield, at the border, this view is inspiring.”4. “I use my voice today, as was once said by national poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, to speak of your bravery and to salute you. I again offer my tribute to soldiers who were martyred in the Galwan Valley. The bravado and the lion-like roar of these braves has made even the earth speak of their valour. Every countrymen’s head bows with respect before your bravery. Every Indian citizen’s chest swells with pride because of your bravery. This earth is full of tales of your gallantry. The bravery of 14 Corps is being talked about everywhere. The world has seen your courage and the tales of your bravery and fortitude are echoing in every house in the country.”5. “Bharat Mata’s enemies have seen your fire and fury. Friends, this part of Ladakh is India’s symbolic head and it represents the prestige and pride of 130 crore Indians. This land belongs to the braves that worship mother India and are ever ready to sacrifice their all for her. “‘The enemy has seen your fire and fury as well’: PM Modi in address to soldiers in Ladakh6. “This earth belongs to the brave. I can see your ability and your resolve in your eyes and on your face. You are the brave soldiers of the same land that has repulsed attacks by several invaders and tyrants for thousands of years. We are the same people who pray to the flute playing Lord Krishna but we are also the same people who idolise and follow the ‘Sudarshana Chakra’ carrying lord Krishna.”7. “India has emerged stronger after every such attack. The world recognises that peace and friendship are very important for the growth of any country or of humanity, but we also know that those who are weak can never initiate peace. Bravery is a prerequisite for peace.”8. “India is increasing its strength in all three realms of water, air and land guided by the principle of the wellbeing of the entire mankind. When India is developing modern weaponry and bringing the latest technology for its armed forces, then the message behind is driven by the well being of humanity.”‘Leading from the front’: Top ministers hail PM Modi’s surprise Ladakh visit9. “Whether World Wars or peace, whenever the need arises, the world has seen the victory of our braves and their efforts towards peace. We have worked for the betterment of humanity. All of you are leaders establishing this tradition of the country.”10. Age of expansionism is over, now, is the age of development. The policy of development is the foundation of mankind and is the only policy relevant today. History has witnessed that the expansionist policy has hurt humanity the most. Expansionist policy has always threatened world peace. History has witnessed that such forces have either lost or were forced to turn back. This is what the world has experienced so far and it has once again made up its mind against the policy of expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-10-quotes-from-pm-modi-s-address-to-soldiers-of-indian-army-in-ladakh/story-rxh3RmtJAG7jpDD2CSnaKO.html
03-07-2020||India||India lodges protest with Pakistan for more than 2,400 ceasefire violations on LoC||India on Friday registered a strong protest with Pakistan over more than 2,400 unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces along the Line of Control (LoC) and the international boundary this year that have killed 14 Indians.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian side, in its protest, said the ceasefire violations amounted to a contravention of the ceasefire put in place by the two sides in 2003.“Till June this year, 14 Indian nationals have been killed and 88 more have been injured in more than 2,432 unprovoked ceasefire violations carried out by the Pakistan forces,” said one of the people cited above.“We have also conveyed our strong concerns at the continued support being extended by the Pakistan forces for cross-border infiltration of terrorists, including through covering fire,” the person added.Despite these concerns being shared by the Indian side, including through the channel of the Directors General of Military Operations (DGMOs), the Pakistan forces have not ceased such activities, the people said.India has accused Pakistani forces of providing covering fire to assist terrorists attempting to sneak across the LoC to carry out attacks in Jammu and Kashmir. As relations worsened following the Indian government’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last August, troops along the LoC have repeatedly exchanged fire.New Delhi recently asked Islamabad to reduce the strength of its mission in the Indian capital by 50% on the ground that its officials were allegedly engaging in espionage and backing terror activities. India also carried out a similar reduction of its staff at the high commission in Pakistan. Diplomats and their family members returned home via the Wagah-Attari land border on June 30.Bilateral ties hit another low when Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan alleged on Tuesday that New Delhi was behind a terror attack on the Karachi stock exchange building this week that left four security personnel dead. All four attackers were also killed.India hit back on Thursday, dismissing Khan’s accusation as “absurd” and saying Pakistan can’t shift the blame for its domestic problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lodges-protest-with-pakistan-for-more-than-2-400-ceasefire-violations-on-loc/story-bw1ezLhfsXqNuOan0nvFHJ.html
03-07-2020||India||India extends ban on international flights till July 31||The ministry of civil aviation on Friday extended the ban on international flights till July 31. The earlier order said the ban would be in place till July 15.The decision comes even as capacity on domestic routes has been increased to 45% from the earlier 33%.On Thursday, chairman of Airports Authority of India (AAI) had said India is in talks with the US and Canada and the countries in European and Gulf regions on establishing individual bilateral bubbles which will allow airlines of each country in the pact to operate international flights.“I am sure there would be a positive outcome of the talks with the US, Canada and with the Gulf countries and the negotiations are going on,” Arvind Singh had said yesterday.Scheduled international passenger flights have remained suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.Aviation minister Hardeep Puri had on June 20 said the government will start thinking on the resumption of international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55% of the levels before the coronavirus. The minister had also said that resumption of international flights will also depend on demand and other countries being open to receiving flights amid the Covid-19 pandemic.International flight movement in countries such as the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Germany, China, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates now varies between 3% and 18% of their earlier flight capacity, the minister had said.Giving details the minister said, entry is conditional in the US, UK, France, China, UAE and Singapore. “You cannot have normal civil aviation operations under such conditions,” he had said.Puri added that in the absence of a decision on resumption of international flights, India is left with no option but to continue “evacuation and repatriation” flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. After nearly two months of suspension the domestic flights resumed operations on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-international-flights-ban-till-july-31/story-D3eVoyOClyrpD6WfRmKHbN.html
03-07-2020||India||Monsoon session of Goa Assembly likely to be curtailed to single sitting due to Covid-19||Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar has decided to curtail the upcoming monsoon session of the Goa Legislative Assembly to a single-day affair for a vote-on-account ordinance, which gives a government the permission to spend money to meet its expenditures, and a longer lawmaking proceeding could be planned later when the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak subsides.An all-party informal meeting was held on Friday to take a call in this regard.“The Speaker had called a meeting seeking all the parties” suggestions. It was decided that the monsoon session will be reduced to a one-day affair because of the Covid-19 outbreak. Business Advisory Committee (BAC) will decide on the day’s business in the House,” said Chief Minister Pramod Sawant after the meeting. Digambar Kamat, Leader of Opposition and former CM, said his party (the Congress) has also concurred with Speaker Patnekar that the assembly session should be curtailed because of the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the state.“Friday’s meeting was an informal meeting called by the Speaker. There were discussions on various aspects. It has been decided to curtail the monsoon session to a day after reviewing the prevailing situation regarding the Covid-19 outbreak in the state,” Kamat said.Earlier, Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik on the advice of Speaker Patnekar had convened a two-week-long monsoon session of the assembly, starting July 27.However, there has been a growing consensus among political parties to reduce the monsoon session – usually the longest – after Goa reported around 1,500 Covid-19 positive cases within five weeks and also four deaths related to the viral infection.The deployment of police personnel, the involvement of government officials and several other department employees go into the holding an assembly session, where strict adherence to social distancing norms is not always possible.However, the opposition is wary that a curtailed monsoon session will come to the government’s rescue, as it could escape from being grilled for the alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 outbreak.“We have recommended a virtual monsoon session of the assembly. But we don’t even have an infrastructure to hold an e-assembly,” said Vijai Sardesai, a leader of the Goa Forward Party, a local opposition outfit.He alleged that the Goa government was slow on its uptake to recognise the health hazards posed by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-goa-assembly-likely-to-be-curtailed-to-single-sitting/story-flU2ZLsGImDieqXv3rLkfK.html
03-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh ranks second in creating jobs for MGNREGA cardholder families||The Chhattisgarh government has claimed that 41 percent of the total number of families which got 100-days of employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the country is from Chhattisgarh.As per official data released by the state government, in the month of April, May and June, a total of 55,981 families were provided employment for 100 days in the state while the total number of families receiving 100 days of employment in the country is 1,37,365.In the first three months of the year, the state created 8,84,50,000 man-days of employment under MGNREGA“In the current financial year, Chhattisgarh holds second rank in terms of creating employment against the target given for generating employment. Total 66 percent of the target for the year has been achieved within the first trimester,” said a senior IAS officer posted with the Panchayat and Rural Development department.The figures suggest that Maoist-affected districts have performed better in providing employment to people in rural areas. The top five districts to provide maximum employment against the target in the state are from Bastar Division. A total of 10 districts of the state have completed more than 70% of the work under sanctioned labour budget for the year.Maoist-affected Narayanpur district is at the forefront of providing employment against the target in the state and 84 percent of the target has been achieved there.Nine other districts of the state have also completed more than 70 percent work including Sukma 78 percent, Bijapur 77 percent, Bastar 74 percent, Kondagaon and Raigarh 73 percent each, Kanker and Dantewada 72 percent each, Korba and Gariaband 71 percent each. The remaining 18 districts have also created more than 60 percent employment.“Despite the lockdown due to Covid-19, work under MGNREGA was started to provide direct employment to a large number of villagers. These MGNREGA works have played an important role in supporting the rural economy under the adverse circumstances. We are also demanding to increase the man-days from 100 to 200 and I have written three times to the Centre in this regard,” said Panchayat and Rural Development Minister, TS Singhdeo.The Central government has approved a labour budget of 13.50 crore man-days for Chhattisgarh in the current financial year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-ranks-second-in-creating-jobs-for-mgnrega-cardholder-families/story-rya82mjKM5rnFgMOmzY6KL.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi in Ladakh, Rahul Gandhi fires another jibe over border stand-off||On the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an unannounced trip to a forward post in Ladakh, where Indian army is involved in a tense stand-off with China, Rahul Gandhi tweeted a jibe, once again asking “who took our land” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Ladakhis say:China took our land. PM says: Nobody took our land. Obviously, someone is lying,” tweeted the Congress leader, tagging a short video clip of people from the region alleging that China has come into Indian territory. Ladakhis say:China took our land. PM says:Nobody took our land. Obviously, someone is lying. pic.twitter.com/kWNQQhjlY7Titled ‘Ladakh Speaks’, the video had people across the divide alleging China has ingressed into Ladakh. The clip ends asking “Why is the PM silent?”.In one of his earlier tweets, Rahul Gandhi played upon the word surrender to take a swipe at the PM, calling him “Surender Modi”, and alleging that China has been building its presence along the LAC. In an address to soldiers in Ladakh, designed to send a message to China, PM Modi underscored that India had always pursued the path of peace in the world and said the weak can never initiate peace. Bravery and courage is a prerequisite for peace, he added.“The enemy has seen your fire and fury as well,’ PM Modi told the soldiers. The PM also referred to the violent clash between soldiers of India and China at Galwan on June 15 and paid his tributes to 20 soldiers who laid down their lives for the country. “You have given a befitting reply to people who attempted to conquer,” he said.Without naming China, that has been trying to encroach into Indian territory in Galwan valley and Pangong Tso and create new boundary disputes, PM Modi said the era of expansionism was over. This is the time for development, not expansion, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-ladakh-rahul-gandhi-fires-another-jibe-over-border-stand-off/story-2f0jao5ihs8KgmrsEC4avM.html
03-07-2020||India||BJP’s state units to talk about lockdown relief work tomorrow: Senior leader Arun Singh||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) state unit will talk about the work done by them during the coronavirus pandemic induced lockdown across the country on Saturday, the party’s national general secretary Arun Singh said on Friday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior leaders of the ruling party will be present during the programme at 4pm on Saturday, Singh said during a press conference.“The priority of all programs during corona was that people should be healthy and safe. They should be informed and cautioned about the crisis,” Singh said.“During the corona crisis, activists who took part in the increased service work will make a complete presentation on July 4 at 4 pm. People from different states will make the presentation before PM Shri Narendra Modi. The entire program will be telecast digitally,” he added.He said it will be telecast on the NaMo app and other digital platforms such as the party’s website, which will be attended by lakhs of people.There have been 61 virtual rallies across the countries addressed by Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and other ministers and leaders and were attended by more than 11 lakh people, Singh said.He also gave details about the government’s programmes to help the poor and needy during the lockdown, including the Rs 56,000 crore transfer to 36 crore accounts through the government’s Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) so far.He added that 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders have received Rs 30 crore and 8.19 crore people have received free gas cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-state-units-to-talk-about-lockdown-relief-work-tomorrow-senior-leader-arun-singh/story-H1Owxc9lEghiYD4AVva32K.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi wraps up Ladakh visit with a swipe at China, says times have changed||On a quiet visit to Ladakh designed to deliver a loud message to China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told soldiers posted along the Line of Actual Control that the courage they had demonstrated had sent a message to the entire world. Addressing soldiers deployed in Ladakh, PM Modi said tales about their valour were being spoken in every house across the country.‘The enemy has seen your fire and fury as well,’ PM Modi told the soldiers in an address telecast live from Ladakh to the country. PM Modi also referred to the violent clash between soldiers of India and China at Galwan on 15 June and paid his tributes to soldiers who laid down their lives.“From Leh, Ladakh to Siachen and Kargil...and Galwan’s icy waters...every mountain, every peak is witness to the valour of Indian soldiers,” PM Modi said. “You have given a befitting reply to people who attempted to conquer,” he told them before going on to deliver his direct message to China. Also Watch l ‘Age of expansionism is over’: PM Modi’s dig at China during Ladakh visit PM Modi underscored that India had always pursued the path of peace in the world but at the same time, those who are weak can never initiate steps for peace. “Bravery and courage is a prerequisite for peace,” he said.“We are the same people who pray to the flute playing Lord Krishna but we are also the same people who idolise and follow the same Lord Krishna who carries the ‘Sudarshana Chakra,” the Prime Minister said.Without naming Beijing that has been trying to encroach into Indian territory in Galwan valley and Pangong Tso and create new boundary disputes, PM Modi said times had changed and the era of expansionism was over. This is the time for development, not expansion, he said.PM Modi stayed on target and continued hurling darts at China. The expansionist policies of some countries had affected world peace, he said, a clear reference to China that has disputes with 21 of its neighbours.But history records that expansionist forces have either lost or were forced to turn back, PM Modi said, delivering his final shot before wrapping up his surprise visit. PM Modi’s office had finalised the day-trip to Ladakh late last evening but kept it a closely-guarded secret till the last moment.News of the visit got out sometime after he landed at Leh’s airport, a height of over 11,000 feet with rarefied atmosphere, dry air and ultra-violet rays from the sun in the cold desert.PM Modi, 69, headed straight for his briefing by top military commanders at the XIV Corps headquarters at Nimu outside Leh. He had had similar briefings back in Delhi also.This time, PM Modi could see the Zanskar and the mighty Karakorams that he had been spotting on the maps during the briefings. He also interacted with the soldiers to give them pep talks and hear their perspectives before he came around to delivering his speech.His arrival in Leh had already delivered the first set of messages to Beijing. It also contrasts India’s approach to the standoffs along the Line of Actual Control to Chinese leadership’s efforts to signal a hands-off approach.Also Read: India sends high-powered boats to match heavier Chinese vessels to patrol Ladakh lakeThe PM’s visit is also a very strong message to President Xi Jinping that either he gets his aggressive Western Theatre Commander Zhao Zongqi to restore status quo ante or accept the inevitable consequences of PLA escalation. The Indian Army and Chinese PLA are locked up at four points on the LAC in East Ladakh with the latter consolidating on ground while mouthing peace overtures.The location at Nimu where PM Modi addressed soldiers from the army, air force, ITBP and border road organisation resembled an active forward base. “There were artillery guns and other heavy equipment all under camouflage with soldiers wearing helmets and sitting in trenches and other kinds of dug out positions with a rare glint of courage on their faces,” a top military commander said.Referring to some veterans who taunted that Nimu is a picnic spot, the commander said it was “a picnic spot for those who have treated their tenures as picnics instead of doing serious soldiering. For them even Kargil and Pangong Tso are picnic spots. If only they had treated these locations as future combat zones, they would not dare to comment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-the-era-for-expansionism-pm-modi-s-harsh-message-to-china-from-ladakh/story-7z2PBdUNrUtFvK0CXa8LxI.html
03-07-2020||India||‘The enemy has seen your fire and fury as well’: PM Modi in address to soldiers in Ladakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday saluted the soldiers of Indian Army who are deployed in Ladakh and are protecting India’s border.He also paid tribute to soldiers who were killed in the face-off with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley on June 15.“The bravery that you and your compatriots showed, a message has gone to the world about India’s strength. Nation rests peacefully because of your bravery,” PM Modi said while addressing the soldiers.He also said that the resolve for self-reliant India is strengthened because of the “bravery and sacrifice of our soldiers”.#WATCH Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses soldiers in Nimoo, Ladakh https://t.co/LCa8oWxL39PM Modi underscored that India had always pursued the path of peace in the world but at the same time, those who are weak can never initiate steps for peace. Bravery and courage is a prerequisite for peace.He also said that the resolve for self-reliant India is strengthened because of the bravery and sacrifice of our soldiers. “The enemies of Mother India have seen your fire and fury,” said PM Modi.Without taking any names, the prime minister said that this is the age of development. “Age of expansionism is over, this is the age of development. History is witness that expansionist forces have either lost or were forced to turn back,” PM Modi said in his address.Accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Manoj Mukund Naravane, PM Modi reached Leh on Friday morning. He went straight to XIV Corps headquarters at Nimu outside Leh to understand the Chinese belligerence in Ladakh with Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh briefing Narendra Modi in presence of Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi.Also Read: Japan opposes any ‘unilateral attempt to change status quo’ on LACThe decision of PM Modi to go to Leh was kept under wraps till he landed at the airport with the entire coordination done by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Rawat and Naravane. Doval, who came out of self-imposed isolation after two weeks, chose to remain back in Delhi.Union ministers have hailed PM Modi’s visit, saying it has boosted the morale of the army. Among those who posted about the prime minister’s visit were home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and Union ministers Prakadh Jadavadekar and Smriti Irani.BJP leaders said that the visit also sends out a clear message to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-address-to-armymen-in-leh/story-TCgOTdyD0JhjKXAyGQluMK.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Leading from the front’: Top ministers hail PM Modi’s surprise Ladakh visit||Union ministers have hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ladakh on Friday where he took stock of the situation in the wake of Galwan Valley face-off in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.Union home minister Amit Shah said PM Modi is leading from the front.“Leading from the front. Prime Minister Shri @NarendraModi Ji with our brave and courageous personnel of Army, Air Force & ITBP at a forward location in Ladakh. This visit of honourable PM will surely boost the morale of our valorous soldiers,” he tweeted. Leading from the front.Prime Minister Shri @NarendraModi Ji with our brave and courageous personnel of Army, Air Force & ITBP at a forward location in Ladakh.This visit of honourable PM will surely boost the morale of our valorous soldiers. #ModiInLeh pic.twitter.com/UCvqyXdwtuDefence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday thanked PM Modi, saying the visit has boosted the morale of the Indian Army.“The borders of the country have always been secure under the Indian Army. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visiting Ladakh to meet and encourage the soldiers has certainly boosted the morale of the Army. I commend the Prime Minister’s move and thank him for it,” Singh tweeted in Hindi. भारतीय सेना के रहते देश की सीमाएँ हमेशा सुरक्षित रही हैं। प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi का आज लद्दाख़ जाकर सेना के जवानों से भेंट करके उनका उत्साहवर्धन करने से निश्चित रूप से सेना का मनोबल और ऊँचा हुआ है।मैं प्रधानमंत्रीजी के इस कदम की सराहना करते हुए उन्हें धन्यवाद देता हूँ।The Defence Minister is scheduled to visit Ladakh on Friday to review the preparedness of the army amid the ongoing standoff with China.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the entire country is with PM Modi. “The whole nation is with you. Our PM @narendramodi reached Leh to convey the message of the nation. Salute to PM & our brave soldiers,” he said on Twitter. The whole nation is with you. Our PM @narendramodi reached Leh to convey the message of the nation. Salute to PM & our brave soldiers. हमें नाज़ है अपनी सेना और अपने नायक पर. ‘जय हिंद की सेना, जय हिंद के नायक'.#ModiInLaddakh #ModiinLeh pic.twitter.com/BmnlCnwp5lJavadekar also posted a short video of PM Modi being welcomed by the soldiers in Leh with loud ‘Vande Mataram’ cries.“Army’s valour and PM Modi’s trust. Powerful leadership, competent new India,” tweeted Union minister Smriti Irani in Hindi. सेना का शौर्य और प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी का विश्वास;सबल नेतृत्व, सक्षम नया भारत।🙏#ModiInLeh pic.twitter.com/AFO0Hpj4K6Sports minister Kiren Rijiju said that PM Modi has been with the soldiers on may occasions. “Prime Minister @narendramodi ji with our bravehearts at border areas in Ladakh. Since 2014, our PM has been with our Jawans in border areas on Diwali and on many occasions regularly,” he tweeted. Prime Minister @narendramodi ji with our bravehearts at border areas in Ladakh. Since 2014, our PM has been with our Jawans in border areas on Diwali and on many occasions regularly 🇮🇳 https://t.co/At2ozpixz3 pic.twitter.com/8UaYzxfzeCAccompanied by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, the Prime Minister reached Leh on Friday morning.He interacted with Army, Air Force and personnel of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in Nimu near Leh. Located at 11,000 feet, this is among the tough terrains, surrounded by the Zanskar range and on the banks of the Indus.The situation at the India-China border in Ladakh remains tense after 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in a violent face-off in the Galwan Valley on June 15 when Chinese troops attempted to unilaterally change the status quo during the de-escalation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boosted-army-s-morale-ministers-hail-pm-modi-s-ladakh-visit/story-phem0Q2SaHQOW3Ec892CjI.html
03-07-2020||India||NCW received 2,043 complaints of crimes against women in June, highest in 8 months||The NCW received 2,043 complaints of crimes committed against women in June, the highest in the last eight months. According to the NCW data, 452 complaints were received of domestic violence in June alone.Out of the 2043 complaints, the highest number were received under the ‘Right to live with dignity’ at 603. The ‘Right to live with dignity’ takes into account the emotional abuse of women. The number of complaints received in June have been highest since September last year when 2,379 complaints were received, the data showed.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma attributed the rise in complaints to the increased activity of the commission on social media platforms. “The complaints have increased because we are very active on social media now and we are registering cases from Twitter and other social media platforms too. We have a WhatsApp number for reporting cases which was not in place earlier. People know that we are helping and that’s why they have more faith in us,” Sharma told PTI. The second highest number of complaints were received under the ‘Protection of Women against Domestic Violence’ at 452, the data showed. Sharma similarly attributed the increase in domestic violence complaints due to the active presence of NCW on social media. “Same is with the cases of domestic violence. We advertised on Doordarshan at prime time to make women aware of the ways in which they could reach us and also started our emergency WhatsApp helpline number which is an easy way for women to reach out to us. This is the reason why numbers have increased,” she said. There were 252 complaints under harassment of married women and dowry harassment followed by 194 complaints of outraging modesty of women and molestation, the data showed. The NCW data showed that 113 complaints of police apathy towards women and 100 complaints of cyber crime have been received. As many as 78 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 38 complaints of sexual harassment were received in June, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they wanted. “The NCW is working for the wellbeing and empowerment of women so they can reach us anytime, any day,” she added. In May, 1,500 complaints were received by the NCW while in April 800 complaints were received and in March 1,347 complaints were received. In February, 1,424 complaints were received while in January 1,462 complaints were received, the data showed. In December, 1,402 complaints were received while in November 1,642 and in October 1,885 complaints were received, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-received-2-043-complaints-of-crimes-against-women-in-june-highest-in-8-months/story-XXf69w9jnWi0dSbw3PhTjJ.html
03-07-2020||India||Japan opposes any ‘unilateral attempt to change status quo’ on LAC||Japan on Friday backed India in its border standoff with China, saying it opposes any “unilateral attempt to change the status quo” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), even as New Delhi stepped up diplomatic efforts to gain support from its partners in the world community.Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki tweeted about his country’s support following a conversation with India’s foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Shringla had also briefed either the envoys or his counterparts from the US, Russia, France and Germany earlier.Suzuki’s remarks came after several meetings at the diplomatic and military levels between India and China failed to break the impasse along the LAC and even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi toured the Ladakh sector to meet troops and to assess the situation.The Japanese envoy also backed the Indian government’s efforts to achieve a peaceful resolution of the standoff that became public in May.“Had a good talk with FS Shringla. Appreciated his briefing on the situation along LAC, including GOI’s policy to pursue peaceful resolution. Japan also hopes for peaceful resolution through dialogues. Japan opposes any unilateral attempts to change the status quo,” Suzuki tweeted.In recent weeks, Shringla has held virtual consultations with his Germany counterpart Miguel Berger on June 26 and with his French counterpart François Delattre on June 29. The situation along the LAC and the build-up of Chinese troops had figured in these discussions that focused on the regional and global situations, the people cited above said.Shringla has also briefed the US and Russia on the border standoff. Russia was among the first of India’s strategic partners to be taken into confidence when Shringla met Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev on June 2. Following the violent face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh sector on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, US ambassador Kenneth Juster conveyed his condolences to “the families of the soldiers who were lost at Galwan” and said their “bravery and courage will not be forgotten”. On June 19, the Japanese ambassador too had conveyed his country’s condolences to the Indian people and the families of the 20 Indian soldiers who “lost their lives in the line of duty at Galwan Valley”.Amid the border tensions, training vessels of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force conducted a minor exercise with two Indian warships in the Indian Ocean on June 27. The deputy chief of the Japanese mission in New Delhi, Toshihide Ando, said this was the 15th exercise between the two sides in three years.“This is a goodwill training to promote mutual understanding and trust with the Indian Navy,” he said. “The content of this exercise is tactical and communications training with no specific scenario.”At the height of the 2017 India-China standoff at Doklam, Suzuki’s predecessor Kenji Hiramatsu had also strongly backed New Delhi’s position on the matter and said no country should use force to alter the status of Doklam, located at the tri-junction of India, Bhutan and Tibet.At the time, Japan was the first country to back India’s position on the standoff, which ended after 73 days.Japan too has been having its own problems with China over the disputed Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea. On Friday, Japan strongly protested to China about the intrusion by two China Coast Guard ships into its territorial waters near the islands.The two Chinese vessels entered Japanese waters on Thursday evening and remained in the area, which is administered by Japan but claimed by China. Chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga said, “We will continue to deal with the matter calmly and resolutely.”This was the first time since June 22 that a Chinese ship had entered Japanese territorial waters around the Islands. China sent its ships to waters around the islands for 80 days in a row, the longest streak since Japan put them under state control in September 2012.Experts said India’s diplomatic outreach to its partners in the world community was intended to send out a message to China that its behaviour wasn’t acceptable.Nitin Pai, director of The Takshashila Institution, said: “These conversations have followed the outcome of the military level talks with China. It was important to take the dialogue with the Chinese to this point and then bring in the international community, otherwise these diplomatic conversations would have been out of sync.“These conversations convey a sense of solidarity and that India’s partners also accept that China is out of place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/japan-opposes-any-unilateral-attempt-to-change-status-quo-on-lac/story-9MsaeUySCW9dIQ4d9dMhIL.html
03-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: PM Modi congratulates Russia’s Vladimir Putin for constitutional reform vote and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi phones Russia’s Putin, congratulates him for constitutional reform votePrime Minister Narendra Modi has congratulated Russian President Vladimir Putin on the successful completion of a vote on constitutional amendments even as the Russian side reiterated its commitment to strengthening the bilateral special strategic partnership. Read moreIndia races to release first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has partnered with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) for clinical trials of indigenous vaccine for the coronavirus disease. Read moreOdisha reports 77 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, including 18 cancer patientsOdisha reported 77 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday evening, including 18 cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Read moreSaroj Khan (1948-2020): The ace choreographer who created magic with Madhuri Dixit, SrideviBollywood choreographer Saroj Khan died in Mumbai on Friday of cardiac arrest. In her passing away, Hindi film industry has lost one of its most beloved and respected dance exponents. It would not be wrong to say that the magic of Madhuri Dixit and Sridevi would be incomplete without her. Read more12 deals, 72 days, ₹117,588.45 crore: Reliance Jio’s investment spree so farWith a ₹1,894.50 crore investment from Intel Capital today, the sum total of investments raked in by Reliance Jio has been pushed up to ₹117, 588.45 crores in exchange for 25.09% stake in Jio Platforms. Read moreHere’s how to maintain a loving relationship through the coronavirus lockdownNavigating relationships can seem complicated as you are dealing with a person just as complex and unique as you are. Love, however, is universal. No matter who you are or where you come from, we all understand what it is to love and be loved in return. Like all good things in life, love and relationships require that extra bit of effort.  Read moreCompare me with Pakistan greats Miandad, Inzamam instead of Virat Kohli: Babar AzamReacting strongly to the ever-rising comparisons between him and India captain Virat Kohli, Pakistan batsman Babar Azam said he would rather want to be compared with Pakistan greats like Javed Miandad, Younis Khan, and, Inzamam-ul-Haq. Read moreCovid deaths decrease globally and why mothers can’t donate plasmaHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India and that the number globally has decreased. She speaks on why mothers can’t donate plasma, Uttarakhand’s exemption from quarantine and more. Watch the full video for details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-pm-modi-congratulates-russia-s-vladimir-putin-for-constitutional-reform-vote-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VXyUqSejvUQDOmXcjiML0I.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi on Ladakh front with strong message to protect border from China’s PLA||For an average healthy human, it takes at least two days to acclimatize to Leh’s height of over 11,000 feet with rarefied atmosphere, dry air and ultra-violet rays from a blazing sun in cold desert Ladakh. But 69-year old Prime Minister Narendra Modi today defied physical odds when he landed up at Kushok Bakula Rimpochee airport at Leh to be briefed about operational preparedness of the Indian military against the aggressive Chinese People’s Liberation Army.Accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Manoj Mukund Naravane, Prime Minister went straight to XIV Corps headquarters at Nimu outside Leh to understand the Chinese belligerence in Ladakh with Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh briefing Narendra Modi in presence of Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi.Also Read: PM Modi wraps up Ladakh visit with a swipe at China, says times have changedThe decision of PM Modi to go to Leh was kept under wraps till he landed at the airport with the entire coordination done by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Rawat and Naravane. Doval, who came out of self-imposed isolation after two weeks, chose to remain back in Delhi.The presence of PM Modi in the Ladakh region has not only sent a huge signal to China that India means business and will not surrender even an inch of its territory but also to the local population with the head of government coming down to reassure them.Also Read: PM Modi, President Putin vow to strengthen Indo-Russia ties, discuss Covid-19 crisisThe PM’s visit is also a very strong message to President Xi Jinping that either he gets his aggressive Western Theatre Commander Zhao Zongqi to restore status quo ante or accept the inevitable consequences of PLA escalation. The Indian Army and Chinese PLA are locked up at four points on the LAC in East Ladakh with the latter consolidating on ground while mouthing peace overtures.Flanked by Gen Rawat and Gen Naravane, the PM has also assured the country that India is quite capable of handling China, which has created both health and security problems for the globe with corona virus from Wuhan and pre-meditated confrontation with India, ASEAN and Australia.It is understood that PM Modi will give a clear message to the Ladakh commanders that they should not initiate any escalation from their side but also retaliate to any aggression. The same message was also given out during the 2017 Doklam crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-ladakh-front-with-strong-message-to-protect-border-from-chinese-pla/story-nd4Pdko69D5M6gQh46GWMI.html
03-07-2020||India||Odisha reports 77 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, including 18 cancer patients||Odisha reported 77 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday evening, including 18 cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. The state government is worried about the fresh cases of viral outbreak, especially among the frontline healthcare workers battling the pandemic.State government officials said of the 77 new Covid-19 positive cases, 55 were reported from Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre in Cuttack; 11 each from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bhubaneswar; and SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. In Rourkela’s Ispat General Hospital, a patient, who was undergoing treatment, tested Covid-19 positive after he passed away.Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre’s 36 healthcare attendants have tested Covid-19 positive along with 18 patients undergoing chemotherapy.A staff nurse at the hospital also found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.Earlier, 16 people, including five patients at the cancer hospital, had tested Covid-19 positive after a patient from Ganjam district, who was admitted to the emergency ward of the hospital on June 15, found to be infected nine days later.On Thursday, the panic-stricken hospital authorities shut down the outpatient department (OPD) facility, much to the distress of hundreds of patients in dire need of chemotherapy sessions.Similarly, 11 people, including a mother and her 10-month-old son, tested Covid-19 positive at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. A lady doctor, working as an intern at SCB Dental College, also found to be suffering from the viral infection on Tuesday.At AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, 11 patients in the pulmonary department have tested Covid-19 positive. Doctors at the hospital expressed concern over contracting the infection, as the authorities are yet to issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for treating OPD patients.In June alone, 40 frontline doctors and nurses have tested Covid-19 positive amid a lack of SOP guidelines in the government-run healthcare facilities.However, the state government has issued an SOP for private hospitals following the detection of 40-odd Covid-19 positive cases from a Bhubaneswar-based private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-77-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-including-18-cancer-patients/story-JIl5SgY42vrRkn1sfWV26H.html
03-07-2020||India||Man sets 14-year-old on fire in Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli after failed molestation bid||A 14-year-old girl died after she was allegedly set on fire by a man after she resisted his attempt to sexually assault her in Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli district, police said on Thursday.Police said the crime took place on June 30 in a village under Kotwali police station of the district.“The accused Bablu Bhaskar (30) was attested and we have booked him under section 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,” Dipanshu Kabra, inspector general of police of Bilaspur range, said while speaking to HT.D Shrawan, Mugeli’s superintendent of police (SP), said Bhaskar barged into the girl’s house because he had some tiff with her family.“The accused first attempted to sexually assault her when she was alone in her house and later set her on fire by pouring kerosene on her,” Shrawan said.“The girl shouted for help and ran outside the house. The neighbours doused the fire and rushed her to the hospital where she died on Wednesday,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sets-14-year-old-on-fire-in-chhattisgarh-s-mungeli-after-failed-molestation-bid/story-NP0qKnx6Vw5Y27UCz7m9tM.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi reaches Leh to review security situation, interact with soldiers amid stand-off with China||Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat visited Ladakh on Friday morning on a closely-guarded trip to the Union Territory (UT) that has been at the centre of the stand-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops since early May.Top government officials had earlier only let it be known that CDS Rawat would visit Ladakh for a review of the tri-services preparedness and a first-hand understanding of the proposed de-escalation and disengagement process at the four stand-off points.It was only after PM Modi emerged from the plane in Leh that the news of his surprise visit got out. The PM visited Nimu village, which is one of the forward bases in Ladakh. The Army base is located at an altitude of 1,100 feet and is surrounded by the breathtaking Zanskar mountain range and the fast-flowing Indus river.The senior Army commanders briefed the PM about the current situation on the red-hot Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the backdrop of hand-to-hand combat between Indian Army and China’s PLA troops on June 15 in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley that led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers.PM Modi’s visit to the border area is high on symbolism and a morale booster for the troops that are leading the stand-off in Galwan valley and around Pangong lake.Officials said that the PM would interact with Indian soldiers and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans during his visit to the forward posts.The vigil along the LAC has intensified since the stand-off with PLA troops, which have been trying to make incursions at several places.Though senior Indian and PLA commanders have held several meetings in a bid to initiate a de-escalation and dis-engagement process, the talks have been inconclusive amid hopes of fresh rounds of parleys. PM Modi had last visited Ladakh in February, 2019, before it was carved out a separate UT on October 31, 2019Earlier, defence minister Rajnath Singh was slated to visit Ladakh, but his trip was cancelled at the last moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-leh-to-review-security-situation-interact-with-soldiers-amid-stand-off-with-china/story-tSx9SledZ9AjRy420ica5N.html
03-07-2020||India||Resumption of tourism will kickstart Goa’s economy: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that the resumption of domestic tourism, which was suspended due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, will kickstart the coastal state’s economy. Tourism activities resumed in Goa on Thursday, with 250 hotels with government permits opening their doors to domestic tourists.Taking to Twitter, Sawant said, “Tourism is one of the biggest industries in the state and is the backbone of our economy. In this unlock phase, we are kickstarting our economy again by keeping the highest health safety norms in place in view of #COVID19.” According to the Goa tourism department’s standard operating procedure, only domestic tourists who have pre- booked their accommodations will be allowed to enter the state. As many as 250 hotels have received the state government’s permission to operate, a senior official from the tourism department said. Tourists will either have to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate or get tested at the state borders before gaining entry, he said.Persons who test positive have the option of returning to their states or availing treatment in Goa, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resumption-of-tourism-will-kickstart-goa-s-economy-cm-pramod-sawant/story-9bIxREpo4RE3HtPfz0BfnJ.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Sad, shameful and unfortunate’: Oppn parties attack UP government over Kanpur firing||Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh launched a sharp attack on the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday after the killing of eight police personnel by criminals in Kanpur district late on Thursday. Top leaders of the Samajwadi Party, the Congress, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), who took to Twitter, praised the police personnel for their bravery and called for action against those who killed the policemen.Akhilesh Yadav, the SP’s national president, called the incident unfortunate as he paid tributes to the eight policemen.WATCH: Eight UP cops out to nab dreaded criminal killed in firing in Kanpur “This is the most shameful incident in UP’s crime world in which the duty-bound police personnel paid the price for the nexus between criminals and people in power. The criminals should be caught alive and the present government must be exposed,” Akhilesh Yadav tweeted in Hindi.The Samajwadi Party also demanded Rs 1 crore compensation to each of the families of the policemen.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress’ general secretary and UP in-charge, also tweeted to call for action against the criminals.“My condolences to the families of the martyred policemen. Law and order situation in UP has turned very bad, criminals are fearless, common people and police are not safe. The chief minister himself holds the charge of the home department. He should take stern action after such a horrific incident,” Priyanka Gandhi posted on Twitter.The Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati in her tweet called the incident “sad, shameful, and unfortunate.”“It is clear that the UP government needs to be more alert and prepared, especially in the matter of law and order,” Mayawati tweeted in Hindi “The government must not spare the criminals, at any cost, in such a sensational incident even if requires a special operation. The BSP demands that the government must pay appropriate ex gratia to the families of the policemen as well as a government job to a member,” she said.Deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra, sub-inspectors Mahesh Yadav, who was the station officer of Shivrajpur, Anup Kumar, Babulal and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra and Babloo died in the firing during a raid to nab Vikas Dubey, a dreaded gangster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-shameful-and-unfortunate-oppn-parties-attack-up-government-over-kanpur-firing/story-tTWuUOS1gCILxK8l0EWNEO.html
03-07-2020||India||ICMR-Bharat Biotech to expedite clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine, plan launch by August 15||First made-in-India vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could be launched on Independence Day on August 15, according to a letter written by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to institutions involved in developing the vaccine for the viral infection.Dr. Balram Bhargava, director-general (D-G), ICMR, has written to the institutions that said: “This is the first indigenous vaccine being developed by India and is one of the top priority projects, which is being monitored at the topmost level of the government... it is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15 after completion of all clinical trials.”ICMR is working in collaboration with pandemic vaccine leader, Bharat Biotech, to develop this vaccine against Covid-19.“We have asked Bharat Biotech to expedite the process,” said Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR.On Monday, Bharat Biotech got the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India to conduct human trials of the vaccine candidate, Covaxin, which it has developed.The SARS-CoV-2 strain that causes Covid-19 was isolated in the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and transferred to Bharat Biotech in May.Coronavirus is a difficult virus to isolate.However, scientists at NIV, Pune, had managed to isolate and culture 11 strains, which is the basic requirement to develop a vaccine in the future or any research related to the viruses.Bhargava told the institutions that while the ICMR wanted the process to be expedited, the ultimate outcome would depend on the cooperation of the trial sites.“...non-compliance will be viewed very seriously...,” he said in the letter.There are about 13 trial sites identified and working on the project.The indigenous, inactivated vaccine candidate was developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level-3) high-containment facility located at Genome Valley in Hyderabad.“The Drugs Controller General of India granted permission to initiate phase I & II human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.Bharat Biotech completed comprehensive pre-clinical studies within two months after receiving all necessary regulatory approvals from the ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-bharat-biotech-to-expedite-clinical-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-plan-launch-by-august-15/story-PL1FMIp3cbmm0SDod7k9II.html
03-07-2020||India||Atiq Ahmed’s brother, wanted ex-MLA Ashraf arrested by UP Police||Former MLA and younger brother of former MP Atiq Ahmad, Khalid Azeem aka Ashraf, was arrested by the police in Uttar Pradesh in Prayagraj on Friday. Ashraf had been on the run for the past two-and-a-half years.Carrying a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, Ashraf has around 30 cases of heinous crimes including extortion, land grabbing, threatening witnesses and possessing illegal arms registered against him in various police stations.He was wanted in around nine different cases lodged against him, including double murder in Mariadih village of Prayagraj a few years back.Though the district police are yet to formally confirm his arrest, two police officials requesting anonymity confirmed that he had been nabbed.“He has been arrested by the crime branch team from near Kaushambi border. He has been brought to Cantonment police station of Prayagraj this morning where he is being questioned,” said a police official.Police had attached property of Ashraf five times in the past and carried out multiple raids over the years but had failed to arrest him.Even the Special Task Force (STF) of UP Police was on a lookout for him.A raid was carried out on June 8 at Shivala market in Kaushambi after a tip-off that Ashraf is present in the area. Ashraf was not found but his four brother-in-laws - Abdul Rehman, Abdul Wahid, Abdul Wasit, Abdul Samad aka Saddam - and four aides Mohd Saquib, Noor Mohammad, Mohd Rizwan and Mohammad Imran were arrested. They were charged with sheltering Ashraf and helping him escape.It is worth mentioning that Ashraf’s brother former MP Atiq Ahmad is lodged at Ahmedabad Jail on the instructions of Supreme Court while Atiq’s son Umar is also on the run in connection with the abduction and assault on a Lucknow-based realtor which is being investigated by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atiq-ahmed-s-brother-wanted-ex-mla-ashraf-arrested-by-up-police/story-nax1Syt7lCSWyTJudp4rbK.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi flies to Leh in signal to China, gets briefing at 11,000 feet on standoffs||In a closely guarded move, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen M N Naravane landed at Leh on Friday morning to review the tri-services preparedness against the aggressive People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as well as understand the proposed de-escalation and disengagement process at the four stand-off points. PM Modi will address Indian troops at Thiksey near Leh. He will also meet injured soldiers at the hospital in Nimu near Leh.The decision for PM Modi to visit Ladakh sector was taken last evening with National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval handling the last minute detailing with Gen Rawat. PM Modi, Doval and Rawat stood together to face the Chinese aggression in Doklam plateau in 2017.PM Modi was briefed by the Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi and XIV Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh at Nimu Army headquarters.The visit of PM Modi and Army brass will be a huge morale booster for Indian troops deployed in East Ladakh. With NSA Ajit Doval coming out of self imposed isolation, the Leh visit is a huge signal to China as it conveys how seriously does India view the stand-off with PLA. Although the Ministry of External Affairs spokesman on Thursday called for expeditious dis-engagement from the border, the de-escalation process will take time with the PLA not in the mood to walk the talk between the two governments on ground. Despite talking about peace and dis-engagement, the PLA troop withdrawal from Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso will take a lot of time and serious persuasion.According to military commanders, the PLA continues to earmark its territory at all the stand-off points by physical deployment while undertaking superficial thinning in the rear by withdrawing a few vehicles and few men. The PLA stands amassed at Galwan River Valley and consolidated at Pangong Tso with massive infrastructure upgrade.Faced with a recalcitrant adversary, the Indian Army and Air Force are fully deployed to prevent any further aggression from the PLA. The morale of the forces appears to be very high particularly after the June 15 flare-up at Galwan. “ We have no intentions of initiating any skirmish but any aggression from the other side will be fully repelled,” said a senior military commander.With temperatures in East Ladakh and Tibet well over 20 degree Celsius and high velocity winds sweeping the region, air operations in the area are a challenge with weight limits being imposed during take-offs particularly in Russian origin platforms. While IAF will use the air bases in the plains in the worst case scenario, the PLA Air Force will have serious difficulty in operating from Tibetan Plateau. The coming days will also be a test of unproven Chinese air platforms, missiles and land systems as their battle worthiness has never been challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-surprise-visit-to-leh-pm-modi-briefed-on-lac-standoff-by-military-commanders/story-9b8f1XwiktzE2zAMcmN1jJ.html
03-07-2020||India||On Ladakh visit, PM Modi to meet brave soldiers injured in Galwan Valley clash||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reached Ladakh to review situation on the ground after a violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers.The prime minister said will visit the hospital in Nimu near Leh where soldiers who were injured in the June 15 skirmish are recovering. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the face-off; China has not disclosed how many casualties its troops suffered.He posted a picture of his interaction with the soldiers in Nimu on his Instagram page. “Interacting with our brave armed forces personnel at Nimu,” he captioned the photo which shows PM Modi sitting in a camuoflage tent.  Interacting with our brave armed forces personnel at Nimu.A post shared by  Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) on Jul 2, 2020 at 10:02pm PDTLocated at 11,000 feet, Nimu is among the toughest terrains, on the banks of river Indus and surrounded by the Zanskar range.The Prime Minister was accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.General Rawat is in East Ladakh sector today to review the tri-services preparedness against the aggressive People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as well as understand the proposed de-escalation and disengagement process at the four stand-off points.As an Army Chief, General Rawat stood up to Chinese PLA at Doklam plateau on India-Bhutan-China tri-junction for 73 days in 2017.Although the Ministry of External Affairs spokesman on Thursday called for expeditious dis-engagement from the border, the de-escalation process will take time with the PLA not in the mood to walk the talk between the two governments on ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lands-in-leh-to-take-stock-of-situation-after-galwan-valley-face-off-with-china/story-13Wu2pYZPnYEfGImdkXkAI.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi phones Russia’s Putin, congratulates him for constitutional reform vote||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has congratulated Russian President Vladimir Putin on the successful completion of a vote on constitutional amendments even as the Russian side reiterated its commitment to strengthening the bilateral special strategic partnership.Modi was the first world leader to speak to Putin after Russian voters approved changes to the constitution that will allow Putin to hold power until 2036. The telephonic conversation on Thursday came against the backdrop of the Indian government approving a move to acquire 33 new combat jets from Russia, including 12 Su-30MKIs and 21 MiG-29s.The PM congratulated Putin on the success of celebrations marking the 75th anniversary of the victory in World War-II and the successful completion of the vote on constitutional amendments. Modi pointed to an Indian tri-services contingent’s participation in the Victory Day military parade in Moscow on June 24 as a symbol of the abiding friendship between the people of India and Russia.Putin thanked Modi for the phone call and “reiterated his commitment to further strengthen the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries in all spheres”, according to Indian readout of the conversation. The leaders took note of effective measures put in place by the two sides to address the consequences of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and agreed on the importance of closer bilateral ties for jointly addressing the challenges of the post-Covid-19 world.They agreed to maintain the momentum of bilateral contacts and consultations, leading up to the annual bilateral summit to be held in India this year, and Modi conveyed his keenness to welcome Putin for the meeting.Russia has played a key behind-the-scenes role in efforts to reduce tensions between India and China following the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Its leadership has said the reduction of tensions is necessary for regional security and stability.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who also participated in the Victory Day parade in Moscow last week, said after meetings with top Russian leaders that he had been assured that all ongoing contracts for military supplies would proceed as scheduled and be completed expeditiously, despite the impact of the Covid-19 crisis.People familiar with developments said this includes the $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 missile defence systems, which are expected to be delivered from the middle of next year. Russia accounts for more than 60% of the military hardware used by the Indian armed forces.On Thursday, the defence ministry approved a proposal to acquire 33 new combat jets, including 12 Su-30MKIs and 21 MiG-29s, and the upgrade of 59 MiG-29s at a total cost of Rs 18,148 crore.“Addressing the long-felt need of the Indian Air Force to increase its fighter squadrons, the DAC [Defence Acquisition Council] also approved the proposal for procurement of 21 MiG-29 along with an upgrade of existing 59 MiG-29 aircraft and procurement of 12 Su-30 MKI aircraft,” the defence ministry said in a statement.The constitutional changes in Russia will allow Putin to run two more times as president. Putin has been in power for more than two decades, longer than any other Kremlin leader since Josef Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-russian-president-vladimir-putin-congratulates-him-for-successful-constitutional-reform-vote/story-FWBNZhmGZnjhXy5YX2FfDL.html
03-07-2020||India||Over 20,900 new Covid-19 cases in biggest one-day surge, infection tally surges past 6.25 lakh||India added 20,903 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the biggest 24-hour jump so far, which pushed the country’s tally to 625,544, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.More than one lakh Covid-19 were recorded in a week between June 27 and July 3—from 508,953 to the current 625,544. According to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, 379 people succumbed to the viral disease between Thursday and Friday morning taking the death toll to 18,213.The number of people who have been cured of the coronavirus disease now stands at 379,891 after 20,032 patients were sent home in the past one day. This takes India’s recovery rate to 60.72%.The health ministry dashboard showed there are 227,439 active cases on Friday morning.The country’s caseload mostly comes from the states of Maharastra, which has 186,626 Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu with 98,392 infections, Delhi at 92,175 and Gujarat’s tally of 33,913.Union home minister Amit Shah has advised the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, which are home to close to 30 million people, to ramp up efforts to contain the coronavirus epidemic in the National Capital Region (NCR).Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi should coordinate their response to the Covid-19 outbreak by focussing on timely hospital access and using available tools for contact tracing.Delhi, Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad together account for over 100,000 infections till now, with the Capital alone recording close to 90% of it, according to government data.Delhi, however, also has close to 67% of the NCR population and the highest per capita testing in the country, which means it is likely to detect more of the outbreak.Meanwhile, the home isolation guidelines for Covid-19 has been revised by the Union health ministry by adding asymptomatic patients as well as very mild and pre-symptomatic cases to the list of people eligible for home isolation.However, immune-compromised positive cases, such as those on HIV/AIDS or cancer medication or who are transplant recipients, will not be allowed home isolation.According to the revised guidelines, a person should be clinically assigned as a very mild, pre-symptomatic, or asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer, and such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-20-900-new-covid-19-cases-in-biggest-one-day-surge-infection-tally-surges-past-6-25-lakh/story-VbyRdYGYBGHXf5X5cFYOiI.html
03-07-2020||India||India races to release first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has partnered with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) for clinical trials of indigenous vaccine for the coronavirus disease.BBIL is using the virus strain isolated at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune to develop the vaccine. The clinical trials will be held in 12 institutes across the country. The ICMR has asked these institutes to fast-track clinical trials of the vaccine as it is being considered as one of the “top priority projects” which are being “monitored at the topmost level of the government”.In a letter to these institutes, the ICMR said that it is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15, after completion of all clinical trials.“BBIL is working expeditiously to meet the target, however, the final outcome will depend on the cooperation of all clinical trial sites involved in this project,” it further said in the letter.It has also asked the institutes to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated during the first week of July.Apart from IMS and SUM Hospital here, the other institutes selected for the clinical trial are located in Visakhapatnam, Rohtak, New Delhi, Patna, Belgaum (Karnataka), Nagpur, Gorakhpur, Kattankulathur (Tamil Nadu), Hyderabad, Arya Nagar, Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh) and Goa.Meanwhile, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Thursday granted permission to pharma giant Zydus Cadila to conduct phase I and phase II human clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine.The potential vaccine showed a “strong immune response” in animal studies, and the antibodies produced were able to completely neutralise the wild type virus, Zydus, part of Cadila Healthcare Ltd, said in a statement to Indian stock exchanges.Zydus will begin human trials this month in over 1,000 subjects in multiple sites in India, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-partners-bharat-biotech-for-covid-19-vaccine-selects-12-institutes-for-clinical-trials/story-NVBXssMPyhBrjLnK0TSPeN.html
03-07-2020||India||India approves human trials for second Covid-19 vaccine candidate||Zydus has received approval from Indian regulators to begin human studies for its Covid-19 vaccine contender, the drugmaker said on Friday, as the novel coronavirus infections continue to surge in the world’s fourth worst-hit nation.The potential vaccine showed a “strong immune response” in animal studies, and the antibodies produced were able to completely neutralize the wild type virus, Zydus, part of Cadila Healthcare Ltd, said in a statement to Indian stock exchanges.India’s approval for Zydus comes days after privately held Bharat Biotech got a similar green light for human studies for its vaccine candidate.Zydus will begin human trials this month in over 1,000 subjects in multiple sites in India, it said. The company also plans to ramp up its production capacity for the vaccine contender to serve Indian and global demand, it added.There were no safety concerns for the vaccine candidate in repeat dose toxicology studies, Zydus said. In rabbits, up to three times the intended human dose was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic.No vaccine has yet been approved for commercial use against Covid-19, but more than a dozen from over 100 candidates globally are currently being tested in humans, and some have shown potential in early-stage trials.The number of coronavirus infections in India surpassed 600,000 on Thursday, resulting in 17,834 deaths as authorities battled to contain the pandemic while easing lockdown rules.Only the United States, Brazil and Russia have reported more cases than India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-approves-human-trials-for-second-covid-19-vaccine-candidate/story-dLW8RBkGlfvdtQjmA7sZKM.html
03-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: How 8 cops were killed in Kanpur gun fight and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Road blocked using earthmover, firing from rooftop: How 8 cops were killed in Kanpur gun fightEight policemen, including a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), were killed when they were fired upon by criminals in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur. The incident happened at 1:30 am on Friday. Read moreCDS Bipin Rawat to review operational preparedness in Ladakh todayChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat is expected to go to East Ladakh sector today to review the tri-services preparedness against the aggressive People’s Liberation Army (PLA) as well as understand the proposed de-escalation and disengagement process at the four stand-off points. Read moreSaroj Khan, Bollywood’s ‘masterji’, dies of cardiac arrest at 71Bollywood choreographer Saroj Khan died of a cardiac arrest at the age of 71 on Friday morning. She was admitted to Mumbai’s Guru Nanak Hospital last month after she complained of trouble in breathing. Read moreAlways a cover fielder, my job was to take on his famous square-cutsEverton Weekes was a prolific batsman and got runs wherever he played. Against India he batted at another level—seven centuries in 10 Tests. Read more‘Tiger abhi zinda hai’: BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia hits out at MP CongressBJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia hit out at Madhya Pradesh Congress after Cabinet expansion. Watch to know more.Masks and make-up: Let your eyes do the talkingThe coronavirus pandemic has changed the demographic of the entire world. From the economy to day to day household activities, all things have been made to change to accommodate the new set of circumstances that the pandemic has brought on and the makeup industry is no exception. Read moreBaby elephants fighting over delicious ‘twig’ is the perfect dose of cuteness to start your day. WatchNetizens can’t seem to have enough of videos of baby elephants. Their adorable ears and little trunks along with oodles of goofiness is something that most of us love, so why not start your day with an adorable clip of two baby elephants play fighting over an extremely ‘precious’ object. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-how-8-cops-were-killed-in-kanpur-gun-fight-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1x1l7wrqIKqcEZnOFqhHFL.html
03-07-2020||India||PM Modi lands in Leh, accompanied by CDS Bipin Rawat and Army chief||Accompanied by the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday landed in Leh on Friday morning on a closely-guarded visit to the union territory that has been at the center of the standoff with China’s People’s Liberation Army troops since early May.Top government officials had earlier only let it be known that CDS Rawat would visit Ladakh for a review of the tri-services preparedness and a first-hand understanding of the proposed de-escalation and disengagement process at the four stand-off points. It was only after PM Modi emerged from the plane that news of PM Modi’s surprise visit got out.PM Modi’s visit to the border area is high on symbolism, and a morale booster for the troops that are leading the stand-off in Ladakh’s Galwan valley and around Pangong lake.Also Read: PM Modi flies to Leh in signal to China, gets briefing at 11,000 feet on standoffsHe was briefed by the Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi and XIV Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh at Nimu Army headquarters near Leh.Located at 11,000 feet, this is among the tough terrains, surrounded by Zanskar range and on the banks of the Indus.PM Modi will also address soldiers at Thiksey near Leh and visit the soldiers injured in the June 15 violent scrap with China’s People’s Liberation Army. Although the Ministry of External Affairs spokesman on Thursday called for expeditious dis-engagement from the border, the de-escalation process will take time with the PLA not in the mood to walk the talk between the two governments on ground. Despite talking about peace and dis-engagement, the PLA troop withdrawal from Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso will take a lot of time and serious persuasion.According to military commanders, the PLA continues to earmark its territory at all the stand-off points by physical deployment while undertaking superficial thinning in the rear by withdrawing a few vehicles and few men. The PLA stands amassed at Galwan River Valley and consolidated at Pangong Tso with massive infrastructure upgrade.Faced with a recalcitrant adversary, the Indian Army and Air Force are fully deployed to prevent any further aggression from the PLA. The morale of the forces appears to be very high particularly after the June 15 flare-up at Galwan. “ We have no intentions of initiating any skirmish but any aggression from the other side will be fully repelled,” said a senior military commander.With temperatures in East Ladakh and Tibet well over 20 degree Celsius and high velocity winds sweeping the region, air operations in the area are a challenge with weight limits being imposed during take-offs particularly in Russian origin platforms. While IAF will use the air bases in the plains in the worst case scenario, the PLA Air Force will have serious difficulty in operating from Tibetan Plateau. The coming days will also be a test of unproven Chinese air platforms, missiles and land systems as their battle worthiness has never been challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-stand-off-with-china-cds-bipin-rawat-expected-to-be-in-ladakh-today/story-hTV2bJhGvamJS95B0W1RSP.html
03-07-2020||India||Road blocked using earthmover, firing from rooftop: How 8 cops were killed in Kanpur gun fight||Eight policemen, including a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), were killed when they were fired upon by criminals in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur. The incident happened at 1:30 am on Friday.The incident happened when the police team had gone to raid history-sheeter Vikas Dubey’s house. Reports say the criminals had prior information about the police’s raid and were well prepared.WATCH: Eight UP cops out to nab dreaded criminal killed in firing in Kanpur Here is how the gunbattle took place:• The police team started for Bikru village in Chaubepur police station area to look for Dubey, a known criminal. He was wanted in an attempt to attempt to murder case filed by a man Rahul Tiwari.• As the team approached the village, it found a heavy earthmover parked on the road which had blocked the way.• As soon as the policemen got down from their vehicles, the criminals started firing indiscriminately at them from the rooftops of buildings. “There was retaliatory firing but criminals were at a height, so our 8 men died,” said Director General of Police (DGP), HC Awasthi.• Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Devendra Mishra was among the eight policemen who were killed in the firing. The others were SO Mahesh Yadav, sub-inspectors Anup Kumar and Babulal, and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra and Babloo.• Five other policemen were injured in the firing and have been admitted to Regency hospital.• According to the local police, Dubey maintains a private army and recruits mostly youth. He also provides them with weapons.• Dubey has 52 criminal cases against him. In 2001, he was accused of murdering Santosh Shukla, who had rank of a state minister then, inside the Shivli police station.• All the borders in Kanpur division comprising six districts have been sealed. Additional director general of police (law and order), Prashant Kumar, is headed to Kanpur.• Chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to the eight police personnel who died on duty and asked the Director General of Police (DGP) to take toughest of action against those who are responsible for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-blocked-using-earthmover-firing-from-rooftop-how-8-cops-were-killed-in-kanpur-encounter/story-bg3dQLRx8hlEtolX4lqKtI.html
03-07-2020||India||8 policemen out to nab dreaded criminal killed in firing in UP’s Kanpur||Eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent and three sub-inspectors, were killed during a raid to nab a criminal in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district early on Friday.The police team were out to look for Vikas Dubey, a dreaded gangster, accused of attempt to murder by a villager. They were about to conduct the raid on the basis of that first information report (FIR) in Bikru village under Chaubepur police station area of Kanpur district.They were also looking for hired shooters who killed a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader, Pintoo Sengar, and were hiding in Bikru. Sengar was killed in Kanpur’s Chakeri on June 18. WATCH: Eight UP cops out to nab dreaded criminal killed in firing in Kanpur Kanpur Police had arrested three key accused in the case from Chindwara in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.Deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra, sub-inspectors Mahesh Yadav, who was the station officer of Shivrajpur, Anup Kumar, Babulal and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Jitendra and Babloo died in the firing.Five other policemen were also injured in the firing.Vikas Dubey and his team had put blocks by parking a heavy earthmover on roads leading to the Bikru village. As the police team approached the spot, the criminals began indiscriminate firing from rooftops. The passage to the area was blocked by parking a heavy earthmover as the police team approached the spot and the criminals began indiscriminate firing from rooftops. “There was retaliatory firing but criminals were at a height, so eight of our men died,” HC Awasthi, the director general of police (DGP), said.Officials said police have recovered empty shells of AK 47 carbines from the rooftops.Two of Vikas Dubey’s men have been gunned down in Nivada village, 3km from Bikru, they said. Police have also taken his brother-in-law, Dinesh Tiwari, into custody for questioning.Vikas Dubey, who has has been charged in 60 criminal cases, was involved in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Santosh Shukla, who had been given the rank of a minister of state, inside the Shivli police station in 2001. He was later acquitted in the case.Prashant Kumar, the additional director general of police (law and order), is on the way to the village and Dinesh Kumar P, Kanpur’s superintendent of police (SSP), and Mohit Agarwal, the inspector general of Kanpur range, are already on the spot. Officials said all borders of the Kanpur division, comprising six districts, have been sealed. A forensic team from Lucknow is also headed to the spot and the special task force (STF) has been given the charge of the case.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has paid his tributes to the eight police personnel and asked the director general of police (DGP) to take toughest of action against those responsible for the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-police-personnel-killed-in-firing-by-criminals-during-raid-in-up-s-kanpur/story-pl6dZWxowu5p51o2BHLcWO.html
03-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||We are getting better at saving the lives of those infected with the coronavirus disease. It’s either that, or the disease itself is becoming less virulent. That’s something that’s been known to happen to flu viruses particularly, although the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, has ended up proving everyone wrong about almost everything. Sure, it’s a flu virus, but it turns out that it affects the heart, kidney, liver, even the brain. It also emerges that at least some of those who recovered after being ill enough to be hospitalised will bear the physical and psychological scars of their ordeal for months, perhaps years (and in some cases, forever).Still, I digress.The main point, and it’s a cheerful one to begin July with, is that the pandemic seems to be killing fewer people even as it continues to rage through the world. According to the World Health Organization, every day in the week to July 1, saw at least 160,000 new cases of Covid-19 around the world. And 40% of all coronavirus cases until now were recorded in June. July may be no different. The first day of the month saw in excess of 215,000 new cases.But the trend is different when it comes to deaths. Only 26% of all deaths from Covid-19 we have seen so far were recorded in June. That’s a statistic which is remarkable enough to be repeated another way — just around one in four people who succumbed to the coronavirus disease so far, around the world, died in June. Or, in still another way, around 380,000 of the 510,000 Covid-19 casualties so far were recorded before the beginning of June.That’s entirely understandable: we now know more about the coronavirus disease, how it infects people, and how it affects, even kills them. And research has also pointed us in the direction of medicines that work. For instance, remdesivir appears to work on people with mild or moderate infections if given early on; dexamethasone on people with severe infections who are on oxygen support if given late; plasma therapy seems to work in some cases (and it should; the science is a proven one and very old) although more data on its efficacy is needed.And so, even as the number of cases has increased, the number of deaths has dipped. The trend line of daily cases (global) and daily deaths (again, global) clearly indicates that. But there are riders. Countries may not be recording deaths accurately — either as a deliberate act or because their systems are shot. Many of the new cases in June, for instance, were in Latin America, and there have been reports that some of the countries in that region (notably Peru and Brazil) may be underreporting the number of deaths. The trend may still hold — after all, investigations by the New York Times and the Financial Times found that many western nations were also undercounting the number of dead, and many of those deaths date back to March, April and May — but it is always good to understand the caveats.What about India?Unfortunately, India continues to see no decline in the number of daily deaths, which has inched up steadily. The five-day average at the end of May 31 was 221, and the five-day average on June 30 was 421. In absolute terms, India recorded 65% of its cases and 68% of its deaths in June, although the second proportion is skewed by the 2,004 deaths the country recorded on June 16 when both Delhi and Maharashtra decided to reconcile their backlog of deaths. P.S: As always, much of this column has been possible because of the data collected, maintained, and analysed by HT’s Jamie Mullick. I’m 96 not out because he has been happy to run many singles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-DkZm6lBEfmkxDRfeU3OmqK.html
03-07-2020||India||Pandemic teaches a tragic lesson in migration||In February, B Ajurm Patro travelled 1,000km from her village in Odisha’s Ganjam district to Chennai in search of a job. In May, unemployed, starving and with the fear of the coronavirus stalking her, she took a bus back. Now, despite cases surging in Tamil Nadu and her daughter just three, she is ready to make the journey again.Her heart is telling her to stay put in Manapalli, a village of 1,500 people that acts as a reservoir of migrant labour for the industrial powerhouse southern states, but her mind is made up. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“What work is there for us in Manapalli? We can’t have two square meals a day even if we toil hard,” she said, looking around her modest two-room mud house where supplies have dwindled since they got back on May 27. “Our house has to be made concrete. Can we always live in a tin-roofed house?” she asked.Manapalli is one of hundreds of villages in Khallikote block, a former zamindari estate in Ganjam district. Though electricity has reached the village, piped water is still a pipe dream. Most households have drumstick trees in their courtyard, and fried leaves of the tree form the staple diet. The village houses have pucca walls, but with tin roofs . A lack of irrigation cripples farming activity except in the monsoon, and almost all families have taken to goat rearing to get by the rest of the year. Chakrapani Rout, chief of the gram panchayat, said if people need to earn a living, they have to migrate. “Unless people migrate, they have little to survive. There is no irrigation system and farmers are dependent upon monsoon,” said Rout.Every evening, Ajurm, 40, meets other women who rue the loss of their jobs in Chennai. Once the Ganjam administration relaxes its curbs -- Ajurm hopes this will happen by the end of June -- all the women have decided to go back to Tamil Nadu. “We are left with nothing now,” she said.It took 70 days for Ajurm, her husband B Ghana Patro and daughter Smrutilekha to get back home. But they couldn’t amass enough money to bring back her 20-year-old son Kailash, who worked as a construction labourer in Chennai and who is still stuck in the city. Ajurm thinks of her son every day, and it steels her determination to get back. “Kailash, too, would have come back with us, but he ran out of money after he arranged for our return journey. I felt bad leaving him back there,” she said. Ajurm’s story is shared by millions of workers who are now taking buses, trains and hitching rides on trucks to go back to their factories, construction sites, auto shops and gyms, merely two months after their harrowing journey back home spotlighted the predicament of communities caught in a web of migration. The pandemic and overnight shuttering of the economy exposed their economic precarity. Some perished on the way and the others vowed to never go back to cities that did little to support them in crisis -- only to change their mind in the face of economic ruin back home. “What choice do we have? We have to go back and we will,” said Ajurm.Long journeyAjurm’s journey followed a typical pattern. They were a marginal family with no land holdings so Ghana migrated in 2015 to work at a construction site in Ahmedabad, then in Mumbai and finally in Chennai. When Kailash passed his Class 12 examinations in 2019, he too went to Chennai to join his father. Finally, in February, with Smritilekha old enough to travel, Ajurm realised the money she made as an agricultural labour was a fraction of what she could make in the city.So she used a contractor her husband and son knew, and, with 30 other women from Manapalli, arrived in Chennai in the first week of February. She soon got a job lifting bricks and carrying a mixture of cement and sand, making Rs 350-400 a day. Her mason husband earned Rs 700 and son another Rs 400, giving her hope that she would soon be able to cast the roof of her house with cement and bricks. When the lockdown was clamped on March 25, all three of them lost their jobs. The contractor asked the to wait for three weeks, but when the lockdown was extended in April, he told them to leave Chennai.By then, many other workers around their neighbourhood had started walking or cycling back home but it wasn’t an option for Ajurm. “How could I take the risk of cycling with a 3-year-old or walking all the way,” she said.The contractor arranged food for a couple of more weeks, but soon supplies ran out, even as the infection swept through their neighbourhood. “I was worried for my daughter more than anything,” said Ajurm.On May 4, when the first relaxations were announced, their finances were already depleted; but some facilities opened in the relatively less-affected districts outside Chennai, so the couple travelled 80km to another construction site. They paid Rs 700 to an auto-rickshaw driver and worked there for a week, earning Rs 5,000.But Ajurm fell sick and they had to come back to Chennai. By then, the city was reporting upwards of 500 cases every day, and she was worried about her daughter. There was, however, one problem: Two seats on a bus cost Rs 9,000 while the couple had just Rs 5,000 with them.Kailash solved the problem. He borrowed Rs 5,000 from another contractor, though this meant he would be in debt and stuck in the city. “He wanted to come back, but we did not have enough money to get another seat,” said Ghana.Familiar patternMigration is an old phenomenon in India, but exploded as growth soared with liberalisation in 1991, birthing a paradox: Booming cities needed cheap labour but the high cost of living was far beyond what migrant workers could afford. Nevertheless, for millions of people trying to break out of poverty, the cities offered the opportunity of jobs that did not exist in their home districts.“As workers sought to tap into opportunities offered by inhospitable cities, they worked out a variety of complex, and often personally devastating, arrangements,” said Narender Pani, a professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies in Bengaluru.At the centre of this phenomenon, Pani elaborated, was a post-liberalisation development strategy that didn’t factor in issues such as location of industries. “As a result districts towards the north and the east of the country have seen a major movement out of agriculture without a commensurate growth in industry. Workers are thus forced to seek work towards the south and the west of the country,” he added.Khallikote is a prime example of this.The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) , which allots 100 days of paid work to its beneficiaries, is of some assistance but the job card of many of the villagers is with the local Gram Rozgar Sevak, a government appointee who oversees the distribution of job cards and allocation of work to applicants, and who often pockets a fixed percentage of the money meant for villagers. “Last time, a Gram Rozgar Sevak asked me to sign on a column in the card that said I have received Rs 6,600, but gave me Rs 2,000,” alleged Ajurm.A rapid assessment of people coming back to Odisha by the non-governmental organisation Gram Vikas and Kerala’s Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development found migrant workers need a monthly income of Rs 5,001 to Rs 10,000 to continue smoothly with their lives.In Ganjam alone, more than 200,000 people have returned since May. The district administration pushed to expand the NREGS schemes but many workers say it involves hard labour and little skill, for very little pay. Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrit Kulange said few migrant labourers enrolled for NREGS works. Ganjam is one of the 116 districts in India under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan , which aims to provide rural infrastructure and modern facilities such as internet in villages.None of the benefits have reached Manapalli yet. Since she reached home, Ajurm is yet to get a good meal; the rice she gets under the national food security act is the family’s only source of sustenance. She wants to stay home for her daughter, but is worried about the lack of income. “In Chennai, I used to get Rs 350-400. Will I be able to get that sort of money in my village?” she asked.Lessons learntMost workers typically do not have the capital for the whole family to move at once. Using familial or communal networks, the man usually moves into the house of a relative, or sometimes even a friend, in the big city. As he looks for and finds work, it becomes the duty of the woman in the friend’s household to cook for all of them – in addition to her daily-wage job. The migrant then brings his wife to help share the household work and, over time, the wife also begins a job. “At this stage, the migrants have the capital to find some place to rent and set up a household of their own,” said Pani.“They look for jobs in factories in the formal sector. Women who have completed middle school usually look for work in industries that are women-dominated, such as the garment export industry. Once both husband and wife have found some modicum of stability in the city, they can bring their children to live with them,” Pani added.A few days after the lockdown was clamped on March 25, migrant workers started appearing on highways, bags slung on their backs, a bundle on their heads and children cradled in one arm. From May 1, the government announced shramik special trains, which soon sparked complaints of poor scheduling, and long hours without food or water. Nevertheless, 3,800 trains ran full over almost a month.“What the crisis did, irreversibly, is that it brought up migration as an issue like never before. Anytime migration is talked about after this, people will remember these images,” said Chinmay Tumbe, a professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.There were some big takeaways from the crisis.One, it laid bare what Sai Balakrishnan, a professor at Harvard University, calls the spatial rift of India’s unequal development. Balakrishnan connected the migration to the Green Revolution that enabled some dominant agrarian castes to accumulate capital in the west and south even as the absence of state intervention deprived the east.Two, it showed how dependent the big cities were on migrant labour. Within weeks of their leaving, labour shortages were reported from major projects in Delhi and Mumbai. “In our metros, they make up 15-20% of the workforce, and their absence may hurt businesses quite badly,” said Tumbe.Three, it shone a light on the continued precarity of workers who do not consider cities they live in for decades as their home – because of uncertainties around food, health care, care-giving and housing. “This is a very sobering reality of the exclusionary nature of our cities and urbanisation,” said Balakrishnan.Policy measures such as one-nation-one-ration card, which allows holders to draw benefits from any fair-price shop in the country regardless of home state, may alleviate some of this. “It needs to get off the ground real quick. We need to be more clear on its architecture and need more discussion on that. Who will pay for it is a challenge,” said Tumbe.Four, it underlined the growing chasm between the economic reality of migration and the political rhetoric on nativism. In the past two years, a number of states have moved to reserve large chunks of jobs for local populations amid rising tension over the figure of the “outsider” taking up jobs. How this will square with migration remains to be seen.Tumbe predicted some tension in the next six months as the economy struggles to regain steam after the pandemic. “Once the employment reality kicks in, there will be pressure to give more jobs to locals. The one-nation-one-ration-card policy incentivises inter-state migration, but most state governments incentivise locals. How will this play out at a time of low employment?”To this end, he suggested the constitution of an inter-state migrant council on the lines of the GST council. Some states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have already set up migrant commissions.Five, it showed the absence of any hard data on migrants.According to the 2011 census, there were 45 million migrants in India who had migrated for economic reasons. Over a quarter (13.4 million) were interstate migrants and a third (15.4 million) were interdistrict migrants. Just four states – Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, and Karnataka – housed half (52%) of all migrants. And just three states -- Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan -- were the source of half (53%) the migrant labourers.To be sure, it is possible that these numbers are a gross underestimate because the census did not adequately capture the number of migrants who move from one place to another for a short duration. The Economic Survey of 2016-17 estimated the number of interstate and interdistrict migrants to be 60 million and 80 million respectively. A conservative estimate by Tumbe put the number at 30 million while other estimates range anywhere between 80 and 120 million. “We don’t know how many people move. In many states, the number of people was more than double of what we thought earlier. The big learning was that states have no clue how many people worked there,” said Tumbe.Worst affectedSome of the worst-affected people by the crisis were Dalit and Adivasi workers, who make up a large pool of migrant workers and who have faced discrimination back in their villages. Many of them moved to cities to escape the deeply entrenched social inequalities in rural areas but found their hopes of a better life dashed when the virus struck India.“That internal distress migration in India is disproportionately made up of Dalits and Adivasis is well documented in migration research. What I want to underscore here is that it is not only caste-based forms of inequality, but also the regional inequality that is exposed by the ongoing migrant crisis. The Dalits and Adivasis from eastern U.P, Bihar, Odisha, have to trek almost across the breadth of the country to find work,” said Balakrishnan.Sanjib Mondal is one of them. A resident of the North 24 Parganas district in West Bengal, Mondal came back in May, only to see Cyclone Amphan pummel his village and destroy his home. Now, despite his fears of contracting Covid-19, he knows he has to go back and find work in Gujarat. “We have a home neither here nor there, but the money is better there. So what’s the harm in going back?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-teaches-a-tragic-lesson-in-migration/story-69EIk6MB70zNDX1VsRTx0J.html
03-07-2020||India||Delhiwale: A glimpse of Kutch, made at home||Her Instagram handle (@spicespori), that she launched at the beginning of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, is nothing but emotional atyachaar (torture). It is filled with pictures of yummy dishes that seem particularly unattainable in these times of the pandemic, when eating out is a dream. If only it were possible to feed our poor stomach on Nafisa Adiraju’s Insta feed! It is a dizzying exhibit of regional delicacies from across the country—Kothimbir Vadi, Koki, Amritsari Chhole, Kutchi Biryani, Vada Sambhar... Bharta with Ghee Roti.“I’m completely cosmo,” declares Ms Adiraju, 36. The lady’s a practising Muslim married to a practising Hindu. She’s from Gujarat, he’s from Andhra Pradesh. They both live in Gurugram, in a lovely sunlit third-floor apartment on Sohna Road, with their two young daughters.“My life’s a mix of many cultures, traditions and yes, cuisines,” states Ms Adiraju. Speaking on WhatsApp video, she has sportingly agreed to cook a dish from her native Kutch region. “You won’t find Kutchi Dabeli in Delhi-Gurgaon,” she informs.This sandwich-like dish is one of Ms Adiraju’s few links to her ancestral land. She no longer has close relatives in Kutch, and hasn’t visited her village, Mandavi in Bhuj, for the past six years.Her true homeland actually is her birthplace, Mumbai. There she spent the first 25 years of her life. A dweller in the Delhi region for three years, Ms Adiraju has by now gained enough experience of both the cities to conclude that “Bombay is far more cosmopolitan than Delhi.” Looking back at her childhood spent with parents and siblings, she recalls the “cosmo” character of her Navi Mumbai neighbourhood. One friend was from Bhav Nagar in Gujarat, one was from Kasaragod in Kerala, and one was from Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. Neighbours included a Sindhi as well as a Punjabi family. “My Muslim parents are very liberal and we would celebrate both Muslim and Hindu festivals.”Indeed, some of the go-to places Ms Adiraju visits every time she is in Mumbai include the trio of Haji Ali Sufi shrine in Worli, Siddhivinayak Mandir in Prabha Devi, and Mahalakshmi Temple on Bhulabai Desai Road.Sadly, Ms Adiraju’s dining table has strayed far from her origins. The Kutchi cuisine has a negligible presence in her present. One of the reasons is that “Kutch is an arid region, and its cuisine consists of a great variety of grains and less of vegetables”. In Gurugram, Ms Adiraju can get all the veggies, but she rarely gets access to the diversity of grains. In fact, she was originally planning to cook Khichda—a kind of Kutchi Khichdi made with six kinds of grains—but couldn’t get hold of Ghau Na Fada (broken wheat).Following her marriage to a Telugu man in 2008, whom she first met in her then office in Mumbai (“I was in logistics and he was in products”), she swiftly expanded her cooking cosmopolitanism, and learnt vegetarian Andhra cuisine from mother-in-law, Nagaratnam, in Guntur, Andhra Pradesh. In fact, the lunch she rustles out every day at her home is essentially an assortment of spicy Andhra Pachadis and Kuras. Just last week one of her typical meals consisted of Palak Pappu (arhar dal cooked with spinach), Potlakaya (fried snakegourd) and Annam (white rice)—you can see it on her Insta.Though this food instagrammar has never posted anything (yet) on the Kutch dish she is cooking today, it is very close to her heart. During her childhood, Ms Adiraju’s mother, Saira Mukadam, would make Kutchi Dabeli as an evening snack on Saturday evenings. “The family would sit around the dining table, and Mummy would give each of us three kids a bowl of Doodhchai with a plate of Dabeli.”This afternoon, however, Ms Adiraju is serving this snack as part of lunch to husband, Venkat, and girls, Anitra and Aahana. The photos were taken through the phone screen that connected her to this reporter. Here is the recipe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-glimpse-of-kutch-made-at-home/story-Msjol8Invuj49IZijtnmWK.html
03-07-2020||India||Timely hospitalisation, more tests in NCR plan||Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi should coordinate their response to the Covid-19 outbreak by focussing on timely hospital access and using available tools for contact tracing, Union home minister Amit Shah advised its chief ministers on Thursday, stepping up efforts to contain the epidemic in the National Capital Region (NCR).The matter was discussed at a meeting called by Shah to form a unified strategy in region that is home to close to 30 million people and has some of the country’s biggest industrial clusters, but is splintered into several cities and towns with distinct administrative structures. Together, the four key cities – Delhi, Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad -- account for over 100,000 infections till now, with the Capital alone recording close to 90% of it. Delhi, however, also has close to 67% of the NCR population and the highest per capita testing in the country, which means it is likely to detect more of the outbreak.The states must focus on saving lives by ensuring Covid-19 infected people who need to get to a hospital are able to do so on time, and that the administrations use platforms such as Aarogya Setu and ITIHAAS, the home minister told the three CMs: Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Haryana’s Manohar Lal Khattar and Uttar Pradesh’s Yogi Adityanath.Separately, the Union minister suggested that UP and Haryana ramp up tests using rapid antigen kits “to help reduce infection transmission rate”, a statement by a spokesperson quoted Shah as telling these leaders. These kits can be provided by the Union government to UP and Haryana, the minister added, according to tweets by a home ministry spokesperson.Aarogya Setu logs close contacts and location histories of people using smartphones, ITIHAAS is a location tracking system based on mobile network data – this can identify people who have basic phones as well.Antigen tests – they take 30 minutes for a result while lab tests can take at least a day – have helped Delhi double the number of daily tests in the span of a month, helping bolster the tracing and treatment process. The turnaround came in mid-June after a slew of meetings between central and state government officials who gathered after cases in the Capital recorded a sharp, sustained spike.Officials in the Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment on the meeting.The challenges of the divided administrative nature of NCR – where millions of people move between these cities for work and study – came to fore when Delhi decided to reserve its hospital beds for people who live in the city, a move that was later overturned; Haryana virtually sealed its border with Delhi on several occasions, blaming infections contracted in Delhi for fuelling their outbreak; and Noida and Ghaziabad have not opened the border for all commuters yet.According to a home ministry spokesperson, the meeting lasted over an hour and included health minister Harsh Vardhan, Niti Aayog member VK Paul and several other senior officials through video-conferencing. A Haryana government official, asking not to be named, said the Union government nudged the state government to “increase testing and bring down the positivity rate” – the proportion of positive cases per sample – in order to better detect the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-hospitalisation-more-tests-in-ncr-plan/story-VQweWS0aRIhowrA7r3BldK.html
03-07-2020||India||Trump slams China’s pattern of aggression||United States president Donald Trump has blamed Chinese “aggression” for the stand-off at the India-China border and suggested this fits in with a broader “pattern” of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world, unequivocally spelling out Washington’s position on the tensions in the region.Quoting Trump from her notes at briefing, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany late on Wednesday said: “China’s aggressive stance along the India-China border fits with a larger a pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world and these actions only confirm the true nature of the Chinese Communist Party.” The remarks went much further than the studied neutral tone the White House had maintained thus far on the dispute, according to close observers of India-US relations, who added that they reflected a growing strategic convergence between the countries.Trump’s remarks come in the backdrop of both an escalation in US-China tensions, as well as Chinese actions both internally as well as across the Asian geopolitical theatre in the past few months. The US in general, and Trump in particular, was engaged in a trade war with China before the coronavirus pandemic. Since the pandemic, even as trade tensions have deepened, the US president has categorically blamed the “Chinese virus” and omissions by China’s regime for its spread. For its part, in the past two months, China has passed what is widely considered a repressive national security legislation regarding Hong Kong, eroding its autonomy; it has stepped up its offensive in the South China Sea against countries such as Vietnam, while projecting power against islands in the East China Sea which Japan considers its own. And China has attempted to change the status quo at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India, which resulted in a brutal clash on June 15 in the Galwan Valley, leaving 20 Indian soldiers and an unconfirmed number of Chinese troops dead. On Wednesday, the Trump White House said the President is “closely monitoring” the situation and expressed hopes of a peaceful resolution. “Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation,” McEnany said before rolling out the new and more aggressive White House line.The White House statement reflected a shaper position that had been evolving in the administration, especially by secretary of state Mike Pompeo. Earlier on Wednesday, Pompeo offered full-throated support for the Indian ban on Chinese apps, which, he said, “can serve as appendages of the CCP’s (Chinese Communist Party) surveillance state”. He added, “India’s Clean App approach will boost India’s sovereignty.”There is also bipartisan purchase in the US Congress of China’s responsibility in triggering the border clashes. Tom Cotton, a Republican senator and close ally of the president, has said that “China has essentially invaded India, an ally of ours”. Marco Rubio, another Republican senator, has called Chinese actions at the border “unwarranted and lawless armed aggression”. Brad Sherman, a senior Democratic member of the House of Representatives, has slammed “Chinese aggression” for the June 15 clashes. Sherman is also the co-chair of House India caucus.Commenting on the White House statement, Arun Singh, former Indian ambassador to the US, said that the Trump administration, more than any administration since 1990, has been far more upfront in being critical of practices of the CCP “for both its own domestic political purposes and to meet the economic, technological and military challenge from China”. “Of late, administration officials — including national security adviser Robert O’Brien and Pompeo — have repeatedly criticised China’s strategies in the East China Sea, South China Sea, and now, its action across the LAC. The US strategy certainly coincides with India’s position,” he added.Singh said that the US had been careful in showing support to the extent that India found helpful and was comfortable with, except for Trump’s offer of mediation (which was rejected by India). But offering a note of caution, he said, “One must keep in mind that the US will determine its China policy based on its own interests. One can’t rule out the possibility that Trump may still try to strike a trade deal with China before the November elections because it may help him domestically.” The underlying tensions in the relationship, however, he said, will continue, giving India “enhanced space”. Vipin Narang, associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said that one of the Trump administration’s foreign policy “bright spots” have been its relationship with India, and his personal bonhomie with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “That does not mean that the relationship is all roses, but there is a lot of sympathy and friendship toward India, across both parties and especially the Trump administration which has remained silent on domestic issues that some members of the Democratic Party have expressed concern about. Paired with a lot of anger toward China, particularly for its handling of the pandemic and on trade, it is unsurprising to hear secretary Pompeo and the White House express sympathy toward India for what is perceived as China’s aggression — not just West, but also East in Hong Kong and the South China Seas.”On how this will get reflected in tangible ways, Narang said, “Beyond expressions of sympathy, it is possible that the US is providing India with intelligence and imagery on the border, though that is publicly unknown. Beyond that, however, in an election year and with the pandemic, I would not expect much more overt from the US — there may be a lot going on behind the scenes, but publicly Washington is happy to let Delhi set the pace of the relationship.” But Narang added that if Delhi wanted something, it will, in all likelihood, have a “willing administration” in Washington right now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-slams-china-s-pattern-of-aggression/story-JntwKtOG0XzyrTHgSLYQOO.html
03-07-2020||India||Ban on apps discriminatory under WTO rules: Beijing||China said on Thursday it hopes India would correct its “discriminatory” actions against Chinese companies, three days after the latter banned 59 mobile applications, mostly Chinese, amid border tensions between the two countries. At an online briefing, Chinese commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng said India’s actions violated World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, according to agency reports. Gao underlined China has not adopted any restrictive or discriminatory measures against Indian products and services.India banned the mobile applications on Monday, saying they were “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order”. HT has reported the ban was under discussion since early last month and the June 15 face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley hastened it. A Chinese economist with a leading Beijing-based think-tank also said that India’s decision violates WTO rules. “Hi-tech FDI from China legally flew into India, and was welcomed by the Indian government. But now, without going through any legal process or necessary warning, the Chinese FDI has been blocked overnight.”Asked if the ban on Chinese apps will impact foreign investments to India, the foreign ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, software and internet application firms in India “have to abide by rules and regulations issued by the relevant ministries and departments, including those pertaining to data security and privacy of individual data.” India welcomes foreign investments and has one of the most open FDI regimes, “but this will have to be in accordance with the rules and regulatory framework established by the government,” he added.But Biswajit Dhar, a professor of economics at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, said there is no obvious ground for the Chinese to sue India in WTO over banning of these apps. “The apps are not likely to be protected by any forms of IPRs. Chinese firms could have claimed the apps as their assets, but we don’t have an investment treaty with China & investments are not under the WTO’s purview. Had we joined RCEP (Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership), which includes an investment agreement, things would have been different,” he added.Gao’s remarks came two days after the Chinese government said it was “strongly concerned” about the ban and added the move was against “India’s interests”. “China is strongly concerned about the relevant notice issued by the Indian side. We are checking on and verifying the situation,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.Zhao reminded New Delhi of its responsibilities towards foreign companies. “The Indian government has the responsibility to uphold the legitimate and legal rights of the international investors, including the Chinese ones,” he said. He added China has always asked Chinese companies to obey international rules and local laws.The ban is expected to pose “a big stumbling block” for Chinese internet powerhouses, which bank on sheer user numbers and online traffic to gain a market position overseas, Raymond Wang, a global partner at consultancy Roland Berger, told state-controlled newspaper China Daily.“India, the market with the second-largest population worldwide, is definitely lucrative for sectors that compete for market scale and share,” Wang said. “That advantage could be wiped out in the foreseeable period of time.”A China Daily report said India accounted for roughly 30% of TikTok’s 611 million downloads, citing analytics firm Sensor Tower in April.Counterpoint, another technology research house, said Chinese smartphone makers, currently claim more than half of India’s smartphone market.(with inputs from HTC in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-apps-discriminatory-under-wto-rules-beijing/story-RnfGArJ9QVe7tM6e1OltpK.html
03-07-2020||India||India slams China over its trade practices||New Delhi: China’s assertion that India’s ban on Chinese mobile applications is “selective and discriminatory” is completely misplaced and New Delhi has a long list of Beijing’s discriminations with countries, including India, related to trade and investments, officials aware of the matter said.India also has a long list of Beijing’s restrictive trade and investment practices such as the imposition of internet censorship through ‘Great firewall’, restrictions on long-term visa and non-tariff barriers on investments, two officials working in separate ministries, who did not want to be named, said.News agency Press Trust of India on Thursday reported the Indian Newspaper Society has slammed China for restricting access to Indian newspapers and media websites and urged the government to expeditiously take steps to ban access to Chinese media in the country.Chinese state-controlled Global Times on Thursday tweeted quoting China’s commerce ministry spokesperson Gao Feng as saying: “To date, China has not adopted any restrictive or discriminatory measures targeting #India’s products and services.”The officials brushed aside Beijing’s contentions and its veiled threat to drag India to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) over the decision on Monday to ban 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications such as Tik-Tok, citing concerns that these are “prejudicial to sovereignty of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.”One of the officials cited above, who is also the government’s legal expert on the strategic matters, said, “Beijing has no basis to challenge New Delhi’s June 29 decision [to ban the applications]. Is there any agreement on this matter with China? No. Not to my knowledge. India can defend [it] easily under the clause of national security interest and sovereignty of the country.”“Therefore, the official Chinese reaction on June 30 was subdued and did not mention any bilateral or multilateral [WTO] agreement,” he added.Tensions between India and China escalated after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian on Tuesday said the Indian government has the responsibility to protect legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles. “Practical cooperation between China and India is mutually beneficial. Deliberate interference in such cooperation will not serve the interests of the Indian side.”TS Vishwanath, the principal advisor at law firm APJ-SLG Law offices, said, “This decision [on banning the applications has been] taken based on national security concerns. “ He said India can take any action to protect its national security interest as per the WTO agreement.The second official cited above, who works in an economic ministry, said China is indulging in illegal and unfair practices such as routing its goods through third countries with which India has preferential trade arrangements (PTAs) to avoid paying higher duty. China is dumping cheaper products in India to harm Indian industries, the official added.“The government is aware and agencies have been told to take action against such violations,” the official said. HT reported it on July 1.Data suggests a significant indirect inflow of Chinese goods and investments through countries with which India has free trade agreements (FTAs), PTAs, or other bilateral commercial arrangements. It shows that total foreign direct investment (FDI) from China is minuscule, but many Indian firms have received Chinese investments. Similarly, imports from China have registered a minor decline recently, but at the same time imports from Hong Kong and Singapore have surged, officials said.The latest official data shows FDI from China between April 2000 and March 2020 was $2.378.71 billion, which is 0.51% of the total such inflow into the country over the two decades.According to the Federation of Indian Export Organisations, while India’s trade deficit with China narrowed by $6.05 billion to $51.25 billion in 2019, the gap with Hong Kong widened sharply by $5.8 billion in 2019, nullifying almost all the gains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slams-china-over-its-trade-practices/story-1vsbi5xXLddTQ0EUrH3t8N.html
03-07-2020||India||We expect China to ensure restoration of peace: MEA||India on Thursday called for an expeditious and phased de-escalation of the standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying it expects the Chinese side to “sincerely” ensure the restoration of peace and tranquillity along the disputed frontier.Amid indications that the Chinese side has not done enough to ease the months-old standoff along the LAC, especially in the Ladakh sector, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing that speedy de-escalation will be in keeping with an agreement between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi that the overall situation “would be handled in a responsible manner”.Srivastava noted that the two sides have been holding discussions through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation along LAC. This includes three meetings between corps commanders of the two sides on June 2, 22, and 30 and a meeting of the working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) on June 24.The corps commanders meeting at Chushul on June 30 was the third engagement between senior military commanders to discuss issues related to disengagement at face-off sites along LAC and de-escalation in border areas, he said.“Both sides have emphasised the need for an expeditious, phased, and stepwise de-escalation as a priority. This is in keeping with the agreement between external affairs minister and his Chinese counterpart, during their conversation on June 17, that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and that both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely,” Srivastava said.He added that discussions during the latest meeting of the corps commanders “reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce the tensions along LAC”.The two sides will continue meetings at the military and diplomatic levels, including within the framework of WMCC, to resolve “issues to mutual satisfaction”, Srivastava said.“We expect the Chinese side to sincerely follow up and ensure the expeditious restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas as per bilateral agreements and protocols,” he added.In response to a question on India’s June 29 decision to ban 59, mostly Chinese, mobile phone applications and China’s description of the move as discriminatory, Srivastava pointed out that India has one of the world’s most open regimes for attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) and that the government has put in place a host of measures over the past few years for creating a more investor-friendly regime. “Similarly in the area of digital technology and the internet, India has adopted a very open regime. India is today one of the world’s largest markets for digital and internet technologies with more than 680 million subscribers. The world’s largest software and internet applications companies are present in India,” he said.Such companies have to abide by India’s rules and regulations, including those pertaining to data security and privacy of individual data, while operating in the country, he said. “While we will continue to welcome foreign investments in India, including in the area of internet technologies, this will have to be in accordance with the rules and regulatory framework established by the government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-expect-china-to-ensure-restoration-of-peace-mea/story-1FVoXGoOcfK6BTjhJo4bnM.html
03-07-2020||India||Lack of trust may delay de-escalation of border conflict: Officials||The disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops at face-off sites along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the de-escalation of the border conflict being negotiated by senior military commanders on both sides are expected to make slow progress because of “deep distrust” and the continuing Chinese build-up that questions the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) intent, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Reversing the trust deficit created by the brutal clash at Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead will be enormously hard, and it is expected to be an impediment to the disengagement and de-escalation processes, one of the officials said on the condition of anonymity.On Thursday, defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed the developments at the troubled border. They met two days after the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the conflict “on priority” during marathon talks between senior commanders at Chushul in Ladakh. Details of the discussions between the two ministers were not immediately known.Singh was supposed to visit Ladakh for a security review on Friday, but the minister deferred his visit. His visit is being re-scheduled, officials said.The June 30 meeting was the third attempt of the Indian and Chinese generals to make some headway in implementing a daunting disengagement plan — agreed to on two previous occasions and reiterated again on Tuesday — aimed at gradually reducing tensions aggravated by the build-up of forces on both sides of the border.The Galwan Valley skirmish has created severe complications and any significant breakthrough in reducing tensions isn’t expected anytime soon, said a second official who has been tracking the military and diplomatic-level talks.“There is no change in the situation on the ground at the face-off points. Both sides have hardened their military postures in the region. This is going to a long haul as we have serious doubts about the PLA’s sincerity to restore status quo ante (early April) in strategic areas, especially Pangong Tso,” he said, requesting anonymity.Disengagement (when it begins) will involve rival troops pulling back a few hundred metres from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the complex plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides, as reported by HT on Thursday.The disengagement process will be “complex” even though the June 30 military discussions “reflected the commitment” of both sides to reduce tensions, officials said on Wednesday.“The big issue here is that there is no trust between the two sides after the June 15 skirmish. The disengagement process will be long-drawn and slow as both sides will verify and re-verify it at every step with extreme caution. Things would have been different if the Galwan Valley bloodshed had not happened,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.More meetings are expected at the military and diplomatic levels to break the stalemate.The June 30 dialogue between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, was the second round of talks between them after the deadly clash. A disengagement plan hammered out by the two commanders in their first meeting on June 6 was being implemented in some areas, including Galwan Valley, when the violent face-off took place.The two delegations, led by the corps commander-ranked officers, also met on June 22 and reached a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border. But things didn’t change on the ground, leading to the third meeting on June 30.The Indian side reiterated on Tuesday its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas, including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military build-up in the region.China has not halted its military activity in Finger Area near Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Depsang Plains since the senior officers met for the second time on June 22. The Chinese are still at it, said the first official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-trust-may-delay-de-escalation-officials/story-5Dpvt6YTTzHTZmUI66mZoM.html
03-07-2020||India||Rs39k-crore military deal okayed for jets, missiles||Amid the border row in Ladakh and worst tensions there since the 1962 India-China war, the defence ministry on Thursday approved the purchase of weapons and ammunition worth Rs 38,900 crore, a government spokesperson said. The purchases will include 33 new fighter jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF) that is grappling with a shortage of warplanes.The proposals green-lighted by the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) include buying of 21 MiG-29s from Russia, 12 new Sukhoi-30 fighters from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), homegrown Astra BVR air-to-air missiles, locally-developed land-attack cruise missile (LACM) systems with a range of 1,000 km, indigenous rocket systems, and the upgrade of 59 MiG-29 jets, the defence ministry said in a statement.The cost of military hardware cleared for purchase from the domestic industry is pegged at Rs 31,130 crore and the orders are expected to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Movement), the spokesperson said.In a reference to the ongoing border dispute that has soured the military relationship with China, the statement said the weapon purchases were approved by the DAC --- headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh --- “in the current situation and [because of] the need to strengthen the armed forces for the defence of our borders.”The council also accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for additional Pinaka artillery rocket systems, upgrade of infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) and advanced radio communication systems. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware.The AoNs granted by the council will take a few years to fructify but the approval sends out a strong message about the government’s seriousness to go indigenous, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“AoN for additional fighter aircraft is gratifying as it will help stabilise the IAF’s holdings. Particularly encouraging is the confidence placed in the Astra BVR and LACM. But these AoNs have to be backed up with the release of funds, else they amount to just an administrative acceptance of a need and not a procurement,” Bahadur said.“One supposes that in the current security environment, money would be forthcoming,” he added.The 12 Sukhoi-30s to be bought from HAL will cost Rs 10,730 crore, while the 21 new MiG-29s that will be imported from Russia and the 59 existing MiG-29 jets to be upgraded in that country will cost Rs 7,418 crore. These steps will address the “long-felt need of the IAF to increase its fighter squadrons”, the ministry said.Acquisition of new/additional missile systems would add to the military’s firepower, the statement said.“While the acquisition of Pinaka missile systems will enable raising additional regiments, the long-range LACM systems will bolster the attack capabilities of the navy and the IAF. Induction of Astra missiles will serve as a force multiplier and immensely add to the strike capability of the navy and the IAF,” the statement added.The domestic purchases worth Rs 31,130 crore factor in the cost (Rs 10,730 crore) of the Sukhoi-30s to be purchased from HALThe remaining Rs 24,400 crore will be spent on Pinaka ammunition, ICV armament upgrade, LACM systems, Astra missiles and software-defined radios, the defence ministry said, adding that the indigenous content in some of these projects would be up to 80% of the project cost.From raising foreign direct investment in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government in May announced a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39k-crore-military-deal-okayed-for-jets-missiles/story-XkMm07Ul1UG2siPvOX4LZN.html
03-07-2020||India||Only two given accommodation for life||Against the backdrop of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra being asked to vacate her government accommodation, HT learns that there are only two people who have been given government accommodation for life despite not holding a government post: former deputy prime minister LK Advani and former Youth Congress president MS Bitta. In Advani’s case, this is a function of the significant positions he has held in government as well as an assessment of the security threats he faces, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. In Bitta’s case, added this person who is involved in the decision-making process, it is just the threat factor. LK Advani stays at an allotted bungalow on Prithviraj Road while Bitta, who has been targeted by terrorists in the past, stays on Talkatora Road.”As per extant policy, private persons other than SPG (Special Protection Group) protectees are not entitled to be allotted government accommodation on security ground. However, CCA (Cabinet Committee on Accommodation) makes certain exceptions based on threat perceptions to individuals,’’ said an internal government note which has been reviewed by HT. In Priyanka Gandhi’s case, the indications are that the threat perception wasn’t significant enough. In November, the government decided that the SPG would only protect the current Prime Minister and his family and the former PM and their family for five years . The change meant that Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi would be protected by the Central Reserve Police Force. And under government policy, only those individuals not holding a government post who are under SPG cover are entitled to government accommodation. Responding to the charges of “revenge politics” driving the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs notice to Priyanka Gandhi on Wednesday, the official also clarified that former Union minister Murli Manohar Joshi has his government accommodation for two more years, till 2022. Joshi continues to stay in the Raisina Road house he used to occupy as a senior minister and a member of Parliament. Priyanka Gandhi has never been a MP, nor held any government post. ”These decisions are taken by the CCA with inputs given by the ministry of home affairs. In Advaniji’s case, his threat perception continues due to the ongoing Babri Masjid demolition case. He was also the deputy prime minister, and so the decision was taken last year that he would be given the accommodation for his life,’’ said the official . “In Joshi’s case, it was again his involvement in the Babri Masjid case but that cannot be endless and that’s why it was decided to grant him accommodation till June 2022.’’The official pointed out that Bitta’s security threat was assessed as high because of the continuing threat from Khalistani forces to his life. He was severely injured and 13 others were killed in an attack in Amritsar in 1992.”I don’t know the details of Priyanka Gandhi’s case but my case is not political,’’ said Bitta.”I neither request for security, nor is there any lobbying. They automatically clear my case because of security threats.’’The opposition on Thursday kept up its attack on the government. Deputy chief minsiter of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot tweeted: “Many leaders are provided govt accommodation on security grounds despite not holding any office.Targeting Priyanka Gandhi is clearly political.Removing SPG &serving eviction notice esp during an endemic,can’t be the priority when so many burning issues are confronting the country.’’HT has learnt that Wednesday’s order for Priyanka Gandhi’s eviction from 35, Lodhi Estate, came after a flurry of exchanges between the Urban development ministry and the home ministry over the past seven months. It started when the government removed SPG cover from the Gandhis in November last year, giving them Z-plus CRPF cover instead. The final MHA letter this week clarified that such protectees do not get government accommodation if they don’t hold public office.While the Congress has accused the government of pettiness , the official cited in the first instance said that they expected Priyanka Gandhi to have moved out of her own. “When Vajpayeeji died in 2018, Hardeep Puri (minister of housing) met his daughter and son-in-law Namita and Ranjan Bhattacharya and offered them alternative accommodation as they were SPG protectees but they refused,’’ said the official.Namita Bhattacharya declined comment on the matter.”This is just like the time when Indira Gandhi was evicted from her house after she lost the election in 1977,’’ said Aradhna Mishra, the Congress legislative party leader in Uttar Pradesh. ”Priyanka has been raising issues that matter to people and they want to suppress her voice.’’BJP leader Gopal Agarwal tweeted, “Who is @priyankagandhi Priyanka Vadra? Is she holding a constitutional seat? Why does your party promote a culture where the hard earned public money is thrown away for the comforts of ‘One Family’?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-two-given-accommodation-for-life/story-7ywhgZfhESnDPQ16yZ0v8N.html
03-07-2020||India||Private train services by April ’23: Rly board chief||New Delhi: Private train services on 109 routes will begin by April 2023 and the operators will decide their fares based on competitive pricing, railway board chairman VK Yadav said on Thursday, a day after the process for opening up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises began for the first time. “Fares will be based on competition with other modes of transport in the same segment including airfares and fares of air-condition buses,” said Yadav. “I do not think that the fares fixed by private train operators will be too high ultimately if they want to keep financial viability.” Yadav said the fares of the 95% trains that the national carrier will operate will not be increased. “The poor will get a huge advantage with this. At the same price, they will get better facilities as technology and safety will improve.”The railway ministry on Wednesday issued a request for qualification (RFQ) for running 151 trains on the 109 routes. It laid down specific conditions needed to be met to “introduce modern technologies and world-class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport that has been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy in recent decades.Yadav said the railways is incurring losses in the passenger segment and it aims to meet its expenditure through a minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to the national carrier.“Bids have been designed in such a way that railway will be able to recover the cost that is the minimum guaranteed cost that the private train operator will have to pay to us….basically we cross-subsidise with the freight segment. In this particular project what we have devised is that railways is not going to lose anything and ultimately the minimum cost which the private operator is going to pay will be able to meet the expenditure of the railways and whatever revenue we get over and above will be profit for the railways,” he said.Yadav referred to the bidding process and added they have initiated the timeline in such a way that they should be able to open the tender sometime in February-March and finalise it in April. Yadav said private operators have to buy and maintain the train sets and they will be procured under the Make in India policy. “…We have had few meetings with the stakeholders and will hold a pre-bid conference also after 15-20 days,” he said.The railway ministry on Wednesday said the planned investment will come to around ₹30,000 crore and the trains shall be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph to reduce journey time.Yadav said they will follow the Make in India policy guidelines when asked whether Chinese firms will be allowed to bid amid growing tensions between the two countries.HT reported in September that the national carrier is considering the idea of handing over operations of more trains to private players on several important routes with improved services and amenities.Yadav said the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictive measures in place will impact the railway privatisation plan. “There is an issue. It is a global pandemic and that is the reason we delayed our RFQ for some time but now we realised that economic activities are gradually opening up and that is why we decided we should go for the bids.” He added since they expected the first trains to run in April 2023, they have enough time.Congress leader Rahul criticised the privatisation plan and said the government has snatched lifeline of the poor. “Rail is the only lifeline of the poor and the government is taking it away from them,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-train-services-by-april-23-rly-board-chief/story-VLmZkzJDHhaeI3JxR58LOM.html
03-07-2020||India||Centre seeks CAPF inputs on recruitment of trans persons||New Delhi: The Union home ministry has sought views of central paramilitary forces (CAPF) for recruiting transgenders as assistant commandants, according to a letter written to in this regard on Wednesday, months after Parliament in December passed a law for protecting the community’s rights.In the letter, the ministry asked for Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF)’s comments for adding transgender as the third gender category to recruitment rules ahead of the annual examination for recruiting assistant commandants in December. HT has seen a copy of the letter.The comments will be shared with the Union Public Service Commission, which conducts the exams, for incorporating the third gender category in the relevant application forms, if the ministry gets a positive response, officials aware of the matter said. The government first wants to recruitment officers under the third gender category before hiring transgender troopers and sub-inspectors, they added.The officials said there is currently no provision for hiring transgenders for the central paramilitary forces.The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, which Parliament passed in December, says no establishment shall discriminate against transgender persons in matters relating to employment, recruitment, promotion, and other related issues. In view of the law, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) in April asked all central government departments to include transgender as a separate category for recruitment for all posts, including civil services. A DoPT order said the matter was under the government’s consideration for some time.The Civil Services Examination Rules, 2020, notified in February included transgender as a separate category. K Durga Prasad, a former CRPF chief, welcomed the home ministry’s move. “This is the time to give equal opportunities. The only thing we have to take care of is setting different parameters like training, job profile, etc,” he added.Chayanika Shah, an activist, said, “By doing this, we are creating a category and you remain in a certain category forever. But the question is that once people come in, how do you deal with it? Why recruit only assistant commandants and not other categories?”The one-million strong central paramilitary forces are deployed for securing India’s borders with Pakistan, China, Bangladesh, and Nepal as well as for counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir and Maoist insurgency-hit areas.According to home ministry data, these forces have 7,859 assistant commandants in their ranks. CRPF has the maximum assistant commandants (3,054), followed by BSF (1,888), ITBP (716), CISF (725), and SSB (542).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-capf-inputs-on-recruitment-of-trans-persons/story-d9lHNzyQzOhg6vznxP9gwJ.html
03-07-2020||India||Jaish man arrestedfor aiding Pulwama attack perpetrator||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested a member of Jaish-e-Mohammad’s (JeM) “transportation module” _ that ferries infiltrating terrorists from border to Kashmir _ for allegedly facilitating the movement of one of the terrorists who helped making the bomb in February 2019 Pulwama attack, officials said.The accused has been identified as Budgam resident Mohammad Iqbal Rather (25).NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement that Rather had facilitated the movement of Muhammad Umar Farooq, JeM terrorist and a key conspirator in this case, after he infiltrated into the Indian territory in Jammu region in April, 2018, from the national highway near international border.“Farooq, along with others, had assembled the bomb used in the February 14, 2019 attack (in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed). Rather had been in judicial custody since September, 2018 in another JeM- related case investigated by NIA,” Narang said.“ As such, he was produced by the jail authorities before the NIA special court, Jammu, on Thursday and was taken into seven days’ custody for interrogation. Initial examination has revealed that Rather was in constant touch with Pakistan-based leadership of JeM over secure messaging applications. He was part of the JeM’s ‘transportation module’,” Narang added.Before Rather, NIA arrested five persons in Pulwama attack – including Shakir Bashir Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, a girl, Insha Jan, and her father Tariq Ahmad Shah. They were nabbed in the last week of February and first week of March this year, over a year after the terror strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-man-arrestedfor-aiding-pulwama-attack-perpetrator/story-UwlrSmODwbsVbbeAby08ZK.html
03-07-2020||India||Assam floods: Kaziranga swamped; over 1.6 mn affected||Flood caused by heavy rains continued to wreak havoc in Assam on Thursday, affecting over 1.6 million people in 22 of the state’s 33 districts.Nearly 80% area of the Kaziranga National Park, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos spread over 430 sq km, is inundated by flood waters. Twenty five animals have died due to various causes including drowning and vehicle-hit while trying to cross roads during floods.According to park authorities, 73 of the 223 camps used by forest personnel to patrol the park have been inundated and six of them vacated. Carcass of a rhino, which died due to natural causes, was recovered on June 26. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 1.6 million people in 2,053 villages in 60 revenue circles were affected by floods. On Thursday, one person died due to drowning in Goalpara district, taking the total deaths this season to 34.As total of 12,597 people uprooted by flooding are taking shelter in 163 relief camps. Over 72,000 hectares of crop area have been inundated by flood waters.A total of 2,852 persons stranded due to flooding were rescued on Thursday. Several instances of damage to embankments, roads, bridges and erosion were reported from many parts of the state.According to Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra continued to flow over the danger mark at Nematighat, Goalpara and Dhubri, Dhansiri breached the danger mark at Numaligarh, Jia Bharali at Sonitpur and Kopili at Dharamtul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-floods-kaziranga-swamped-over-1-6-mn-affected/story-2bMoiy7ikcarj8TIQpjhEK.html
03-07-2020||India||Covid patients, seniors to be allowed to use postal ballots||New Delhi: The ministry of law and justice amended the rules to allow those over the age of 65 and Covid positive patients, under home quarantine or hospitalized, to use the postal ballot to exercise their right to vote. The move comes ahead of Bihar elections, which are slated to take place in October this year. In the Rajya Sabha polls held last month, the election commission had allowed a Covid-19 positive legislator in Madhya Pradesh to vote at the polling booth. All the officials, and the legislator, were clad in PPE suits to reduce any chance of transmission of the virus. Earlier, casting votes through postal ballots was available only to armed forces and officials assigned poll duties. Those over the age of 65 years and people infected with coronavirus or suspected of having contracted the infection will be allowed to vote by postal ballot after the government amended the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. Those who have mild symptoms and are not in any medical facility but in home quarantine can also vote through postal ballotIn several health advisories, people over the age of 65 have been asked not to venture out as they are particularly vulnerable to catching the highly contagious virus.In February, Delhi became the first state to experiment with postal ballots, extending the facilities to those with severe disabilities or above the age of 80 years.The elections to fill 19 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha in nine states were originally to take place in March but were deferred after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. They were then held in June and arrangements were made to allow members who are unwell to vote through postal ballot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patients-seniors-to-be-allowed-to-use-postal-ballots/story-vtWXdVeTjoZ8bOwRtVSsTL.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Pak claims on Karachi attack are absurd’: India hits back||New DelhiIndia on Thursday dismissed as “absurd” Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s allegation that New Delhi was behind a terror attack on the Karachi stock exchange, saying Islamabad cannot shift the blame for its domestic problems.Khan had told Pakistan’s Parliament on Tuesday that he had “no doubt” that India was behind Monday’s terror attack on the stock exchange building that left four security personnel dead. All four attackers were also killed.The premier didn’t give any evidence to back up his claim, and his remarks were a reiteration of allegations made earlier by foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi. The attack was claimed by the Baloch Liberation Army.Asked about Khan’s allegations during a weekly media briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “India rejects these absurd comments on the terrorist attack in Karachi and Pakistan cannot shift the blame on India for its domestic problems.Referring to Khan’s recent description of former al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden as a “martyr”, Srivastava added: “We would ask Pakistan that they may wish to reflect on this and on their own government’s position, including their prime minister’s description of a global terrorist as a martyr.”Bin Laden was killed in the northwestern Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad during a raid by US commandoes in 2011.In response to another question on the Indian government’s decision to ask Pakistan to reduce the strength of its high commission in New Delhi by 50% because of the alleged involvement of Pakistani officials in espionage and terror activities, Srivastava said personnel from the Indian mission in Islamabad and the Pakistani mission in New Delhi had returned home on June 30.A total of 38 Indian officials and family members had returned via the Wagah-Attari land border crossing while 143 Pakistani officials and family members had also crossed over, he said.Srivastava also said a total of 627 Indians stranded in Pakistan because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions had returned via the Wagah-Attari crossing. A total of 204 Indians returned on June 25, 215 on June 26 and 208 on June 27.Another 100 Indians were still in Pakistan and authorities are awaiting clearances to facilitate their return, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-claims-on-karachi-attack-are-absurd-india-hits-back/story-h1GY0V9OGwniqgzPY50aUM.html
03-07-2020||India||ED quizzes Cong leader Patel for 3rd time in PMLA case||New Delhi: A team of Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers on Thursday questioned Congress leader Ahmed Patel for the third time in connection with its money laundering probe into the Sterling Biotech group, officials familiar with development said.Patel was questioned for alleged links with the firm’s owners, the Sandesara brothers, who fled the country in 2017 after allegedly swindling several banks of several thousand crore rupees.The agency has questioned the senior leader and Rajya Sabha MP twice already after coming across new facts in the case, the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. They added that Patel’s statement was being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The Sandesaras are being probed by multiple agencies including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Income Tax department. The money laundering case is connected to an alleged Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud perpetrated by the Vadodara-based pharma firm and its main promoters.The Congress contended the probe into Patel was an attempt to “browbeat” the Opposition.“Frustration and political vendetta is writ large. It is traceable direct link from the Prime Minister and the home minister and the Gujarat connection to the Congress and Mr Ahmed Patel. It is clear that a slap in the face of illegal, reprehensible, manipulative activities in Gujarat elections has not yet been digested by BJP national and Gujarat leadership,” party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-quizzes-cong-leader-patel-for-3rd-time-in-pmla-case/story-v0YFbIstWJsfNPFqJgWPyO.html
03-07-2020||India||Interministerial group set up to tackle locust invasion across states||The Centre has set up an inter-ministerial empowered group led by the agriculture ministry to intensify measures to deal with crop-devastating locusts in six most “at-risk” states, including through the use of helicopters and more advanced drones, Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar has said. On recommendations of the group, the civil aviation ministry has relaxed conditions for the operation of civilian drones for locust operations, Tomar said. It has allowed the use of engine-powered drones of up to 50kg and use of drones at night for the locust control. The empowered group, set up on Tuesday, which has representatives from helicopter operator Pawan Hans, Directorate General of Civil aviation and Air India, will serve as a command-and-control centre for decisions to control the pest that has now become endemic in Rajasthan. Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh are the most threatened states as the country heads into its summer-sown kharif crop season.Swarms of locusts on Sunday moved further from Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr to Kasganj, Oraiyya, Farrukhabad, and Hathras after the operation to control them a day earlier when they flew over parts of the National Capital Region were ineffectiveThe agriculture ministry has hired five technology firms to provide advanced drones. Each firm will provide five large drones. So far, 12 drones have been deployed in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Nagaur. Drones are effective for covering tall trees and inaccessible areas. One drone can douse crops with pesticides in 16-17 hectare area in one hour. One hectare equals 2.5 acres.According to the UN, locusts pose a “serious threat” to the country’s agriculture this year. Desert locusts can fly hundreds of kilometres a day and one square-km swarm can eat as much crop food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service manual. If unchecked, locust infestations can cause a considerable drop in food output. In its latest update on June 28, FAO said breeding in Pakistan’s Sindh near the Indian border, the Indus Valley and the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region poses a fresh threat of locust invasions into India.On Tuesday, the agriculture minister gave the go-ahead for a Bell helicopter with spray equipment from a helipad in Greater Noida. The helicopter will be based at the air force station at Uttarlai from where it will be deployed for locust control in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur and Nagaur.“The government is in full preparedness. The Centre is working in full coordination with states on locust control operations,” Tomar said.The Horn of Africa has been witnessing large breading by locusts since 2019 due to frequent cyclones possibly linked to climate change and swarms have invaded several regions from there, according to FAO.Currently, 60 specialised teams with spray equipment-mounted vehicles and more than 200 federal personnel are engaged in locust control operations in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interministerial-group-set-up-to-tackle-locust-invasion-across-states/story-xbWsSmF2FkGiqKiaTjNlSN.html
03-07-2020||India||Joe Biden promises to end suspension of H-1B visas||Washington: Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, has said the US and India are “natural partners” and if elected, the relationship will be a “high priority” for his administration. He promised to end the temporary suspension of H-1B visas that President Donald Trump ordered last week ostensibly to ensure American have the first crack at jobs as the US reopens after Covid-19 lockdown. The visa programme, of which Indians are the largest beneficiaries, has been in the crosshairs of the Trump administration’s immigration hawks.“That partnership [with India], a strategic partnership, is necessary and important in our security,” said Biden at a virtual fund-raiser on Wednesday. He gave an account of his role in promoting the relationship and securing the US-India civil nuclear deal.“I was proud to play a role more than a decade ago in securing congressional approval for the US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement,” he said. He added it was a big deal.The deal set a high bar for everything that has followed in the relationship.“Helping open the door to great progress in our relationship and strengthening our strategic partnership with India was a high priority in the Obama-Biden administration and will be a high priority if I am elected president,” Biden, a former vice-president, said. “India needs to be a partner in the region for our safety sake and quite frankly for theirs.”Late former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee first used the phrase “natural allies” to describe the US-India relationship. Former US president George W Bush switched in “partners” for “allies”.At a virtual town-hall with Asian American and Pacific Islanders, Biden opposed Trump’s suspension of H-1B visas. “He [Trump] just ended H-1B visas for the rest of this year. That will not be in my administration,” he said in response to a question. People on this visa “have built this country”, said Biden, who visited India as vice-president in July 2013 with his wife, Jill Biden.The US issues 85,000 of temporary non-immigrant H-1B visas for high-skill jobs annually. Over 70% of them go to Indians. The programme critics argue H-1B visas are used to bring cheaper labour from abroad to displace Americans. The Trump administration stepped up scrutiny of the programme after taking office in January 2017. It issued an executive order titled ‘Buy American, Hire American’.The administration announced a reform of the programme along with the suspension last week and it would include doing away with the electronic lottery system to pick successful H-1B applications from among the thousands that are filed. The selection will be based on those getting the highest salary. Other changes are also in the offing, but there is no timeline for it yet.Biden also spoke about other immigration issues like the plight of undocumented immigrants brought as children, called Dreamers, to the US. Many of them are of Indian origin. “On day one [of his presidency], I am going to send a legislative immigration reform bill to the Congress to provide a road map to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants who contribute so much to this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-promises-to-end-suspension-of-h-1b-visas/story-bsPyIMXsMxrXZuGirrAiGI.html
03-07-2020||India||India entitled to relief in marines case: UN court||A UN court ruled on Thursday that India is entitled to compensation in connection with the 2012 killing of two crew members of a fishing boat off the coast of Kerala by Italian marines guarding an oil tanker, an incident that had taken bilateral ties to an all-time low.But, at the same time, the five-member arbitral tribunal under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) decided by three votes to two that the marines are entitled to immunity in relation to their acts during the incident and that “India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.“India has taken note of the [tribunal’s] award and will be in touch with relevant entities on the matter,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing.The tribunal began hearing the case after Italy contended in December 2015 that India violated the rights and immunity of the marines – Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone – by detaining them. Italy also argued that India violated its exclusive right to institute penal proceedings against the marines under UNCLOS.The two marines, accused of killing fishermen Ajesh Binki and Valentine Jalastine, crew members of the fishing boat St Anthony, were granted conditional bail by India’s Supreme Court and allowed to return to Italy in 2014 and 2016.The tribunal upheld the conduct of Indian authorities during the incident under the provisions of UNCLOS and held that the actions of the Italian marines breached India’s freedom of navigation under the convention.The tribunal unanimously ruled that India is “entitled to payment of compensation in connection with loss of life, physical harm, material damage to property...and moral harm suffered by the captain and other crew members of the ‘St. Antony’, which by its nature cannot be made good through restitution”.It said the two sides should hold consultations to reach an agreement on the amount of compensation. It added the tribunal would retain jurisdiction if either side or both sides wished to apply for a ruling from the court regarding the quantum of compensation. However, if no application is received within a year after the date of the ruling, the proceedings will be closed.The tribunal set aside Italy’s contention that India breached provisions of UNCLOS, but decided by three votes to two that the Italian marines were “entitled to immunity in relation to the acts that they committed during the incident of 15 February 2012, and that India is precluded from exercising its jurisdiction” over them.It also decided by three votes to two that India must take “necessary steps to cease to exercise its criminal jurisdiction over the Marines” in view of Italy’s commitment to “resume its criminal investigation into the events of 15 February 2012”.“Originally, the legal challenge before the Permanent Court of Arbitration was over India’s jurisdiction to try the marines and to that extent the tribunal has held in favour of Italy,” Supreme Court advocate Ishaan George, who was part of India’s legal team in the initial stages of the case, told HT. “But the tribunal has held that India’s action of confiscating their vessel, arresting the marines and other actions are not in violation of UNCLOS...a limited success...,” he said.Italy’s foreign ministry contended in a statement the tribunal had agreed on its position that the marines, being members of the Italian armed forces engaged in the official exercise of their duties, “cannot be tried by Indian courts”. It also said Rome’s public prosecutor had already opened an investigation into the incident.“The ministry wishes to emphasise that the award of the tribunal does not make any determination of criminal responsibility in connection with the incident, which it will now be for the Italian judicial authorities alone to ascertain,” it added.The tribunal rejected Italy’s claim for compensation for the detention of the marines, who were part of an anti-piracy deployment on board the Italian tanker.At his online briefing, Srivastava said the tribunal observed that India and Italy had “concurrent jurisdiction over the incident” and a valid legal basis to institute criminal proceedings against the marines.“The tribunal rejected Italy’s claim of compensation for the detention of the marines. However, it found that the immunities enjoyed by the marines as state officials operate as an exception to the jurisdiction of the Indian courts and, hence, preclude them to judge the marines,” he added. The row over the killing of the fishermen had disrupted bilateral ties for several years, though people familiar with developments said the two sides have now decided to move on from the incident in view of their growing convergence on both bilateral and multilateral issues. The judgment largely brings down the curtain on the February 2012 incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-entitled-to-relief-in-marines-case-un-court/story-fSVoIns6lEftkAeEik8pCO.html
03-07-2020||India||Pharma major Mylan gets nod to produce, market remdesivir||New Delhi: Pharmaceutical major Mylan was on Thursday given permission by India’s drug regulator to manufacture and market anti-viral drug remdesivir for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) under “emergency use authorization”. With this, three companies in India currently have the license to manufacture and sell the experimental drug. The other two companies are Hetero and Cipla. “Mylan has received the approval today [Thursday],” confirmed a Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation official, who did not wish to be identified.“The approval, however, has been given under emergency use authorisation which means it is an experimental drug and all protocols for this category of drugs must be strictly adhered to before giving the drug to a patient.”The protocol includes duly informing patients about the pros and cons of the drug. It requires the written consent of each patient after every minute detail has been explained and documented before the drug is given.Those giving the drug have to maintain a comprehensive database on reactions in patients who were given it. It is part of active post-marketing surveillance that requires documentation and submission of details about serious adverse events to the drug controller’s office.On June 21, Hetero and Cipla were given permission to manufacture and market the drug under the same emergency use authorisation.The Union health ministry has in its Clinical Management Protocols recommended the use of the drug to treat Covid-19 patients with moderate stages of the illness.The drug has been included as an “investigational therapy” only for restricted emergency use purposes considering the Covid-19 pandemic, and the need for medicines that work in saving lives.On May 1, the US Food and Drugs Administration gave Gilead Sciences, which holds the patent for the drug, authorisation for its emergency use on Covid-19 patients.The US Pharma major has announced it was in discussions with some of the world’s leading chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturing companies, including in India, to produce the drug that had shown anti-viral properties again Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Gilead applied for import and marketing of remdesivir to the Indian drug regulatory authority on May 29, and the permission was given on June 1.The medicine is not recommended for those with severe renal impairment and high level of liver enzymes, pregnant and lactating women, and those below 12.The 200 mg drug has to be administered in the form of injection on day one followed by 100 mg daily for five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pharma-major-mylan-gets-nod-to-produce-market-remdesivir/story-JfdsbbdcECpUpdpxeGFJ6M.html
03-07-2020||India||Ministry seeks expert panel view on competitive exams||New DelhiThe human resource development (HRD) ministry has sought a report from a panel of experts headed by National Testing Agency (NTA) chief Vineet Joshi on whether the situation is conducive for holding the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical and dental colleges and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for admission to engineering courses in the second half of July.There has been a lot of concern among the parents of aspirants to these courses on whether the tests can be conducted safely amid the Covid-19 outbreak, which prompted the ministry to explore whether there is a need to postpone them.“Looking at the prevailing circumstances and requests received from students and parents appearing for JEE and NEET examinations, a committee comprising the DG {director general} NTA and other experts has been advised to review the situation and submit its recommendations to the HRD ministry latest by tomorrow.” HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Thursday.Significantly, the decision comes at a time when the UGC is also planning to have a relook at the University exams and the academic calendar. The UGC is expected to take a call on a report by a panel led by Central university of Haryana VC R C Kuhad soon. There have been protests against the mode of exams in several varsities including DU. CBSE‘s decision to not hold the Class 10 and 12 board exams and the HRD ministry asking the University Grants Commission (UGC) to have a relook at the academic calendar has focused everyone’s attention on the two major competitive examinations that are scheduled next month – NEET and JEE.Both tests are scheduled in the latter half of July and are conducted by the NTA ; hundreds of thousands of students take them annually.JEE will be held from July 18-23, while the medical entrance test NEET will be conducted on July 26, the minister had earlier announced. The two crucial exams, and also the Class 10 and Class 12 exams were postponed because of the lockdown imposed to combat the spread of Covid-19.Last month, Nishank also announced that the Central Teachers Eligibility Test was being postponed because of Covid-19. The pandemic has played havoc with the current academic session. The Indian Institute of Technology (IITs)-Bombay on Thursday said it would conduct only online classes this year with no face-to -face teaching. Other IITs are also expected to follow suit. Samriddhi Sinha who is to appear for JEE exam said the students have been studying hard and face immense pressure to perform. “However, on the other hand there are reports of the spread of this infection during the conduct of exams. I feel there is a high chance the exam could be postponed, which considering a pandemic is on, is also a relief”.Eminent educationist Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy said holding the JEE or NEET exams is challenging task at any given time but more so when a pandemic is raging. “The HRD ministry will have to take a decision keeping all aspects in mind and forming an expert group seems to be the right approach,” said Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-seeks-expert-panel-view-on-competitive-exams/story-PQMicDTIGslwLtm3NyhTfP.html
03-07-2020||India||Rural housing targets unmet due to Covid-19 curbs: Official data||As many as 348,000 houses have been built under the Centre’s flagship rural housing scheme in the first quarter of the financial year against the annual target for 6.15 million units, official data shows, indicating the impact of sweeping Covid-19 lockdown imposed in late March and lack of preparedness of states.The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Rural), or PMAY, is key to the government’s efforts to ensure housing for all.It is among the schemes that were expected to provide employment to millions of workers, who have returned to their homes in rural areas after losing their jobs because of the lockdown.The officials said the housing scheme was hit when the pandemic halted economic activities and just one-fifth of the quarterly target of 1.5 million houses for the summer could be completed.West Bengal alone has reported completion of 110,000 houses, or about one-third of the total houses built, from April-June, followed by Bihar (62,393) and Rajasthan (32,381). Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand have built 4,000 units each; Maharashtra 28,000 and Odisha 28,405.The annual targets for these states are much higher. West Bengal has to build 923,000 units and Bihar 800,000.The officials said the construction work is likely to get slower because of the ongoing Monsoon season.They are hopeful of a faster pace later and that the annual target can be met.The officials pointed out that very little work could be done in April due to the strict lockdown, which has since been eased. They added there was also a lot of confusion at the state or district levels about commencing work and setting targets during the pandemic.The officials said this resulted in a tepid beginning of one of the key welfare programmes this financial year.PMAY is a target-based housing programme for the poor and a key component of the government’s aim to have a vast number of individual beneficiaries. The government has focused on creating more individual beneficiaries through various welfare schemes.PMAY is an improved version of the Congress-era Indira Awas Yojna. As many as 17.2 million houses have been built under it since 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi first came to power.The scheme also helps create jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) as 90-day work under it is allowed to build houses.The Centre has focused on PMAY to bolster MGNREGS, under which 100-day assured employment annually is provided to at least one member of every poor rural household, as the construction of small rural house requires three to four workers.There have been restrictions on large-scale public works involving hundreds of workers because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The Centre plans to utilise skills of migrants forced to return to their homes to primarily build houses under PMAY and roads.PMAY has been among the government’s most popular welfare schemes that are widely believed to have helped Prime Minister Modi to return to power in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-housing-targets-unmet-due-to-covid-curbs-officials/story-JXnhqDrAzsiAKgjdximtUO.html
03-07-2020||India||Allegations of mishandling of Covid patients’ bodies fly thick and fast||After videos of dead bodies being dumped in mass graves at Ballari, Davangere and Yadgir districts of Karnataka created an uproar leading to suspension of eight health department workers and an apology by chief minister B S Yediyurappa, similar incidents have been reported in Ballari district.This time video clips of a Covid 19 suspect’s body lying in the rain and another of a Covid patient’s body being transported on a tri-cycle before being pushed into a grave, have surfaced.Late on Wednesday, a Covid suspect died at the Taluk government hospital in Hospet. His body, while being transported for burial by health officials, was apparently left in the rain for some time before it was buried.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHowever, deputy commissioner of Ballari district S S Nakul claimed that complete SOPs were followed and the incident was being blown out of proportion.“Since the hospital was not a Covid designated hospital, the staff handling the body took some time to wear PPEs to ensure protocols were followed, during when the body was left outside for about 15 minutes.” But locals claim that the dead body was left outside in heavy rain as those responsible for burial scurried for cover and left it in the open for nearly two hours.In another incident, the body of a man, who died due to Covid, was ferried on a tri-cycle for burial at the graveyard close to the bus stop in Hospet. While officials were not available for comment, a district hospital official who did not want to be identified said, “There was opposition to the burial of the Covid patient’s body at the graveyard as there are houses nearby. So, to circumvent the opposition, we had to take the body inside on a tri-cycle after it was brought in a hearse to a nearby spot. This was only for the last leg of the journey.”The actions of the health officials, though, has attracted considerable criticism about the manner in which dead bodies are being disposed of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allegations-of-mishandling-of-covid-patients-bodies-continue-to-fly-thick-and-fast/story-cyyyuEWi3hZEG21XoNxJMO.html
03-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: Three more policemen arrested||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Investigators arrested three police personnel on Thursday in connection with the alleged custodial torture and death of a father and son as the Madurai bench of the Madras high court (HC) ordered protection for the key eyewitness in the case that has sparked outrage across India. The Crime Investigation Department (CB-CID) arrested inspector Sridhar, sub-inspector Balakrishnan and constable Murugan. So far, five policemen have been charged under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with the alleged custodial deaths of P Jayaraj, 59 and J Bennicks, 31, based on the key eyewitness’s statement and preliminary post-mortem reports.The CB-CID is on the lookout for another constable, Maharajan, against whom a contempt case is being heard in court for his conduct towards the judicial magistrate of Kovilpatti, MS Barathidasan, who conducted a probe into the incident. Sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh, who was under suspension, was arrested on Wednesday.Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, K Shankar said that murder charges were pressed against five policemen and four of them were arrested. “We are on the lookout for one more constable (Maharajan),” he said. Bennicks and Jayaraj died on June 22 and June 23 after undergoing hours of alleged torture at the Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi district on June 19. They were arrested on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the Sathankulam main bazaar area open during the lockdown.On Thursday, the HC ordered the police to send a woman officer, a head constable of Sathankulam police station, on a month’s paid leave from July 1 and deputed four police constables outside her house for protection.She testified on record that the father and son were beaten through the night on June 19. However, she sought anonymity as she was concerned about the repercussions she may face due to her testimony.After speaking to the head constable over phone with speaker, the court stated that, “she feels safe in her native village with her relatives around her.” If she faced threats she could complain to either the magistrate Kovilpatti or the chief judicial magistrate of Thoothukudi, S Hema, to bring it to the court’s notice.“The court has assured me with all possible help,” the lady head constable told HT. “Police have been stationed in front of my house. My family and I are safe for now,” she added.It is not yet clear whether her parent’s home will receive any police protection. “The court hasn’t given any specific direction [on Thursday regarding the security arrangements] and they seem to be satisfied with the arrangements,” district collector Sandeep Nanduri said.The court also looked into the R10-crore ‘Police Wellbeing Programme’ launched by Tamil Nadu by signing an MoU with NIMHANS Bengaluru in 2018 for a period of three years. “Only through such Wellbeing Programmes can violent propensities in individuals be stymied...we cannot afford to lose any more Bennicks and Jayarajs to violence,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-three-more-policemen-arrested/story-GfWKOrPtXyi61jej6wn53N.html
03-07-2020||India||Vande Bharat returnees still face a harrowing time||Madhubala Rai, who travelled alone from San Francisco to Delhi last week, said it took her at least seven hours to reach her hotel. Her flight landed at 3.30 pm on June 26, but it took her several hours to clear the APHO screening, immigration and customs.“I guess there were multiple flights at the same time because of which there were too many passengers. After reaching the triage area, it took us another one-and-half hours. We could only board the bus by close to 10 pm and were sent to our designated quarantine hotel,” Rai said.Nearly two months after the Central government launched the Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stranded in other countries, passengers arriving in Delhi continue to face a harrowing time with most of them spending six to seven hours to go through the complete process of security checks, screening, selecting a hotel for quarantine, and finally arriving at the facility.Another passenger, who arrived at the Delhi airport on June 25 from Washington D.C. said he spent six-seven hours at the airport. The passenger, who asked not to be named, said the process felt like a major hassle because the triage area, where the Delhi government officials attend the passengers, is relatively small. “Inside the airport, we do not have all our luggage and it is all air-conditioned but the triage area is not air-conditioned and because it’s a small area, if there are multiple flights at the same time, social distancing also goes for a toss,” he said.The crowding is intensified by the fact that passengers are also carrying all their luggage by the time they come to this area. At the designated triage area, all passengers are screened for Covid-19 symptoms at screening counters manned by medical officers and paramedics deputed by the Delhi Government. The passengers in the triage area are also guided about the protocol to be followed in quarantine centres. “The director-general of health services (DGHS) has deputed as many as 20 health teams, comprising doctors and paramedics for this purpose. We have been trying our best to complete the screening quickly, but most of the passengers who arrive seem to be very anxious and confused about the system. So, it takes time to explain the system and procedures to each one,” said a senior government official deployed at the airport who asked not to be named. Many commuters also complained of not being allowed to take cabs or private vehicles to reach their chosen paid hotel quarantine facilities. “They put us all in buses . The administration should also keep an option of hotel taxis so that those who want to go in a car can reach their quarantine facility quickly,” said another passenger who arrived from Australia and is currently in quarantine in a five-star hotel. A second government official who is part of the team engaged in the transportation of the passengers from the airport to the designated hotel quarantine centres said air-conditioned Delhi Transport Buses (DTC) buses have been requisitioned for the purpose. “We cannot engage taxis and increase the number of vehicles as surveillance would then become a big problem”, this person added on condition of anonymity. Even the Maharashtra government and the BMC follow the same approach in Mumbai. P Velarasu, Additional Municipal Commissioner in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in charge of Vande Bharat in Mumbai, said, “We have to account for every person who lands in Mumbai. So we have to take them in government organised transport, either to a hospital, or quarantine facility, as is required. If and when the passengers are discharged from the quarantine, organising transport is their own responsibility.”“Despite being so strict, last week we had a case where an octogenarian escaped from the triage area. The police later found him at his daughter’s home in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. Now, if we allow cabs as well, keeping a tab on passengers will be all the more difficult,” said the second Delhi government official.the rules in Delhi and Mumbai are similar. A passenger arriving on a Vande Bharat flight has to be in institutional quarantine in a hotel for seven days followed by another seven days in home isolation.Explaining the process, an airport official said that passengers take almost 45 minutes to exit the plane and enter the terminal. “Here, they undergo thermal screening by the officials of Airport Health Organization (APHO) which takes about half an hour. These passengers are then divided into groups of 20-25 depending upon their final destinations and are briefed about the procedure they will undergo. The CISF personnel then escort these groups to the immigration area where there are 35 officers working at a time and one passenger takes roughly about 4-5 minutes in immigration clearance. Once cleared, the passengers are then taken to the baggage area where after collecting their bags many of them enter the duty-free shops,” the official said, asking not to be named.. “One problem which often leads to delays is that some people in the groups spend time in the duty-free area to shop, while others from their groups have to wait. CISF personnel cannot interfere as they have been asked to only escort them,” the officer added.A senior CISF officer in Delhi airport said on condition of anonymity that the process of escorting passengers through the terminal is smooth unless there are multiple flights coming at the same time. “Earlier there were issues as most of the flights landed around the same time causing a backlog at different counters. But the agencies concerned have now ensured that there’s ample time gap between two incoming flights. ““Once done shopping, the passengers together pass through the customs area where unless they are stopped by the law enforcement agency over suspicion of smuggling they take not more than 20-30 minutes,” the officer said. A senior officer from Delhi customs said on condition of anonymity that as is its practice the department profiles passengers and stops only a few whose luggage needs scanning. “Otherwise, a passenger takes barely 10-15 minutes to pass through customs area.” Passengers then exit the terminal and reach the triage area, where they’re attended to by officials of Delhi government’s health department. A Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said there are three kinds of services to ferry passengers to their quarantine facility in the city. “Those who need to quarantine within Mumbai are taken in BEST buses. Outstation passengers (those travelling out of Mumbai but within the state) have the option of selecting either ordinary or luxury MSRTC (Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation) buses and for those who can afford there are cabs, which are organised and routed through BMC,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-returnees-still-face-a-harrowing-time/story-vqjJf9zXPiMbinsyG916ZP.html
03-07-2020||India||Penalties for ex-RS MPs overstaying in bungalows||Former Rajya Sabha lawmakers overstaying in official accommodation in plush Lutyens’ Delhi will shell out up to Rs 10.78 lakh per month as damages, the upper house of Parliament has decided, to dissuade MPs from illegally occupying valuable accommodation in the heart of Delhi and creating a housing shortage for newcomers.The decision, taken on June 25, will see various slabs of penalties. The lowest slab would be at least 50% higher than the base rate or license fee of the accommodation given free to MPs during their tenure, an internal circular, a copy of which was seen by HT , said. These penalties will be applicable from August 1.The move comes a year after Parliament cleared a legislation—Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Bill, 2019-- for speedy eviction of unauthorised occupants of government accommodation.The lowest compensation—termed damage for overstaying—would be Rs 63,500 in the first month for the type V flat, the smallest government accommodation in Lutyens’ Delhi. For each subsequent month, the charges will grow and can reach Rs 3.17 lakhs for the eighth month, the circular said.Overstaying in a type VIII bungalow, the biggest and the best, will attract a penalty of Rs 2.15 lakhs in the first month or 55% of the license fee, according to the same circular. If a former MP continues to stay in a bungalow for eight months without permission, he or she will have to pay Rs. 10.78 lakh for the eighth month—a rate that would possibly eclipse the rent of posh private properties in Central Delhi.During the debate on the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Bill, housing minister Hardeep Singh Puri had pointed out, “Many of our colleagues, both in Parliament as well as in government service, somehow do not vacate the accommodation allotted to them. This naturally creates a strain on government accommodation.”“There is a demand in general pool residential accommodation in Delhi of 80,437 units. The availability is only 61,011 units. In other words, we have a shortage of 19,426 units,” Puri said.The Narendra Modi government has had to forcibly remove illegal occupants from government flats a few times. Overstaying in government accommodation by former lawmakers leads to considerable delays in new MPs finding houses to live in —a concern often raised by them.In a meeting of the house committee of the Rajya Sabha a few weeks ago, it was also decided that some members may be allowed to retain flats for a longer period if there are exigencies. Sometimes, members retain their accommodation when they are certain to return for a new term.It was decided that a member has to pay a higher rent for such interim periods. While type V bungalows will attract a rent of Rs 31,750 per month, one has to pay Rs 98,000 for type VIII bungalows.“All types of accommodations including those under eviction/litigation” will attract such penalties, the circular said. And MPs have also been informed by Rajya Sabha secretary general Desh Deepak Verma that these charges will be “automatically revised as and when the Licence fee/Damage rate are revised by department of estates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/penalties-for-ex-rs-mps-overstaying-in-bungalows/story-KBUNwPQOgVp5JZc1trnzxI.html
03-07-2020||India||‘The tiger is alive’: Scindia warns on personal attacks||Bhopal: Rajya Sabha member and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday criticised Congress leaders for their repeated attacks on him and alleged widespread corruption in the previous Kamal Nath-led administration in Madhya Pradesh. Scindia was addressing BJP workers in a party membership programme at the state BJP office in Bhopal after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet expansion. “Congress leaders have been levelling charges against me for 90 days but I didn’t say anything. Today, I wish to tell people that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his ministerial colleagues, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state BJP president VD Sharma and lakhs of BJP workers were in service of people, the Congress leaders were only hurling accusations while confined in air-conditioned rooms. These leaders are not concerned about Madhya Pradesh and its 7.5 crore people but their own business,” he said.“I wish to tell both of them. Kamal Nath ji and Digvijaya Singh ji. Please listen both of you - Tiger ab zinda hai [the tiger is alive],” he added, referring to a line from a popular Bollywood movie.“Congress government was running like this -- someone was installed (to run the government) but the key was held by someone else. There was rampant corruption. Our 22 MLAs sacrificed their position to check corruption in the government.” Scindia and 22 MLAs allied with him quit the Congress in mid-March. By the end of the month the Congress government fell, and was replaced by a BJP one. “Service to people can be rendered with the feeling of service only. It can’t be done merely through speeches. But the Congress government lacked this feeling. The Congress was hurling accusations for a long time but now we will give a befitting reply to it. Ninety days have passed. Now, it’s the time of war,” Scindia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-tiger-is-alive-scindia-warns-on-personal-attacks/story-bdNiCqPyB4512hKJqy3waO.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Anyone who has ever been pregnant can’t donate plasma’: ILBS director||Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), spoke to Anonna Dutt about plasma therapy and the creation of the new plasma bank in the Capital. Edited excerpts:Why did Delhi decide to set up a plasma bank? The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) still classifies it as an experimental treatment.Earlier the therapy could be administered only under clinical trial that very few institutes were conducting. The Union health ministry has now allowed the off-label use of convalescent plasma therapy, meaning many more hospitals can start administering it to patients who fit the criteria (those with moderate disease whose oxygen requirement keeps increasing despite being given oxygen and steroids). Patients were finding it difficult to get donors as it is and with more and more people looking for donors it may lead to unethical practices of demanding money. With the government setting up the plasma bank, people will know where to get it from.Who is eligible to donate?The most important thing is to not harm the donors in any way. To ensure that, there are very strict guidelines in place. A person can donate plasma after 14 days of recovery only if they are not older than 60-65 years of age, do not have uncontrolled diabetes or hypertension, do not have chronic kidney, heart, lung, or liver disease. The donors should also be well nourished and above 50kg weight. Their haemoglobin levels also have to be over 8. Women who have ever been pregnant are also excluded as donors. And, their antibody levels must be good.The good thing about plasma donation is that one component of the blood is taken and a person can donate it again in 15 days.Why can’t women who have been pregnant donate plasma? Yes, anyone who has ever become pregnant is excluded from plasma donation for Covid-19. A baby contains genetic material from both the mother and the father. So, when a woman gets pregnant, she develops antibodies against the father’s genetic material [human leucocyte antigen]. This HLA antibody can lead to a transfusion related complication called Transfusion related acute lung injury (TRALI). Covid-19 patients already have compromised lungs, plasma with HLA antibody might increase their chances of lung damage.Do you also screen donors based on the Covid-19 antibody levels?Yes, at ILBS we look for two things – one is the level of the antibody IgG and the other is neutralising antibody. As per the protocols, we look for an IgG titre of 1:640 meaning high levels of this antibody. Now, some of these antibodies – not all -- work by neutralising the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. We check for these neutralising antibodies. Will you be accepting plasma from other centres?No. This is a plasma bank and other hospitals can ask for plasma as per their need. If they do get donors, the plasma can be utilised at the centre itself. Currently, there is a scarcity of donors, so nobody really has surplus. We will only be accepting donations at this centre and storing it.Who pays the processing cost of the plasma?Once we receive a donation, we need to check the plasma for transfusion transmitted infections such as HIV, Hepatitis B and C. Then the antibody levels are also checked. The filter for the apheresis to separate the blood components costs about Rs 6,000 to 7,000. Then, there is the cost of plasma bags, storage. In total, the cost comes up to Rs 10,000 to 12,000. And, this is excluding the HR and infrastructure cost. This cost will be borne by ILBS or the Delhi government. The plasma will be available free to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anyone-who-has-ever-been-pregnant-can-t-donate-plasma/story-9DYzRT15FCYlQseHp0rkUJ.html
03-07-2020||India||‘Tiger abhi zinda hai’: BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia hits out at MP Congress||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday hit out at Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders for “levelling charges against him” and sought to silence his critics by saying “Tiger abhi zinda hai”.The Rajya Sabha member was in Bhopal to attend the expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan Cabinet and other programmes.Addressing BJP workers at the state party office, Scindia said, “Congress leaders have been levelling charges against me for 90 days but I didn’t say anything. Today, I wish to tell people that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his ministerial colleagues, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state BJP president VD Sharma and lakhs of BJP workers were in service of people, the Congress leaders were only hurling accusations while confined in air conditioned rooms. These leaders are not concerned about Madhya Pradesh and its 7.5 crore people but their own business.”“I wish to tell both of them. Kamal Nath ji and Digvijay Singh ji! Please listen, both of you- Tiger abhi zinda hai,” he said, lashing out at the Congress, the party he was associated with for many years before quitting it in March this year. मध्य प्रदेश के विकास, प्रगति, उन्नति और मेरे प्रदेशवासियों की रक्षा के लिए टाइगर अभी ज़िंदा है। pic.twitter.com/PEIi2vH7mjContinuing his attack against the previous Congress government, Scindia added, “Service to people can be rendered with the feeling of service only. It can’t be done merely through speeches. But the Congress government lacked this feeling. Congress has been hurling accusations for a long time but now we will give a befitting reply to it. Ninety days have passed. Now, it’s time of war.”He said, “I will work for the party workers as a shield and a sword both.The Scindia family has always stood by the truth. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not working as a Prime Minister but a ‘pradhan sevak’. Our ministers too are a team of ‘sevak’ for people. This is not a time of celebration but to work to ensure justice to people after the injustice meted out to them in the Congress’ 15 months rule.”Reacting to Scindia’s remarks, state Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “The same remark- Tiger abhi zinda hai - had earlier come from chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. It’s just to motivate the party workers as both of them know that BJP is going to lose all the 24 assembly seats in the bypolls and Congress will form its government again.”-Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-abhi-zinda-hai-bjp-s-jyotiraditya-scindia-hits-out-at-mp-congress/story-KJKqQaSoO5GahzYfHdaEnN.html
03-07-2020||India||Tuticorin custodial death: Madras HC directs police to provide protection to eyewitness||The Madurai bench of the Madras high court (HC) on Thursday ordered the police to send a lady police official, who is the key eyewitness in the alleged Tuticorin custodial father-son death case, on a month’s paid leave from July 1 and deputed four police constables outside her house for protection.The HC bench spoke to the eyewitness, a head constable of Sathankulam police station, which had arrested the slain father Jayaraj (59), and his son J Bennicks (31), on June 19. She testified on record that the father and son were beaten through the night on June 19. However, she sought anonymity as she was concerned about the repercussions she may face due to her testimony.“The court has assured me with all possible help,” the lady head constable told HT. “Police have been stationed in front of my house. My family and I are safe for now,” she added.Tamil Nadu’s Crime Branch, Crime Investigation Department (CB-CID), which is in-charge of the investigation, arrested inspector Sridhar, sub-inspector Balakrishnan and constable Murugan on Thursday in connection with the alleged custodial deaths of the father and son. So far, five policemen have been charged under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with the alleged custodial deaths based on the key eyewitness’s statement and preliminary post-mortem reports.Sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh, who was under suspension, was arrested on Wednesday.On June 30, the court had observed that “there will be an attempt to intimidate her and make her resile her version” and directed the Thoothukudi district collector (DC) to immediately ensure safety for her and her family members. The CB CID is on the lookout for the fifth policeman, a constable.DC Sandeep Nanduri had told HT that the eyewitness would go on a paid leave for a month, starting July 1. The district authorities would deploy four police constables -- two men and two women – in front of her house, he had said.It is not yet clear whether her parent’s home will receive any police protection.“The court hasn’t given any specific direction [on Thursday regarding the security arrangements] and they seem to be satisfied with the arrangements,” Nanduri said.On June 28, the lady head constable had given her testimony to judicial magistrate of Kovilpatti, MS Barathidasan. She had recounted that Jayaraj and Bennicks were beaten from the night of their arrest on June 19 into the morning. Lathis and a table that were stained with blood should be seized, she had told the magistrate.In its June 30 order, the court asked Barathidasan to hand over the lady head constable’s original statement to the investigating officer (IO) Anil Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, CB-CID, Tirunelveli, who will probe the case until the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) takes over.Earlier, Jayaraj and his son J Bennicks were arrested by Sathankulam police station authorities on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the Sathankulam main bazaar area open during a curfew imposed because of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown.Initially, they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22. While the son died on the same night, the father passed away the following morning.The court also looked into the 10-crore three-year Police Wellbeing Programme which the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) Bengaluru was assigned to conduct for the Tamil Nadu state police starting 2018. The court on Thursday held a video conference with Dr Sekar, Nimhans registrar, Dr C Ramasubramaniam, nodal officer and Thamarai Kannan, ADGP- Welfare to study the progress of the programme. “Only through such wellbeing programmes can violent propensities in individuals be stymied,” the court said, urging the government to continue with it. “On the one hand, those responsible for the death of Bennicks and Jayaraj should not go scot-free and on the other hand, we cannot afford to lose any more Bennicks and Jayarajs to violence.”The court further spoke to experts that Covid-19 pandemic is likely to increase mental illness amongst the society at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tuticorin-custodial-death-madras-hc-directs-police-to-provide-protection-to-eyewitness/story-4ISGHDKpZLuA83OaX1fH2J.html
03-07-2020||India||The lockdown showed our system works: Finance Secretary||Finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, the top bureaucrat on revenue matters, spoke to Rajeev Jayaswal about the Goods and Service Tax (GST) journey so far, and the road ahead. Edited excerpts: This is the third anniversary of the launch of biggest indirect tax reform. How do you reflect on the past three years of GST regime, and what’s next? If you look back, prior to the GST era, there were 17 different [indirect] taxes, 9-10 different types of cess. Various other taxes were imposed by multiple tiers of government -- say Octroi, entertainment tax. All these have been merged in one under GST – ‘One Nation, One Tax, One Network’. Every month more than 1 crore tax returns are filed and approximately Rs 1 lakh crore is collected. The entire thing is completely objective, transparent and faceless. This is a major, major tax reform, unprecedented in the world in terms of magnitude.Now the question is, can we do something more? The answer is definitely yes. We should continue to improve taxpayers’ convenience and also make their life very, very simple. Problems of multiple [returns] filing have been already resolved, but more can be done. There had been some technical problems. In such a large system, such problems will arise, but our job is to ensure that such problems are attended to at the earliest and these problems should not reoccur. Some critics point out that GST is yet to stablise because rates are not yet completely rationalised, and the Council is still working to fix the inverted duty structure. Has GST not fully evolved?We can’t say that GST has not yet fully evolved. When GST was introduced, a through exercise was conducted. On various commodities, what were the pre-GST [tax] rates? It was found that in most of the items the rate was more than 31%. Then studies were conducted, what would be the GST neutral rate? It was something around 16-17%. In GST, large numbers of items were exempted from tax to provide relief to the poor and lower middle-class. Lots of items were put on 5%; then other slabs were 12%, 18% and 28%. Over a period of time, based on some suggestions, tax rates on some finished goods were brought down, which resulted in an inverted duty structure. The GST Council is deliberating on it and it will take appropriate decision in appropriate time. GST collections, which slipped by about 72% in April and 38% in May due to the nationwide lockdown, saw some recovery in June. Does this indicate that the economy is coming back on track?Some tax of previous months would have also been paid this month also because some taxpayers could not pay during the lockdown period -- but there is an increasing trend in GST revenue collection. Economic activities are now picking up. Even as Covid is there, people are learning to live with Covid and carry out their economic activities. It also shows that during this period, our GST system was working, which allowed people to file returns, because it is completely an online system.Do you expect a better collection in July?Hopefully it will be on the rising trend, because economic activities have increased compared to April and May. We should be getting more taxes than what we got in the last three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-lockdown-showed-our-system-works-finance-secy/story-mr2HM9ZuNs253qZ7QKNChO.html
