04-07-2020||India||Maha tally crosses 200k after biggest spike||MumbaiMaharashtra’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case count rose to 2,00,064 on Saturday, with the biggest single-day increase of 7,074, even as the death toll in the state due to the outbreak climbed to 8,671, according to official data.The number of those who have recovered from the infectious disease in the state rose to 1,08,082, taking the recovery rate to 54.02%. There are 83,295 active cases in the state.Of the 295 deaths added on Saturday, 124 occurred in the last 48 hours – 68 of them in Mumbai. Of remaining deaths, 163 deaths in Thane district took place over the last three months but were recorded as Covid-19 fatalities only on Saturday.Mumbai recorded 1,163 new cases, taking the tally in the financial hub to 83,237.Amit Deshmukh, Maharashtra’s medical education minister, said that the state health infrastructure was ready to tackle the rising of cases. “With antigen, antibody tests taken to every district and plasma banks being set up across the state, the virus spread is expected to be contained in next one month. We have augmented the health infrastructure across the state and are ready to take on the spread. The rise in the cases is because of the opening up of the activities and compromised social distancing norms. There is rise in numbers of few districts besides Mumbai Metropolitan Region, but we are taking care to reduce the spread. We have set up task force in every district and expert advice by epidemiologists and virologists is being made available to the rural patients with co-morbidities,” he said.He said that July and August are crucial months and the government expects a decline in the cases to begin in a month. “We have already witnessed decline in the cases in Mumbai. Similar will be the trend in other parts and there will be flattening in the next two months,” he said.Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist and member of the 11-member task force appointed by the state government for the clinical management of critically ill patients, said: “The rise in the number of cases is the result of the aggressive testing by the authorities. Same is the reason for the positivity rate… The virus spread is expected to stabilise now in the next few weeks and we should not worry about the rising cases since our infrastructure is ready to take up the load.”Public health consultant Dr Sanjay Pattiwar said that the future pattern of the curve was very difficult to predict. “We should not be worried about the rising numbers if we are ready with health infrastructure. State authorities should go for aggressive testing and tracing, besides sensitising people about following social curbs and personal-community hygiene. We should learn to live with the virus at least for the next few months; it’s the only way out,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-tally-crosses-200k-after-biggest-spike/story-Jlc8ugfM3lkG3ZjRdBt8rL.html
04-07-2020||India||Chidambaram replies to Modi’s Leh visit with Manmohan Singh’s photos, says pictures worth a million words||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday tweeted a photo collage drawing comparisons between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his predecessor Manmohan Singh while meeting injured soldiers, and said “pictures worth a million words”. His tweet came after the Indian Army termed as “malicious and unsubstantiated” criticism in some quarters about a medical facility in a military hospital in Leh where Prime Minister Modi interacted with soldiers injured in the Galwan Valley clashes with Chinese troops. Pictures worth a million words. pic.twitter.com/ifC4La8Izj In a statement, the Army said “it is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated. The armed forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel.” Following release of photographs of Modi’s interaction with the injured soldiers, there were comments on Twitter that the facility did not look like a hospital as there were no medicine cabinets, I V (intravenous) stand, and other medical equipment. Earlier, when Congress leader Kapil Sibal was asked about Modi’s visit to the hospital, he said, “What is happening in the last six years is marketing. The truth is different and something else is being shown.” “I laud them as this is their strong point -- of showing dreams and hiding the truth. That is the truth and this is their politics,” Sibal said, referring to the ruling BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-replies-to-modi-s-leh-visit-with-manmohan-singh-s-photos-says-pictures-worth-a-million-words/story-PjbYjwuYvH8yUykfXqlVML.html
04-07-2020||India||TMC, BJP trade charges after former’s councillor shot near Kolkata||A Trinamool Congress (TMC) councillor of North Barrackpore municipality in North 24 Parganas district was shot in her leg by some unidentified people late Saturday evening, police said.Champa Das had come out of her office and was standing in front of her house when she was attacked by the gunmen. She was later rushed to a state-run hospital in Kolkata. She was the councillor of ward number 2. It is not yet known how many attackers were involved.“Investigation has started. A search has been launched to nab the accused persons,” said a senior police officer.“I heard sounds of two gunshots and rushed out of the house. Then I saw that my mother was attacked and was hit in the leg. The first bullet missed her,” said Subrata Das, the victim’s son.The ruling Trinamool Congress has alleged that the BJP supporters attacked her. Das who won the municipal election as an independent candidate later joined the TMC.“The local BJP leaders were trying to rope her in their party. She had refused,” said Jyotipriyo Mullick, TMC MLA and minister The BJP refuted the allegations.“It is an internal fight of the TMC with their councillor. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Sunil Singh, a local BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-bjp-trade-charges-after-former-s-councillor-shot-near-kolkata/story-TvOlCcl9TQJSXSvWlxIEzH.html
04-07-2020||India||IAF ramping up deployment in key bases along border with China||The Indian Air Force is significantly enhancing deployment of its frontline jets, attack helicopters and transport fleet in all its key bases guarding the airspace along the Line of Actual Control in view of heightened border tension with China in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said on Saturday.The IAF has also pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases to further ramp up India’s military preparedness in the region.The IAF is also using its Ilyushin-76 fleet to transport troops to various areas along the Line of Actual Control, the 3,500 km de-facto border between India and China, the people cited above said.They said the force has already moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar.It has also deployed Apache attack choppers and Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations.The frontline fighter jets have increased their sorties in Ladakh and nearby areas in the last few days as part of increased alert level, and probably as a response to expanded activities of the Chinese air force, the people said.“We are fully ready to deal with any situation,” said a senior official when asked about increasing activities of the IAF in Ladakh and other regions.Last month, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a quiet visit to Ladakh and Srinagar air bases to review the Indian Air Force’s preparedness to deal with any eventualities in the region.The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. India has been insisting on restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh to restore peace and tranquillity in the region.India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of end to the standoff though the two sides agreed to initiate disengagement of the forces from the region.India on Thursday said it expected China to ensure expeditious restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas in sync with provisions of relevant bilateral pacts. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border besides moving in heavy weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-ramping-up-deployment-in-key-bases-along-border-with-china/story-lw8WgBEU1pc7dU6zByb7TP.html
04-07-2020||India||Fighting for existence, BJP taunts Congress over protests against fuel price rise in Uttarakhand||The Opposition Congress in Uttarakhand has decided to intensify its protests against fuel price hike but the ruling BJP dismissed the protests saying the grand old party was fighting for its existence.In the last one week, Congress has held several protests led by its senior leaders including former chief minister Harish Rawat and present party president Pritam Singh. On Saturday too, it held a cycle rally led by Singh in Raipur area of Dehradun in protest of rising fuel prices across the country. Countering the protests, the BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat termed them ‘mere drama’ during the Covid-19 pandemic and Congress’s fight for existence. Singh retaliated by saying, “If they think raising voice on relevant issues pertaining to common man is drama, then we will continue it. Apart from these protests we will now hold symbolic protests in fuel stations every Monday demanding the govt to curb fuel prices,”Singh said the fuel price hike has come as a double whammy during the pandemic.“The prices of petrol, diesel and cooking fuel have increased by the Centre at a time when the price of crude oil at the international market is at its lowest. This cruel move by the government has broken the back of the common man as they are struggling with pandemic as well as rising inflation due to increased fuel prices,” he said.Bhagat said the Congress was just trying to save itself from oblivion.“Congress is fighting to save its existence in the state with these protests. It is not raising the voice for the common man but rehearsing for playing the Opposition for next 20 years,” he taunted.He also took a swipe at the Congress for alleged infighting in the party. “It is also fighting for the existence of its senior leaders. Who is bigger in the party? Singh, Harish Rawat or Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh?” he asked.Congress state president Singh hit back saying, “He should rather control the internal politics in his own party.”“There is no coordination among the ministers of his own govt. Also, the chief minister is not ready to listen to the issues of his own party MLAs. He should restrain from throwing stones at others when his own house is made of glass,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighting-for-existence-bjp-taunts-congress-over-protests-against-fuel-price-rise-in-uttarakhand/story-dmbtNk3TJqEblYrOHhaTKM.html
04-07-2020||India||At 80.89%, Uttarakhand’s recovery rate is among the best, active cases among the lowest||With over 2,500 patients declared cured from coronavirus disease till Saturday, recovery rate from the infection reached 80.89% in Uttarakhand. The chief minister has, however, asked residents not to be complacent despite the number of active Covid 19 cases coming down in the state. “Our recovery rate has crossed 80% and with active cases reducing, there should be no laxity from the administration. Special attention has to be paid to reduce the death rate. District magistrates and chief medical officers should keep a constant watch on serious cases themselves. In such cases, an immediate response should be ensured,” CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said during a meeting to review disease containment work done so far.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Saturday, 45 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Almora (2), Bageshwar (6), Dehradun (8), Haridwar (1), Nainital (4), Pauri Garhwal (1), Tehri Garhwal (1), Udham Singh Nagar (17) and Uttarkashi (5).Six fresh cases were contacts of earlier detected Covid-19 positive patients and one was a healthcare worker with travel history to Delhi.The others found positive over the last 24 hours had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, West Bengal, Mumbai, Rajasthan, Bengaluru, Chandigarh and Uttar Pradesh.21 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Saturday including 19 from Pauri Garhwal, and one each from Almora and Tehri Garhwal.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days’ numbers, stands at 47.18 days and the recovery rate is at 80.89%.Villagers in Uttarakhand fell more than 500 trees during lockdown periodDehradun with 742 cases is the worst affected city in the hill state followed by Nainital, which has 530 cases and Tehri Garhwal with 421 cases. Haridwar comes next with 318 cases. Champawat district with 59 Coved cases has recorded the lowest number of infections in the state.Uttarakhand has, so far, tested over 76,000 samples including 6,300 whose results are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-80-89-uttarakhand-s-recovery-rate-is-among-the-best-active-cases-among-the-lowest/story-zIvULcjad6dYi9mGenmPQO.html
04-07-2020||India||ICMR says following globally accepted norms to fast-track vaccine; wants to ‘cut red tape’||As experts cautioned against rushing the process for developing a Covid-19 vaccine after the ICMR stated it plans to launch one by August 15, the apex health research body on Saturday stressed that it is acting in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential. The ICMR said that the letter by Director General of ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava to principal investigators of the clinical trial sites was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants. Bhargava had on July 2 written to principal investigators of select medical institutions and hospitals to fast-track human clinical trial approvals for the vaccine candidate ‘Covaxin’ being developed in collaboration with Bharat Biotech.  All other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked, it said, adding that the Drugs Controller General of India has accorded permission to conduct phase 1 and 2 (human) clinical trial of ‘Covaxin’ based on in-depth scrutiny of the available data from pre-clinical studies. Just as red tape was not allowed to become a hindrance in the fast track approval of new indigenous testing kits or for introducing in the Indian market potential Covid-19 related drugs, the indigenous vaccine development process has also been sought to be insulated from slow file movement, it said. “The aim is to complete these phases at the earliest, so that population-based trials for efficacy could be initiated without delay,” ICMR said in a statement. After intense characterization and review of all data from BBIL, ICMR said it is supporting the clinical development as the vaccine candidate appears to be promising. In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite the clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine, the statement stated. Faced with the unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the consequent dislocation of the normal life, all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked, it said. “ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” it said. Underlining ICMR was among the world’s most reputed organisations in the field of medical research and its track record of facilitating India’s globally respected and acknowledged vaccine and drug industry speaks for itself, the research body said trials will be done following the best practices and rigour. They will be reviewed, as required, by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). “While issues raised in public domain from time-to-time by commentators are welcome, as they form an important part of feedback loop, the best of India’s medical professionals and research scientists should not be second guessed for their professionalism or adherence to the highest scientific rigour,” the statement stated. “ICMR is committed to treat the safety and interest of people of India as a topmost priority,” it said. The Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR) has identified 12 clinical trial sites, including medical institutions and hospitals, and has asked their principal investigators to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. Noting that this was the first indigenous vaccine being developed by India, Bhargava in his letter to principal investigators of the 12 sites said that it is one of the “top priority projects which is being monitored at the top-most level of the government”. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15 after completion of all clinical trials.... “You have been chosen as a clinical trial site of the BBV152 Covid vaccine. In view of the public health emergency due to Covid-19 pandemic and urgency to launch the vaccine, you are strictly advised to fast track all approvals related to initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7,” the letter stated. The letter further warned that any non-compliance will be viewed very seriously. “Kindly note non-compliance will be viewed very seriously. Therefore, you are advised to treat this project on highest priority and meet the given timelines without any lapse,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-says-following-globally-accepted-norms-to-fast-track-vaccine-wants-to-cut-red-tape/story-tLApaYmbqIjGvs9jk0sKCO.html
04-07-2020||India||Six passengers with fake tickets, IDs nabbed in three weeks at Patna Airport||People carrying forged e-tickets or fake IDs have emerged as the new security threat at the Patna international airport with the arrest of nine such persons in the past one month. Three of these arrests were made on Saturday when Mohammad Abdul Sammad, Kundan Kumar and Mohammad Ayub Khan, all from Bihar’s Supaul district, were nabbed with fake IDs at Jai Prakash Narayan Airport. They were trying to board a flight to Jammu via Delhi.Following a tip-off, CISF officials caught the three impersonators while they were entering the airport premises to catch an Indigo flight. They were handed over to Airport police station for further interrogation.During the interrogation, they confessed to have received tickets from two individuals named Ashok Sardar and Rohit Rishideo. Arun Kumar, SHO of the Airport police station said raids were being conducted to nab the duo. Nitish Kumar sends sample after meeting leader who tested Covid-19 positiveEarlier on June 11, three persons—Mohammad Hussain alam, Mohammad Abdul Rehman and Balram Kumar Mahaseth—all from Begusarai district were caught trying to board a Spicejet fligh to Mumbai using fake IDs. Later, police arrested two agents and one of their associates who had provided them with fake IDs. The three people to be arrested were Mohammad Junaid Alam, Vivek Kumar Singh and Madhumit Kumar Singh.The people using fake IDs were taking advantage of the fact that original tickets are not checked at the entry gates and passengers are allowed to enter the premises on showing a print-out of the ticket along with an identification document.Most of those caught with fake IDs were nabbed while trying to exit the building without offering compelling reasons for the same leading to security personnel checking their tickets and IDs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-passengers-with-fake-tickets-ids-nabbed-in-three-weeks-at-patna-airport/story-7CgLRAZAC5p9oA7PNrvIrM.html
04-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s highest spike takes its Covid-19 tally past 2 lakh||Maharashtra’s highest one-day surge yet of 7,074 new coronavirus cases on Saturday took the state’s Covid-19 tally past the two-lakh mark, the health department said.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 2,00,064 while the death toll went up to 8,671 with 295 casualties. A total of 3,396 people were declared recovered on Saturday taking the total recoveries to 1,08,082 while the number of active cases is 83,311. The number of tests in the state has gone up to 10,80,975Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Out of the 7,074 new cases, 1,163 were in Mumbai which took the city’s tally to 83,237. There were 68 deaths on Saturday that raised the toll of casualties in the city to 4,830.Meanwhile, the police in Mumbai said travel restrictions in the city have been eased with the scrapping of a controversial 2-kilometre travel restriction imposed on June 28 amid the lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police said it was imposed just for two days. The lockdown in Maharashtra will continue till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-highest-spike-takes-its-covid-19-tally-past-2-lakh/story-BeiT9nHYN5IPODhJHcWojK.html
04-07-2020||India||RSS defers gurudakshina programme due to coronavirus||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has decided to defer its annual guru dakshina program that was supposed to start on Sunday, in the wake of the corona pandemic.According to people aware of the developments, the annual program, when RSS functionaries and volunteers apart from BJP leaders donate a part of their salaries on the day of Guru Purnima, will now be held after a month.Donations made are kept secret with the name of the donor and the donated amount not disclosed. The collected money is used for undertaking various programmes of the RSS as well as for meeting everyday expenses.This is not the first programme that the RSS, the ideological fount of the BJP, has deferred on account of the corona pandemic. In March, when the outbreak was in its initial stage, the Sangh called off the meeting of its highest decision making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIt also called off some other public programmes that were subsequently scheduled and even encouraged volunteers to organise shakhas online. A functionary said the organisation has been following government’s directions on social distancing and other protocols in place to check the spread of the virus.“Volunteers who have been involved in seva work; providing ration, medicines and organising blood donation camps have been ensuring that they don’t violate the rules of social distancing and take precautions such as wearing masks,” said the functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-defers-gurudakshina-programme-due-to-coronavirus/story-xd2kUwMI6uuiUAjqGk9iWI.html
04-07-2020||India||Indian Air Force geared up for combat role in China border area||The frontline fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force are flying consistently in and out of this airbase near the border with China, including the Russian-origin mighty Su-30MKIs and the MiG-29s.When the ANI team visited the forward airbase, it could see transport aircraft including the American C-17 and the C-130J along with their Russian counterparts Ilyushin-76 and the Antonov-32.The transport planes are being used to ferry troops and equipment from far away locations to be deployed on the Line of Actual Control with China.Apaches are prominent as they carry out regular sorties with their only mandate of a combat role in the Eastern Ladakh sector. The American-origin attack chopper along with its heavy-lift counterpart Chinook have played an important role in the area after the Chinese Army started building up along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh in May this year.The entire base is seeing a flurry of activity and is playing a crucial role in enhancing the combat preparedness of the country along the China border.“This base plays a very important role in undertaking operations in this area. It is cleared for all contingencies and all combat and support operations to be undertaken in this area,” said a Flight Lieutenant when asked about the importance of the forward airfield.A Wing Commander, who is playing a crucial role in ensuring preparedness at the airbase, said, “The Indian Air Force is fully prepared for operations and is ready to meet all challenges. Air power is a very powerful aspect of war-fighting and more relevant today,” he said.Asked how the Air Force was readying itself in view of tensions following Galwan Valley clash, he said, “Air Power will play an important role in this area in both combat and support roles. We have all the resources in terms of men and equipment to meet all the challenges.”“The Indian Air Force is ready in all aspects to undertake all operational tasks and providing the requisite support for all military operations,” the Wing Commander added.The Chinook heavy-lift helicopters along with the Russian fleet of the Mi-17 V5 helicopters deployed at the base are carrying out regular sorties to take Army and ITBP troops to forward locations.To prepare for a long haul, Chinook helicopters could be loaded with important equipment for being delivered to forward bases as China has also dug in heels all along the LAC in this area.The air activities in the Ladakh area and other places along the China border had gone up extensively soon after the Chinese started building up and went up further after the Galwan valley clash on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-geared-up-for-combat-role-in-china-border-area/story-bo1QFkr5MLip0u7Amf0GBI.html
04-07-2020||India||Kerala CM writes to PM Modi seeking trial in Italy of marines who killed 2 fishermen||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urging that the government should make “earnest efforts to build international pressure to ensure a fair trial in Italy” for the two Italian marines who shot and killed two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012.“It is quite shocking that such a grave crime committed against our citizens is not being brought to justice in our country. The matter definitely deserved a more sensitive and cautious handling from the beginning and during the proceedings in the ITLOS (International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea), as it involved the loss of life of two innocent Indians,” Vijayan wrote. On Thursday, the Permanent Court of Arbitration Tribunal in The Hague upheld the conduct of the Indian authorities in the Enrica Lexie case in which the marines were accused of killing two Indian fishermen.The tribunal stated that India was entitled to get compensation in the case but ruled that the marines cannot be prosecuted due to their official immunity.Vijayan also sought Modi’s intervention in getting just compensation to the families of the fishermen, who had lost their lives while they had put out to sea to earn their livelihood.As two valuable lives have been lost without any provocation from the victims we need to bargain for an exemplary amount, the CM said.“We should also keep our options of approaching ITLOS within the stipulated time of one year if getting compensation is not possible through negotiations,” Vijayan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-seeking-trial-in-italy-of-marines-who-killed-2-fishermen/story-F2z8IN4U8nuKr5V50dho1O.html
04-07-2020||India||UP cops out on raid were killed by their own weapons, says autopsy report||Notorious criminal Vikas Dubey and his accomplices used the weapons snatched from the police to gun down eight police personnel at Bikru village in Kanpur early on Friday, the post-mortem examination confirmed. Officials also said the autopsy report corroborated initial findings that the criminal had used the police weapons to kill them. Doctors took out AK-47 cartridges from the body of constable Jitendra Kumar, according to the post-mortem report. The AK 47 rifle was one of the five weapons looted from the policemen during the failed raid on Dubey’s house. The others were an INSAS rifle, a Glock pistol and two 9 mm pistols. The autopsy showed the bullets went through the bodies of four constables, indicating that they were shot from extremely close range, forensic experts said. In addition, the doctors retrieved pieces of .315 and .312 bore bullets, which were fired from rifles and single or double barrel guns, the experts added.The maximum seven bullets hit sub-inspector Anoop Kumar Singh, the experts said. Deputy SP Devendra Mishra was shot in the head, chest and legs from close range as doctors found carbon deposits around the wounds, said officials who were part of the investigation. As a result, his head was blown off and the ‘neck was reduced to half’, they said, adding there were deep gashes on his leg and below the waist. Bullets hit constable Jitendra Kumar, who was shot five times, in the hands, chest and waist region. Two bullets went through his body.Mahesh Yadav, Shivrajpur station officer, was shot in the face, back and chest five times, according to the post-mortem findings. Four bullets were found lodged in the body of sub-inspector Nebulal.The autopsy also showed that constable Babloo Kumar was shot in the temple and the chest while the body of Rahul Kumar had four gunshot wounds, they said. Constable Sultan Singh was shot five times. Brajesh Shrivastava, Superintendent of police (Rural), said the rounds and their pieces recovered during the autopsy were being sent for forensic analysis.The forensic experts on Friday had collected a number of empty bullet casings of different bores from the ground and terraces of houses to get an understanding of weapons the criminals used to fire at the cops.“They used rifles, guns and country-made-weapons and fired from pistols and big weapons such as AK-47,” said an official, adding a live AK-47 round was found on the spot with 9mm rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-out-on-raid-were-killed-by-their-own-weapons-says-autopsy-report/story-LWsMgypFEQ4o96NrcE9zmN.html
04-07-2020||India||A positive Covid statistic makes Kejriwal shoot a congratulatory tweet||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday congratulated corona warriors noting the rise in recoveries from Covid 19 infections had taken the recovery rate in the capital past the 70% mark and said that the city needed to work more to comprehensively beat the deadly coronavirus contagion.“The effort made by Delhi’s two crore population is bearing fruit. Congratulations to all corona warriors, since Delhi’s recovery rate has crossed the 70% mark. We have to continue working to defeat coronavirus,” Kejriwal tweeted, while tagging a similar congratulatory tweet form his deputy Manish Sisodia.Sisodia, in his tweet, cited data to reflect on the positive turn in capital’s Covid situation after fears, driven by a rapid rise in positive cases in early June, of the situation possibly going out of hand by the end of July. “Delhi’s corona recovery rate has crossed 70% for the first time to arrive at 70.22%). This means 70% of all Covid 19 patients have already been cured. 68,256 people out of the total 97,200 patients have been cured,” Sisodia’s tweet said.Delhi records 2,505 new Covid cases, total tally a step away from 1 lakh-markHe also pointed out that the positive rate in the capital had decreased dramatically to 10.58%.“ Positivity rate has (meaning the number of people turning positive out of total people tested) reduced to 10.58% after reaching 36.94% at one time,” the latter part of his tweet said.The trend of reduction in the number of daily cases registered in Delhi continued on Saturday with 2,505 new Covid-19 cases. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has reached 97,200 including 3,004 deaths caused by the disease.The city, however, has recorded 68,256 recoveries from the disease, which translates to over 70% recovery rate, nearly 10% more than the national recovery rate of 60.81%.Sisodia and Kejriwal were referring not only to the healthy recovery rate but also to the drop in percentage of people who are found positive among those tested on a daily basis despite a remarkable rise in the number of tests being conducted daily.A total of 23,673 tests were conducted in the capital in the last 24 hours including 13,748 rapid antigen tests and 9,925 RT-PCR tests. The total number of tests conducted since the outbreak earlier this year stand at 62,0368. Experts have suggested that the continuance of this trend of drop in the average number of fresh cases reported daily in Delhi, observed over the past one week, could lead to the city going past the disease peak in early August.It was not so long ago on June 23, when the national capital reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases and since then, the city registered over 3,000 fresh cases daily till June 26, when the daily infections reported over a course of 24 hours, stood at 3,460.From June 27 to July 3, the average cases per day came down to 2,494, which was significantly lower than 3,446 average daily cases recorded the week before.Covid-19: All districts to start surveillance and tele-medicine hubsExperts, however, have warned of a fresh surge in cases if containment measures such as social distancing and other restrictions imposed by authorities are not adhered to.AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria has attributed the surge in cases that began in early June and sustained till most of the month to complacency after lifting of lockdown measures.“A lapse on someone’s part somewhere...could lead to a spike,” Dr Guleria was quoted as saying by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-positive-covid-statistic-makes-kejriwal-shoot-a-congratulatory-tweet/story-5DfQcS1dnDrZP6t9ekKxKP.html
04-07-2020||India||India’s first Covid-19 vaccine races to meet mid-August target||India has set an ambitious timeline for its first potential coronavirus vaccine -- from human trials to general use in six weeks.Bharat Biotech International Ltd., an unlisted Indian vaccine maker, received regulatory approval to start human clinical trials for its experimental shot earlier this week and it already has India’s apex medical research body expediting the process.The under-development vaccine is “envisaged” to be rolled out “for public health use by Aug. 15 after completion of all clinical trials,” Indian Council of Medical Research, or ICMR, said in a July 2 letter to clinical trial sites, which was seen by Bloomberg News. It “is one of the top priority projects which is being monitored at the topmost level of the government.”There’s been no evidence yet that Bharat Biotech’s vaccine is safe for use on humans, not to mention effective. The envisioned timeline is markedly shorter than other front-runner vaccine efforts from American and Chinese drugmakers, most of which started human clinical trials months ago and are now entering the last of three stages of testing.The bid underscores India’s urgent need for a way to halt the coronavirus, which has sickened more than 640,000 people and killed over 18,600 in the Asian nation -- the world’s fourth-largest outbreak. In its letter, ICMR urged the trial sites to enroll volunteers by July 7.The speediness has alarmed some in the medical fraternity. “Such an accelerated development pathway has not been done EVER for any kind of vaccine, even the ones being tried out in other countries,” Anant Bhan, a medical researcher at India’s Manipal University, said in a Twitter post. “Even with accelerated timelines, this seems rushed and hence, with potential risks.”After abandoning a costly lockdown that caused tremendous economic suffering without slowing the virus’s spread, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is anxious to project control over the outbreak.Political PressureThe Aug. 15 deadline for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine may reflect that political pressure: that’s the day India celebrates independence from the British, marked by a nationwide address by Modi.The letter to investigators of clinical trial sites was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and to speed up recruitment of participants, the ICMR said in a statement on Saturday.“ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” according to the statement. “Our trials will be done following the best practices and rigour, and will be reviewed, as required.”Bharat Biotech plans to enroll 375 people in the first phase of clinical trials and 750 people in the second phase, an ICMR spokesperson said. Whether the vaccine will be approved for general use depends on the outcomes of those trials, he said. A spokeswoman for Bharat Biotech declined to comment on the Aug. 15 timeline in ICMR’s letter.“They can’t do that,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee in National Institute of Epidemiology, referring to the targeted timeline of the vaccine launch. Developing a vaccine is a complicated procedure that involves proving its effectiveness and safety, he said.While Bharat Biotech’s timeline is ambitious compared to other efforts, India’s mature medical manufacturing sector and its large population, from which human trial volunteers can be easily found, are factors that could help accelerate the usual vaccine development process.The trial will start “most probably” by Monday, said C. Prabhakar Reddy, a professor in Hyderabad’s Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences -- one of the trial sites that received ICMR’s letter. “We are all working day and night to meet the deadline but still it will be neck to neck race,” he said, adding that he doesn’t anticipate any shortage of volunteers “in the current scenario.”A vaccine ready for public use will allow the safe reopening of schools, offices and factories to revive India’s economy, which is hurtling toward its first contraction in more than four decades. It will also tie in with self-reliance -- a motto Modi has repeated often in recent weeks.Developing nations are eager to pare their dependence on other nations and foreign drugmakers in securing vaccines. Called Covaxin, the “inactivated vaccine” candidate has demonstrated safety and immune response in preclinical studies, Bharat Biotech said in a June 29 statement that cited the firm’s “track record in developing vero cell culture platform technologies.”It has developed vaccines against polio, rotavirus, Japanese encephalitis and Zika, according to the statement.Bharat Biotech “is working expeditiously to meet the target, however, final outcome will depend on the cooperation of all the clinical trial sites involved in the project,” the ICMR letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-covid-19-vaccine-races-to-meet-mid-august-target/story-jRVsx7Y08IKvTnUvZ1rspL.html
04-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 2,505 new Covid cases, a step away from 1 lakh markDelhi recorded 2,505 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the coronavirus tally to 97,200. The capital also recorded 55 fresh casualties in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 3,004, according to the health bulletin released on Saturday. Read more.Pakistan violates LoC ceasefire in Poonch, India retaliatesPakistan violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Poonch district Saturday evening prompting India to hit back in equal measure, the Indian Army said. Read more.‘For BJP, power a medium to serve people’: 10 things PM told party workersTalking at ‘Seva Hi Sangathan’ meet on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the welfare work undertaken by the BJP during the nationwide lockdown triggered by coronavirus disease outbreak as seven state units of the party gave a presentation of their work at a video conference. Read more.No Chris Gayle, Lasith Malinga; MS Dhoni to lead Mike Hussey’s IPL XI he would not like to faceThe Indian Premier League (IPL) is rated as one of the toughest cricket tournaments of the world. With only four foreigners allowed in the XI, it is perhaps the stiffest challenge for even the best to regularly maintain his place in the side. Read more.Saroj Khan’s daughter reveals which Bollywood actors kept in touch with ‘masterji’ as her health deterioratedThe late choreographer Saroj Khan’s daughter has said that she was working irregularly due to her health, and that several of her old collaborators used to frequently check up on her. Saroj died on Friday, after a cardiac arrest. She was 71. Read more.Father imparts motivational lesson to son, shares its impact three years laterMany parents may agree that parenting is no easy feat. And they may also agree that there is no greater joy than seeing one’s child thrive. This particular dad filmed his son’s personal development, three years apart, after imparting some insightful words about progress and patience to him. The video is such a heartwarming watch, we can only imagine how proud this father must feel of his son’s growth. Read more.Sony PlayStation 5 pages official on Amazon India, FlipkartSony unveiled the PlayStation 5 last month and gave us a preview on the upcoming games. Sony PlayStation 5 product pages have now gone live in India on Flipkart and Amazon. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-2-505-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HIa4rfbmyxMNS0jq55RqoJ.html
04-07-2020||India||Pakistan violates LoC ceasefire in Poonch, India retaliates||Pakistan violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Poonch district Saturday evening prompting India to hit back in equal measure, the Indian Army said. Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, “ Around 1945 hours, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Degwar sector in District Poonch. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly”.On Friday, India had registered a strong protest with Pakistan for over more than 2,400 unprovoked ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) and the international boundary in Jammu and Kashmir.Meanwhile, National Conference leader Devender Singh Rana expressed concern over LoC shelling and sought expeditious completion of community bunkers.“During these grim times of Cocid-19, the people along LoC are braving the brunt of Pakistan shelling that has not only created fear psychosis but also caused enormous sufferings to them”, Rana said in an interaction with party functionaries of the Poonch district via video conferencing.Rana expressed solidarity with the border residents, saying their welfare is the responsibility of the entire nation. He stressed the immediate need of completing bunkers and shelter sheds for their lodging in times of exigencies. The element of security could have been infused among them had the promised shelter sheds and community bunkers been completed timely, he said and lamented over non-fulfillment of commitments made in this regard in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-loc-ceasefire-in-poonch-india-retaliates/story-bTscSO4KZoHpnYfGUNGYVM.html
04-07-2020||India||241 Covid cases trigger highest single day spike in Kerala, govt mulls triple lockdown||With 241 fresh cases, Kerala has registered a new Covid 19 peak on Saturday with the coronavirus situation taking a turn for worse in state capital Thiruvananthapuram and port city of Kochi. A worried Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala chapter has asked the state government to enforce a strict lockdown in containment areas and restrict movement of people to avert community spread.Saturday’s tally is the biggest single-day spike in the state since the outbreak in January. The total number of cases registered so far in the state has gone up to 5,204. 3,050 of these patients have recovered leaving 2,129 active cases. The state has recorded 25 deaths to the disease so far, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office.Kerala not in favour of withdrawing the case against Italian marines: CM VijayanThe fact that the source of infection is unknown in many cases has worried the state government. The CM said that since the disease was spreading both in urban and rural areas, stricter cubs will be needed to contain it. The government is toying with the idea of enforcing a targeted confinement and triple lockdown in some of the worst-hit areas to check the spread of the contagion. Triple lockdown, a measure considered stricter than curfew allowing only police personnel’s movement, did wonders in containing the spread of the disease in Kasaragod in north Kerala earlier.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe IMA has asked the government to enforce ruthless lockdown in containment areas as the number of secondary infections has risen alarmingly. “We have to increase tests immediately. In many cases epidemiological links are not known. The state will have to take more proactive measures to check the contagion,” said IMA state president Dr Abraham Varghese.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/241-covid-cases-trigger-highest-single-day-spike-in-kerala-govt-mulls-triple-lockdown/story-ppueZKU84gch6QnGOdMhuI.html
04-07-2020||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar tests negative for Covid-19, result of deputy CM Sushil Modi awaited after top BJP leader tests positive||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has tested negative for Covid-19 after he voluntarily gave his swab sample for test on Saturday.The chief minister’s swab sample was taken after he came in contact with a senior BJP member of the Bihar legislative council who tested positive for coronavirus disease earlier in the day.“Swab samples of all 16 people from the chief minister’s residence have tested negative for Covid-19,” said a senior functionary of the health department who requested anonymity.The samples, which tested negative, also included those of four bureaucrats, attached to the chief minister.However, a deputy superintendent of police rank officer in chief minister Nitish Kumar’s security was believed to have tested positive, said sources.CM’s public relations officer, BK Shukla, who, earlier in the evening, had confirmed that Kumar gave his sample for swab test, did not respond to phone calls.Kumar had given his nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, a confirmatory test for Covid-19. A team of microbiology and ENT departments of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences had gone to collect the samples from 1, Aney Marg, which is the designated residence of the CM.The chief minister had met the senior BJP functionary at least twice during the last 10 days, the last being on July 1 during the swearing-in ceremony of nine MLCs at the Bihar Legislative Council.Chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Bihar assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and a few ministers were among some of the top state leaders who were with the infected BJP leader during the swearing-in ceremony.Laboratory test result was awaited of deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who, too, had given his sample for Covid test.Samples of at least 70 people, including political leaders, officers, security personnel and personal staff had been collected after contact tracing of the BJP functionary who tested positive, said sources.The BJP leader, his wife, son and a personal assistant were among five people who had tested positive and were admitted to the AIIMS-Patna Saturday evening, said hospital sources. The BJP leader had cough and was running high fever for the past couple of days.“The senior BJP functionary and his wife have been admitted to the Covid isolation ward of our institute,” said AIIMS superintendent Dr CM Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-sends-sample-after-meeting-leader-who-tested-covid-19-positive/story-nmxmYqc2BpPDWH2Fw4NVTO.html
04-07-2020||India||J-K Chief Secy says SOPs for Amarnath Yatra to be strictly enforced amid pandemic||Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary of BVR Subrahmanyam on Saturday said that this year’s Amarnath Yatra would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner so that the SoPs to contain the spread of Covid 19 can be strictly enforced during the pilgrimage.“Given the constraints, a maximum of 500 yatris only could be allowed per day by road from Jammu. Therefore, arrangements will have to be limited to this number,” he said while chairing a meeting of the sub-committee constituted by the Supreme Court for Shri Amarnathji Yatra.He underlined that nine out of 10 Kashmir districts are in red zone and the entire medical system is already fully stretched in handling the Covid-19 pandemic.The Yatra this year is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 from the shorter Baltal route.Subrahmanyam also informed that Baba Amarnath’s Aarti this year will be telecast live on Doordarshan.The chief secretary emphasised that adequate arrangement should be made to ensure unhindered telecast of the Aarti.Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Deputy Commissioners and SSPs of Ganderbal and Anantnag districts, Additional CEO, Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) besides other senior functionaries of the departments involved in the Amarnath Yatra attended the meeting through video conference.Subrahmanyam said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Executive Committee constituted under the Disaster Management Act has issued SoPs which among other things prescribe 100% RT-PCR test for all persons travelling into Jammu and Kashmir. Anyone travelling to J&K will have to be sampled, tested and quarantined till they are reported to be negative.He also said that camping facilities earlier utilized for Yatris, especially at entry points are currently being utilized as quarantine centres.The chief secretary pointed out that the SoPs for testing of persons entering J&K shall apply to Yatris as well while social distancing norms would further strain the holding capacity of the quarantine centres. “Keeping in view these constraints, the Yatra this year, would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner,” he said.Subrahmanyam also reviewed strengthening of foot bridges and routine works such as installation of bailey bridges, milestones, upgradation of remaining 1.25 km of road from Baltal Base Camp to Domel by laying pre-cast concrete blocks and laying of tiles on remaining 95 meter stretch of alternate road from Neelgrath to Baltal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-chief-secy-says-sops-for-amarnath-yatra-to-be-strictly-enforced-amid-pandemic/story-N3GxyV78B7RapJkPlQynVI.html
04-07-2020||India||Delhi records 2,505 new Covid cases, total tally a step away from 1 lakh-mark||Delhi recorded 2,505 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the coronavirus tally to 97,200. The capital also recorded 55 fresh casualties in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 3,004, according to the health bulletin released on Saturday.The recent trend of reduction in Delhi’s daily Covid cases despite a drastic increase in testing marks a flattening of the curve according to the experts. Experts have said that the Covid-19 pandemic will likely enter its post-peak period in the first week of August if the Capital maintains a steady decline in cases.The cases in Delhi have averaged at 2,628 a day over the past week compared to 3,400 daily cases the week before, according to public health experts.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDelhi, on Saturday, also recorded 2,632 recoveries, taking the total number of cured patients to 68,256. The number of active cases in the city-state, however, is much lower at 25,940. In another positive, Delhi’s current positivity rate is 15.9%, down from 37% on June 13, which indicated a situation when one out of three people tested for Covid-19 were found to be infected.A total of 23,673 tests were conducted in the capital in the last 24 hours including 13,748 rapid antigen tests and 9,925 RT-PCR tests. The total number of tests conducted since the outbreak earlier this year stand at 62,0368. This translates into 32650 tests per million of the city’s population.The average daily testing is at its highest in Delhi, with an average of 19,000 samples being tested a day over the past one week compared to 16,000 a week ago, and 7,000 a week before that.Active Covid-19 cases in Delhi have averaged around 26,000 for the past three weeks despite testing going up three times from 6,130 tests on May 31, to 18,586 on June 30 — which indicates an encouraging levelling off.Spreading joy under a pandemic: Shikhar ‘The One’ Dhawan visits Hindu refugees living in Delhi Delhi, due to a timely expansion of its treatment capacity, is also in a comparatively better situation in its fight against coronavirus, despite the high number of cases. A total of 16,265 hospital beds are vacant in the city as of Saturday, as per the health bulletin.There are 448 containment zones in the city as of Saturday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-2-505-new-covid-cases-a-step-away-from-1-lakh-mark/story-1naC5xJT1oE6At2zmqX9cL.html
04-07-2020||India||ICMR validates only one among 14 firms for rapid antigen test kits for Covid-19||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has validated only one Indo-South Korean company among 14 companies/vendors of rapid antigen test kits for Covid-19 that have approached the regulatory body for approval/validation so far.Seven of the other companies/vendors are Indian while others are from South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Belgium.The test kit of SD Biosensor, an Indo-Korean company has been validated according to the ICMR’s status report on Friday.Also read: ICMR defends fast tracking Covaxin amid allegations of chasing glory with Independence Day launchThe ICMR said the kits of Camtech Diagnostics (Singapore), Agappe Diagnostics (India) Rapigen Inc of Soukth Korea, POCT service Pvt Ltd (India), HLL Lifecare (India) are in transit.It said it has received the kit from Bhat Bio-Tech India, (Bengaluru) on Friday.The status report also said response is awaited for five companies - Coris Bioconcept (Belgium), J. Mitra & Co. Ltd (India), M/s Medsource Ozone Biomedicals Pvt. Ltd (India), Panion & BF Biotech and Formosa Biomedical Technology Corp (both from Taiwan) India is ramping up testing facilities for Covid-19 amid surging numbers. India’s Covid-19 tally now stands at close to 6.5 lakh.Some states like Odisha have come under fire for low testing while Telangana had to suspend testing for two days in and around Hyderabad earlier this week after labs were flooded with samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-validates-only-one-among-14-firms-for-rapid-antigen-test-kits-for-covid-19/story-MKiAJykWwz7iqqeGgvcoHP.html
04-07-2020||India||‘Birth of Jana Sangh, BJP to make our country happy’: 10 things PM Modi told party workers||Talking at ‘Seva Hi Sangathan’ meet on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the welfare work undertaken by the BJP during the nationwide lockdown triggered by coronavirus disease outbreak as seven state units of the party gave a presentation of their work at a video conference.Senior party leaders like Amit Shah, JP Nadda and Rajnath Singh also attended the video conference. Leaders and chief minister from BJP-ruled states attended the meet virtually. Here are ten things he told his party workers:• In several states, our karyakartas knew that they were taking risks, but continued with full dedication during this pandemic. Some workers even lost their lives while serving the people and the nation. I want to pay my respects to these people and their families: PM Modi• The nationwide welfare work undertaken by BJP at such scale for so long amid Covid-19 crisis is biggest ‘seva yagya’ in history: PM Modi• For BJP, power is a medium to serve people: PM Modi• For us, our organisation is not just a machine to win elections. For us, our organisation means ‘service’. Our organisation means to us - ‘Sabka Saath’. For us, our organisation means ‘happiness of all, prosperity of all’. Our organisation is going to work for the benefit of society: PM Modi• The party which has so many MPs, thousands of MLAs, yet that party and its worker give priority to service, consider service as their life mantra, as BJP worker I feel very proud that we are all members of such organisation: PM Modi• When an accident occurred, you turned it into an opportunity. Opportunity that you can serve more and more people, reduce the suffering of more and more people, they can overcome this problem: PM Modi• In the eyes of the world, you were working in the Corona era, but if I talk about myself, you were tightening yourself. You were ascertaining yourself among your ideals: PM Modi• Our satisfaction is the happiness of the one we serve.With this sentiment, our activists launched such a big campaign of service organization in such difficult times with the same sentiment towards the poor: PM Modi• The birth of Jana Sangh and BJP was originally intended to make our country happy, how to prosper. With this basic inspiration, with the inspiration of Indianness, with the spirit of service, we came into politics: PM Modi• At a time when everyone in the world is busy protecting themselves, you have given up your worries and dedicated yourself to the service of the poor and needy. This is a great example of service: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/birth-of-jana-sangh-bjp-to-make-our-country-happy-10-things-pm-modi-told-party-workers/story-yDtCKr2MY5gybpT6cpcizM.html
04-07-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu pays tribute to BJP patriarch LK Advani on Guru Purnima||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu acknowledged the contribution of 57 gurus, including Bharataiya Janata Party patriarch LK Advani, on the eve of Guru Purmina, a day dedicated to paying tribute to teachers.In a Facebook post, Naidu wrote about the gratitude and indebtedness towards his gurus who shaped his perspectives and life at various stages of his long journey.Guru Purnima greetings to all.Life without a Guru is like a path without illumination.The Vice President remembers his Gurus in this Facebook post- https://t.co/dZkRdKto6V pic.twitter.com/0Ztgd6VpiENaidu recalled how he was mentored and counseled by teachers from the time he attended school, to the time he joined national politics. The list includes the late Tenneti Viswanatham, a freedom fighter who mentored him in his early days and Advani who helped him at the national level.Naidu, who lost his mother when he was 15 months old, described his grandparents as his first gurus and paid glowing tributes to the role of a teacher in the holistic development of a child.He urged teachers to impart education with a personal touch in the present era of technology and said they have an important role in nation building through moulding of well rounded individuals imbibed with right kind of values and perspectives.The vice president also underlined that the internet can never be a substitute to the teacher. “Internet may provide you with a world of information, but a teacher alone can instill the power of analyzing and evaluating skills which are deemed as higher order skills, which help in navigating through difficult times. Only the Guru can inculcate values, humane thinking, compassion and discipline among the disciples and shows the right path,” he said in the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-pays-tribute-to-bjp-patriarch-lk-advani-on-guru-purnima/story-o8wo87H07tYF2XO9uKfRCJ.html
04-07-2020||India||ICMR defends fast tracking Covaxin amid allegations of chasing glory with Independence Day launch||India’s premier medical research body has defended fast tracking of clinical trials of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed by Indian company Bharat Biotech International Ltd and said it was in line with the current global trend to accelerate efforts to procure a medical response to contain the spread of deadly coronavirus disease, that has taken over half a million lives worldwide so far.ICMR’s clarification comes amid criticism by experts questioning the rationale behind the council’s decision to fast-track clinical trials of Covaxin to time its launch with the Independence Day on August 15.“In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine. Faced with the unprecedented nature of the Covid 19 pandemic, all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked,” ICMR said in an official press release on Saturday.The controversy erupted after ICMR wrote to the 12 institutes selected for conducting human trials for Covaxin, ordering them to secure necessary approvals from internal committees by July 7 and disclosed that it aimed to launch Covaxin on August 15, potentially making it the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine. The body had also warned institutes that non-compliance with its instructions will be viewed very seriously.ICMR sets August 15 deadline for world’s 1st Covid-19 vaccineThe letter was followed by criticism, with experts questioning the safety of such expedited trials that generally require months to complete and opposition political parties, including the Congress, attributing a political motive to ICMR’s bid to fast-track the vaccine candidate’s launch.On Saturday, senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan alleged that the launch of a coronavirus vaccine by August 15 was aimed only at enabling Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make a big announcement from the Red Fort.The ICMR has rejected the allegations of rushing through the process and said its programme was in accordance with globally accepted norms to fast track the vaccine development.“ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” the council stated in its official releaseBharat Biotech International Ltd and Zydus Cadila are two Indian companies that have already won approvals from the drugs controller general of India (DCGI) for conducting human clinical trials of their vaccine candidates developed indigenously to check the spread of Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease.The Hdyerabad based company claims the results from pre-clinical studies, done in two months time, have been promising and the vaccine shows extensive safety and effective immune response. The human clinical trials of its vaccine will start sometime in July. The vaccine is being developed in collaboration with ICMR and National Institute of Virology (NIV).Bharat Biotech is among seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines. It was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin phase 1 and phase 2 human trials.More than a dozen Covid-19 vaccines from over 100 candidates globally are currently being tested in humans, and some have shown potential in early-stage trials. However, no vaccine has yet been approved for commercial use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-defends-fast-tracking-covaxin-amid-allegations-of-chasing-glory-with-republic-day-launch/story-TUpypfGyxKZMfjLqOKdwKO.html
04-07-2020||India||13 pvt labs in Telangana under govt scanner for reporting abnormal Covid-19+ cases||The Telangana government on Saturday served notices on 13 private laboratories in Hyderabad which have been reporting abnormal testing results for Covid-19 and lacking adequate infrastructure and trained manpower.State director of public health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters that the health department had noticed huge discrepancies in the testing conducted by some of these private laboratories. “For example, on Friday, one of these private laboratories reported 2,672 positive cases against 3,726 total samples tested, which means the positivity rate was 71.7% which is highly unlikely,” he said.He said usually, the positivity rate for a typical government or private laboratory was around 20- 25%. “We suspect the test results could have been contaminated and that’s why we held back those results, which will be studied in detail by an expert committee and released,” Rao said.At present, there are 23 private diagnostic laboratories that have received Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permission to conduct Covid-19 diagnostics in Telangana. A majority of these private laboratories in Hyderabad had National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certification that enabled ICMR to issue permission to take up Covid-19 tests.Last week, four expert teams from the Telangana medical and health department inspected these private labs and found large scale violation of norms in conducting Covid-19 tests. The teams examined various aspects like infrastructure, human resources, infection control measures and other facilities including general hygiene.The teams went through the registers and data uploaded by the labs into ICMR and Telangana state portal and found a lot of discrepancies in the data. Many of the labs were not taking safety measures such as staff not wearing personal protection equipment (PPE), safety cabinets not being available and lack of proper hygienic conditions. The staff conducting the tests for Covid-19 has not been trained properly in RT-PCR testing.The inspection report pointed out that there was possibility of contamination of samples leading to high positivity rate because safety measures and protocols are not followed meticulously.“We have given sufficient time to these laboratories to rectify the defects. Some of them rectified and some others are still doing it. If laboratories do not follow ICMR guidelines and do not correct discrepancies, then their recognition will be cancelled,” the health director said.He said four more government laboratories including Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Adilabad, Government General Hospitals in Nizamabad, Suryapet, and Area Hospital in Gadwal have now received permission to conduct Covid-19 testing through CBNAAT machines, which are also utilised for TB diagnosis.Stating that adequate measures were being taken to contain the spread of Covid-19, Rao said so far, more than 12,000 patients were being treated in home isolation and another 785 patients were in hospitals. “The cases were increasing alarmingly during the Unlock period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-pvt-labs-in-telangana-under-govt-scanner-for-reporting-abnormal-covid-19-cases/story-6ZOiq6IPiRPhdeskz2lEXN.html
04-07-2020||India||Shravan Mela from July 6 to Aug 3: To stop devotees, admin seals Deoghar district||The Deoghar district administration has sealed all entry points to stop the arrival of pilgrims and Kanwars’ (the saffron-clad Saivites) following a ban on the annual Shravan Mela – to be held from July 6 to August 3 – at the ancient Baba Baidyanath Temple, popularly known as Babadham, because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Seven check-posts have been set up at Andhrigadar, Dardmara, Dumma, Chaipa More, Hindolavaran, Bhirkhibad More and Kushmaha More in a bid to bar pilgrims and Kanwars’ entry to the district during the holy Hindu month of Shravan, when Lord Shiva is worshipped.Over a lakh pilgrims and Kanwars’ visit Babadhan daily during the annual Shravan Mela to offer their prayers at the temple, one of 12 Jyotirlingas, or the most sacred abodes of Lord Shiva.On Mondays in Shravan --- the most auspicious day in the holy Hindu month --- over 2.40 lakh pilgrims and Kanwars visit the shrine on average, the official record showed.On Friday late afternoon, Deoghar deputy commissioner (DC) Nancy Sahay; superintendent of police (SP) Piyush Pandey; sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Deoghar, Vishal Sagar; and other senior officials inspected all the seven check-posts in the district to ensure the ban on the entry of pilgrims and Kanwars to the temple town.DC Sahay has ordered that all vehicles -- whether bearing Jharkhand registration plates or other states -- must be denied entry into the district.The district authorities are also trying to create awareness about the viral outbreak and have put up posters and banners on Covid-19 along the 105-km-long Kanwar Path between neighbouring Bihar’s Bhagalpur district and Jharkhand’s Deoghar district.“Public address systems have been installed at all the seven check-posts, where regular announcements are being made for pilgrims and Kanwars about the cancellation of this year’s Shravan Mela due to Covid-19 outbreak,” said a district official. The temple has been shut since March 24, a day before nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced to contain the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shravan-mela-from-july-6-to-aug-3-to-stop-devotees-admin-seals-deoghar-district/story-SzZ29ly7H5XwvrhUd7HHGI.html
04-07-2020||India||Asked about missing face mask, BJP leader and nephew thrash UP cops; arrested||A BJP leader and his nephew were arrested after they beat up three police personnel, including a sub-inspector, in Sunderpur area in Varanasi on Friday night, police said. The brawl took place when the leader’s son was asked about his missing face mask.Senior Superintendent of Police Prabhakar Chaudhary confirmed the arrest of BJP leader Surendra Patel and one more person. “Two persons who attacked and misbehaved with police personnel have been arrested. Raids are being conducted to ensure the arrest of five others who were involved in the incident. Strict action would be ensured against them,” SSP said.Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said it was a very unfortunate and small incident.A senior police officer said that Sunderpur police outpost incharge sub- inspector Sunil Gaud received input that a person was threatening someone at Sundarpur-Khojwa road in the city at night. The police team reached the spot and was inquiring about the person who threatened the complainant. Detailing the sequence of events, the police officer said two persons, which also included BJP leader’s son Vikas Patel, were also found sitting at the spot. Upon being asked about his missing mask, Vikas allegedly used indecent language against the cops. He also called up his uncle Surendra Patel, Zila panchayat member and cousin Virendra. Police said that Surendra, along with over half a dozen people, reached the spot and beat up the police personnel. As police received information about the incident, superintendent of police (City) Vikas Chandra Tripathi, Circle officer Bhelupur Preeti Tripathi with other police personnel reached the spot. Subsequently, Surendra and his nephew Virendra were brought to the Lanka police station. An FIR has been registered against seven persons: Surendra Patel, Vikas Patel, Virendra Singh, Ashok Patel, Santosh Patel, Golu Yadav, Chheetan Rajbhar and few unidentified people under various sections of the IPC following the complaint by sub-inspector Gaud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asked-about-missing-face-mask-bjp-leader-and-son-thrash-up-cops-arrested/story-hbFKiFBirVgDd3FqqD3X7O.html
04-07-2020||India||HC raps Maharashtra for inaction against vendors who sold spurious soyabean seeds to farmers||The Bombay High Court has rapped the Maharashtra government for not taking action against vendors supplying spurious soyabean seeds to thousands of farmers that led to crop failure.In an order of June 26 uploaded in the high court’s website on Friday, it said the Aurangabad bench of the court took suo motu cognizance of news reports about complaints of 2,000 farmers who had purchased soyabean seeds for sowing during the ongoing Kharif season but the seeds did not sprout and led to the farmers suffering losses. The court observed that though the farmers in Marathwada and Vidarbha region are poor and such a fraud by the soyabean seed vendors was detrimental to their survival, the government did not show any haste in taking action against such vendors. A division bench of justice T V Nalawade and justice D Kulkarni on June 26, heard the petition initiated after news reports that farmers from districts like Nanded, Latur, Parbhani, Hingoli and Ahmednagar had complained to the authorities that soybean seeds they purchased recently for sowing did not germinate. The court directed that a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) be registered suo motu to ensure that action is taken against the shop owners and the companies, if any, who had pushed such bogus seeds in the market. The court appointed advocate P P More as Amicus Curiae to assist the court.Referring to the stand taken in this regard by the minister for agriculture of the state on June 25 when he said that there are no provisions under the Seeds Act, 1966 for taking action against the vendors concerned and the state will try to see that farmers are given other seeds the court said, “It can be said that the Government, the concerned department has no intention to take criminal action against the vendors and producers of the bogus seeds, even when they have duped the farmers and they have caused huge loss not only to the farmers, but to the country.”The court then observed that as farmers incurred huge expenses while sowing the seeds and such incidents occurred frequently the matters cannot be closed only by supplying more seeds to the farmers by the State. “This season is more peculiar as due to the pandemic of Covid-19 peculiar circumstances are created. These peculiar circumstances are used by the traders and so, the offence committed by them is more grave in nature,” the court observed.It said that the failure of the seed inspector to take action against vendors supplying bogus seeds under section 420 of the IPC prompted it to pass directions to the state.The court directed the state to provide details of the date and number of complaints received by the police, nature of complaints, action taken by seed inspector at tehsil level, number of routine visits to shops selling seeds and seizure and testing of seeds and number of similar complaints received by agriculture department in last five years.The matter had been posted for hearing on July 3 but was adjourned to July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-raps-maharashtra-for-inaction-against-vendors-who-sold-spurious-soyabean-seeds-to-farmers/story-arhxxoXGFF8anl0ROLMH4O.html
04-07-2020||India||‘Malicious, unsubstantiated’: Indian Army on reports of PM Modi’s ‘fake hospital visit’||The Indian Army on Saturday dubbed the reports of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to ‘fake’ hospital in Leh as ‘malicious, unsubstantiated’. The clarification from the army comes after various social media posts claimed that the prime minister had staged the visit to a fake hospital where soldiers injured in Galwan clash were being treated. “There have been malicious and unsubstantiated accusations in some quarters regarding the status of the facility visited by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi during his visit to the General Hospital at Leh on July 03, 2020,” read the statement by army posted by Ministry of Defence a day after the PM’s visit. Also read: PM Modi wraps up Ladakh visit with a swipe at China, says times have changed“It is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated. The Armed Forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel. It is clarified that the said facility is part of the Crisis Expansion capacity of 100 beds and is very much part of the General Hospital complex,” the defence ministry clarified. It further said that the Covid-19 protocol had necessitated some wards of the General Hospital to be converted into isolation facilities. “Hence, this hall which otherwise was normally used as a Training Audio Video Hall was converted into a ward ever since the hospital was also designated as COVID treatment hospital,” the statement read. Also read | PM Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh is a game-changer: Experts“The injured braves have been kept there since their arrival from Galwan to ensure quarantine from Covid areas. The Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane and the Army Commander have also visited the injured braves in the same location,” the army’s statement clarified. Soon after the prime minister paid a visit to a hospital in Leh, social media posts raised questions about the veracity of the visit. Several questioned the absence of medical staff and equipment in the hospital premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malicious-unsubstantiated-indian-army-on-reports-of-pm-modi-s-fake-hospital-visit/story-WVhuzTvximTlZmP4i1y2CN.html
04-07-2020||India||‘Roti-Beti’ tie with India under threat by Nepal’s citizenship amendment bill||Local villagers in parts of Nepal bordering Uttarakhand are opposing the proposed Citizen Amendment Bill, which makes residency in Nepal for seven years a mandatory condition for citizenship, according to local government officials. The locals claim that the proposed bill is discriminatory towards women and will dent the age-old ‘Roti-Beti’ relationship between the people of the two countries. Villagers on the Indian side of the border said if the bill is passed, they would stop marrying off their daughters in Nepal.On June 21, Nepal’s parliamentary committee had endorsed the proposed bill mandating a seven-year probation period for women marrying Nepalese men.Nepal’s citizenship amendment bill is the latest in a series of recent developments to impact ties with Uttarakhand’s bordering villages. There’s already an uncertainty clouding trade with Nepal in the border areas amid the pandemic and ongoing tension over conflicting territorial claims between the two countries.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe residents in bordering areas claim that if the proposed citizenship amendment bill is passed, the people in border areas of India would stop marrying off their daughters to men in Nepal.“If the law gets implemented then will be a major and upsetting development for us because we have not just trade but strong cultural ties with people in border areas on the Nepal side,” said Gopal Singh, village head of Khumti village in Pithoragarh, about 15 km away from Nepal border.Pithoragarh is among the three Uttarakhand districts including Champawat, and US Nagar, that share borders with Nepal. Banbasa, a border town in Champawat district, is the major border crossing point in the state.“If our daughters will get Nepalese citizenship after seven years of marrying a Nepalese man, then why would we marry them to a Nepalese man? She would have no rights there and is likely to be a stateless person despite living there,” Singh said, adding that marriages between people of Khumti and those across the border is an old tradition.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19There have been reports of protests in some parts of Nepal against this seven-year naturalization provision of the proposed citizenship amendment bill. Nepali Congress, Samajbadi Party Nepal and Rastriya Janata Party Nepal have also opposed the proposed bill, according to government officials who quoted sources in Nepal. Vinod Kala, a social activist in Banbasa town in Champawat district said, “It will definitely affect the ‘Roti-Beti’ relationship between the people of two countries and would further dent the bilateral ties.”Kala claimed that “at least 90%” of the locals in Banbasa would be affected by the amendment. “Only the remaining 10%, who are of Nepalese origin and have settled here, would be able to marry their daughters in Nepal,” he said.He also claimed that the law, if enforced, would further hamper the border trade which is “already under a cloud of uncertainty”.“The border trade with Nepal has already hit a low in Banbasa. And if this law comes, then it will probably hit the dead-end because the nationalistic sentiments of the people might get hurt,” said Kala.However, some people in border areas of Nepal think the proposed law will not hurt the cultural ties between the people of the two countries as it was a ‘political matter’. Madhav Prasad Joshi, a prominent and influential trader in Kanchanpur town of Nepal near the border said, “The matter is a political one but the ties are cultural which have been there for centuries...The law is not for just Indian women but every non-Nepalese women marrying Nepalese men,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roti-beti-tie-with-india-under-threat-by-nepal-s-citizenship-amendment-bill/story-niXKssw3mptzehjQwvIEIM.html
04-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: PM Modi pushes for homegrown apps, urges IT workforce to take up challenge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi pushes for homegrown apps, urges IT workforce to take up challengeDays after India banned 59 China-linked mobile phone apps on grounds of threats to the country’s sovereignty, security, defence and public order, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged India’s IT workforce to take part in an innovation challenge to “code for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat”.Read more. US supercarriers in South China Sea, ambitious Beijing stretched on multiple frontsThe US Navy is deploying its two nuclear-powered aircraft carriers - USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan - to conduct exercises in the South China Sea, piling pressure on an ambitious Beijing that has opened multiple fronts including one with India along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. The US supercarriers are reported to be crossing Luzon Strait, the strait between Taiwan and Luzon island of the Philippines that connects Philippine Sea to the South China Sea.Read more. Karnataka announces 33-hour long lockdown in Bengaluru as Covid cases mountThe Karnataka government has decided to clamp a 33-hours-long hard lockdown in capital city of Bengaluru and adjoining areas starting 8pm on Saturday till 5am on Monday to cut the chain of Covid 19 transmissions in the region, which has witnessed a spurt in cases in the last couple of weeks.Read more. Kolkata to have no flights from six cities from July 6-19Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad will not land in Kolkata till July 19, authorities said on Saturday as the West Bengal government stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Read more. 1 terrorist killed, 2 soldiers injured in ongoing encounter in J-K’s KulgamAn unidentified terrorist was killed and two soldiers were injured on Saturday in a gun fight, which is underway in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, the police said. Gurinderpal Singh, Kulgam’s superintendent of police, said a search and cordon operation was launched in Arreh village in Kulgam under the Kulgam police station’s jurisdiction. Read more. Zoom speaks up on rival JioMeet sharing the same features, UI designFrom the time the lockdown started across the globe, video conferencing platform Zoom witnessed an unprecedented spike in usage. And it made sense, people were working from home and they needed a platform to easily coordinate all those important office meetings, teachers and professors needed to conduct classes and the list goes on. Read more. Sunil Gavaskar one of the worst players I’ve ever seen in the nets: Kiran MoreFormer India wicketkeeper Kiran More weighed in on the greatness of Sunil Gavaskar, expressing surprise at the former India batsman’s highly contrasting performances in a match and during a practice session in the nets. Gavaskar was the first player in history to score 10000 Test runs and finished with 10,122 runs from 125 matches with 34 centuries, making him one of the greats of the game.Read more. Netizens are showing this woman’s lowkey cooking account lots of love because of this sweet postMany may agree with us when we say that tiny gestures of kindness can go a long way. Here is a Reddit post that proves the same. Shared to the subreddit ‘made me smile’ on July 4, this rather modest post has brought sprinkles of unexpected joy into a woman’s life. The original poster shared a photo of Rabia Ahmad’s cooking Instagram account. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-pm-modi-pushes-for-homegrown-apps-urges-it-workforce-to-take-up-challenge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Otth1RSwFytM2iDNbJvy5M.html
04-07-2020||India||In second major restructuring in 2 days, Rajasthan reshuffles 66 IPS officers||The Rajasthan government carried out a major reshuffle in the police department transferring and re-designating 66 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers Friday night, a day after it transferred 103 IAS officers.According to orders issued by the Department of Personnel (DoP), two director general of police (DGP) rank officers, eights additional director general of police (ADGPs), seven inspector general (IGs), 13 deputy inspector general of police (DIGs) and 38 superintendent of police (SP) rank officers were among those transferred.Senior IPS officer ML Lather who was director general (law and order) has been appointed as DGP (crime branch) and BL Soni who was holding DGP (crime branch) has been appointed as DG (Jail). Among the ADGPs, Anil Paliwal has been appointed in police personnel department, Ashok Kumar Rathore in ATS and SOG, Prashakha Mathur in Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission, Biju George in vigilance department, Govind Gupta in recruitment and promotion board and Hemant Priyadarshi in reorganization and rules wing of Rajasthan police. Amongst field changes, Jose Mohan was appointed as commissioner of police, Jodhpur. He replaces Praful Kumar who has been appointed as Inspector General of Police (IGP) Bikaner range and Sanjeeb Narzary was appointed as Bharatpur range IGP. He was earlier the IGP of the armed battalion.Among Deputy Inspector Generals (DIGs) Ajay Pal Lamba was appointed as additional commissioner of police, crime and Rahul Prakash was appointed as additional commissioner of police, law and order.Amongst district chiefs, Om Prakash was appointed as SP Tonk, Mridul Kachawa as Karauli SP, Shweta Dhankar as Nagaur SP, Priti Chandra as SP Bhilwara, Ajay Singh as Jaisalmer SP, Deshmukh Paris Anil as SP Churu, Prahlad Singh Krishnia as SP Bikaner, Kesar Singh as Dholpur SP, Ram Moorty Joshi as SP Bhiwadi, Pooja Awana as SP Sirohi, Shyam Singh as SP Jalore, Manish Agarwal as SP Dausa, Alok Srivastava as Jodhpur DCP West Jodhpur and Manoj Kumar as DCP West Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-second-major-restructuring-in-2-days-rajasthan-reshuffles-66-ips-officers/story-mfg7qdc2NwD8dFgX2lQ66H.html
04-07-2020||India||PM Modi pushes for homegrown apps, urges IT workforce to take up challenge||Days after India banned 59 China-linked mobile phone apps on grounds of threats to the country’s sovereignty, security, defence and public order, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged India’s IT workforce to take part in an innovation challenge to “code for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat”.“This challenge is for you if you have such a working product or if you feel you have the vision and expertise to create such products. I urge all my friends in the tech community to participate,” Modi wrote in a LinkedIn post on Saturday titled Let us Code for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat!The Prime Minister laid out his vision for products to tap the huge potential of India’s markets.“We all know the huge potential of our market and the scale products can achieve if they can satisfy the demands of the market. Nowadays, we are seeing huge interest and enthusiasm among the start-up and tech ecosystem to innovate, develop and promote homegrown apps.”“Today, when the entire nation is working towards creating an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, it is a good opportunity to give direction to their efforts, momentum to their hard-work and mentorship to their talent to evolve Apps which can satisfy our market as well as compete with the world.”He said that in order to help India’s start-up and tech community achieve this objective, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology along with Atal Innovation Mission are coming up with the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Innovation challenge which will run in two tracks - Promotion of Existing Apps and Development of New Apps.“For promotion of existing Apps and Platforms across the categories of E-learning, Work-from-Home, Gaming, Business, Entertainment, Office Utilities, and Social Networking, Government will provide mentoring, hand-holding and support. Track-01 will work in mission mode for identifying good quality Apps for the leader-board and shall be completed in around a month,” he wrote.“For incubating new Apps and Platforms, Track-02 initiative will work to help create new champions in India by providing support in ideation, incubation, prototyping and roll out along with market access.”He sid the outcome of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Innovation challenge will be to give better visibility and clarity to existing apps to achieve their goals, and to create tech products to find solutions to tech conundrums with the help of mentorship, tech support and guidance during the entire life-cycle. “There is tremendous scope among these sectors for new Apps which solve specific issues for India and the world. Can we think of making traditional Indian games more popular via Apps? Can we develop Apps with targeted and smart access to the right age group for learning, gaming, etc? Can we develop gaming apps for people in rehabilitation or getting counselling to help them in their journey? There are many such questions and technology alone can give answers in a creative manner,” Modi wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pushes-for-homegrown-apps-urges-it-workforce-to-take-up-challenge/story-YYQHaiGdIAzp9v6lRNXI6L.html
04-07-2020||India||Retired Mumbai cop runs up Rs 25 lakh bill for Covid-19 treatment, kin seek government’s help||Family of a 58-year-old assistant sub-inspector Tukaram Ghuge, who retired on March 31 from Dongri police station and later tested positive for Covid-19, has written to the state home minister and senior police officials for financial help to meet the cost of his treatment, likely to touch Rs 25 lakh.Tukaram is currently on ventilator support at the hospital, said his son Rahul. The letter, written by his wife Sushila, states that the retired policeman was suffering from cold and fever since March 20 but did not apply for medical leave as he wanted to serve out the remaining 10 days of his police service.A local doctor later advised Tukaram to undergo a Covid-19 test. “In May, his test results came positive. We had to shift him to a hospital because we stay at BIT chawl police colony in Mumbai Central, where families share common toilets,” read Sushila’s letter.Also Read: No differences with Maharashtra CM, says NCP ministerShe goes on to write that it was a struggle to admit Tukaram to a hospital due to lack of beds. He was finally admitted to Wockhardt hospital on May 6.“But his condition deteriorated and he had to be put on a ventilator. His condition has not improved completely,” she says in the letter.Sushila says that her husband was the sole earning member of the family and it was not possible for her to pay the huge cost of treatment at Wockhardt hospital.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTukaram’s son Rahul said he hoped to receive help from the government.“We have been helped by our family and friends. Now we have requested the home department and Mumbai police commissioner. We are hoping that they will help us,” he said.So far, Tukaram’s family has arranged for Rs 13.5 lakhs to pay the hospital but the bills at the hospital are still pending.Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (admin) said, “As per the government rule the Maharashtra Police Kutumbh Arogya Yojna expires once the police staff retires from service. However, we are exploring ways to help him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-mumbai-cop-runs-up-rs-25-lakh-bill-for-covid-19-treatment-kin-seek-government-s-help/story-XQqOiLLPpezVC3erg5vxcK.html
04-07-2020||India||Karnataka announces 33-hour long lockdown in Bengaluru as Covid cases mount||The Karnataka government has decided to clamp a 33-hours-long hard lockdown in capital city of Bengaluru and adjoining areas starting 8pm on Saturday till 5am on Monday to cut the chain of Covid 19 transmissions in the region, which has witnessed a spurt in cases in the last couple of weeks.Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner Anil Kumar said the instruction for lockdown in BBMP limits was issued by chief minister BS Yediyurappa , according to news agency ANI.Kumar said only essential services will be permitted to operate during the 33 hour long period and those found roaming around will be liable for police action.“Sale of essential items will be allowed during the lockdown, including meat shops. Police action will be taken against people found roaming outside unnecessarily,” Anil Kumar was quoted as having said by ANI.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe lockdown decision is part of a multi-pronged strategy adopted by the state government to contain the spread of the disease. The state Covid 19 task force has decided to set up booth-level committees across the state including 8,800 committees in Bengaluru for effective monitoring and surveillance of Covid 19 situation.The task force also released detailed guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic cases including increasing the period of home isolation from 14 to 17 days for patients below 50 years of age.The decision for constituting booth-level committees consisting of one member each from the state health department, police force, local municipalities or Panchayat and volunteers, was taken on Friday.Karnataka task force recommends booth-level committees to fight Covid-19In Bengaluru alone 8,800 teams will be formed for the purpose of real time monitoring and data compilation. They will be imparted training for the purpose. It was also decided to have at least two ambulances in each of the 198 wards of the capital city.Covid patients above 50 years of age with comorbidities will be treated at the Covid care centres only under active medical supervision and be subjected to regular tests.The state government has also been decided to increase the testing capacity from the existing 15,000 samples a day to 25,000 samples daily. The task force has also recommended antigen tests in crowded areas to check the presence of community spread.A week ago, on June 27, Karnataka government had decided to implement one-day statewide lockdown on Sundays beginning July 5 to break the chain of Covid 19 infections. The government had also decided to keep all government offices closed on all Saturdays with effect from July 10. Another instruction had been issued to BBMP commissioner to set up more number of wholesale vegetable markets to avoid crowds in large wholesale vegetable markets in the city.The total number of cases in Karnataka stands at 19,710. Out of them, 8,805 have recovered and 293 patients have lost their lives, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-announces-33-hour-long-lockdown-in-bengaluru-as-covid-cases-mount/story-5XDtU25s6qpYiZdmtz1CIK.html
04-07-2020||India||Political violence claims two lives in West Bengal||At least two people were killed in a clash between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) at Baruipur near Kolkata on Saturday.The police have identified the two as Ashwini Manna and Sudhansu Jana. While Manna was a local TMC leader, Jana was a local leader of the SUCI.Also read: Two dead, five injured while making crude bombs in south BengalLocals said that crude bombs were hurled. Several houses were ransacked and set on fire. A few vehicles were also damaged and set ablaze.“Some persons have been detained. An investigation is going on,” said a senior police official.A large police contingent was deployed to bring the situation under control.While Saukat Molla, a leader of the Trinamool Congress’ youth wing, said that SUCI supporters had murdered Manna, SUCI leader Tarun Naskar said that Manna and his men were lynched by the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-violence-claims-two-lives-in-west-bengal/story-fTlJCUNAeyzTKt71Q1cvTM.html
04-07-2020||India||No flights to Kolkata from six cities between July 6-19||Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad will not land in Kolkata till July 19, authorities said on Saturday as the West Bengal government stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “It is informed that no flights shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi,Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur,Chennai & Ahmedabad from 6th to 19th July 2020 or till further order whichever is earlier. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” read a statement from the Kolkata airport. It is informed that no flights shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi,Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur,Chennai & Ahmedabad from 6th to 19th July 2020 or till further order whichever is earlier. Inconvenience caused is regretted.@AAI_Official @MoCA_GoI @ushapadhee1996 @HardeepSPuri @arvsingh01Earlier, the Mamata Banerjee-led government had written to the Centre to stop sending trains from at least five coronavirus ‘hotspot’ states, which have registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. It had also urged the Centre to stop sending domestic flights from those five states. Flights from other states can be allowed once a week, she had said.Last week, the ministry of civil aviation gave its nod to increase capacity of domestic flight operations to 45% from 33% allowed at present.Domestic flights were allowed to resume from May 25, two months after a blanket suspension since the first lockdown was announced while only international repatriation flights and cargo flights have been allowed by the government.The Centre has also extended the suspension on international flights till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-bans-flights-from-6-cities-including-mumbai-and-delhi-between-july-6-to-19/story-zCS1wx6DH66TONrzebLXnL.html
04-07-2020||India||Maharashtra Police collects Rs 53,06,050 as one day fine from lockdown violators||In a bid to strictly enforce lockdown measures, Maharashtra Police collected Rs 53,06,050 as single-day fine from those found violating the regulations.From March 22, the time lockdown when the lockdown was imposed across the state, till July 3, Maharashtra Police collected a total of Rs 10,32,34,611 as fine from lockdown abusers. Between July 3 and July 4, the amount collected rose to Rs 10,85,40,661.The data was shared by Maharashtra Police. “Citizens of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai were the biggest contributors to these statistics since inter-district and regular movement of people in these cities are high. A lot of people continue to move out of their homes because of some misinformation of lockdown being lifted,” said Milind Bharambhe, Inspector General of Police (Law and Order), state police.Also read: Delhi Police sub-inspector runs over woman near Mayur Vihar, arrestedThe fines, which range between Rs 200 to Rs 2,000, were mainly collected by the police from those found violating lockdown regulations including riding pillion on a two-wheeler, four passengers in four-wheeler vehicles (while only three are allowed), not following government orders and venturing out without valid reasons, among others.“We take action under section 179 of the Motors Vehicle Act against those who are violating government orders. We impound violators’ vehicles under sections 207 of the Motors Vehicle Act. At the time of releasing the impounded vehicle, we check for any unpaid e-challan on the vehicle and collect fine accordingly. We also collect fine from the violator if, during the checking, it is found that he has not done all compliance as per the traffic rules. This include PUC renewal, vehicles papers, license and insurance,” said Pravin Padwal, Additional Commissioner of Police (Mumbai traffic police).Apart from the fine collected, cases under sections 188, 269, 270, 271 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act, the Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulation, 2020 are filed against violators for not following movement restrictions and other lockdown orders. Under this, the accused is arrested and released on bail as they are bailable sections.Till July 4, as many as 1,45,896 cases have been registered across the state under section 188 of the IPC since March 22 when the lockdown was first enforced in the state. Around 29,607 people were arrested and 88,306 vehicles were impounded for violating lockdown rules.Last weekend, which was the first day of this week, saw maximum action from the police after it enforced a 2-kilometre-long movement restriction to control the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-police-collects-rs-53-06-050-lakh-as-one-day-fine-from-covid-19-lockdown-violators/story-NEcO0TO5hvDXlrpM7z8PIP.html
04-07-2020||India||‘Kill him in encounter’: Mother of criminal behind killing of 8 UP cops||Police may kill him in encounter, said the mother of a notorious criminal behind the killing of eight policemen in Uttar Pradesh, stressing that her son’s act was so vile that the police may kill him even after catching him. History-sheeter Vikas Dubey, 48, along with his shooters killed eight cops during an ambush in Bikru village in Kanpur Dehat early on Friday.“He should surrender himself before the police. If he continues to remain at large, police may kill him in encounter. I say, kill him even if you (police) manage to catch him because what he has done is very wrong,” Sarla Devi,mother of Vikas Dubey, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He should surrender himself before police. If he continues to remain at large, police may kill him in encounter. I say kill him even if you (police) manage to catch him because what he has done is very wrong: Sarla Devi,mother of Vikas Dubey, main accused in Kanpur encounter case pic.twitter.com/oiuxpcgC33More than 25 teams have been formed by the UP Police to nab the accused, who is on the run. The Special Task Force of UP Police has also been roped in. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 has been announced for providing information about Dubey and the identity of the information provider will be kept secret.According to local police officials who did not want to be named, the team came under attack from three sides. Taken by surprise, as they ran for cover, criminals on the ground accosted them and snatched their weapons, they said.The assailants opened fire at the police team from the rooftops when they reached the village to arrest Dubey. A police spokesperson said the weapons snatched in Bikru included an AK-47 rifle, an INSAS rifle, a Glock pistol and two .9mm pistols.The authorities today destroyed the very earthmover used by Dubey and his gang to block the police’s path leading to the Bikru village. It also destroyed his house and two cars. Dubey, whose criminal records date back to 1993, was linked to the killing of BJP leader Santosh Shukla inside a police station in 2001. He was acquitted in the case after witnesses turned hostile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kill-him-in-encounter-mother-of-criminal-behind-killing-of-8-up-cops/story-F1Htwltyrj0bilMJ3UIxZJ.html
04-07-2020||India||US supercarriers in South China Sea, ambitious Beijing stretched on multiple fronts||The US Navy is deploying its two nuclear-powered aircraft carriers - USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan - to conduct exercises in the South China Sea, piling pressure on an ambitious Beijing that has opened multiple fronts including one with India along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. The US supercarriers are reported to be crossing Luzon Strait, the strait between Taiwan and Luzon island of the Philippines that connects Philippine Sea to the South China SeaThe US deployment comes after Beijing’s People’s Liberation Army Navy conducted military drills in the contested waters, provoking a sharp reaction from neighbouring states and Washington. The US navy has said its operations in the South China Sea were designed to “support free and open Indo-Pacific”.“The purpose is to show an unambiguous signal to our partners and allies that we are committed to regional security and stability,” Rear Admiral George M Wikoff commander of the strike group led by USS Ronald Reagan told Wall Street Journal, which first reported the exercises.China claims 90% of the South China Sea through which about $3 trillion of trade passes each year. Over the last decade, Beijing has gone ahead to build man-made islands and set up military installations including military-grade airfields in several areas.Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also lay claim to parts of the South China Sea, setting up many of the 21 disputes that an aggressive Beijing is embroiled in.For now, the most serious crisis is on the India-China border where armies of the two countries are locked in standoffs at multiple points in Ladakh. India has deployed its soldiers along with 1,597 km-long LAC along the entire stretch of the border in East Ladakh, prepared for any eventuality.But the LAC isn’t the only part of China’s border where it has been attempting to bulldoze its way through to expand its territory.China’s military drills in the disputed waters have been sharply criticised by its neighbours. Philippines and Vietnam had last week spoken of growing insecurity in southeast Asia at an ASEAN event last Friday amid concerns that China is using the cover of the coronavirus pandemic to step up its presence in the disputed waters.China’s PLA Navy had started the five-day military drills on July 1, prompting Vietnam to file its formal protest to the Chinese foreign ministry. China’s drills are being held near the Paracel Islands claimed by Vietnam and Philippines.In its strongest statement yet, the Philippines has said the exercises are being held in waters claimed by Vietnam.“Should the exercises spill over to Philippine territory, then China is forewarned that it will be met with the severest response, diplomatic and whatever else is appropriate,” Philippines foregn ministry said in a statement, according to news agency AP. The Philippines has a defence cooperation pact with the US.The US naval exercises come a day after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo expressed solidarity with China’s neighbours. “The PRC’s (People’s Republic of China) military exercise in disputed waters of the South China Sea is highly provocative. We oppose Beijing’s unlawful claims. Period,” Pompeo tweeted on Friday.Pompeo has been outspoken in his criticism of China’s expansionist approach, describing Beijing as a “rogue actor” for escalating tensions with India and other countries. Last month, he had underlined the degree to which the US is deploying its considerable military might with an almost single-minded determination to contain China.Shinzo Abe’s Japan, which had been looking at improving ties with China till some months back, is set to cancel a state visit by Xi Jinping that had been deferred from April this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Japan, which has raised its deployment around its Senkaku Islands that China eyes, has been upset with Beijing over its practice of sending its ships to the Senkaku Islands. Since April this year, Japan has spotted 67 Chinese Coast Guard ships near the islands in the East China Sea.The 8 uninhabited islands and rocks in the East China Sea controlled by Japan have a total area of about 7 sq km and lie north-east of Taiwan and east of the Chinese mainland but are important because they are close to important shipping lanes and lie near potential oil and gas reserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-supercarriers-in-south-china-sea-ambitious-beijing-stretched-on-multiple-fronts/story-9TGe3YDqJgi6A304oVo7MM.html
04-07-2020||India||Thane man kills elder brother over business issues, tries to pass it as an accident||A man, along with his two employees, allegedly murdered his elder brother over some business clashes in Kopri, Thane, on June 2 and tried to pass it off as an accident. All three hit the man with a heavy iron object and placed his body at a well-known supermarket owned by the family. They claimed that the man accidentally fell off a 7 feet ladder and died. During the postmortem, Kopri police officials found something suspicious and investigated the matter leading to the arrest of the three men.The deceased was identified as Mahesh Chawla, 48, while the accused, who was his younger brother, was identified as Anil Chawla, 45. According to police officials, both the brothers had expanded their small shop into a big supermarket and were operating it for many years.Also read: Two dead, five injured while making crude bombs in south BengalOn June 2, the Kopri police received a call at around 7.30 pm about Mahesh Chawla’s fall and his subsequent death. Since it was an accident, the police sent the body for the postmortem.Kopri police station, crime police inspector, D Gawde said there were many discrepancies in the family’s statement. He said, “According to family and the younger brother, the incident happened around 3 pm and police were informed late. Moreover, they took him to the hospital around 5 pm which was much later than the fall. The doctor who conducted the postmortem said that there were many brutal injures on the head which is not possible by a fall”.The police immediately started an investigation and questioned the other two men involved who were identified as Abhay Agnihotri, 20, and Shobit Singh, 19. The duo confessed that together with Anil Chawla, they carried out Mahesh Chawla’s murder by hitting him with an iron stool and other equipment at some other place after which they brought him to the shop and tried to pass it as an accident.Gawde further added, “We are yet to get details about the reason behind the murder as we arrested the accused late on July 3 and are yet to interrogate him. As per the employees, they had some business-related issues. We have arrested all three accused in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-man-kills-elder-brother-over-business-issues-tries-to-pass-it-as-an-accident/story-RM5pNsefKUspSdUI76uxTL.html
04-07-2020||India||1 terrorist killed, 2 soldiers injured in ongoing encounter in J-K’s Kulgam||An unidentified terrorist was killed and two soldiers were injured on Saturday in a gun fight, which is underway in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, the police said.Gurinderpal Singh, Kulgam’s superintendent of police, said a search and cordon operation was launched in Arreh village in Kulgam under the Kulgam police station’s jurisdiction. #KulgamEncounterUpdate: So far one #unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/pGHQqOIo44Singh said the terrorists fired upon the joint forces triggering an encounter.Personnel of the Indian Army’s Rashtriya Rifles, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Jammu and Kashmir police are involved in the operation. According to sources, two to three terrorists are present in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-terrorist-killed-in-ongoing-encounter-in-j-k-s-kulgam-more-trapped/story-jRTt6zAPDnJjZNNrRUoklN.html
04-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak committed to ‘One China’ policy’, says foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Committed to ‘One China’ policy’: Pak foreign minister assures Chinese counterpartPakistan and China have a tradition of “mutual support to each other in the face of common challenges”, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff. Read moreOn Guru Purnima, PM Modi talks of hope and purpose in Buddha’s teachingsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the Buddha’s teachings can show the world a way ahead as it is fighting extra-ordinary challenges and urged the country’s youth to follow his teachings, which are relevant in the present as well as the future. Read moreITR filing deadline for FY 2019-20 extended to November 30The Income Tax Department has announced a further extension to the deadline for filing income tax return (ITR) for the financial year (FY) 2019-20 to November 30. Read morePune man gets mask made of gold worth Rs 2.89 lakh, people have thoughtsAmid the ongoing situation, wearing a mask is a necessity. From videos on how to a wear mask properly to images of designer pieces, the Internet is also filled with content related to this safety gear. Now, there is a new addition to that list and it has left people with thoughts. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law on Nepometer: ‘We are still grieving, it isn’t our first priority’Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law Vishal Kirti has responded to the reactions their family-backed app, Nepometer, has been receiving on social media. The app, which aims to analyse how ‘nepotistic or independent’ the crew of a film or television show is – was launched by Vishal’s brother Mayuresh Krishna and endorsed by him on Twitter. Read moreNeena Gupta: A look at the versatile fashion icon’s best ensemblesNeena Gupta can pull off a sporty mini dress with the same grace as she does her envy-inducing sarees. The Badhaai Ho actor who turns 61 today, has been spending her lockdown in her summer home in the misty mountains of Mukteshwar, Uttarakhand. Read moreWatch: Indians, Taiwanese, Tibetans hold anti-China protest at Times SquareAnti-China protest held at Times Square in New York. Indian Americans called for ‘Boycott China’. Demonstration saw dozens of Indian Americans, Taiwanese Americans and Tibetans. Protesters held placards, raised Indian and Tibetan national flags. Protesters chanted pro-India and anti-china slogans. Protest comes after China’s intrusion attempt in Ladakh. Clash left 20 Indian soldiers dead and several injured. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-committed-to-one-china-policy-says-foreign-minister-shah-mahmood-qureshi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PsiYZbwvElv6l1dkcUW56O.html
04-07-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh surpasses 25,000-mark, Meghalaya lone state with under 100 cases: Covid-19 state tally||In another sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, India has reported 22,771 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking the Covid-19 tally to 648,315. As per the latest data shared by the Ministry of Health, while 394,226 people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country, the Covid-19 death toll in India stands at 18,655.Uttar Pradesh, which is the state with the fifth-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country, witnessed its tally zoom beyond the 25,000-mark on Saturday. Maharashtra continues to lead with its tally inching toward the 2 lakh mark. In the national capital, Covid-19 cases are soon to surpass 95,000. Meghalaya is the only state with under 100 coronavirus cases. Also read: India’s Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin and ZyCoV-D ready for human trialsHere’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 192,990 on Saturday. Over 104,687 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,376 have died.Tamil NaduWith 102,721 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,385 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 58,378.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 94,695 on Saturday. As many as 65,624 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,923 have succumbed to the infection.Also read: India records over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases in a row, tally tops 6.48 lakhGujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 34,600 on Saturday. The state has seen 24,933 people recover from coronavirus while 1,904 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 25,797 while the number of recoveries has touched 17,597. The state’s death toll stands at 749.West BengalAs many as 20,488 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 13,571 recover from coronavirus while 717 people have been killed.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 20,462 coronavirus cases. While 10,195 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 283 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 19,710 coronavirus cases till date while two hundred and ninety-three people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 8,805 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. RajasthanThe state has reported 19,052 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 440 while 15,281 patients have recovered.HaryanaThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 16,003 while the death toll stands at 255. Over 11,691 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Other statesOver 14,200 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. Andhra Pradesh has 14,297 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar nears 11,000, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 8,019. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 8,106 while Assam has reported 9,673 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 5,937, and the number of cases in Kerala is 4,964. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,000 cases.Nagaland, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Chandigarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya is the lone state with less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-surpasses-25-000-mark-meghalaya-lone-state-with-under-100-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-BKK450oOd9a1kTob1FFnfP.html
04-07-2020||India||Indian Americans take to Times Square to protest Chinese aggression, call for trade boycott||A group of Indian Americans along with Tibetans and Taiwanese Americans held a protest against “naked Chinese aggression” at Times Square in New York City in the US.The group held placards of “Boycott China” and “Stop Chinese Abuse” as they shouted slogans against the country.The protestors said three Ts can help defeat China as they demanded an end of trade ties with China and the boycott of Chinese good, complete independence of Tibet and total support of Taiwan, according to news agency ANI.Watch: Indians, Taiwanese, Tibetans hold anti-China protest at Times SquareJagdish Sewhani, the president of the American India Public Affairs Committee, called out China for it “naked aggression”.“When the world is battling against coronavirus for the last six months, the naked aggression of China against its neighbours and India is totally unacceptable. China wants to dominate the world, China wants to destroy the USA, China wants to destroy India. But this time, for their aggression they have to pay a very, very heavy price,” Sewhani said while speaking to ANI.“Now look at what has China done within their own country. They are suppressing Hong Kong. They have done ethnic cleansing of Tibetan and look at what they have done to Muslims. The worst human rights [violation] ever happened in China,” he added. The protest comes after the brutal June 15 border clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley during which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed and 76 injured. Similar anti-China protests have broken out in several cities in the United States since the Galwan Valley face-off between India and China.News agency ANI reported Tibetan and Taiwanese activists living in asylum in the United States also joined the protest at Times Square.Dorjee Tseten, a member of the Tibetan parliament in exile, said the people of Tibet strongly condemn the Chinese military intrusions on Indian soil.“We call India and world governments to take immediate multilateral action against Beijing’s authoritarian rule by rejecting the ‘One China Policy’ in theory and practice,” Dorjee, who is also an executive director of Students for a Free Tibet, said while speaking to ANI.The news agency reported similar demonstrations will be seen in other parts of the US in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-americans-take-to-times-square-to-protest-chinese-aggression-call-for-trade-boycott/story-NNtnq12kvi1RCEnJ3gJMMI.html
04-07-2020||India||Two dead, five injured while making crude bombs in south Bengal||Two persons were killed and five others injured in an explosion at Suti in south Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Friday night.The police said that the men were involved in making crude bombs when there was an accidental explosion killing two people on the spot.The deceased have been identified as Maharul Sheikh and Taiful Sheikh, both aged around 35 years. The injured were admitted to the local subdivisional hospital. The condition of two other injured victims was said to be critical.Also read: 45-year-old woman murdered in moving cab in Kolkata“Preliminary investigations have revealed that the men were hired and were brought to Suti to make crude bombs. An investigation is on and we are trying to identify them,” said a senior officer of the district police.According to police, the house in which the accused were making the bombs has been severely damaged. One person, whose condition deteriorated, was later shifted to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dead-five-injured-while-making-crude-bombs-in-south-bengal/story-DXEiV6jddLE1KmvL82VIVN.html
04-07-2020||India||ITR filing deadline for FY 2019-20 extended till November 30||The Income Tax Department has announced a further extension to the deadline for filing income tax return (ITR) for the financial year (FY) 2019-20 to November 30. The department, in a tweet on Saturday, said that the move has been taken “understanding and keeping in mind the times that we are in” and hoped it will help taxpayers “plan things better”.This comes just a couple of days after the I-T department on Thursday extended the deadline for tax saving investments/payments for the financial year 2019-20 up to July 31. As a result, taxpayers will now be able to make investments for claiming deductions under the Income Tax Act for the financial year 2019-20 up to July 31.  Understanding & keeping in mind the times that we are in, we have further extended deadlines. Now, filing of ITR for FY 2019-20 is extended to 30th Nov, 2020. We do hope this helps you plan things better.#ITDateExtension#FacilitationDuringCovid#WeCare #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/ZoGBpok3V7Deductions can be claimed under various sections such as 80C (for life insurance (LIC), public provident fund (PPF), national savings certificate (NSC) equity-linked saving scheme (ELSS), among others.The I-T department had also extended the deadline for furnishing of TDS/TCS statements for FY 19-20 and extended the issuance deadline of TDS/TCS certificates for FY19-20 till August 15.“Understanding the current times that we are in, we have further extended deadlines. Now, furnishing of TDS/TCS statements for FY 19-20 extended to July 31, 2020,” said the Income Tax Department.“Issuance of TDS/TCS certificates for FY 19-20 extended to August 15, 2020,” it added. Last week, the Centre announced that the deadline for filing of original as well as revised income-tax returns for the FY 2018-19 (AY 2019-20) has been extended to July 31, 2020.In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had said that the due date for the income tax return for the FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) has been extended to November 30, 2020. ”Hence, the returns of income which are required to be filed by July 31, 2020 and October 31, 2020 can be filed by November 30, 2020. Consequently, the date for furnishing tax audit report has also been extended to October 31, 2020,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itr-filing-deadline-for-fy-2019-20-extended-to-november-30/story-v7vyUUcVC6FnsK5rNlUTyM.html
04-07-2020||India||45-year-old woman murdered in moving cab in Kolkata||A 45-year-old woman was murdered by a cab driver in Kolkata on Friday. The driver and the woman knew each other and the accused owed the woman Rs 30,000. The man murdered the woman by slitting her throat and dumped the body in a canal in east Kolkata. The accused has been arrested by the authorities and will be produced before the court on Saturday.“The man, Shiv Shankar Das, 35, owed Laxmi Das, Rs 30,000. He wanted to borrow more money. When the woman declined and demanded the previous sum back, Das murdered her,” said a senior officer of the Kolkata Police’s detective department. The woman used to work as a maid in the Charu Market area in south Kolkata.Also read: India records over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases in a row, tally tops 6.48 lakhOn Friday, around 12:30 pm, Shiv Shankar asked Laxmi to meet him. He picked her up in the cab and later murdered her. When Laxmi didn’t return home, her family members called Shiv Shankar. He, however, refused to divulge any details and instead switched off his mobile. They then informed the police.“The accused was picked up for questioning. He confessed during the interrogation and led us to the spot where he had dumped the body late in the night,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-year-old-woman-murdered-in-moving-cab-in-kolkata/story-Z0jZZrJoTY35yYdhenDg9O.html
04-07-2020||India||CBI files case against impersonator posing as PMO official||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a man for impersonating as an official working for the special assistant to PK Mishra, the principal secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The central agency has acted on a complaint from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and registered a case on June 30. Anirudh Singh, the accused, also called Boeing India officials asking them to meet Mishra and Union home minister Amit Shah for their bids in the ministry of defence. The accused called the Boeing executive secretary about the company’s defence bids. He informed Boeing that he had orders from his seniors to call the company. CBI has said it will investigate which particular defence bids the impersonator was talking about and how did he get information about them. The agency has also said there is no one named Jitendra Kumar who works as a special assistant to Mishra in PMO and it’s a clear case of impersonation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-impersonator-posing-as-pmo-official/story-HYyA7TrvyxAizKsgHYV8bM.html
04-07-2020||India||On Guru Purnima, PM Modi talks of hope and purpose in Buddha’s teachings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the Buddha’s teachings can show the world a way ahead as it is fighting extra-ordinary challenges and urged the country’s youth to follow his teachings, which are relevant in the present as well as the future.Addressing an even ton the Dharma Chakra Day virtually, the Prime Minister said the eight-fold path of Lord Buddha shows the way towards the well-being of many societies and nations.“Today the world fights extra-ordinary challenges. To these challenges, lasting solutions can come from the ideals of Lord Buddha. They were relevant in the past. They are relevant to the present. And, they will remain relevant in the future,” PM Modi said.Buddhism, he said, teaches respect for the poor, women, peace and non-violence and therefore, the teachings of Buddhism are the means to a sustainable planet.PM Modi said the eight-fold path highlights the importance of compassion and kindness and added that the teachings of Lord Buddha “celebrate simplicity both in thought and action”. “In his very first sermon in Sarnath and his teachings after that, Lord Buddha spoke on two things - hope and purpose. He saw a strong link between them. From hope comes a spirit of purpose,” he said.The Prime Minister said he is “very hopeful” about the 21st century and it comes from the youth. “If you want to see a great example of how hope, innovation and compassion can remove suffering, it is our start-up sector led by our youth,” he said.“Bright young minds are finding solutions to global problems. India has one of the largest start-up eco-systems. I would urge my young friends to also stay connected with the thoughts of Lord Buddha. They will motivate and show the way ahead,” he added.PM Modi also highlighted his government’s focus on connectivity to Buddhist sites and pointed out that the cabinet had announced that Kushinagar airport will be an international one.“This would bring so many people, pilgrims and tourists,” he said.The Union ministry of culture is celebrating Asadha Poornima on Saturday as Dharma Chakra Day. The day commemorates the Buddha’s first sermon to his first five disciples in the present-day Sarnath near Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi. It also celebrated by Buddhists all over the world as the day of Dharma Chakra Parvattana or “Turning of the Wheel of Dharma”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-guru-purnima-pm-modi-talks-of-hope-and-purpose-in-buddha-s-teachings/story-hnHEUBk7q0XKevPHGITTwO.html
04-07-2020||India||Bombay High Court allows 12-year-old rape survivor to terminate pregnancy||The Bombay High Court on Friday allowed a 12-year-old rape survivor to get her 23-week long pregnancy medically terminated.The mother of the survivor had filed the petition in the first week of June, saying she suspected that her minor daughter was pregnant. On enquiry, the child revealed that she was repeatedly raped by some people from the neighbourhood.The woman then approached the local police station in Sangli and on the basis of her complaint, an FIR was registered on June 5. On June 16, she went to a government hospital where she was informed that the pregnancy could not be terminated without the permission of the High Court as it had crossed 20 weeks limit set out by the Medical Termination of Pregnant Act, 1971.Also read: India records over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases in a row, tally tops 6.48 lakhA medical board from the Government Medical College at Miraj, Maharashtra examined the 12-year-old pursuant as per the order passed by the HC on June 26. The medical board opined that if allowed to progress, the pregnancy will have serious repercussions on the general and mental health of the survivor and therefore she should be allowed to terminate the pregnancy.The bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Surendra Tavade accepted the recommendation. “In the case at hand, the physical and mental trauma that will be suffered by the minor, if the pregnancy is not terminated, requires no elaboration,” said the bench.It has now asked the petitioner woman to approach the government medical college at Miraj where the minor’s unwanted pregnancy will be medically terminated on July 6.The court has directed the hospital to preserve blood and tissue samples of the foetus which may be required as forensic evidence in the criminal case.The court has further directed the doctors to ensure that all necessary facilities are provided to the child for saving its life if it is born alive. The HC clarified that if the newborn is alive and the petitioner woman and her daughter are not willing to or not in a position to take responsibility of such a child, the State and its agencies will have to assume full responsibility for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-allows-12-year-old-rape-survivor-to-terminate-pregnancy/story-v1q1SWa0IJA2pHDTzGm8IK.html
04-07-2020||India||India records over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases in a row, tally tops 6.48 lakh||India recorded another spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 22,771 fresh infections were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours, which have taken the tally to 648,315, Union health ministry’s data showed on Saturday.The country reported more than 20,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row after 20,903 infections on Friday morning.The recovery rate further improved to 60.80% as 14,335 patients were cured of the viral disease between Friday and Saturday morning, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard.So far, 394,226 people have been discharged from hospitals across the country.The number of active cases stood at 235,433 and the death toll reached 18,655 after 442 patients succumbed to the coronavirus disease in one day.The Union health ministry’s data showed Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, has 192,990 Covid-19 cases and 8,376 fatalities so far. The state is witnessing an increase in cases owing to targeted testing, senior government officials said on condition of anonymity. These officials and independent experts said though there has been an increase in cases, the tally isn’t rising exponentially.Tamil Nadu is now the second state with more than 100,000 Covid-19 cases. The southern state has 102,721 infections and its death toll has reached 1,385.The high infection numbers in Tamil Nadu must be seen in tandem with its testing numbers. A total of 1.27 million people have been tested in 91 testing facilities as of Friday, the highest in the country.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said 95,40,132 sample has been tested so far and out of which 2,42,383 samples were tested on Friday. According to experts, the high infection numbers can also be attributed to the movement of people after Unlock 1 from June 8.In Delhi, there are 94,695 Covid-19 cases and the national capital has seen more fatalities than Tamil Nadu at 2,923 till date.Public health experts have said that the coronavirus pandemic will enter its post-peak period in Delhi in the first week of August if the Capital maintains a steady decline in cases.According to the experts, the reduction marks a definite flattening in the new Covid-19 cases curve but does not yet classify as a “reversal” of a peak because an untapped cluster or lack of precautions by people could still lead to a spike that pushes the daily cases higher than they have been so far. It can be said that the peak has passed if the same trajectory continues and new Covid-19 cases fall to about 1,500 a day for at least a week before falling further.The number of coronavirus cases has exceeded 11 million and killed more than half a million people since it was first reported from China’s Wuhan city in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-20-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-row-tally-tops-6-48-lakh/story-DygqKcvCwe0vdKK0F3egiM.html
04-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 vaccines ready for human trials: All you need to know about Covaxin and ZyCoV-D||Bharat Biotech International Ltd and Zydus Cadila have got an approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for human clinical trials for their indigenously developed vaccine candidates against Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease.The drug regulator’s approval for Zydus’ ZyCoV-D comes days after Bharat Biotech got a similar nod for human trials for its vaccine candidate as the coronavirus infections continue to surge in the world’s fourth worst-hit country.Bharat Biotech is among seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines. It was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin phase 1 and phase 2 human trials.ALSO WATCH | Why most of us won’t need Covid vaccine: Oxford prof explains | On The RecordMore than a dozen Covid-19 vaccines from over 100 candidates globally are currently being tested in humans, and some have shown potential in early-stage trials. However, no vaccine has yet been approved for commercial use.The number of cases of the coronavirus disease in India is more than 625,000 and the country’s death toll is above 18,000.Here what you need to know about the two vaccine candidates:* Bharat Biotech had claimed on Monday to have successfully developed India’s first Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, and said it has the permission from the drug controller to start human clinical trials.* The Hyderabad-based biotechnology giant has said that the human clinical trials of its vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will start from July.* The company said the vaccine was developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).* The strains of Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 was isolated by ICMR-NIV and transferred to Bharat Biotech in May. Scientists have managed to isolate and culture 11 strains that can be used to develop vaccines and aid research.* Bharat Biotech completed comprehensive pre-clinical studies in two months after receiving regulatory approvals. It said results from these studies have been promising and show extensive safety and effective immune responses.* On Friday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that it is attempting to launch the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 15. * The plan was disclosed in a letter by the country’s topmost medical research body to 12 institutes where human trials are to be held for Covaxin, ordering them to secure necessary approvals from internal committees by July 7 with a warning that “non-compliance will be viewed very seriously”.* Zydus said on Friday that its potential vaccine showed a “strong immune response” in animal studies and the antibodies produced were able to completely neutralize the wild type virus.* “In animal studies the vaccine was found to elicit a strong immune response in multiple animal species like mice, rats, guinea pigs and rabbits. The antibodies produced by the vaccine were able to completely neutralize the wild type virus in virus neutralization assay indicating the protective potential of the vaccine candidate,” Zydus, part of Cadila Healthcare Ltd, said in a statement to stock exchanges.* The company said it will begin human trials this month in more than 1,000 subjects in multiple sites in India. It also plans to ramp up its production capacity for the vaccine contender to serve Indian and global demand, it added.* It said there were no safety concerns for the vaccine candidate in repeat-dose toxicology studies. In rabbits, up to three times the intended human dose was found to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic.* It intends to rapidly ramp up the production capacities of ZyCoV-D at “multiple sites and facilities to cater to Indian and global demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-vaccines-ready-for-human-trials-all-you-need-to-know-about-covaxin-and-zycov-d/story-Vbwg9CT9z93jE8etUx8xqL.html
04-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Remdesivir dosage revised, now to be taken for five days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Remdesivir dosage revised, now to be taken for five daysUnion health ministry revised dosage of antiviral drug remdesivir for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment, reducing the drug regimen from 6 to 5 days. Read moreGST regime may undergo 2 major reforms this yearThe Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime is expected to see two major reforms in its fourth year--rationalisation of tax rates based on prudence rather than political considerations, and further easing of compliance--people aware of the matter said. Read moreFaces of terror: Why India banned 9 Khalistan-linked terrorists in 5 countriesThe Centre moved this week to designate nine men accused of promoting terrorism in Punjab as terrorists under India’s anti-terror law amended last year letting the Union home ministry ban individuals and not just organisations. Read moreCan F1’s young guns dethrone King Lewis?Last year’s Austrian Grand Prix may have given us a glimpse into Formula One’s future. Charles Leclerc and Max Verstappen started on the front row—the youngest in F1 history. They raced wheel-to-wheel before Verstappen overtook Leclerc in the homestretch. Read moreWater-filled bottle hanged only on toothpicks, piece of rope. Video amazes people“Physics is cool,” this is what the caption of this viral tweet says. Chances are that after seeing the video shared with the tweet, you’ll say the same. The video shows something absolutely fascinating - a person hanging a water-filled bottle using three toothpicks and only a tiny piece of rope. Read moreKanpur encounter | ‘Criminals will be punished under the law’: AdityanathUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that those who killed cops in Kanpur won’t be spared. Eight cops were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur on July 3. Cops were killed during an encounter with criminals. The Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister paid tribute to those killed in the encounter. Read more#WFH, no time to think what to cook for breakfast? Here are some quick ideasBreakfast is the most important meal of the day. Period. But chasing deadlines, and completing targets, it’s one of the most missed meals, too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-remdesivir-dosage-revised-now-to-be-taken-for-five-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jSsS3JN0zykTr2uK0Au6BJ.html
04-07-2020||India||Hours after Covid-19 positive son’s death, parents found dead in Odisha’s Ganjam||A couple in Odisha’s Ganjam district was found dead hours after the death of their only son due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), police have said.Police said Rajkishore Satpathy and his wife Sulochana Satpathy of Narayanpursasan village under Kabisuryanagar police limits in the district were found dead after their 27-year-old teacher son passed away in a hospital in Bhubaneswar.The couple’s unmarried son was attached to one of the quarantine centres in Ganjam, a coronavirus epicentre for some weeks. He was admitted to a Covid-19 hospital in Bhubaneswar on Wednesday after developing respiratory problems. His swab sample was tested as he showed symptoms of the coronavirus disease. He tested positive on Thursday and died on Friday morning in the hospital.Villagers did not touch their bodies over apprehensions of contracting an infection.The bodies were recovered by health officials and police on Saturday morning after the district collector ordered for a post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-covid-19-positive-son-s-death-parents-found-dead-in-odisha-s-ganjam/story-HfPgmWoPw0UgdTRkcB2KCN.html
04-07-2020||India||Kanpur firing: Prime accused notorious for taking policemen head-on||History-sheeter Vikas Dubey, 48, who along with his shooters killed eight cops during an ambush in Bikru village in Kanpur Dehat early on Friday never allowed the police to raid his village where he lives in a sprawling house surrounded by his supporters.Whenever the police attempted a raid, it faced stiff resistance and had to beat a hasty retreat from the village.This is not the first time Vikas Dubey has taken the police head-on.In the past two decades, there have been four major encounters when the police were fired upon indiscriminately or were taken captive and released after the interventions of Dubey’s political bosses who always walked an extra mile to save him, said those who know him and his working.In 2005, in a similar incident, Dubey and his men surrounded a raiding circle officer Kalyanpur, Abdul Samad, fired at his team and then held him captive. It was Dubey’s mother who convinced him to release the men as she feared the cops would avenge this humiliation.Such was his political clout that the complaint of the circle officer was not registered at Shivli police station. Not only this, Vikas Dubey slapped the visiting DIG (prisons) in Kanpur jail after the officer rebuked his boss Ranga Yadav and him in 2000 when he was arrested for murder of a principal Siddheshwar Pandey, recalled a police officer who pursued him. Then he had the entire Kalyanpur police station gheraoed when by chance sub inspector Hari Om Sharma arrested him.Not only the people, two MLAs sat on a dharna outside, seeking his release.With nearly three decades of criminal history Dubey, 48, harboured criminals on the run in his fortress established in Bikru village, patronised young shooters and provided them illegal firearms, said police officials aware of his past history.The officials said Dubey used this force of criminals to grab land, influence local elections and extort money from property dealers and businessmen as well as eliminate his rivals. Dubey remained associated with several politicians of the region, they added.A senior police official at DGP headquarters said although Dubey had remained involved in crime since teenage, the crime record available with the police had as many as 60 criminal cases against him since 1993. “His crime record reads that he had over 11 cases of attempt to murder and six cases of murder but he had remain involved in over 20 murders directly or indirectly and harboured shooters involved in different murders in the region,” he said.The official said Dubey’s house in Bikru, termed as his fortress, had a campus of over 10,000 square ft. The house was designed in such a manner that one could easily keep watch for up to 500 metres from the rooftop, he said. Moreover, he had informers in the entire village.The official said, “His bravado can be gauged from the murder of politician Santosh Shukla, who had a post equivalent to minister of state, in 2001. Dubey chased Shukla and shot him inside Shivli police station when the latter tried to hide there.”Later, Dubey was acquitted in the case after all witnesses, including police personnel, turned hostile, he said.When Vikas Dubey was a student of class nine in Rasoolabad Inter College he carried a country-made-pistol in his school bag, recalls a classmate living in Kanpur Dehat. He was asked to leave the school.In 2006, he was arrested in Saharanpur on charges of possessing drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-firing-prime-accused-notorious-for-taking-policemen-head-on/story-jnyZXbtUQ6chzHHcBiDWeP.html
04-07-2020||India||Remdesivir dosage revised, now to be taken for five days||Union health ministry revised dosage of antiviral drug remdesivir for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment, reducing the drug regimen from 6 to 5 days.The loading dose of 200 mg (shot) on day 1, will now be followed by 100 mg (shot) daily for 4 days (total 5 days). Earlier, the follow up dose was for 5 days.Remdesivir was allowed by the drugs controller of India under emergency use authorization for Covid-19 patients. The health ministry on June 14 had included it as part of investigational therapy to manage covid patients with moderate disease (those on oxygen).On May 1 the USFDA had given Gilead authorisation for emergency use of the drug on Covid-19 patients. The emergency authorisation allows products to be used for treatment without full data on their safety and efficacy.“As the situation evolves, and when more data become available, the evidence will be accordingly incorporated, and recommendation upgraded...Currently, these drugs should only be used in a defined subgroup of patients,” said health ministry’s revised clinical management protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-dosage-revised-now-to-be-taken-for-five-days/story-K5Qf9nxq1hWmUXQQ9rr9AI.html
04-07-2020||India||J-K police eliminates terrorist who killed 6-year-old, CRPF jawan||The police on Friday claimed to have killed a terrorist who was involved in the attack on the CRPF at Bijbehara in South Kashmir, in which a 6-year-old boy and a CRPF jawan were killed last week.The police identified the terrorist as Zahid Dass of Waghema. Last night, the police and CRPF began a search and cordon operation at Malla Bagh in Srinagar. As the area was being cordoned, some terrorists attacked the forces, resulting in an encounter, in which one terrorist and a CRPF jawan were killed. The terrorist’s accomplices managed to escape under cover of darkness, though the search continued for several hours.The police said that Dass was wanted for his complicity in a series of terror crimes. “He was also involved in the recent attack on June 26 in Anantnag, in which a CRPF personnel and a 6-year-old boy were killed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-terrorist-who-killed-jawan-minor-boy-eliminated-says-police/story-82GPEhNwunGBR70AAs4MSI.html
04-07-2020||India||4.7-magnitude quake in Alwar; tremors in NCR||An earthquake of 4.7 magnitude occurred in Alwar, Rajasthan around 7pm on Friday evening. The depth of the earthquake was approximately 35km. “Its intensity was 4.7, so tremors were felt in Delhi-NCR as well. We are getting details on the faults near the epicentre,” JL Gautam, head (operations), National Center for Seismology, said.The occurrence of earthquakes of small magnitude in Delhi-NCR do not indicate a bigger earthquake is coming, a recent official statement by the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology read.But the institute also clarified that the vulnerability of a region can be understood from its past seismic activity, the calculation of strain and the mapping of active faults. Delhi-NCR is in the second-highest seismic hazard zone (Zone IV) in the country, the institute said.Sometimes a vulnerable zone remains quiet, experiences earthquakes of small magnitude that do not indicate a bigger earthquake, but they can also receive a sudden jolt by a big earthquake with no warning, the statement read.There are many weak zones and faults in the Delhi-NCR: Delhi-Haridwar ridge, Mahendragarh-Dehradun subsurface fault, Moradabad fault, Sohna fault, Great boundary fault, Delhi-Sargodha ridge, Yamuna river lineament, Ganga river lineament and others. Delhi is also vulnerable to earthquakes because of its proximity to the Himalayas. There are many faults, ridges, and lineaments transverse to the Himalayan arc. A major earthquake in the Himalayan seismic belt may also be a threat to Delhi-NCR, the institute had said.About 22 earthquakes ranging in magnitude from 1.8 to 4.7 have occurred in and around Delhi-NCR since May 1 till date in the vicinity of the Delhi Aravalli range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-7-magnitude-quake-in-alwar-tremors-in-ncr/story-yhaJKf5st8OXMhc3zD4WpL.html
04-07-2020||India||Wife found dead after husband dies in Covid-19 isolation ward in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur||A woman migrant worker, who returned home amid the coronavirus pandemic to Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district, was found dead hours after her husband passed away in an isolation ward of a Covid-19 hospital.Nirlipta Bhola and Subhadra Swain of Katijanga village under Earasama block of Jagatsinghpur district had checked into a quarantine centre after returning from Telangana on June 30. Bhola was brought to an isolation ward of the district headquarters hospital on July 1 after he fell ill at the quarantine centre. Swain accompanied him and they were allotted a room in the isolation ward. Their swab samples were also collected for the Covid-19 test.Their test reports showed them to be negative for the virus.He complained of chest pain on Thursday afternoon and his wife approached the doctors and informed their family members. He died due to cardiac arrest a few minutes later.Unable to reconcile with the death of her husband, Swain reportedly tried to slit her wrist using her bangles. She then went to the isolation ward.Ajay Swain, the medical officer, said the staff at the isolation ward had tried to stop her.“It was really tragic. The couple had got married one-and-a-half year ago,” said Swain. The police seized both the bodies and sent them for a postmortem examination.In a similar case, a 73-year-old man in Ganjam district died of cardiac arrest soon after hearing that his son had tested positive for Covid-19.Officials said a jeweller in Kabisuryanagar area had tested positive for the coronavirus disease after which he was sent to a Covid-19 hospital in an ambulance. The jeweller’s father collapsed and died when he was being taken away. Even as the news about his death spread, no one from his community turned up at his home apprehending that he had died from the infection.“The body lay for hours but no one turned up to take the body to the cremation ground for the final rites till a teacher of a local private school with the help of an employee of the Kabisuryanagar NAC and four local youths cremated the body wearing PPE suits,” Mohan Sundar Dash, a resident, said.Ganjam has seen more than 1,800 Covid-19 cases, the highest in Odisha, in just about a month after two lakh migrant labourers came back to the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-found-dead-after-husband-dies-in-covid-19-isolation-ward-in-odisha-s-jagatsinghpur/story-3qLwsRi6rUJty8uFCn9DPL.html
04-07-2020||India||Faces of terror: Why India banned 9 Khalistan-linked terrorists in 5 countries||The Centre moved this week to designate nine men accused of promoting terrorism in Punjab as terrorists under India’s anti-terror law amended last year letting the Union home ministry ban individuals and not just organisations. The nine, the ‘nasty nine’ as one Punjab Police officer described them, have been trying to revive militancy in Punjab from their homes in five countries including Pakistan.The provision was first invoked last September to designate Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Maulana Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafeez Saeed, its operational commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and Dawood Ibrahim, as terrorists under Indian law. That order was more symbolic. The four have already been designated as terrorists by the United Nations Security Council; Hafiz Saeed as far back as in 2008.“Monday’s notification is important because this is the first time that this provision of the anti-terror law has been invoked to initiate a crackdown on promoters of Khalistan living in foreign countries,” a senior counter-terror official told Hindustan Times. Since the terrorists are operating from foreign countries, he said, the police would seize any assets that can be linked to them in India and ask their counterparts abroad also to act against them.The security establishment got down to work soon after. Punjab Police has filed FIRs against one of the nine, Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and his associates in Amritsar and Kapurthala for sedition and secessionism. Pannu is legal adviser to the US-based Sikhs for Justice that was designated a terror group last year. A third case was registered by Haryana Police in Gurugram, adjacent to national capital Delhi.The group has launched a campaign on the internet called Referendum 2020 that asks people to vote for carving out a sovereign Khalistan out of India. The group has announced that registration would start from today. The campaign, according to the police, has been engineered and backed by Pakistans’ ISI that has been working for years to revive terrorism in Punjab.Here is why the government has designated them as terrorists.GURMEET SINGHBased in Hamburg, GermanyGurmeet Singh aka Bagga, 50, is a close associate of Pakistan-based Sikh radical Ranjeet Singh alias Neeta. Bagga is a former Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terrorist and is wanted in three cases of shipment of a huge quantity of explosives from Pakistan to Punjab to carry out terror strikes. He has lately been instrumental in smuggling weapons from Pakistan, often using Chinese-made drones that carry a payload of firearms weighing around 10 kg across the fenced border into border villages of Punjab. Bagga was also sentenced to a 4-year prison term by a German court for assassination attempt on Radha Swami Beas Chief, Baba Gurinder Singh Dhillon in Vienna.RANJEET SINGHBased in Lahore, PakistanRanjeet Singh alias Neeta is the chief of Khalistan Zindabad Force. According to the Union home ministry, he is involved in numerous cases of murder, smuggling of arms and fake currency. He is believed to be closely linked to a fake Indian currency smuggling network operating out of Sialkot and Kasur areas of Pakistan. He is also alleged to be the mastermind behind smuggling firearms into Punjab via drones.Ranjeet Singh is also in touch with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists and is believed to have been a prime supporter of links between ISI-backed Khalistani elements and other jihadi outfits in Pakistan that target India.Ranjeet Singh continues to maintain close association with radical elements of the community based in the UK, USA, Canada and European countries and motivate them for carrying out anti-India propaganda and militant activities in IndiaHARDEEP SINGH NIJJARBased in Vancouver, CanadaVancouver-based Hardeep Singh Nijjar, who immigrated to Canada in 1995-96, claims to have a day job, running a small plumbing business. But he has been on the radar of Indian security agencies for years for links with the Khalistan Tiger Force. According to his dossier, he has been the mastermind and key conspirator of many terrorist acts including bomb blasts in India. Besides, he has been accused of promoting terrorist activities in India by talent spotting and arranging training of recruits.Nijjar became the operational head of Khalistan Tiger Force after the arrest of its chief Jagtar Singh Tara in 2015. Tara , an accused in the ex-chief minister Beant Singh assasination case, had broken out of a Chandigarh jail in 2004, moved to Pakistan, before landing in Thailand’s Bangkok where he was arrested and brought back.Nijjar was introduced to Tara in 2011 who mentored him during Nijjar’s visit to Pakistan in April 2012, teaching him how to operate firearms and explosives. A red corner notice was issued against Hardeep Singh Nijjar in 2014 for his involvement in raising terrorist modules at the behest of then KTF chief Jagtar Singh Tara.BHUPINDER SINGH BHINDABased in Frankfurt, GermanyBhupinder Singh Bhinda is associated with Pakistan-based Ranjeet Singh Neeta of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF). Besides, remaining in regular telephonic contacts with Ranjit Singh, Bhinda is also in contact with his Punjab-based Sikh terrorists to foment trouble in Punjab.Bhinda was earlier sentenced (Dec. 2012) to jail for 4 years and 7 months by a Frankfurt Court for involvement in conspiracy to kill the Head of Radha Soami Beas Dera, Baba Gurinder Singh during the latter’s visit to Germany in July 2010.WADHAWA SINGH Based in Lahore, PakistanWadhawa Singh, also known as Dharam Singh and Chacha, is the Babbar Khalsa International chief, who was involved in several crimes including those committed back in the 1980s. According to police records, Wadhwa Singh was part of the six-member Babbar Khalsa team that shot inspector Pritam Singh Bajwa and a constable who raided their hideout in Ludhiana’s Daheru village. The terror group had later gone on to blow up an Air India plane on its way to Montreal, Canada from Delhi, that killed 329 people, mostly Canadians.He also maintains links with Pak-based Islamic terrorists and maintains close association with radical elements based in the UK, USA, Canada and European countries.In Lahore, Wadhwa Singh also runs a construction business and owns several shops in Lahore.His son Jitindervir Singh and son-in-law Satnam Singh, who are based in Germany, are active members of BKI-Germany. Wadhawa Singh is also closely associated with other BKI affiliates in other countries, particularly in the United Kingdom.LAKHBIR SINGH RODEBased in Lahore, PakistanLakhbir Singh Rode, the nephew of radical Sikh preacher Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale who advocated carving out of Khalistan, has been described in police records as a hardcore terrorist associated with several terror attacks in India. Currently, police say he runs a business of import and export of food grains and edible items in Lahore, besides involvement in drug trade.Lakhbir Singh Rode’s son, Bhagat Brar, based in Canada, is actively involved in anti-India activities. He frequently visits Pakistan for meeting radical community leaders based there besides the ISI officials for organising and coordinating anti-India activities abroad. Lakhbir Singh continues to keep close association with radical elements in the UK, Canada and other European countries for revival of terrorism in Punjab.PARAMJIT SINGH PANJWARBased in Lahore, PakistanParamjit Singh Panjwar is the chief of Khalistan Commando Force-Panjwar. He was involved in multiple terror cases during 1988-1990 and had negotiated with Afghan Mujahideens based in Peshawar for supply of arms and ammunition and training of Sikh militants. He is also involved in smuggling of drugs.Now, Panjwar mostly appears to play an advisory role, radicalising young men of the community and helping them carry out anti-India and pro-Khalistan activities.PARAMJIT SINGH PAMMABased in Birmingham, UKParamjit Singh aka Pamma is UK-based Babbar Khalsa International activist. A red corner notice was issued against him after his role surfaced during investigations into the murder of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat head Rulda Singh in Patiala in July 2009. Pamma was arrested in Portugal when he was on a visit from the UK but he managed to secure his release from Portugal on the ground that the British authorities had already granted asylum to him, according to the police records. Officials say he has been brazen about his pro-Khalistan activities after his release by Portugal and has been conspiring with the ISI and Sikh terrorists based in Pakistan, particularly Wadhawa Singh Babbar.GURPATWANT SINGH PANNUNBased in New York/California, USAGurpatwant Singh Pannun is associated with the banned organization ‘Sikhs for Justice’, as legal adviser. Pannun has been leading a campaign “Punjab Referendum 2020 for Khalistan”, launched in a rally in June 2014 in New York. NIA DIG Sonia Narang told a UAPA tribunal last year that the SJF is presently propagating ‘Referendum 2020’ in a very big way on the social media as well as on ground by holding meetings across USA and other countries where Sikhs are in large numbers. Activities of the SFJ have been held to be unlawful, disruptive and threaten the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India by the tribunal that confirmed the ban under India’s anti-terror law. The judge said there was enough evidence that SFJ works in collusion with anti-India entities and forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faces-of-terror-why-india-banned-9-khalistan-linked-terrorists-in-5-countries/story-aR4fHIdFA3SCe74rAB4mtM.html
04-07-2020||India||Odisha to provide Rs 1,040 crore loans to sharecroppers through joint liability groups||Odisha will provide crop loans worth crores to seven lakh landless sharecroppers in the state through joint liability groups (JLGs) in the next two years through a new scheme, officials said.The scheme, Balaram Yojana, is a sequel to the Kalia scheme announced last year just before the polls for small and marginal farmers and would enable sharecroppers to get loans of around Rs 1,040 crore.Asit Tripathy, the state’s chief secretary, said sharecroppers would be given credit facility on the basis of “social collateral” through joint liability groups. Around 140,000 such groups would be formed with each group comprising five farmers. Around 70,000 groups will get farm loans under the scheme this year.A joint liability group is an informal group comprising preferably 4 to 10 individuals who come together to avail a loan from a bank either singly or through the group mechanism against the mutual guarantee.Its members offer a joint undertaking to the bank that would enable them to avail loans. The credit assessment of the group could be based on the available cultivable area by each member. All members would jointly execute the document and own the debt liability together and severally.Ashok Meena, the state finance secretary, would mobilise the banking sector through State Level Bankers Committee for the loans to JLGs. The chief secretary directed every bank branch in the state to provide at least 10 farm loans this year. In rural areas and small towns in the state, there are around 7,000 branches of banks and Primary Agricultural Cooperative societies.In April this year, the Odisha government had framed draft legislation to recognise the rights of sharecroppers in the state.The draft legislation “Odisha Agricultural Land Leasing Act”, would help a sharecropper into a written lease agreement on mutually agreed terms and conditions, with a landowner for the cultivation of agricultural produces.Once passed by the assembly, the legislation would mark a change of fortunes for millions of sharecroppers in Odisha where sharecropping was banned following an amendment in Orissa Land Reforms Act in 1974. Despite the ban on sharecropping, more than 70 per cent of land is cultivated through sharecropping.As per the draft legislation, the lease agreement between the sharecropper and the landowner would contain several details, boundaries, location and area of leased out land, duration of the lease expressed in months or years.Apart from a written agreement, there will a provision for oral lease. Both sharecropper and landowner have to apply before the revenue officer and the matter will have to be discussed in a gram sabha, as per the draft legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-provide-rs-1-040-crore-loans-to-sharecroppers-through-joint-liability-groups/story-FxBjsPuOxShNqQkD3L5zNL.html
04-07-2020||India||NSA Doval coordinated PM Modi’s surprise Nimu visit||On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi surprised everyone when he landed up at Kushok Bakula Rimpochee airport at Leh to be briefed about operational preparedness of the Indian military against the aggressive Chinese People’s Liberation Army.Accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Manoj Mukund Naravane, Modi’s first stop was the XIV Corps headquarters at Nimu outside Leh to ; he was briefed by Corps Commander Lt Gen Harinder Singh in the presence of Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi.Also read: Time not right to add to tension, says ChinaThe decision of PM Modi to go to Leh was kept under wraps till he landed at the airport with the entire coordination done by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Rawat and Naravane. NSA Doval, who came out of self-imposed isolation after two weeks, chose to remain in Delhi.Experts said the presence of PM Modi in the Ladakh region has not only sent a signal to China that India means business and will not surrender even an inch of its territory but also reassured the local population. Indian Army and Chinese PLA are facing off at four points on the LAC in East Ladakh with the latter consolidating on ground while mouthing peace overtures.Also read: PM Modi flies to Leh in signal to China, gets briefing at 11,000 feet on standoffsIt is understood that Prime Minister Modi gave a message to the Ladakh commanders that they should not initiate any escalation from their side but should definitely retaliate to any aggression. The same message was also given out during the 2017 Doklam crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-doval-coordinated-pm-modi-s-surprise-nimu-visit/story-IYO6RQwG72P2E6n2o5JuwN.html
04-07-2020||India||Left in lurch with ban, TikTok stars stare at a grim future||The best jokes about India banning Tik-Tok were on Tik-Tok, but people not on the popular Chinese app probably wouldn’t have got them. The jokes contained not only funny lines but also music, dance, acting, emojis and a whole lot of wackiness. Thousands of those went viral in the 12-odd hours that the app was functional on Indian smartphones after the government banned it, citing cybersecurity worries. Scores of users had already uninstalled the app in the name of patriotism since border tensions escalated between India and China earlier this month, but many refused to hit delete. As a popular creator said in her latest video while spinning on her heel: “They are making Tik-Tok videos to order us to delete Tik-Tok. No chance!” Also read: After TikTok, now LinkedIn is snooping on iOS Users through Clipboard, fix coming soonOn Tuesday morning, the company voluntarily disabled the app that opened up social media celebrity to millions of people in small-town and rural India but also sparked concerns about mass surveillance and large-scale transfer of data to the Chinese government. By then, many Tik-Tok stars had already posted videos urging their fans to follow them to rival platforms such as Instagram or YouTube. But as some of them pointed out themselves between sobs and sniffles, it won’t be the same. They would need talent for YouTube, coolness for Instagram, irony for Snapchat. “It may be just an app for some people, but for me it translates to four years of sweat. Hundreds of apps like this can come and go, but this is where I could make 6.8 million people laugh,” said a comic star in his goodbye video. He will never know if it was the quality of his jokes that attracted 6.8 million followers, but what made TikTok special was that being bad at something could make you as popular as being good at it.No one knew what worked, so everyone had a chance, and millions went for it regardless of looks, location and language skills. Israil Ansari was one of them. In 2018, the then 18-year-old posted his first TikTok, a 15-second video of himself dancing to a Bollywood song with the rice fields of his Uttar Pradesh village in the backdrop. Ansari looks funny dancing, as he is happy to admit, but that didn’t stop his video from becoming viral — or perhaps that’s what did it. “Hanse toh phanse (laugh and you are hooked)” is how he explained his wild success on the platform. Since 2017, when he left his village and his job at the local hardware store to move to Lucknow and then Mumbai, Ansari, a school dropout, has earned more than two million followers and over Rs 1 lakh in monthly income from public appearances and brand endorsements. All he had to do, he says, was stay true to his character. Now that TikTok’s gone, he is trying his best to brave it out. “Koi dikkat nahin hai (no issues). The public knows me, and that’s what matters. I will find another platform from where I can earn an income,” he said. Also read: China holds out WTO threat over ban on 59 mobile apps. India bursts the bubble“The fact that someone like Shilpa Shetty or Riteish Deshmukh has to do duets with this dancer from a village in order to be popular on TikTok explains its appeal to users,” says Sheikh Khalfan whose Mumbai-based online channel tracks TikTok celebrities. He now spends his entire time consoling them. “The stars are in a frenzy trying to build their presence on YouTube or Instagram. But they are too used to the rhythm of TikTok,” Khalfan said. “A 30-second video is all it took to get famous overnight so people put out all their creativity into it, whether it was comedy or karaoke. And even after they earned followers, that’s how they approached every video. That habit will be hard to break out of it,” he said. For the followers, too, it won’t be an easy switch from TikTok to another video entertainment platform. “On TikTok, you like something and it keeps giving you more and more of that. I like dance videos, for example, and my feed never runs out of it. The platform understands the human brain,” Khalfan said. He is not wrong. TikTok users spend most of their time on the app going through a feed made for them via artificial intelligence. The AI-system offers them a random stream of popular videos when they sign up and studies how they react to each one, from the time they spend watching a video to the speed with which they swipe up or down, besides reading the obvious signals such as likes, comments and follows. The more time users spend inside the app, the better it becomes at predicting what they will like. To be sure, experts have long questioned this system, saying the data collected on users was not only being transferred to third-party businesses but also possibly to the Chinese government. Moreover, TikTok was found last month to have intercepted personal data of users by logging their keystrokes in an attempt to circumvent end-to-end encryption. The effect of its algorithm was often addictive. Through most of India’s months-long coronavirus-sparked lockdown, TikTok remained the country’s most downloaded app as people sought an escape from the reality. Now, they will have to find another distraction. To Sabira Khan, a popular creator known for posting sad videos, this feels like an end. “The news has broken me. I have been crying since I heard. I had just reached a million followers, and it had taken me a lot of hard work through these months of lockdown,” said the creator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-in-lurch-with-ban-tiktok-stars-stare-at-a-grim-future/story-sg14NqNNhYZJvNInpTGsdM.html
04-07-2020||India||CAPF okays transgender persons’ hiring||In what can be seen as a major move towards the inclusion of the transgender community into the mainstream after the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act was notified earlier this year, officials of the Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) on Friday told the Union home ministry that they will recruit transgender persons to the officer cadre post of assistant commandants.“The CRPF already has a gender-neutral work environment. In view of impending policy guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), we shall make it further compatible as per the need,” director general A P Maheshwari said. Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal, who also holds additional charge as director general BSF, said, “We have no objection,” speaking for the latter paramilitary force. The ITBP and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Centre are expected to respond t in the next few days, officials familiar with the matter said.The home ministry on Wednesday sought the views of central paramilitary forces (CAPF) to add transgender as the third gender category in relevant application forms ahead of the annual examination for recruiting assistant commandants to be held in December. The comments of all the central paramilitary forces would be shared with the Union Public Service Commission which conducts the exams, officials aware of the matter said.The home ministry’s letter, first sent out on in June and again on July 1, followed a circular issued by the Department of Personnel Training in April, which directed all central government departments to include transgender as a separate category for recruitment for all posts, including civil services.There is currently no provision to hire transgender persons in the central paramilitary forces. Vidya Rajput, a member of the Chhattisgarh Transgender Welfare Board said that while the move was welcome, additional seats for transpersons must be created across all government posts. “A socially supportive structure is very important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capf-okays-transgender-persons-hiring/story-epFM5affqQjBqH6y12VqFM.html
04-07-2020||India||Several US states post record Covid-19 cases, curfew ordered in Miami||Alabama and several other states reported record increases in coronavirus cases on Friday as Florida’s most populous county imposed a curfew ahead of the Independence Day weekend and Arkansas joined a push towards mandating mask-wearing in public.North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Alaska all saw new daily highs in cases of COVID-19, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus, while Texas hit a new peak for hospitalizations, with one doctor calling for a “complete lockdown” in the state to get the virus under control. The recent surge, most pronounced in southern and western states, has alarmed public health officials, who urged caution ahead of a July 4th holiday weekend to celebrate the Declaration of Independence of the United States in 1776.North Carolina reported 951 hospitalizations and 2,099 cases, both record highs.Bill Saffo, mayor of Wilmington, North Carolina, said many infections had been traced to large gatherings and predicted a further jump after the holiday weekend as people flouted guidelines on social distancing and masks. “We know that the spread is going to happen. We know probably in about two weeks we’ll see a spike from the July 4th weekend,” Saffo told CNN.Despite the jump in infections, the daily death rate in the United States has remained relatively flat, a reflection of the growing proportion of positive tests among younger, healthier people who are less prone to severe outcomes.However, US Surgeon General Jerome Adams warned that the impact on fatalities from the recent surge, which started in mid-June, had yet to be seen. “Deaths lag at least two weeks and can lag even more,” he told “Fox & Friends” on Friday.His remarks came hours ahead of a trip by President Donald Trump to Mount Rushmore in South Dakota where he is expected to give a speech to thousands of supporters in which he will rail against the “left wing mob” and view a fireworks display at the landmark depicting four US presidents in stone.The visit has drawn criticism from Native Americans, who say the remote area is sacred to them, as well as health experts who discourage large congregations of people.Trump, whose handling of the pandemic has come under harsh criticism from Democrats and some Republicans, has repeatedly sought to dismiss the jump in cases as a function of more tests and again this week predicted the virus would “disappear.”MORE MASKSCoronavirus cases are rising in 37 of the 50 US states including Florida which had 9,488 new cases on Friday, according to the state health department. Florida’s 10,109 cases on Thursday was a record for the state and more than any European country’s daily peak at the height of the outbreak there.Evidence the surge is not simply due to expanded testing, the percentage of tests coming back positive in Florida has hit 16%, up from 4% a month ago, according to a Reuters analysis. The World Health Organization says a rate over 5% is concerning.Against that backdrop, Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez imposed an indefinite nightly curfew starting Friday and halted the reopenings of entertainment venues such as casinos and strip clubs. Earlier this week, Miami-Dade and neighboring Broward County, the state’s two most populous counties, required residents to wear face coverings in public. Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson on Friday authorized the state’s cities and towns to enact a “model ordinance” requiring the wearing of face coverings if they choose to do so, becoming the latest Republican to relent to pressure on the issue. The move came a day after Texas Governor Greg Abbott ordered that face masks be worn in most public places, reversing his stance following an alarming rise in infections in the state, which on Friday marked a new high for hospitalizations at 7,652.Owais Durrani, a resident at University Hospital in San Antonio, said nearly all the patients coming into the emergency room tested positive for COVID-19 - even those admitted for unrelated issues such as gall bladder infections. “We, in my opinion, need to go into a complete lockdown and we’re still going to see an increase in all of those metrics for two to three weeks and then maybe we turn a corner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-us-states-post-record-covid-19-cases-curfew-ordered-in-miami/story-TB7js4EQFLa6tLgUieGjpN.html
04-07-2020||India||BJP units to present Covid work before PM Modi||On Saturday, each state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will make a presentation before Prime Minister Narendra Modi on their initiatives in line with the government’s gareeb kalyan schemes for those in need in the aftermath of the corona pandemic.BJP general secretary Arun Singh said on Friday said that party units will put out the details of the work, such as, supply of cooked food and ration, masks and sanitisers during the lockdown that was imposed to check the spread of the virus in March.“The party provided food to 22 crore people during the lockdown, and distributed 80 lakh sanitisers and 2.5 crore face covers,” he said, addressing the media.Apart from PM Modi, the digital presentation will also be attended by party president J P Nadda, union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari.The party has also been organising virtual rallies to highlight the achievements of the government’s first year in office during the second term at the Centre.“The party organised over 61 virtual rallies to mark the first anniversary, and 11.49 crore people attended them. Party workers contacted over 5.41 crore people through door-to-door contact programmes,” he said.To a separate question on PM Modi’s visit to Ladakh and the situation there, Singh said people have faith in the Prime Minister’s leadership, and that he has already made it clear that those eyeing India’s territory will be given a befitting reply.The BJP leader also dismissed allegations that law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh had deteriorated under the Yogi Adityanath government.“During the Samajwadi Party’s regime, those in power were involved in crime. Now the BJP government has gone after criminals,” he said, reacting to SP’s criticism of the Yogi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-units-to-present-covid-work-before-pm-modi/story-WjQK9Q27hPF9UEz07X2kWL.html
04-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In 1963, Merck scientist Maurice Hilleman cultured the mumps virus from the throat of his ill daughter and used the weakened strain to create a vaccine. The company’s Mumpsvax vaccine was introduced in 1967. It took a little less than four years from start to finish; of this, the human trials lasted two years. When it comes to vaccine development, this is a record that stands to the day. For some time, it looked like a vaccine for the Zika virus could beat the record, but that looks unlikely now.Vaccine development can be broken into two phases — a pre-clinical study, and the clinical study. Once the pre-clinical study phase is done (and it is preferable that the results are published even if they aren’t peer-reviewed), the clinical study phase starts. This is the time-consuming part of vaccine development which, by its very nature, is a risky business.The Zika example highlights this — even three-and-half years ago, when work on the first Zika vaccines started, there were fears that the disease wouldn’t be relevant by the time the vaccine was developed. Vaccine development is an expensive proposition costing billions, and no company wants to back research for a vaccine that will not have a market (or a viable one) when it is eventually ready.Also read: ICMR sets August 15 deadline for world’s 1st Covid-19 vaccineGenerally, the clinical study of a vaccine has three phases, which measure safety, immune response, efficacy, and try and figure out the correct dosage as well as the schedule of vaccination.The first phase could last between one and two years, and involves administering the vaccine to a few people to see if it is safe and provokes an immune response in them (all vaccines work by doing this). There’s a growing opinion that the timeline for Phase 1 can be crashed to months, which is what many of the vaccine candidates for Covid-19 have done.The second phase, which normally lasts anything between two and three years, is a so-called randomised double-blind placebo-controlled study. In such studies, test subjects are randomly assigned to a so-called control group to which placebos are given, and another group (called the intervention group) to which the candidate vaccine is administered. Neither the researchers nor the subjects know who is getting what (that’s why it is called double blind). Phase 2 usually involves testing the vaccine on hundreds of subjects who have the condition (in this case Covid-19) but do not suffer from any other conditions. The results are studied for safety and efficacy, but also to understand the correct dosage of the vaccine, and how and when it should be given. Typical Phase 2 studies do not measure clinical outcomes.The third phase, which could last for anything between two and four years, involves another (but much larger) randomised double-blind placebo-controlled study. In this, the vaccine is administered to thousands (sometimes tens to thousands) of subjects who are representative of the larger population. The two most important parameters studied in this are safety and efficacy. Phase 3 trials measure clinical outcomes, and at the end of this trial, the researchers should have enough data to show that the “benefits outweigh the risks” as the US Food and Drug Administration puts it.Most vaccine candidates for Covid-19 are crashing timelines by combining Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials. The opinion among experts is that the time involved can be reduced to around a year, although the researchers behind some of the candidates have more aggressive targets.Also read| Coronavirus: After govt nod, Delhi hospitals start antigen testingThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) now wants to reduce the time it takes to conduct Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 trials for a vaccine candidate of Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech to 45 days. This is a vaccine based on an inactive virus, but while pre-clinical studies have been carried out, they are yet to be published. ICMR wants the clinical study phase on this vaccine, called Covaxin, to start soon. Its urgency perhaps comes from news reports about other vaccine candidates in the pipeline launching combined Phase2/3 trials. Indeed, CanSino Biologicals and China’s PLA have decided that even as they proceed with Phase 3 trials for their candidate vaccine, it has shown enough success to be approved for military use.But can ICMR’s deadline of 45 days be met without sacrificing any of the integrity of each phase of the trial?We will know on August 15, but a fragment from a widely reported June 22 call vaccine maker Sanofi’s CEO Paul Hudson had with reporters is worth highlighting. He said his company couldn’t “move faster than the biology” of its processes. It will be interesting to see if Bharat Biotech can.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-aj1T4Ovac5Ct5ujQ8LSidL.html
04-07-2020||India||No job cuts but profiles of employees may change, says Railways||The Railways on Friday said certain job profiles of its employees might change in the coming days but asserted that there will be no job losses, a day after the national transporter issued a letter, asking its general managers to slash 50 per cent vacancies and freeze creation of new posts. In an online briefing, Director General (HR) Railway Board, Anand S Khati said the Railways will be “rightsizing and not downsizing”. He said due to technological interventions in the national transporter, certain job profiles might change, wherein the personnel will be re-skilled, but there will be no job losses.“We will be rightsizing and not downsizing. Let there be no doubt that the Indian Railways will remain the largest employer in the country. We will move from unskilled to more skilled jobs,” he said. He said the order (sent on Thursday) was to surrender non-functional, non-safety vacant posts which would help in creating additional safety posts for new railway infrastructure projects already underway. He asserted that all ongoing recruitment drives for various categories of posts will continue as usual, adding that those posts which have been notified or advertised will not be impacted in any way.The Railways currently has 12,18,335 employees and spends 65 per cent of its income on payment of salaries and pension.Since 2018, the Railways has notified 72,274 vacancies in safety category and 68,366 in non safety category, taking the total number of vacancies notified to 1,40,640. The letter to the general managers, approved by the Financial Commissioner, Railways said the freezing of new posts, review of posts created in last two years and surrendering of 50 per cent of existing vacancies was part of “an action plan for economic measure and rationalisation of expenditure.” The letter led to speculations that the Railways was geared up to downsize its staff. While Khati maintained that there would be no job losses in the national transporter, in a letter dated June 19, the financial commissioner of the Railways had told the general managers of all the zones that the traffic earnings of the national transporter dropped by 58 per cent at the end of May, as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year and that there was a “need to explore new areas of expenditure control and enhancement of earnings”.The financial commissioner had also proposed a slew of austerity measures -- freeze in the creation of new posts, rationalisation of manpower at workshops, shifting outsourced work to CSR, moving ceremonial functions to digital platforms and cutting down on use of stationary by 50 per cent. In the letter, the financial commissioner had also advised the zones to control expenditure by reducing staff cost, rationalising staff and also by making them perform multiple tasks. It had also asked the zones to review contracts, reduce energy consumption and cut cost in administrative and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-job-cuts-but-profiles-of-employees-may-change-says-railways/story-scTOgwe2rD7zN4UVBW9SoL.html
04-07-2020||India||Maha sees another record spike of 6,364 cases; toll up to 4,762||Maharashtra recorded more than 6,000 new Covid-19 infections and a record 24-hour spike in cases for the second consecutive day on Friday, as the state’s tally rose by 6,364 to 192,990. The state reported 198 fatalities, including 48 from previous weeks, taking its toll to 4,762. Mumbai, the worst-hit city in Maharashtra, recorded 1,338 new cases, taking its case count to 82,074. The state health department reconciled data for Sangli and 37 patients who were earlier recorded there were added to Mumbai’s tally. The city reported 73 deaths in the past 48 hours, taking its toll to 4,762. Senior government officials, on condition of anonymity, said the state is witnessing an increase in cases owing to targeted testing. These officials and independent experts said though there has been an increase in cases, the tally isn’t rising exponentially. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state’s case curve could flatten by August. Tope said several changes have been made in guidelines for testing and that no inferences can be made based on the positivity rate. “Earlier, tests included immediate contacts, neighbours, etc. Therefore the strike rate from these tests was lower. Now our tests are targeted and so the percentage is higher. We have augmented testing capacity across the state and are still adding laboratories. We expect the numbers to flatten by early August,” Tope said.In the past 14 days, the positivity rate in the state has been ranging between 19% and 27%. In the first three days of July, the positivity rate of the state has been 21.09% (July 1), 22.90% (July 2) and 22.01% (July 3). The overall positivity rate in the state stands at 18.39%.One of the officials said the state has not yet reached its peak. “There is no denying that the infection has spread widely. It is also true that we have not reached the peak yet as there are newer hot spots mushrooming. There are multiple reasons for the high positivity rate [of late]. We have increased our daily testing from 13,000 per day on June 22 to 27,000-28,000. We do targeted testing as per ICMR guidelines,” said the official.The state has 115 testing laboratories, including private laboratories, and has the capacity to test 38,000 samples daily. On June 22, the state tested 13,554 samples and reported 3,721 cases which is a positivity rate of 27.45%. From June 24, the daily tests increased and more than 20,000 samples have been tested every day since then.A senior state bureaucrat dismissed speculations that the state is not utilising its testing capacity fully as it could lead to more numbers. The bureaucrat said tests will have to remain “targeted”. “Our testing capacity is 38,000 samples per day, but testing will have to remain focused on high-risk contacts and other immediate contacts. Random testing is not in the guidelines and it won’t yield any result. Contact tracing is lax in several parts. Our goal is 1:15 (15 contacts for one Covid-19 patient), but data shows we do not go beyond four to five high-risk contacts,” the bureaucrat said. Dr Om Shrivastav, an infectious diseases expert with Jaslok Hospital, said, “The principle of the World Health Organization (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has been more tests will lead to more cases. Therefore, we are seeing more cases being reported. However, the positivity rate is not a concern as much as the mortality rate is.” Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital, said the increase in positivity rate is not alarming. “As of today, it does not seem that there is a huge spike waiting for us around the corner. We have not down-turned that’s a fact, but we are not ascending rapidly as well. The increase in positivity rate could also be a reflection of relaxation in testing parameters by the government,” he said.Tope said there are two lacunas that he had found in all interactions with collectors and commissioners. “One is tracing; we only get 1:6 as against our target of 15 contacts per patient. The second issue is home quarantine in slums. They need to have an institutional quarantine facility to stem the spread in densely populated areas. I visited Bhiwandi and Badlapur and have instructed the local administration on similar lines,” said the minister. Currently, Maharashtra has 5,89,448 patients in home quarantine and 42,371 in institutional quarantine facilities.The state’s testing capacity is also being further augmented. Looking at the sharp spike in cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the state has decided to add one laboratory each in Bhiwandi, Badlapur, Ulhasnagar, Mira-Bhayander and in Thane district, said Tope. “Testing has increased in several cities. Mumbai daily tests around 4,500, while Pune tests about 6,000 samples daily. Jalgaon, which was testing 100 samples earlier, now tests 500, similarly Nagpur, which was 400 samples a day, now tests 1,500 daily,” an official from the health department said.Meanwhile, 3,515 people were discharged on Friday which took the total count of recovered patients to 104,687. The recovery rate in the state stands at 54.24%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-sees-another-record-spike-of-6-364-cases-toll-up-to-4-762/story-Sr7hZL5dLhAUynIdUOE1hJ.html
04-07-2020||India||Parliament’s Monsoon session may be shorter, a digital-physical hybrid||The Monsoon session of Parliament may begin after August 15, be shorter than usual, and lawmakers may be spread across different buildings to attend hybrid — a mix of physical and digital — proceedings as lawmaking adjusts to the new normal inflicted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials familiar with the matter said that while some members may sit in the two houses — on designated seats with social distancing, and in different galleries on the first floor — others may attend the proceedings digitally from Parliament’s library building, which is situated next to the main building. The online platform of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) can accommodate up to 600 visitors. The officials cited above said on condition of anonymity that the plan on who will be allocated space where is likely to be drawn based on the strength of different parties in the Upper and Lower houses. Also read: First House panel to discuss preparedness to tackle Covid-19An earlier plan to shift the Lok Sabha to the larger Central Hall, and the Rajya Sabha to the Lok Sabha, was junked, the officials added, saying it was proving difficult to safely accommodate all the members . With a rise in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks the authorities are also considering a shorter session. “There’s not much business to transact. The priority of the government is to clear the ordinances promulgated in the past few months and the Opposition might press for debates on Covid pandemic and Indo-China border conflict,” said an official involved in the preparations. He said that the session may start only after Independence Day. Last year, the Monsoon session ran from June 17 to August 6.The Narendra Modi government has, in recent months, brought three ordinances to redefine the legal framework of India’s agricultural markets as a part of its Covid response. It amended the Essential Commodities Act, brought a new legislation on contract farming, and changed the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) laws to allow farmers sell their produce freely.The government also promulgated the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 to bring the large network of co-operative banks under the purview of the Reserve Bank of India.Even as the government will take a final call on the session’s schedule, Rajya Sabha chair, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla are busy preparing the ground for a session amid the risks posed by Covid-19.“The broad position that emerged was to enable seating of members of Rajya Sabha in the chamber and the galleries of the House in conformity with the norm of physical distancing. And to enable virtual participation of other members from either the Central Hall or Balayogi Auditorium in the Parliament House premises,” said a second official.Naidu, the official added, wants to enable the participation of the members from within the House to the extent possible. The main chamber and the galleries of Rajya Sabha can accommodate 127 members (out of 245) if social distancing norms are adhered to. “All the galleries except the media gallery will be utilised for MPs. And screens will be put up both inside and outside the House to help members virtually participate,” said the official.The number of people who can be accommodated in the 543-member Lok Sabha while following the same norms was not immediately available.The budget session this year started on January 31 and ran till March 23. Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi has said the Centre has “enough time to decide because of the Covid outbreak.”Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury has maintained that many Opposition leaders have written to presiding officers to hold the session to discuss urgent matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-s-monsoon-session-may-be-shorter-a-digital-physical-hybrid/story-wIIKamWQFoIqiEbnANmQmN.html
04-07-2020||India||‘Era of expansionism over’: PM’s warning to China on Ladakh visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday declared that the “era of expansionism” is over, sending a strong signal to China about India’s determination to defend its borders, on a surprise unscheduled visit to Ladakh, the theatre of the tension between the neighbours.In a speech to the troops, relayed live on television, the prime minister asserted that India has always wanted peace but this peace will come from strength; and paid glowing tributes to the bravery and courage of soldiers in the frontlines of the stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with a particular reference to those who laid down their lives in the Galwan Valley clash on June 15.Analysts described the visit as a clear message to Beijing, and one that would motivate troops.Asserting that all of Ladakh was India’s pride and that people of Ladakh were patriots, and claiming that India had, for centuries, given a strong response to “aggressors” and had emerged stronger after each attack, Modi said that “enemies” had seen both the “fire and fury” of Indian soldiers.The PM also spoke of the raft of decisions that had been taken to strengthen India’s defence apparatus and border infrastructure in recent years; quoted a wide range of Sanskrit, Tamil, and Hindi sayings to convey determination and resolve; and highlighted Buddha’s emphasis on courage as conviction and compassion.Friday’s surprise visit came in the backdrop of the two-month long stand-off at the LAC, where China has attempted to change the status quo by intruding into Indian territory; engaged in a military build-up; and expanded its territorial claims, particularly over the Galwan Valley. India has matched the military build-up with additional deployment of troops and equipment. Three rounds of military-level talks have taken place between the two counties, besides dialogue at the diplomatic-level, but commitments on de-escalation have not yet resulted in tangible action on the ground with Chinese troops staying put.Accompanied by the chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat and army chief Manoj Mukund Naravane, Modi visited Nimu, surrounded by the Zanskar range, where he was briefed by military commanders on the situation. He also interacted with personnel of the army, the Indian Air Force, and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).HT learns that the decision on Modi’s visit was taken on Thursday evening with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval working out the details with Gen Rawat.PM stressed in his speech, without naming China, that the “era of expansionism is over” and this was the “era of developmentalism”, which is both an opportunity and will serve as the basis of the future.“In centuries gone by, expansionism has tried to destroy humanity. Whenever an expansionist mindset has dominated someone’s worldview, it has posed a threat to world peace. But history is also witness that such powers have got destroyed, or have been forced to mend their ways. This has been the collective global experience. And on the basis of this experience, the world has made up its mind. Today, the world is committed to developmentalism and welcomes competition for development.”Modi has called out expansionism as a threat in the past, but only once before in his official capacity as PM.During an election rally before the 2014 polls, while asserting that Arunachal Pradesh is an integral part of India, Modi — then a PM candidate — had asked China to leave “its mindset of expansion”. As PM, during a visit to Japan — another country which has faced Chinese aggression in recent years — in 2014, he had warned of the dangers of “18th century style expansionist attitudes” such as encroaching into other countries and intruding into seas. But given the current stand-off with China, his remarks assume renewed importance. They also come in the wake of Chinese projection of power in the South China Sea, East China Sea, and internal moves to push through repressive legislations, for instance in Hong Kong.Shyam Saran, former foreign secretary and senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said that the PM adopted a “more defiant posture” in his speech. “His remark about this not being an age of expansionism but of development is clearly directed at China though it has not been mentioned by name. This presages a tougher posture towards China and preparedness to confront its challenge for the long haul.”Saran added that this may also reflect the fact that the “diplomatic and military engagement between the two countries” being undertaken to defuse the situation and return to status quo ante may not have made progress so far. “His visit underlines the seriousness of the security threat India faces and conveys a sense of confidence that the country is more than capable of dealing with it.”The PM spoke, repeatedly, of the bravery of Indian soldiers. “Your courage, your bravery, and your commitment to protect the honour of India is incomparable...Till the security of the country is in your hands and strong intentions, not just me, but the whole country has complete faith. The message that you and your brave friends have just given has sent a signal to the whole world about India’s strength.”Modi also visited those injured in the Galwan valley clash in a military hospital during the visit, where he told soldiers engaged in the clash that they gave a “befitting reply” and their valour and the blood they shed would inspire people for a long time to come. The world, he said, was eager to know about the young men, their sacrifice, their training and their excellent level of commitment. “The bravehearts who left us, have not gone without a reason. Together, you all also gave a befitting reply (karara jawab bhi diya hai),” he told the injured soldiers.In his address to the troops, Modi said that India recognised the value of peace and friendship for the progress of both the nation and humanity, but that peace cannot come from weakness. “The weak cannot strive for peace. Strength is a precondition for peace. If India — in land, air, seas, and space — is increasing its strength, the objective is human welfare. India is now producing modern weapons. It is getting modern technologies for the army. The sentiment behind it is the same. If India is building modern infrastructure, the sentiment is the same...we have always worked to defend humanity.”When it came to decisions on national security, Modi said he thought of two mothers — Bharat Mata (Indian motherland) and the mothers of brave soldiers. “On this basis, for your honour, for your family’s honour, and for national honour, the country gives top priority to security.”Commenting on the visit, Lieutenant General (retired) DS Hooda said it was a “clear message to China” that India was taking “very serious note” of what has happened at the LAC and that the continuing stalemate in de-escalation was “unacceptable”. “The PM would also have got a firsthand account of the events that have happened and the operational readiness of the Indian Army. This is absolutely essential when India considers its future options.”Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar, director of the Society for Policy Studies, too said that the speech exuded a “distinctive resolve” in relation to China and the tensions at LAC.“The speech is multi-layered and addresses different constituencies. While the domestic audience comprises the troops in Ladakh and the Indian army in general, it also seeks to assuage national sentiment which is bruised post-Galwan. In relation to China, it is firm about not blinking with the window of peace and diplomacy kept open.” The speech, Bhaskar suggested, marks the “beginning of the reset in India’s China policy”.Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, in a tweet, asked why the PM had not named China as the aggressor. “For the third time in a week, PM did not name China as the aggressor, why? What is the purpose of talking about an unnamed ‘enemy’ to the people of India and the jawans in Ladakh?”“PM has still not answered our questions about where the violent clashes took place on June 15-16 between Chinese and Indian troops and if the Chinese have intruded into Indian territory at several points,” the former Union minister added.BJP president JP Nadda said the PM’s speech will act as a morale booster for the forces. He tweeted: “Hon PM @narendramodi’s words give words to the emotion of 130 crore Indians and acts a great morale booster for our armed forces! True leadership in action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/era-of-expansionism-over-pm-s-warning-to-china-on-ladakh-visit/story-TkzT7OPD2wxW53EjUR63pO.html
04-07-2020||India||Kanpur incident: A 15-minute nightmare in Uttar Pradesh||The criminal records of Vikas Dubey, one of the most dreaded gangsters in Uttar Pradesh, date back to 1993, according to a senior police official at the DGP headquarters in Lucknow. At 48, he faces 60 criminal cases.“His crime record reads that he has had over 11 cases of attempt to murder and six cases of murder,” the official said.He said Dubey, born in Bikru village of Kanpur Dehat district, was popular among criminals in the region who believed police could not act against them if they were under his protection. “He recruited youngsters, invested on them by giving them a monthly payment and pushed them into crime...”Dubey was an accused in the 2001 murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Santosh Shukla inside a police station. “He was acquitted in the case after all witnesses, including police personnel, turned hostile during the court trial due to his fear,” the official said.He said Dubey’s name terrorised people in Shivli, a town near Bikru, and the region around Kanpur after four sensational murders — that of Shukla, a college principal, and a cable operator and his cousin between 2000 and 2002. Dubey was arrested a couple of times in the past two years, but got bail. Also read| ‘Won’t be spared’: Yogi Adityanath takes a vow to nab Kanpur gangstersThe official said Dubey’s clout increased so much in the region that he won the election of Zila Panchayat member in 2005 as an Independent while he was in the Kanpur jail.After Thursday’s ambush, about 3,000 members were combing several districts to arrest Dubey, whose accomplices shot dead eight policemen in Bikru before escaping in the dark. The operation was being led by director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthy; additional DGP (law and order) Prashant Kumar; and UP special task force (STF) inspector general (IG) Amitabh Yash. The police sealed borders of all six districts in the Kanpur region, namely Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Auraiya, Kannauj, Etawah and Farrukhabad. Additional DGP Kumar said the attack was the deadliest targeting the police force in “many years”. In 2007, dacoit Ambika Prasad, alias Thokia, killed six policemen and an informer in Chitrakoot to avenge the death of brigand Shiv Kumar Dadua. Also read| Road blocked using earthmover, firing from rooftop: How 8 cops were killed in Kanpur gun fightIn state capital Lucknow, a police force raided Dubey’s house in Krishna Nagar area — from where he was arrested by the special task force in October 2017. The police said Dubey’s house was found locked, and his wife and two children, who lived there, were missing. The house was later sealed.Deepak Kumar Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Sarojininagar, said a police team visited Dubey’s brother’s residence in the same locality, but he was not at home.“...I knew that one day the entire family would have to suffer for the wrongdoings of Vikas,” Sarla Devi, 73, who stays with Dubey’s younger brother, told reporters outside her residence. She said she would have no regrets if Dubey was gunned down. Devi said Dubey’s relationship with the family was under strain, and added that Dubey did not come to Lucknow since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-15-minute-nightmare-in-up/story-Flpey5Ez23tWhqLt39edGI.html
04-07-2020||India||NIA terms Chhattisgarh police move illegal in Jheerum Ghati case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was planning a “major action”, including choking funding to top Maoist leadership, as part of an ongoing legal process when the Chhattisgarh government in May claimed jurisdiction in the probe into the 2013 Jheerum Ghati attack in which top leaders of the Congress (then the party in power in the state) were among 27 killed, the anti-terror agency’s officials familiar with the matter said. Former Union minister Vidya Charan Shukla was among those killed when Maoists ambushed a convoy of Congress leaders in Jheerum Ghati. NIA took over the probe into the case two days after the attack . The officials said the state government’s move has put the brakes on NIA’s probe . They added the issue can be resolved when the Chhattisgarh police stops the parallel investigation. NIA has called the Chhattisgarh police’s refusal to hand over a new First Information Report (FIR) registered in the case in May to the federal agency “illegal”. The two sides are staring at a long legal battle over the issue.The agency has told a Jabalpur NIA court that a charge sheet was filed in the case against nine people in September 2014 and has sought directions to the Chhattisgarh police to hand over the new FIR. It has said a trial was going on and 45 prosecution witnesses have been examined since a supplementary charge sheet was filed against 30 people in September 2015.NIA has told the court about searches at residential premises of 25 accused with the help of local police and the Central Reserve Police Force. HT has seen the court documents. The officials cited above said that they are working on taking the action against Tippiri Tirupati alias Devji, a Central Committee member of the Maoists and in charge of the South Regional Unified Command, Paka Hanumanthu alias Ganesh Uwike, head of ther South Regional Unified Committee, Soma Sodhi, secretary, Darbha Division, and Barse Sukka alias Deva, absconding since planning the attack.An NIA official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the agency named all main perpetrators in the two charge sheets and efforts were going on to arrest them. “We have information about their properties and their activities; our probe is in an advanced stage and we announced rewards on all absconding persons. It is a massive investigation which takes time and evidence. Our investigations are not on the basis of hearsay. The Chhattisgarh police’s FIR has no legal basis. They should handover the FIR to us,” the official said.The agency told the court the Chhattisgarh police were violating the NIA Act’s Section 6 by not handing over the FIR. The section prohibits state governments from proceeding with investigations into cases entrusted to NIA.Chhattisgarh police inspector general (Bastar) P Sundarraj said the police have registered the case on the basis of a complaint from a local resident and they will be investigating it. “We have already submitted our view in the court,” added Sundarraj.Jitendra Mudaliyar, the son of Congress leader Uday Mudaliyar, who was killed in the attack, filed the fresh FIR in May.The state government has maintained NIA did not probe the conspiracy angle to the attack in which almost the entire state Congress leadership was wiped out. The Congress returned to power in Chhattisgarh in December 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-terms-chhattisgarh-police-move-illegal-in-jheerum-ghati-case/story-21BuJlJ7qEF3U0K2w7zKlO.html
04-07-2020||India||India to follow UN court order in Italian Marines case, Supreme Court told||The Centre has asked the Supreme Court to dispose of the proceedings related to the 2012 killing of two Indian fishermen by Italian marines off the Kerala coast, saying it has agreed to accept a UN tribunal’s ruling in this regard.The five-member arbitral tribunal under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea has ruled India is entitled to compensation in the case but said the marines are entitled to immunity and that India is “precluded from exercising its jurisdiction”.The marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, moved the Supreme Court against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held the state government had the jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting at the fishermen, Ajesh Binki and Valentine Jalastine, was neither in the defence of the vessel nor the state.The matter is pending before the Supreme Court, which granted the marines conditional bail and allowed them to return to Italy in 2016.The marines were guarding an oil tanker when they killed the two Indians on a fishing boat and took India-Italy ties to an all-time low. Also read| Kerala not in favour of withdrawing the case against Italian marines: CM Vijayan“The Republic of India has taken a decision to accept and abide by the award passed by the Tribunal which would have the bearing on the continuance of present proceedings before this Hon’ble Court. The applicant [central government) is, therefore, placing the award on record with a prayer that the proceedings with regard to the incident dated February 15, 2012, be disposed of in conformity with the Award passed by the Tribunal,” the Centre said in its plea on Thursday.The tribunal’s ruling was uploaded online on Thursday. It said the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. The tribunal, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.The tribunal said Italy violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat St Antony and will have to compensate for the loss of life and damage to property. “The Parties are invited to consult with each other with a view to reaching agreement on the amount of compensation due to India,” the order said.The row over the killing of the fishermen disrupted bilateral ties for years. HT on Thursday reported the two sides have decided to move on from the incident in view of their growing convergence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-follow-un-court-order-in-italian-marines-case-sc-told/story-EoTCsZpVpvhCAG6mGTAa4O.html
04-07-2020||India||Nagaland govt bans import, trade and sale of dog meat||Nagaland government on Friday banned import, trading and sale of dog meat in the state. The move follows a similar decision taken by Mizoram government in March this year. “The state government has decided to ban commercial import and trading of dogs and dog markets and also the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked,” Nagaland chief secretary Temjen Toy tweeted after the decision was taken at a cabinet meeting. While there was not much clarity on what prompted the decision, there has been a recent online campaign against sale of dogs and dog meat in Nagaland by several organizations including People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisation (FIAPO).“We are again hit by shock and horror at recent images that have emerged from ‘animal bazaar’ markets in Dimapur (Nagaland) where dogs are seen in terrified conditions, tied up in sacks (gunny bags), waiting at a wet market, for their illegal slaughter, trade and consumption as meat,” FAIPO had said in an appeal to Nagaland government on July 2 urging it to put a ban.In a statement issued on Friday, Humane Society International and People For Animals, two other organisations demanding end to dog meat sale in Nagaland, welcomed the Nagaland government move as a ‘major turning point’ to end cruelty against dogs.“The decision by the cabinet will end the import, trade and sale of live dogs and dog meat. We welcome this decision as a major turning point in ending cruelty of India’s hidden dog meat trade,” the statement read.According to HSI and PFA estimates around 30,000 dogs are smuggled annually to Nagaland where they are sold in live markets and “beaten to death with wooden clubs”.Dog meat is consumed by some sections of Nagaland population. Stray dogs caught from neighbouring states and even West Bengal, are routinely smuggled to the state for sale as meat in Dimapur, the commercial hub of Nagaland, and other places. Since the trade is unregulated, there is no detail on how much dog meat is consumed annually in the state. “This is a progressive move. In today age, positive social media activism and advocacy has enormous impact on policy makers. Congrats and thanks to all,” Abu Metha, advisor to Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, tweeted. The government decision, however, has met with some opposition by civil society groups and eminent persons who termed the move as an infringement on food habits. “Government may have some reasons on why they decided to impose the ban. But it will have an impact on food habit as dog meat is consumed by common people. I have no idea how government will restrict food habits and implement the ban,” said Theja Therieh, secretary, Naga Tribes Council. “I am a dog lover and don’t consume dog meat. But consumption of dog meat has been part of our culture, so instead of taking a hurried decision based on a campaign, mostly from outside the state, the government could have talked to stakeholders first,” said popular musician Alobo Naga. In March, the Mizoram assembly passed the Animal Slaughter Bill, 2020 removing dogs from the list of animals suitable for slaughter, effectively imposing a ban on sale and purchase of dog meat in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-govt-bans-import-trade-and-sale-of-dog-meat/story-0cVivTmo8dt91fynaqTSVM.html
04-07-2020||India||PM Oli’s policies among reasons for hold-up in key Nepal study||Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s anti-India policies are among the reasons why an Eminent Persons Group formed in 2016 to revisit the 1950 Nepal-India Treaty of Peace and Friendship is yet to submit its report to the governments of the two countries despite it being ready almost two years ago, peoplefamiliar with the matter said. The group was formed following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Oli in 2016 to suggest ways for consolidating and transforming the India-Nepal relationship. The treaty is the basis of the free cross-border movement between the two countries as well as their collaboration including on matters of defence.Also read: Under pressure to resign, PM Oli cabinet prorogues parliament’s budget session“It [the report] was supposed to be submitted to PM Modi first [in 2018] and then to the Nepalese side. But there were too many issues that cropped up,” said a government functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity. A second person aware of the matter said, also on condition of anonymity, that the group suggested a revision of the treaty “in line with the changed context” and with more focus on “the social and cultural linkages”.Oli on Sunday accused India of conspiring to topple him for publishing Nepal’s new map that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limpiyadhura (all part of India’s Uttarakhand)as part of the Nepalese territory. The map has triggered tensions between the two countries with India calling the move an “artificial enlargement of territorial claims”. India has maintained the onus was on Nepal to create a positive atmosphere for talks to resolve the border row.Oli’s accusation came amid factional rivalry within the ruling Nepal Communist Party.Asked whether the group had specific recommendations about the border issue, the second person said the group’s mandate did not cover it. “ The idea was to ensure that the borders are open, allowing for more people-to-people contact. The idea was to insulate ties from political vicissitudes.”Also read: Imran Khan to join Xi Jinping to shore up Nepal’s PM Oli against IndiaJawaharlal Nehru University professor Mahendra P Lama, who was a member of the group, said the recommendations in the report were arrived at through consensus and there was no controversy. “The report addresses the aspirations of both the nations and covered a gamut of aspects such as cross open border engagement, trade, transit, investment, climate change, natural resources, culture, institutions, financial cooperation, national security, migration, trafficking, water, energy, and even a pandemic situation,” he said. “It all aimed at consolidating and transforming the relationship to suit the requirements for the 21st century.” Lama confirmed the report was finalised in July 2018.The other members of the group from India included former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is now the Maharashtra governor, former ambassador Jayant Prasad, and the late B C Upreti, who was then a senior fellow with think-tank Vivekananda Foundation.Members from Nepal include Thapa, Nilambar Acharya, Suryanath Upadhyay and Rajan Bhattarai. V K Singh, the then minister of state for external affairs, told Parliament in July 2018 that the group was yet to submit its report to the two governments. He added it was to submit its recommendations at the end of its two-year term. Singh said the group had held nine meetings since July 2016 and last met in Kathmandu in June 2018. Singh’s successor, V Muraleedharan, echoed the former in Parliament in December 2019.The external affairs ministry did not respond to questions on the status of the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oli-s-policies-among-reasons-for-hold-up-in-key-nepal-study/story-e7QRlFyUqIrPaFGfCqp3gM.html
04-07-2020||India||JEE, NEET postponed again till September in wake of Covid-19||The HRD ministry on Friday postponed the medical entrance examination NEET and the engineering entrance test to September after an expert committee felt it was not feasible to hold these competitive exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Keeping in mind the safety of students and to ensure quality education we have decided to postpone the JEE and NEET examinations. The JEE-Main examination will be held between September 1 and 6, while the JEE-Advanced exam will be held on September 27. The NEET examination will be held on September 13,” said Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’.Following the announcement of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, the competitive exams for engineering and medical admissions were first postponed on May 5. The medical entrance exam National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) was scheduled for July 26, while the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains for admission to engineering colleges was to be held from July 18-23.The JEE-Advanced, conducted for admission to Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), was earlier scheduled for August 23.Parents and students have been signing online petitions and conducting social media campaigns, requesting the government to postpone the engineering and medical entrance exams as well. Parents of nearly 4,000 NRI students based in West Asia also filed a petition in the Supreme Court Wednesday demanding that NEET be postponement. Around nine lakh aspirants have registered for the JEE (main) exam, while 16 lakhs have registered for the NEET-Undergraduate exams. Raising concern over the worsening of the pandemic, candidates across the country have been demanding the postponement of the exams.According to HRD Ministry officials, the committee, headed by National Testing Agency (NTA) chief Vineet Joshi felt that delaying the exams was inevitable since many test centres were located in containment zones.The delay, however, is likely to impact the academic calendar. According to sources, the counselling for the two crucial exams will begin in October and freshers may begin classes by November end or December first week. However, a definite plan has not been drawn yet.Significantly, the move comes at a time when the HRD ministry is already deliberating moving the entire academic year further. The University Grants Commission (UGC) will soon examine the suggestion provided by an expert panel headed by Central University of Haryana Vice Chancellor RC Kuhad on the issue of exams and commencement of new academic session.The ministry is learnt to be considering using an averaging formula to ensure the last academic year can be closed in varsities where holding exams is difficult while it is also considering shifting the start of the academic year towards October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-postponed-again-till-september-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-FCbnJLmFc1LTVeGhXh8Z8L.html
04-07-2020||India||Hackers post NHAI data online, say there’s more||Financial records, contract documents, and employee information of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been posted online by cyber criminals, according to cybersecurity researchers who said the stolen data includes personal identity documents of at least one former chairman of the agency that is responsible for building and maintaining highways in the country.The information was posted online on July 2, two days day after NHAI denied any sensitive information was compromised. The agency, however, confirmed it had on June 28 been the target of ransomware — a type of cyber attack carried out usually by groups looking to make money.Details about the leak were shared with HT by Singapore-based cybersecurity firm Cyfirma, which said in its initial assessment that “the data compromised includes tax information, audit reports, passport copies, identity cards, assessment reports, and many other PII (personally identifiable information) and financial records”.The data was in two files about 1.8GB in size, which the hackers said was 5% of the total information they had. The files, seen by HT, included copies of personal identity documents of a former NHAI chairman Raghav Chandra, included his passport and government ID card.According to Cyfirma’s assessment, the hackers used the Maze ransomware, and the leaks may have been meant to force the NHAI to pay a ransom in order to stop more data from being exposed. “This is how Maze hackers work. They release in batches as they attempt to extort their victims,” said Kumar Ritesh, CEO of Cyfirma, in an email to HT.HT reported the breach on June 29, and NHAI officials at the time denied losing any data. On Thursday, representatives of the agency declined to comment on questions about the new disclosure or if they were negotiating with the hackers.“As NHAI is going digital, it is advancing its security posture further by adopting world’s best cyber security measures at all levels. It is also adopting more proactive measures towards improving the end users IT skills too by adopting tool based user awareness training where user’s IT skill improvement can be monitored and measured,” said Akhilesh Srivastava, chief general manager (IT), of NHAI in response to the questions sent by HT.Chandra, who retired in 2018, said he did not think the leak of his personal data would be a security risk. “I don’t think anyone should be in a position to blackmail. But we need to find out the source of the attack. Tendering documents are slightly of vulnerable nature, the process is sacrosanct... NHAI needs to ensure it builds a strong security system to be able to thwart such attacks”.NHAI “should ensure such malware attacks don’t happen in the future given the question of our national image especially in the light of what is happening politically”, the former chairman said.While it was not clear how much ransom may have been sought by the hackers, Ritesh said that typically, “Maze hackers are known to ask in excess of hundreds of thousands of dollars to millions”.Cybersecurity research agencies have not yet indicted any particular group for using Maze, but, according to Ritesh, the techniques overlap with groups based in Russia, China as well as North Korea.“As of now our attribution shows Russian hackers are behind Maze but this is quickly evolving and same techniques are being used by Chinese and Korea cyber criminals groups,” he said.NHAI is responsible for building and maintaining the country’s highways. The agency manages contracts worth millions of rupees in a year, and its network systems are used for sensitive data, including toll management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hackers-post-nhai-data-online-say-there-s-more/story-3UGZ79xViYGogEaolSt5PP.html
04-07-2020||India||GST regime may undergo 2 major reforms this year||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime is expected to see two major reforms in its fourth year--rationalisation of tax rates based on prudence rather than political considerations, and further easing of compliance--people aware of the matter said.The people said three-slab GST rates instead of four could be considered--8%, 18%, and 28% in place of current slabs of 5%, 12%, 18%, and 28%. They said the GST Council is also considering correcting duty distortions for sectors like textile, furniture, and fertiliser, where taxes on inputs are more than the finished goods.Also read: Late fee for monthly GST returns capped till July at Rs 500“Both the reduction in tax slabs and correction of inverted duty structure would lead to both increase and decrease in tax rates of some items. As the economy is still recovering from nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, the council may take a decision on rate rationalisation at an appropriate time so that both businesses and consumers would not be adversely affected. But ease of compliance is an ongoing process and it would continue,” one of the persons said on condition of anonymity.GST was launched in 2017 as India’s biggest-ever tax reform to replace more than a dozen federal and state levies. Officials said it has evolved and stabilised with a robust system and that 10 million GST returns are filed and almost Rs 1 trillion crore collected monthly. They added now the time has come to finetune it and make it more efficient so that tax collection increases and the system is more accessible for taxpayers.“The matters will, however, be decided by the GST Council,” the person said.The Union finance minister-led GST Council is an apex federal body that decides all matters related to the indirect tax. State finance ministers are the council’s members and its decisions have conventionally been unanimous.Experts, businesses, and some council members have said GST appeared to be complicated for the taxpayers even three years after it was introduced. West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday told CNBC TV18 that it was difficult for a common businessman to comply with GST as about 140 circulars and 165 forms related to it have been issued in three years. He added in effect they have 24 returns to fill. Mitra’s comments coincided with GST’s third anniversary.A second person cited above said the indirect tax reform was massive that brought uniform structure after merging a plethora of local levies. “In itself, it is the ease of compliance for taxpayers. Yes, it is a dynamic system that is constantly improving. Therefore, [there is a] need to issue circulars, which are issued as per the direction of the GST council. Hence, no state member should say that the decision was imposed on them,” the person aware of the council’s decisions said, requesting anonymity.Also read: PMI, GST data indicate economic recovery“In fact, everything pertaining to GST is an outcome of collective decisions. Therefore, the responsibilities are also shared. Even West Bengal has issued 127 circulars. In one of the meetings of the council, it was decided that states will also issue circulars similar to the Centre. So whenever a circular is issued, the Centre shares it with them.”The finance ministry did not respond to queries related to the matter.Commenting on the third anniversary of GST, Abhishek Jain, a tax partner at consultancy firm EY India, said the government has achieved two basic objectives--uniformity and elimination of cascading impact of taxes.Mahesh Jaising, a partner at Deloitte India, said, “Starting with the fourth year of GST, the regime now embarks on the next phase of maturity. The largely faceless, contactless, and cashless indirect tax regime has been a classic example of how technology-driven policy or system makes a regime effective and efficient,” said Jaising.“It is paramount that a more simplified assessment and audit framework emerges, as we move to the phase of tax audits by tax authorities. We expect a finer relook into the categorisation of commodities and GST rate rationalisation to meet the challenges arising out of the new economic order or say, the new normal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-regime-may-undergo-2-major-reforms-this-year/story-6T1vs7DSWJs6X1HsdZEqNM.html
04-07-2020||India||Congress writes to EC, objects to provision of postal ballots||The Congress on Friday alleged that the government had not consulted any political parties, other than the ruling party, to amend the poll conduct rules ahead of the Bihar election. The ministry of law and justice amended the conduct rules on June 19, on the recommendation of the Election Commission (EC), to allow senior citizens over the age of 65 to vote using postal ballots in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The manner in which this decision has been taken demonstrates a complete non-application of mind and a shocking circumvention of any consultation process with the key stakeholders (i.e; any other political parties other than the ruling regime). Even upon a cursory examination, the numerous legal deficiencies in this decision become apparent,” the party said in its representation. The move comes after CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury had said that extending the postal ballot would give the ruling party an edge. The EC had responded to Yechury on Wednesday, stating that the chief electoral officer of Bihar had held consultations with various political parties before the decision was taken.Senior leaders Ahmed Patel, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Kapil Sibal, KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala submitted the Congress representation. They have asked the EC to invoke its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution of India to withdraw the amendment. The party has argued that the government has “failed to consider” that the allowing the exercise of postal ballot will violate the basic tenet of secrecy of the vote, increase the risk of Covid-19 transmission and expose voters to administrative influence. “This Commission has lent its support to an amendment which exposes a high percentage of voters to organized administrative influence or influence by the Government or the ruling party or their agents or any number of individuals who shall be able to identify these individuals in advance (with ease) and influence how they vote without the protection of the secret ballot. Endangering the integrity of the voting process and undermining its sanctity in this fashion on a potentially massive scale is simply unacceptable,” states the representation. EC officials told Hindustan Times that they had heard the party representation with an “open mind” and will consider their representation. “Everyone is entitled to a viewpoint,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. “State and district-level talks were held before the decision was taken. This is an enabling provision.”The official further added that same practice had been tested in the Jharkhand and Delhi elections. “No one opposed it, why now,” said the official. Former chief election commissioner Vikram Sampath countered the Congress claim that extending the postal ballot will compromise the secrecy of the vote. “The Commission will take adequate precautions to maintain the sanctity of the election,” he told HT. “There is nothing to fear.”Sampath added that the EC visits a state that is going to polls three to four times before the elections are conducted. “They take the feedback of the political parties and only then issue any directives. No decision is taken arbitrarily.” BJP spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh said, “The Congress has a habit of complaining. The EC is an independent body, they know what they are doing. The people of this country who have voted for Narendra Modi also have an independent view and have made an informed choice. Will the Congress complain against them too?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-writes-to-ec-objects-to-provision-of-postal-ballots/story-b1TnArHvT2zvz4iOrEp8YM.html
04-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu becomes 2nd state to cross 100,000-mark||Tamil Nadu on Friday became the second state in India to cross one lakh cases, with a total of 102,721 people infected with Covid-19 disease in the state where five districts, including Chennai, are under an intense lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. However its high case load must be seen in relation to another important figure: its testing numbers. As of Friday, a total of 1.27 million people have been tested in 91 testing facilities, which is the highest in the country in absolute numbers. Between June 19 and June 30, when the state announced a hard lockdown in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, and Chengalpattu (Madurai was put under lockdown on June 23, and the lockdown was extended to July 5 earlier this week), 327,214 people were tested across the state. Since June 20, there has been a spike in testing, with over 30,000 people tested everyday on average.Health department officials say that high caseload shouldn’t scare people as it is a result of Tamil Nadu’s strategy of “aggressive and increased testing” and that the state’s focus is to reduce its fatalities. The state has a case fatality rate of 1.3%, which is low when compared to the national average of 2.9%. Experts said the high numbers can also be attributed to the movement of people across the state post Unlock 1 which started on June 8. Also read: Delhi logs 2,520 fresh Covid-19 cases, capital’s count swells to 94,695“We have a free hand in high testing which we will continue and allow cases to come down organically,” TN health secretary J Radhakrishnan told Hindustan Times. “Even if a person has a single symptom of fever, sore throat, cough or body pain, they can get tested now.”The state government initially announced a 12-day intense lockdown in Chennai and three of its adjoining districts from June 19 allowing people to commute for only medical emergencies, airports, train stations and walk for essentials like groceries. On June 23, Madurai district also came under a lockdown to arrest the spike in cases in the district. On Monday, Tamil Nadu extended the lockdown, even though the expert health panel appointed to advice it in dealing with the pandemic felt that improved public health measures were the need of the hour rather than a lockdown.However, the state felt that the lockdown was warranted, as officials found that even symptomatic people were avoiding getting tested because they didn’t want to be in quarantine. Besides this, people were also not following norms of social distancing or wearing masks while in public. The intense lockdown was meant to address all of this. “Because of less movement we are able to identify people and test the same day very close to their homes through mobile and static sample testing facilities. Earlier they had to wait for 2-3 days to be tested even if they had symptoms,” Radhakrishnan said. Experts agree that Tamil Nadu was able to scale up testing – it had started sending samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune in March itself -- owing to a robust public health infrastructure that had been in the making since the AIDS epidemic, and the H1N1 outbreak in 2010, when Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing facilities, widely used to test Covid-19 samples, came up across several districts. Chennai with 64,689 cases accounting for 62.9% of the total case load in the state had scaled up testing to 10,000 per day during the most recent lockdown period. Though the state health department hasn’t shared district-wise testing data, health officials said that Chennai was testing in the range of 3,000 to 5,000 people per day in May and June respectively.Also read: Coming soon, women cops on bikes across Kerala on Covid-19 dutyThe Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) increased fever camps from 300 in May to 520 camps currently across Chennai’s 200 wards. Between May 8 and July 2, a total of 29, 051 swabs haven taken at these fever camps and 33,090 people with detected with influenza like illness (ILI) symptoms. In June, the GCC also recruited over 4000 volunteers, called Friend of Covid Person Under Surveillance (FOCUS), to assist the existing Covid-19 network of health workers. The job of the volunteers was two-fold: watching families under home quarantine, and helping them with essential services. These volunteers are paid Rs 500 a day and have been recruited till September.The civic body came up with a new strategy pegged on home quarantining even those who were likely to be infected to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. Called the home quarantine and isolation monitoring system (HQIMS), it focused on 18 categories of people include those awaiting Covid-19 test results, positive patients undergoing home treatment, discharged patients, international and domestic passengers coming via flights, trains, road or sea, family and extended contacts, and people with influenza-like illness.Most people in these categories were already mandated to be in 14-day isolation, but the strategy widened the net on who must undergo isolation.This new system was developed to keep up with the evolving situation of the pandemic. “In April, all positive patients were treated at the hospital. The concept of home quarantine for treatment progressed at a later stage,” GCC deputy commissioner for revenue and finance, Meghanathan Reddy who is overseeing this project, told HT.Surveyors had already been going door-to-door checking people for symptoms since May and during the lockdown they were armed with thermal scanners. Anyone with fever, cough or any other symptoms, would be asked to visit the nearest fever camp. “We are in a better position now in terms of testing and surveillance compared to April. Corporation has also home quarantined a large number of people who are likely to infect others. All these measures and the current lockdown has reduced transmission in Chennai. We can reassess that in two weeks. But when we open up again transmission will increase which we can manage through mask compliance and continue surveillance, testing and isolation,” a member of the expert panel said on condition of anonymity, adding that specific restrictions like suspending public transport and large gatherings in Chennai and other districts, should continue after the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-becomes-2nd-state-to-cross-100-000-mark/story-NwwtyMPtjvnPN4wvewOCtN.html
04-07-2020||India||HT Salutes: UP’s trio that gives dignity to dead||At a time when the country was grappling with deaths caused due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a poet, a social worker and a state government employee based in Lucknow have been helping the underprivileged in a manner that no one else has.Between March and June, the trio cremated 15 unclaimed bodies in Bhaisakund crematorium, the largest of the three crematoriums in the city which handled close to 800 bodies a month in pre-pandemic times. The city has 23 shelters for homeless people, but government estimates put the number of street dwellers at 3000. Unclaimed bodies – usually of street and pavement dwellers, whose families cannot be traced – are routinely cremated here, said Surya Vikram Singh, incharge of electric crematorium in Lucknow Municipal Corporation. Between March and May, 161 such bodies were cremated. For Verma, 45, a published poet, and her partners, Deepak Mahajan, 60, a clerk in the rural engineering department, and Mohammad Azhar Hussain, 26, a social worker, this work isn’t new. They have been working with the underprivileged in the city since 2018, and helping the police cremate unclaimed bodies. However, during Covid, their work became all the more significant. Special guidelines on the handling bodies of infected persons during the pandemic were issued by the Centre even as instances reports of families refusing to accept bodies of their kin, and communities refusing to allow burial of bodies in neighbourhoods emerged from around the country. And though the Uttar Pradesh state government has not issued specific guidelines on cremating uninfected persons -- the trio only cremates such bodies -- Verma ensures that they all wear personal protective gear like masks and gloves. “I decided to continue doing this work at a time when no one wanted to touch those bodies fearing the spread of coronavirus,” Verma said. “I used to see a lot of [homeless] people suffering. If they fell ill, there was no one to take care of them. [The three of us] decided to work for those who often end up dying on the road in the absence of proper medical care,” she said. All unclaimed bodies are usually sent to a mortuary for post-mortem before cremation, chief medical superintendent of Civil Hospital Ashutosh Dubey said. “Versha is known for her work of bringing the underprivileged to the hospital for treatment. It’s the duty of police to cremate such bodies but sometimes they call Versha when they are busy.”Police inspectors Kuldeep Singh and Raj Bahadur, who are attached to the mortuary of the government-run KGMU hospital said that they often call upon Verma when their workload is high.“We started cremating bodies of deprived about two and half years ago. We are in constant touch with police, and ask them to let us know when we can help,” Verma said.Shraddha Saxena, chairperson Ansh Welfare Foundation and a well-known social worker in the city said, “When cremated by police, the bodies are usually taken in an open rickshaw packed in a cloth, but people like Versha arrange for a bus and bring the body to the crematorium with respect.”Mahajan pointed out that they do the work using the funds of the Divya Sewa Foundation, which they set up to do social work, in 2017.Since Bhaisakund is located on riverfront of Gomti, Verma and her colleagues immerse the ashes of the bodies they cremate.“I feel satisfied when I respectfully perform the cremation and immerse the ashes in Gomti, I don’t want anything in return, I just want eternal peace and calm [for them],” Verma said.Verma’s husband, Rakesh is an engineer in state public works department. He recalls feeling fearful when Verma continued to do her work during the lockdown as well. “I was worried about her health especially when it comes to handling of bodies.”.Verma is a role model for her 14-year-old daughter, Nandini, who wants to grow up to be just like her mother: a social worker.Hindustan Times and Facebook have partnered to bring you 15 stories of HT Salutes. HT is solely responsible for the editorial content of this series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-trio-that-gives-dignity-to-dead/story-hCwTUFg33ejzh2lSa7zZXI.html
04-07-2020||India||First House panel to discuss preparedness to tackle Covid-19||The Jairam Ramesh-led science and technology committee will be the first parliamentary panel to debate India’s preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, when it meets on July 10. In its first meeting after the pandemic emerged, the standing committee will discuss the broad topic of “Preparedness to deal with Covid and other pandemic in future”. While the panel will briefly look back at how the country has tackled the disease, primarily to draw important lessons, “we will also look at the post-Covid situation as well (future) preparedness for such pandemics,” said a member of the panel who asked not to be named. The focus will sharply remain on boosting India’s research and technological capabilities to fight pandemics.After the budget session of Parliament abruptly came to an end on March 23, no department-related standing committee has met due to lockdown restrictions. India imposed a 68-day lockdown, in four phases , starting March 25. It ended on May 31. Some panels have consulted members through email for presenting reports and a few committee meetings have been scheduled in the next few days but their agenda is not directly related to Covid.The science and technology panel will look into various aspects related to the pandemic. “It will take an overall look at the country’s capabilities to tackle a pandemic which will also include the research on vaccine and production of personal protection equipment,” said the member cited above. The panel may also stress on the need to strengthen India’s vaccine programme so that the country might be in a better position if a new virus arrives at Indian shores.The panel will not focus so much on health, said the member, because Parliament has a separate committee on health affairs.Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha secretariat issued guidelines for committee meetings on Friday that said not more than five officials should be called for deposition and if more officers come, they will have to sit outside and wait for their turn. There will not be any verbatim reporting service and no papers will be circulated physically. The members have also been advised to use hand sanitizer and adhere to social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-house-panel-to-discuss-preparedness/story-eBfTFisyhLb09bt90qCoIO.html
04-07-2020||India||ICMR sets August 15 deadline for world’s 1st Covid-19 vaccine||India’s topmost medical research body ICMR said on Friday that it is attempting to launch the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 15, triggering disbelief among scientists who say the process requires painstaking trials and analysis and cannot reliably be completed in the six weeks that remain for the deadline. The plan was disclosed in a letter by the Indian Council of Medical Research to 12 institutes where human trials are to be held for the vaccine, Covaxin, ordering them to secure necessary approvals from internal committees by July 7 with a warning that “non-compliance will be viewed very seriously”.The vaccine has been jointly developed by ICMR and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech (BBIL), with the latter itself previously indicating that a vaccine could take more time. In an interview to The New Indian Express on Wednesday, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said that if clinical trials of Covaxin met safety and efficacy standards, the vaccine could be available for mass use by early 2021. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBut ICMR has other plans as evident in the do-or-die tone of its letter. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by 15th August 2020 after completion of all clinical trials. BBIL is working expeditiously to meet the target, however final outcome will depend on the cooperation of all clinical trial sites involved in this project,” said the letter signed by Balram Bhargava, the director-general of ICMR. Clinical trials include a clutch of tightly monitored inoculation among sets of volunteers to test whether a vaccine is safe and works – a process that on average has taken over 10 years. In a pandemic, this timeline can be compressed, but most experts believe that is still likely to take 12-18 months – making India’s plans on Covaxin scientifically implausible.“I would have understood if the company had made such claims but DG-ICMR making this unscientific claim doesn’t make sense. Anyone who has even basic knowledge of how clinical trials work, would know this is completely unscientific,” said an official at one of the institutes selected for the process, asking not to be named.Criticised for setting an unreasonable deadline that would affect safety, efficacy and quality, ICMR later suggested that it was only making an effort to put out trial data by August 15. “Request has been made to fast track the vaccine trials,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR, in a text message. No order was issued.Experts pointed out that even this objective seemed improbable for the August 15 deadline. “Developing an effective vaccine is a time-consuming process. Recruitment of participants in itself can take months even if we try to expedite everything like we are doing for Covid-19. Each of the phases — one, two and three — should take at least a few months as it is not just one centre but multiple centres that are involved in conducting trials to determine safety and efficacy of a vaccine,” said Anant Bhan, a researcher in bioethics and global health.“In one month, it is possible to determine immediate safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of a candidate vaccine. This is sufficient to determine whether the approach has some promise or not. However, promising at this stage means just that, not effectiveness in preventing infections,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi.Covaxin is yet to enter the clinical trials phase, a stage that 18 vaccine candidates across the world have already raced to. The earliest any of these expect to determine safety and efficacy is not until second quarter of next year.Also read: Delhi logs 2,520 fresh Covid-19 cases, capital’s count swells to 94,695ICMR’s position also surprised experts because data about the vaccine’s preclinical performance has not been made public yet. “It is very ambitious and probably unprecedented. You can’t rush science. It is one thing to do something and another to do it properly. It is not possible to do it properly in such a short span of time,” Bhan said. One expert said while it usually takes four to five years, human trials can be finished in a year in the case of Covid-19. “Normally for phase 1, 2 and 3 human trials, it takes about four to five years, but this is an unprecedented situation where everyone is talking Covid so the process can be finished in about a year,” said Dr NK Mehra, ICMR chair and former head, transplants immunology and immunogenetics department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIIMS).Another doctor at AIIMS, which is one of the institutes were the trials will be held, said: “We are waiting for the ethics committee clearance and unless I get that I cannot comment on that. I don’t know how much time it will take for the approvals; could be 15 days or probably a month. I can’t say,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department, and one of the trial conductors.Bharat Biotech is among seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines. It was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin phase 1 and phase 2 human trials on Monday.A Bharat Biotech spokesperson declined to comment on the letter, but said pre-clinical studies of the vaccine showed “extensive safety and effective immune responses”..The Sars-CoV-2 strain that causes Covid-19 was isolated in ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and transferred to Bharat Biotech on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-sets-aug-15-deadline-for-world-s-1st-covid-vaccine/story-ihgC6NFhEVeLFPBj9CLjHO.html
04-07-2020||India||Delhi may go past Covid peak in August if cases keep falling: Experts||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will enter its post-peak period in Delhi in the first week of August if the Capital maintains a steady decline in cases — which have averaged at 2,494 a day over the past week compared to 3,446 daily cases the week before — according to public health experts.The experts said that the reduction marks a definite flattening in the new Covid-19 cases curve, but does not yet classify as a “reversal” of a peak because an untapped cluster or lack of precautions by people could still lead to a spike that pushes the daily cases higher than they have been so far. If the same trajectory continues, and new cases fall to about 1,500 a day for at least a week before falling further, then it can be said that the peak has passed, they added.Also read| Centre first opposed, then copied Delhi’s isolation rules: AAPActive Covid-19 cases, or the number of people currently infected in Delhi has averaged around 26,000 for the past three weeks despite testing going up three times from 6,130 tests on May 31, to 18,586 on June 30 -- which indicates an encouraging levelling off.Delhi’s current positivity rate is 15.9%, down from 37% on June 13, when one in three people being tested for Covid-19 were diagnosed with the infection, which has infected 94,695 and killed 2,923 since it was first reported in the Capital on March 2.“There has been a flattening, no doubt, with Delhi recording less than half of the numbers projected by the state government three weeks ago. If containment measures stay at the same levels, we would see a reduction by the end of the month and we will be over the peak in beginning of August. We can say the peak is over only after new cases have more than halved over a sustained period, say, from 3,000 a day to 1,500 day for at least a week,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, professor of pulmonology and director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Other public health experts and epidemiologists agreed that the number of cases will fall by July-end, and accounting for slip-ups in containment, Delhi may get over the peak in early August.“With very energetic household surveillance and increased testing, case count will rise for a few weeks. If this is accompanied by effective contact tracing and isolation, the case count should start falling by late July or early August and daily death count a fortnight later,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Daily deaths on average declined marginally to 62 this week, from last week’s average of 66. Since corresponding reduction in deaths get reflected around two weeks days after a decline in infections, there is likely to be a fall in daily deaths in Deli in another week to 10 days, the experts said.“A fall in daily deaths over 10 consecutive days is a more stable indicator of decline in new cases as it accounts for undiagnosed cases as well. Deaths should be assessed accurately, both in and out of hospital, through testing and symptom-based verbal autopsy,” said Dr Reddy. Verbal autopsy is a public health tool relies on extensive interviews of health workers and caregivers to identify the cause of undiagnosed death symptomatically at the community or population level.“It’s difficult to predict peaks, whether it is in Delhi or Tamil Nadu, because a lot depends on human behaviour and the protective measures taken after opening up. Cases go up as restrictions lift, which makes it important to widen testing to detect and contain,” said Dr Manoj Murhekar, director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai.Also read| Coronavirus: After govt nod, Delhi hospitals start antigen testingThe average daily testing is at its peak in Delhi so far, with an average of 19,000 samples being tested a day over the past one week -- the highest per million population anywhere in India -- compared to 16,000 a week ago, and 7,000 a week before that.A post-peak period signifies that pandemic activity appears to be decreasing, but countries need to be prepared for additional waves, according to World Health Organisation (WHO). “Pandemics have been characterised by waves of activity spread over months... Pandemic waves can be separated by months and an immediate ‘at-ease’ signal may be premature. It is important to maintain surveillance and update pandemic preparedness and response plans accordingly,” according to a WHO document on pandemic phases .Dr Guleria cited the United States, where authorities thought they had a hold on the pandemic when cases fell after the New York peak and opened up too soon, leading to a second wave of infection. “The same happened in Bangalore, where cases rose after falling because the state opened up and people became complacent,” he said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also warned against complacency in a web briefing on Thursday. “Experts are commenting on social media that Delhi’s peak has come and gone. Don’t listen to them. Wear masks, maintain social distancing, wash hands regularly, don’t make a mistake,” he said. “We have managed to bring the situation under control after a concerted effort. There is a saying, hope for the best, prepare for worst. That’s what we have to do.”Cases continue to rise in the rest of the country, however. India crossed 20,000 cases in a day for the third time on July 3, for a total tally of 649,425 at a doubling rate of 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-may-go-past-covid-peak-in-aug-if-cases-keep-falling-experts/story-nUyp7Wt3nYIjqdUTyby3DP.html
04-07-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine in India: Experts puzzled, say decision premature||Scientists are sceptical about the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) plan to compress three phases of clinical trials into five weeks to develop an indigenous coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine for public use by August 15, with some saying any conclusions drawn from trials done in such a short period would be highly suspect.Vaccine development, on average, takes 10.71 years from the pre-clinical phase, and a vaccine under development has a mere 6% chance of entering the market, according to a study in journal PLOS One that highlights the challenges and complications in developing a vaccine. In a pandemic scenario, the process can be expedited but is still expected to take 12-18 months.“For a vaccine for which pre-clinical development is still ongoing, as per the letter itself, how can clinical trial recruitment be starting on July 7? And that the vaccine will be launched on August 15? A vaccine trial completed in little over a month, efficacy pre-decided?” said Anant Bhan, a bioethics and global health expert, in a tweet on Friday.The challenges in vaccine development stem from the vast amount of bioengineering, experimentation and analysis involved. The process starts with creating the vaccine in a lab and testing it in animals – the preclinical stage that the Bharat Biotech and ICMR’s Covaxin vaccine is in at present. It is followed by several rounds of clinical trials in which it is assessed for safety, how much dosage is required and to ultimately determine, with certainty, that it is indeed effective. Covaxin was granted drugs controller’s approval for human trials on June 29.“In one month, it is possible to determine immediate safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of a candidate vaccine. This is sufficient to determine whether the approach has some promise or not. However, promising at this stage means just that, not effectiveness in preventing infections,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi.“You do not usually find a perfect dose in one go; and finding the right dose is important for the second round of trials as you need to inject the right dosage. All this takes time. Ideally, by letting nature take its course, September or October would be the time to know the status of antibodies. Efficacy studies take longer and in India we don’t follow human challenge experiments, wherein you expose a person to the target virus as there are ethical issues involved since we don’t pay trial participants. We look at probably a year at least by following most ethical ways,” said Agrawal. According to Bhan, developing an effective vaccine is a time-consuming process. “Recruitment of participants in itself can take months even if we try to expedite everything like we are doing for Covid-19. Each of the phases— one, two and three— should take at least a few months as it is not just one centre but multiple centres that are involved in conducting trials to determine safety and efficacy of a vaccine,” he said. “Then there is time required to transport the vaccine vials to these centres to inject people, for seeking ethics committee approvals individually, and to seek an informed consent of each participant, then data will be generated and analysed; all this will take at least a year,” said Bhan.“If you ask me, 30-45 days can go only in establishing the safety of the drug, if everything falls in place. Efficacy trials take longer as it requires recruiting larger sample size, and you have to not just generate data but also need time to analyse it properly,” Bhan added.The Central Trials Registry of India has registered the trial on July 1 for phase 1 and 2, and experts say the best case scenario on August 15 would be to announce that it has made a promising start.Clinical trial data is closely scrutinised before approvals are given, said an official at the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. “The animal testing results for Covaxin were promising and approvals for phase 1 and 2 human trials was given on that basis. We have subject experts who closely review data, including animal, human, chemical and stability data before approving a vaccine. Companies can claim what they want, but all protocols will be followed as we are responsible for not just national but also international supply chains,” said a CDSCO official, requesting anonymity. According to the timeline that experts are drafting as a run-up to the August 15 deadline, the participants will be injected the vaccine a few days after July 7 when their recruitment is expected to be complete. By end of July or early August antibody titers will be measured, and by 15th it will be determined whether the vaccine is safe. In a recent interview with HT, Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director, Dr Krisha Ella, said for him, animal trials are crucial in the process of developing a vaccine. “For me animal trials are going to be delayed because I have to establish safety and efficacy but human trials will be very fast. My worry is only the animal trials as I want to establish the safety and efficacy, that’s extremely critical.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-sets-aug-15-deadline-for-world-s-1st-covid-vaccine/story-GDejnwNhBqaR3OoJD54PUK.html
04-07-2020||India||Congress attacks PM Modi for not naming China||The Congress on Friday questioned when will India look Beijing in the eye while criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not naming China in his address to soldiers in Ladakh amid a military stand-off between the two countries in the region. In a tweet, Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, asked why is “the Prime Minister of a strong India so weak?” He referred to Modi’s June 28 monthly radio broadcast, address to the nation two days later, and Friday’s speech in Ladakh and noted none of them mentioned China. “How long will he desist from taking China’s name?”Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Modi, asking “who took our land” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto border with China. “Ladakhis say: China took our land. PM says: Nobody took our land. Obviously, someone is lying,” he tweeted with a short video tagged to it.The Prime Minister’s Office on June 20 clarified Modi’s remarks at an all-party meeting a day earlier that no intruder was on Indian territory across LAC with China and that no Indian military post had been captured were being given a “mischievous interpretation”. The clarification came after the Congress attacked Modi for surrendering Indian territory in the face of Chinese aggression.Modi, whose visit to Ladakh came days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on June 15, emphasised the time for expansionism is over. He added India is becoming stronger and its commitment to peace should not be seen as a sign of weakness.Another Congress leader, Manish Tewari, earlier referred to late former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s visit to Ladakh before the 1971 war that led to Bangladesh’s creation and added China was also then massing troops along the border there to take the heat off Pakistan. “After she [Indira Gandhi] visited Leh she sliced Pakistan into two. Let us see what he does?” Tewari tweeted. He tagged a picture of Indira Gandhi’s address to soldiers in Leh in 1971.“[Chinese] PLA [People’s Liberation Army] was massing troops in Galwan Valley to take heat of their ally Pakistan. 4th July 1971 Leh visit was a message to them to lay off. Like she never blinked when [US president Richard] Nixon sent the Seventh Fleet into the Bay of Bengal,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-attacks-pm-modi-for-not-naming-china/story-mlrdF1pr2voDZ4MC52MNkO.html
04-07-2020||India||Time not right to add to tension, says China||Beijing on Friday asked New Delhi to avoid any “strategic miscalculation on China,” and complications of tensions along the India-China border hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Ladakh amid a stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops there. Modi’s visit to Ladakh came days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash there with Chinese troops on June 15. Speaking in Ladakh, Modi emphasised the time for expansionism is over. He added India is becoming stronger and its commitment to peace should not be seen as a sign of weakness.“India and China are in communication and negotiations on lowering the temperatures through military and diplomatic channels. No party should engage in any action that may complicate the situation at this point,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, said at a regular briefing on Friday.Modi’s visit is being closely monitored in China as New Delhi begins a calibrated response, including economic measures, to the standoff.Also read| ‘Expansionism era over, your fire and fury seen’: PM to soldiers in LadakhWhen asked about a possibility of a ban on Chinese companies from building roads in India, Zhao said New Delhi should focus on “common interests in bilateral relations”.“Certain politicians in India have been issuing remarks that are detrimental to our bilateral relations... Our bilateral relations need to be held with concerted efforts. The Indian side should work with us towards the same goal, to uphold the general picture of our common interests in bilateral relations,” Zhao said.“Setting artificial blocks to our concrete and practical cooperation will also harm India’s interest. We will take the necessary measures to uphold the legitimate rights of Chinese businesses in India.”Zhao sidestepped a question about India’s security-related concerns that prompted it to ban 59, mostly Chinese mobile applications, on Monday.“…we should also be aware that India and China are major developing countries; accelerating the renewal and development are historical missions for both of us. To this end, we have to respect and support each other. This is also in the long-term interest of both sides,” he said.Also read: Why is PM Modi talking about unnamed ‘enemy’ to Indians, jawans in Ladakh, asks Chidambaram“If we show misgiving and engage in conflicts, this is not the right way and also goes against the shared aspiration of our people.” He added India and China have to follow the consensus reached between the leaders of the two countries about bilateral relations. “The Indian side should not have strategic miscalculation on China. We hope it will work with China to uphold the overall picture of our bilateral relations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-not-right-to-add-to-tension-says-china/story-QKF8I7ysWVysCdqwMiWqkL.html
04-07-2020||India||Indo-China stand-off: Global support for India grows||Japan on Friday joined a list of countries that have backed India in its border stand-off with China in the wake of behind-the-scenes efforts by New Delhi to drum up support for its position opposing unilateral changes to the Line of Actual control (LAC).Here’s the position adopted by key players in the world community: The US: The White House on Wednesday unequivocally blamed Chinese “aggression” for the confrontation. Quoting President Donald Trump at a briefing, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said, “China’s aggressive stance along the India-China border fits with a larger a pattern of Chinese aggression in other parts of the world and these actions only confirm the true nature of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).” The US also welcomed India’s ban on Chinese apps, with secretary of state Mike Pompeo saying these apps “serve as appendages of the CCP’s surveillance state”.France:French defence minister Florence Parly conveyed “steadfast and friendly support” to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh in a letter on June 29, in which she also expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a violent-face-off with Chinese troops along the LAC on June 15.“This was a hard blow against the soldiers, their families, and the nation. In these difficult circumstances, I wish to express my steadfast and friendly support, along with that of the French armed forces,” Parly wrote, adding she was ready to meet Singh in India to follow up on their discussions. The move comes at a time when the French Navy is looking at ramping up joint exercises and patrols with the Indian Navy in the Indian Ocean region.Also read: PM Modi meets soldiers injured in Galwan Valley clash, says they make 130 cr Indians proudJapan:Japan on Friday backed India in the border standoff with China, saying it opposes any “unilateral attempt to change the status quo” on the LAC. Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki tweeted about his country’s support following a conversation with Indian foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. “Japan also hopes for peaceful resolution through dialogues. Japan opposes any unilateral attempts to change the status quo,” he said in the tweet. The move was akin to Japan’s support to India during the 2017 Doklam stand-off with China. It came at a time when Japan is engaged in a row with China over Chinese vessels intruding into its territorial waters around the disputed Senkaku Islands.Australia:Prime Minister Scott Morrison referred to the India-China standoff when he launched Australia’s 2020 Defence Strategic Update and 2024 Structure Plan on Wednesday. “Tensions over territorial claims are rising across the Indo-Pacific region, as we have seen recently on the disputed border between India and China, and the South China Sea, and the East China Sea,” he said.The Indo-Pacific area is the epicentre of strategic competition and the risk of miscalculation and even conflict is growing, he said. While hiking Australia’s defence budget to $270 billion for a 10-year period, Morrison said it wouldn’t just be China and the US that will determine whether the region “stays on path for free and open trade, investment and cooperation”, but India, Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam too have choices to make and parts to play.The remarks came against the backdrop of Australia banning China’s Huawei from its 5G sector and blaming a “sophisticated state actor” for extensive cyber-attacks on the government, essential service providers and critical infrastructure.Asean:Though members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean)have been silent on the India-China standoff, the leaders of the 10 states in grouping recently rejected China’s claim to almost the whole of the South China Sea. They said the 1982 UN oceans treaty should be the basis of sovereign rights and entitlements in the disputed waters.The leaders took the position in a statement issued by Vietnam on behalf of the bloc on Saturday. “We reaffirmed that the 1982 UNCLOS is the basis for determining maritime entitlements, sovereign rights, jurisdiction and legitimate interests over maritime zones,” the statement said, referring to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which defines rights of nations to the oceans and demarcates exclusive economic zones. The move came as two US aircraft carriers began joint exercises in the Philippine Sea.The UK:Britain, which is having its own problems with China over a tough new security law for Hong Kong, said in reference to the India-China stand-off that “violence is in no one’s interest”. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday said China had committed a “clear and serious breach” of the agreement under which Hong Kong was handed over to Chinese authorities. Earlier, a British high commission spokesperson expressed concern about the stand-off with China and said, “We encourage China and India to engage in dialogue on issues relating to the border – violence is in no one’s interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-support-for-india-grows/story-bnsZn2vwOoXFLLbnjxUHpO.html
04-07-2020||India||Tejashwi Yadav’s apology for ‘mistakes’ during RJD rule in Bihar election stunt: BJP||Leaders of the National Democratic Alliance in Bihar on Friday dismissed it as an “election stunt” the apology sought by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav for “mistakes that might have happened” during his party’s 15-year-rule.Assembly elections in Bihar are due later this year.On Thursday, Tejashwi had said his party was in power for 15 years and there could have been some mistakes made.“ I seek forgiveness if our government made some mistakes during its 15-year rule. I was very young then and I do not know much about it. But I want to remind all that RJD chief Lalu Prasad ushered in social justice and nobody can deny it,” he said while addressing workers at the party office in Patna.The Bharatiya Janata Party and Janata Dal (United) have often called the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s reign as ‘jungle raj’. Tejashwi, on the other hand, has been seeking to corner the ruling alliance on “unabated migration, unemployment and other unfulfilled promises during 15 years of Nitish Kumar’s rule.Reacting to Tejashwi’s remarks, BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand called it an “election stunt”.“ Tejashwi seeking pardon for past mistakes in RJD rule is just an election stunt and a makeover attempt but people of Bihar will not fall in this trap. Just like the people of India will never forgive China and Pakistan for their anti -India activities and Congress would not be forgiven for Sikh riots and ruining Kashmir, people of Bihar will never forgive RJD for its mistakes,” Anand said. State minister and senior JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar said the leader of the opposition should now acknowledge that his father and RJD chief Lalu Yadav and mother Rabri Devi were failures administratively and politically as they headed the government.“Tejashwi should now say who is responsible for the RJD government’s mistakes,” he said.“Tejashwi talks of ushering economic development. Isn’t he himself facing charges of corruption? The so-called claim of RJD of strengthening social justice is also a sham as several massacres took place during its government in which people from weaker sections were killed,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-yadav-s-apology-for-mistakes-during-rjd-rule-in-bihar-election-stunt-bjp/story-pySPtggcoPQRT0Kzfa9WRL.html
04-07-2020||India||PM Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh is a game-changer: Experts||A range of experts and analysts believe that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ladakh, and his speech to troops in the frontlines of the stand-off at the Line of Actual Control, is a possible “game-changer”, an expression of India’s “resolve” to beat Chinese aggression, a clear articulation of Indian redlines, and a message to China that since Beijing broke the relationship, it will have to fix it. Brahma Chellaney, a strategic analyst, suggested that after a period “a concerted government effort to downplay the Himalayan border confrontation and obscure China’s encroachments”, Modi’s visit to the Ladakh front had helped shine a spotlight on the “war-like situation” India confronts. “His speech underscores India’s resolve to beat back the Chinese aggression. And his reference to ‘expansionism’ echoes the mounting international concern over China’s imperial overreach under Xi Jinping, who has simultaneously opened multiple fronts.”Also read| Indo-China stand-off: Global support for India growsIn a reference to the PM’s speech at an all party meeting where he had appeared to suggest that there was no external intrusion (subsequently clarified by the Prime Minister’s Office as only pertaining to the situation in Galwan valley), Chellaney said, “By going to Ladakh, Modi has made amends for the confusion he sowed with his June 19 televised speech on the border situation.”Lieutenant General (retired) Syed Ata Hasnain said that the visit was a “game-changer”, and a part of India’s continuous “strategic messaging”.“Measures to convey a strong resolve through economic and other domains get hugely supplemented when the PM personally appears at the frontlines. The PM spoke of India’s pursuit of peace and development but that should not be construed as lack of resolve to defend its territorial integrity. Besides the morale boost to troops, the visit will force a Chinese review of its strategy of coercion it has adopted.” Hasnain added that it was a message to the world to stand up to “China’s hegemonistic ambitions”.The message of the speech, Sushant Sareen of the Observer Research Foundation said, was clear. “The door to diplomacy is open and every effort will be made to solve the situation peacefully. At the same time, a redline has been drawn. The PM’s address was a statement of resolve to not back down in face of Chinese bullying, threats and intimidation.” Sareen also saw a longer-term shift in India’s posture in the speech. “Most importantly, it is clear that the PM, who invested a lot in trying to win over China, has now given up. India-China relations are broken, even if this situation gets resolved. It will now take a lot to bring normalcy in the relationship and, as far as India is concerned, all heavy lifting will have to be done by China because it is responsible for damaging the relationship. They broke it, they must fix it.”Also read| ‘We’re bringing modern technology from around world for armed forces’: PM Modi at LadakhBut there were also voices which suggested that there must be a more cautious reading of the speech and what it represented. Christopher Clary, assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, State University of New York and a scholar of South Asian security, said that the PM gave a “boilerplate speech”. “His praise for the sacrifice and bravery of India’s jawans, while heartfelt, was also the least he could do after the events of the last two months. His assertion that the age of expansionism was over perhaps suggests his earlier assurances that China had not expanded into Indian territory were incorrect.” But, he added, that by going to Leh, the PM made “a modest implicit commitment”. “While he did not promise to avenge the fallen, as he did after the 2019 Pulwama attack, his speech would make any further Chinese encroachments on the frontier somewhat more embarrassing. This was not a game changing speech, nor was it a concession that the game was over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-s-surprise-visit-is-a-game-changer-experts/story-rQp6VUcjtCul8cTNcuGGFK.html
04-07-2020||India||To avoid large crowds amid Covid-19, TMC to take annual event to booth level workers||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal is planning to take its annual flagship show – the Martyr’s Day rally on July 21 – to the booth level this time to avoid any large gathering during the Covid-19 pandemic.“It would be a mix-and-match of ground level programs followed by a virtual address by party chief Mamata Banerjee,” said a senior Trinamool Congress leader.West Bengal chief minister and the party’s supremo Mamata Banerjee held a meeting with her party colleagues on Friday to decide on the campaign strategy for the annual event.“While small gatherings would be held at the booth level by leaders and party workers at on that day from 1 pm to 2 pm following all social distancing norms, Banerjee will virtually address the leaders and workers from 2 pm to 3 pm,” said another leader, who attended a meeting.This year, the July 21 rally is being perceived to be all the more important because Mamata could lay down the road map for the crucial Assembly polls next year.Banerjee had earlier said that this year’s Martyr’’s Day programme would be different in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent restrictions on social gatherings across the country.The July 21 Martyrs’ Day Rally has over the years become the Trinamool Congress’ flagship political event and is organized to commemorate the police firing in the state capital on July 21, 1993, in which 13 people were killed during a demonstration by the West Bengal Youth Congress. Banerjee was leading that demonstration.The state’’s ruling Trinamool Congress observes July 21 as Martyr’s Day every year in remembrance of the 13 people shot by the police in Kolkata during a rally organised by the state Youth Congress under Mamata Banerjee’s leadership in 1993, demanding that voter’s identity cards be made the sole required document for casting votes.The TMC’s biggest political adversary, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has already gone virtual with Union home minister Amit Shah holding an onlinel rally on June 9 to address party workers and supporters in Bengal.“The path of holding mega rallies virtually was shown by the BJP. Now they are following us. But it won’t be possible for them to organise it on such a mega scale as we did,” said Sayantan Basu, general secretary of the BJP’s unit in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-avoid-large-crowds-amid-covid-19-tmc-to-take-annual-event-to-booth-level-workers/story-tjSU0FDHLE7DLxwY4JrJRM.html
04-07-2020||India||Govt asks Priyanka Gandhi to vacate bungalow by Aug 1||The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday cancelled the government accommodation provided to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at 56, Lodhi Estate, on the grounds that she is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and so was not eligible for living in the bungalow in the elite Lutyens’ Delhi .“Consequent upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover by Ministry of Home Affairs, which does not have provision for allotment/retention of Government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of Type 68 house No. 35, Lodhi Estate, New Delhi is hereby cancelled w.e.f 01/07/2020. One month concessional period on the same rent up to 01.08.2020 is allowed as per rule,” the letter sent by the ministry said.“Any stay beyond 01.08.2020 will attract damage charges/penal rent as per rules,” it added in the letter, a copy of which has been seen by HT.The ministry has also said that Priyanka Gandhi had accumulated dues of RS 3,46,677 towards the accommodation until June 30. “She has been issued noticed to clear these dues and rent for the period (till) she vacates the accommodation,” the ministry said.Hours after the order, Priyanka Gandhi paid what she owed for living in the house.“Ms Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has made online payment of balance amount due on her. Hence, now dues as on 30.06.2020 is Nil against her,” a spokesperson for the ministry of housing and urban affairs said.“The notice to clear Priyanka’s house shows the uneasiness of Modi ji-Yogi ji. We are not afraid of the frustrated decisions of the authoritarian government,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Priyanka Gandhi has been active on the ground in Uttar Pradesh and had a run-in with the local administration over organising buses to transport migrant workers stranded in other states back to Uttar Pradesh. She is a general secretary of the party in charge of the state. An aide said Priyanka Gandhi planned to move to Lucknow in February to handle her work. “She has readied a home (late Congress leader Sheila Kaul’s house) there, and if it wasn’t for the pandemic, she would have moved there already. Now, we don’t know whether she will move there, but it was the plan before coronavirus struck,” he said on the condition of anonymity.According to the current norms, there are no provisions for allotment or retention of government accommodation to those with Z+ security unless exceptions are made based on recommendations given by the home ministry. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been assigned Z+ security with CRPF {Central Reserve Police Force} cover on all-India basis, which does not have any provision for allotment/ retention of Government accommodation on that ground. She is not a SPG protectee now. Persons with Z+ security cover are not entitled for Government accommodation. Exceptions can be made only by CCA (Cabinet Committee on Accommodation) based on security perception assessment by MHA on their recommendation,” a housing and urban affairs ministry official said on condition of anonymity.“In view of this, she is no longer entitled for Government accommodation and her allotment has been cancelled by the Directorate of Estates,” the official added.The Centre decided to take away the elite SPG protection from Congress president Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul Gandhi and daughter Priyanka Gandhi in November last year. The family was given ‘Z+’ security by the CRPF. Prior to that centre had also withdrawn SPG cover of former prime minister Manmohan Singh.The SPG is a federal law enforcement agency under the Cabinet Secretariat charged providing proximate security to the Prime Minister of India, former Prime Minister and their immediate family members.Priyanka Gandhi was allotted 35, Lodhi Estate on February 21, 1997 on security grounds as an SPG protectee.“Cabinet Committee on Accommodation (CCA) in its meeting held on 07.12.2000 reviewed the guidelines on allotment of Government accommodation on security grounds and decided that in future no private person, other than those who are SPG protectees, shall be given government accommodation on security grounds. Such allotments were to be done at the market rate i.e. 50 times of normal rent,” the official cited above said.A the decision to modify the rules was formally taken by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2015. Senior Congress leader and Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, protested the move and urged the Centre to revoke the order, citing the perceived security threat to the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-priyanka-gandhi-to-vacate-bungalow-by-aug-1/story-2dRI5W8BeaXrcvGdM2PSGJ.html
04-07-2020||India||9 wanted men designated as terrorists under anti-terror law, includes Pannun, Khalistani forces||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday declared nine wanted men, including Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) as designated terrorists under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).US-based Pannun has recently been running a campaign against India and motivating Sikh youngsters in his home state Punjab to join militancy.The others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA include - Paramjit Singh of Babbar Khalsa International, Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force, Gurmit Singh Bagga of Khalistan Zindabad Force and Ranjeet Singh from the same outfit, among others.Last September, the first four terrorists to be declared as individual terrorists under the changed provisions of UAPA were - Maulana Masood Azhar, Hafiz Saeed, Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi and Dawood Ibrahim. With Wednesday’s listing, the total number of people declared individual terrorists now stand at 13. The nine men designated terrorists by the Centre are:1. Wadhawa Singh Babbar, the Pakistan-based chief of terrorist organization Babbar Khalsa International.2. Lakhbir Singh also based in Pakistan. He runs the International Sikh Youth Federation.3. Ranjeet Singh, chief of Pakistan-based Khalistan Zindabad Force.4. Paramjit Singh belonging to the Khalistan Commando Force.5. Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, a Germany-based key member of Khalistan Zindabad Force.6. Gurmeet Singh Bagga also based in Germany and affiliated to the Khalistan Zindabad Force.7. Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, the US-based key member of the controversial outfit Sikhs for Justice.8. Hardeep Singh Nijjar, who is based in Canada and runs the Khalistan Tiger Force.9. Paramjit Singh from the United Kingdom and chief of terrorist outfit Babbar Khalsa International.The nine men have allegedly been involved in various acts of terror in India from across the border and from foreign soil. Pannun has been attempting to revive militancy in Punjab through anti-national activities and some of the others through their support have displayed their involvement in the controversial Khalistan movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-uapa-govt-declares-nine-terrorists-including-gurpatwant-singh-pannu-as-designated-terrorists/story-PH2mRLtw2mE1jCfP5HkpKJ.html
04-07-2020||India||India is planning to topple my govt over map row: Nepal PM||New DelhiNepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday accused India of being behind a conspiracy to topple him for publishing the country’s new map that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory. India has traditionally claimed these, and Nepal’s new claim has worsened relations between the two nations.Oli made the remarks while addressing a meeting held in Kathmandu to mark the birth anniversary of late communist leader Madan Bhandari. The comments come at a time when Oli is facing intense criticism from within the ruling Nepal Communist Party for his governance and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and there is a theory that, just like the map crisis that he precipitated, he may be creating a bogey of a coup to stay ahead.“A conspiracy is being hatched to remove me for releasing the country’s new map and getting it adopted through Parliament. In light of these discussions, the media reports from New Delhi, [the Indian] embassy’s activities and meetings in different hotels in Kathmandu, it’s not difficult to understand how people are openly active to topple me,” Oli said, speaking in Nepali.He added, “There is a race to remove me. It has been said people who commit such crimes should not be allowed to stay. Printing a map is called a crime.”There was no immediate reaction to Oli’s remarks from Indian officials. The Indian side has described Nepal’s new map as an “artificial enlargement of territorial claims” and said the onus is on the Nepalese side to create a positive atmosphere for talks to resolve the border row.On June 18, Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari signed the bill to give legal backing to the new map after it was approved by both houses of Parliament.During an ongoing meeting of the standing committee of the Nepal Communist Party, Oli has faced withering criticism from the faction led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”. A majority of members of the committee are with Prachanda and Oli skipped the committee’s session on Friday. Oli has also said several times that his stance on a nationalistic issue such as the new map will lead to efforts to oust him.“Nepal’s nationalism is not so weak that someone can dream of removing the country’s prime minister for publishing the new map and making it part of the Constitution...It is unthinkable,” Oli said on Sunday.Nepal hadn’t made a mistake as it has only asked for its own land back, and it has not claimed or tried to grab anyone else’s land, he said.Oli also contended he had been removed as the premier in 2016 for signing a transport and transit agreement with China. “Now, they’re having the same dream because the constitutional amendment has been passed and the map has been issued. They are upset on the inside for this crime being committed,” he said.He added that he didn’t covet the post but it was essential for him to remain. If he stepped down at this juncture, it would set a wrong precedent and any other premier who spoke in favour of Nepal would also be forced to quit, he said.The new map became a popular issue among the public and gained widespread backing from all political parties. However, experts said Oli himself doesn’t enjoy the same sort of popularity within his own party.Experts said Oli’s remarks pointed to bilateral ties hitting a new low. Constantino Xavier of Brookings India said in a tweet: “Whether he is right or not, PM Oli’s remarks reflect his internal weakness [and] concern [and a] total breakdown in ties with India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-planning-to-topple-my-govt-over-map-row-nepal-pm/story-4laWNuK5dMgbTpWJt1H4ZM.html
04-07-2020||India||KCR restores full salaries to employees and pensioners after three months of salary cuts||After facing salary cuts in the last three months, all the employees and pensioners of the Telangana government will get their full salaries from July1..A decision to this effect was taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after a meeting with the officials of the finance department on Tuesday.“Since the state economy is getting better to some extent, the salaries of the state government employees and pensioners will be paid in full for this month,” an official statement from the chief minister’s office said.The Telangana government have been enforcing salary cuts ranging from 10 per cent to 75 per cent for all the government employees, all India service officials and elected public representatives with effect from March in view of the financial crisis arising out of lockdown imposed to contain Coronavirus spread.Now that the lockdown has been lifted and economic activity has picked up over the last one month, the financial position of the state has improved some extent. Accordingly, the employees and pensioners would get full salaries for the month of June to paid on July 1.Interestingly, it was only on June 17 that the KCR government promulgated the Telangana Disaster and Public Health Emergency (Special Provisions) Ordinance 2020 seeking to defer payment of salaries, pensions and other dues in the event of disaster and public health emergency in the State.The ordinance empowered the government to defer payment of monthly pay, pension or remuneration to the employee, pensioner or other persons to the extent not exceeding half (50 per cent) the total monthly payment during crisis period. Further, the ordinance mandates the government to pay the deferred amount within six months from the date of deferment. However, the State government may make amendments.This ordinance was challenged by a section of employees and pensioners in the high court, which served notices on the government to submit a counter explaining the reasons for imposing salary cuts. Even before the case came up for hearing, the state government has restored the full salaries for employees and pensioners from this month.Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh government led by Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had already restored full salary to all its employees and pensioners with effect from May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-restores-full-salaries-to-employees-and-pensioners-after-three-months-of-salary-cuts/story-M4ExaVfQfjFwosp4CCeGbJ.html
