05-07-2020||India||Kerala imposes safety rules for 1 yr||ThiruvananthapuramThe Kerala government tightened measures on Sunday to check the spread of Covid-19 cases by making wearing of facemask and observance of social distancing mandatory for one year. The government backed the measures, saying people had begun to take safety rules casually after relaxations. However, traders in the state said the tightening of norms may prove to be counterproductive for businesses.Fine for those not wearing a mask has been increased to Rs 10,000 or to a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.“We don’t want to lower our guard at the critical juncture. After norms are eased, some people are behaving like pre-Covid days; we want to check this. As long as the virus is in our backyard, we have to follow three basic norms, social distancing, masks and hand hygiene,” state health minister K K Shailaja said.The government amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 on Saturday to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2,000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. Spitting in public places has been made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20, depending on the size of the trading area. Even at work places, masks are mandatory and wearing them casually will also invite a fine. Business establishments have been asked to avoid air-conditioning and closed enclosures and told to maintain office temperature in the range of 25 and 27 degree Celsius.While Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter, which wanted stricter norms, welcomed the move, traders and businessmen were guarded in their reaction.“Containment measures are welcome but at the same time the government will have to ensure proper atmosphere for traders. Even at worst-hit areas in Tamil Nadu and Mumbai these norms are not extended to one year,” said MP Prashanth, a trader in Chalai market in Thiruvananthapuram.The decision came in the backdrop of a steady rise in coronavirus disease cases in the state. On Sunday, Kerala reported 225 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 5,429. One person succumbed to the infection, taking the toll up to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-imposes-safety-rules-for-1-yr/story-kKefI2WMNEk9ytOGE9mRjM.html
05-07-2020||India||Three arrested in Bhopal for assault on journalist||The police in Bhopal arrested three people on Sunday on charges of assaulting a journalist on Saturday night, when the journalist objected to their act of drinking and causing a nuisance in his locality, police said.While the Opposition launched an attack on the state government for poor law and order situation in the state capital as only four days back two students including an engineering student were murdered by a group of miscreants when the two refused to give them money for liquor, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and home minister Narottam Mishra spoke of stringent action against the accused. The victim-- Dhanjay Pratap Singh, a resident of Ayodhya Nagar in Bhopal, working with a vernacular daily, sustained a fracture in one of his arms when the accused attacked him with iron rods. He was hospitalised after the attack where his condition was said to be stable, police said.The accused were identified as Mohit Saxena, a resident of Azad Nagar, Anmol, a resident of Awadhpuri and Chirag Walis, a resident of Ayodhya Nagar in Bhopal and they were booked under Sections 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 294 (obscene acts and words in public), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).Earlier, on Thursday night five miscreants including two minors killed two students including an engineering student in Navjivan Colony in Bhopal, after the students allegedly refused to give money to the accused for liquor.According to police, the students- Yogesh Lodhi and Karan Sondhiya with another friend were standing on the road and talking to each other in Navjivan colony when the accused including Virendra Bharti, Akhilesh Mehra and Bharat Vishwakarma met the two minors asked them for money to purchase liquor. When Yogesh and Karan refused to give the money, the accused who were already in an intoxicated state attacked the two with sharp-edged weapons.Later, local residents informed the police. Yogesh and Karan were rushed to hospital where they died in Hamidia Hospital on Friday during treatment. All the five accused were arrested on Saturday.Additional director general (ADG) of police in Bhopal, Upendra Jain said, “In both the incidents police acted swiftly and arrested the accused. Patrolling has been intensified by the police in the capital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-arrested-in-bhopal-for-assault-on-journalist/story-PKBK0OAzCkHrMJHtaS94cK.html
05-07-2020||India||CBSE scales up teacher training programmes despite pandemic||Even as the Covid-19 epidemic has created hurdles in most teaching-learning activities, there is one aspect where its impact has been rather successfully negated — the training of teachers.The country’s premier education board — the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) — has, in the past three months, trained over 200,000 teachers, which, according to a senior official, is no less than a record.“In the past also, the CBSE has actively carried the exercise to train teachers. However, with Covid-19, the entire exercise was moved online. Often in the past, with regular schools on, at times, there were factors that had to be considered regarding the availability of teachers for these training sessions. However, now, there has been a greater reach and the number of teachers trained in latest techniques has crossed two lakhs (200,000) in the April to June period,” said the senior official.To deal with the changes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as to keep pace with other countries, the CBSE has been actively trying to modernise the curriculum and its teaching methodologies.For instance, in July, the board held training for educationists in Augmented Reality, an immersive technology.According to a circular issued by Biswajit Saha, the CBSE’s director (trainings and skill education), immersive technology, such as Augmented Reality (AR), is going to be one of the most significant technologies of the future.He said the CBSE will continue to hold training sessions for teachers. In the next phase, the CBSE will introduce AR and digital safety programmes for 30,000 students in each category, Saha said. This month, the board has also launched an online course in experiential learning for teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-scales-up-teacher-training-programmes-despite-pandemic/story-VhT2mdXGqs8spfQT7bVmGM.html
05-07-2020||India||Rain brings mercury down in Delhi-NCR, more to follow||Rain and thunderstorms on Sunday morning brought relief to residents of Delhi and its satellite towns in the national capital region (NCR) from heat and humidity, and weather scientists predicted more wet weather over the coming days. Several weather stations in Delhi experienced moderate category rains with Safdarjung receiving 34.8 mm, Lodhi Road 38.2 mm and Delhi Ridge 46.6 mm, according to the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Delhi-NCR will receive more rains over the next three to four days as a monsoon trough is passing very close to the national capital, IMD scientists said. “There is a lot of moisture because of easterly winds and there was intense heating for the last three to four days with maximum temperatures of over 40 degrees C. We are expecting some thunderstorm activity and light rain for a few days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of RWFC.Delhi’s maximum temperature on Sunday was 34.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi received 7% deficient rains in the week from June 24 to July 1. The monsoon arrived in Delhi on June 24, three days in advance.There is also a low-pressure area over Kutch and its neighbourhood; widespread rainfall activity is likely over Gujarat during the next three days. Very heavy to extremely heavy rain is also likely over Saurashtra and Kutch during the next two days.Under the influence of a low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal off the Odisha-Gangetic West Bengal coasts and associated cyclonic circulations, fairly widespread to widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during next two-three days, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.Widespread and heavy rains are also expected in many parts of central and northwest India during the next four to five days.IMD’s bulletin has cautioned that moderate to intense thunderstorm and lightning strikes are very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch, south Gujarat region, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand during the next 12 hours. HT reported on Sunday that since May 15, nearly 315 people in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh lost their lives to electrocution from lightning strikes.IMD scientists said intense rains in June led to more farmers being out in the field planting paddy. “This year the number of lightning incidents and lightning deaths is more frequent over Bihar and eastern UP because the region is seeing intense monsoon rain quite early in the monsoon in June. In previous years this region usually didn’t receive such rains in June. Because of good rainfall this year in June, farmers are out in the field farming. Paddy field water also attracts electricity and farmers on the field act as conductors of electricity from the thunderstorm,” said Sunitha Devi, a member of the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ thunderstorm working group, had said on Saturday.The country has received 11% excess rains from June 1 during monsoon with 10% excess over east and northeast India; 19% excess over central India; 11% excess over peninsular India; in northwest India, the monsoon has been 7% deficient . A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector, on which at least 700 million people in India are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-brings-mercury-down-in-delhi-ncr-more-to-follow/story-dS57y0h73YKFhzGxT7gZHJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Bunker, 2 kg explosives found in demolished house of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey||A day after Uttar Pradesh police demolished the palatial house of gangster Vikas Dubey, a bunker and two kg of explosives, along with six country-made pistols, 25 live rounds and shrapnels were found there.Kanpur inspector general (IG) Mohit Agarwal said Dubey had built a bunker inside the house, stocked with items on which he and his men could have survived for days in case of a prolonged siege. In addition, explosives and a cache of arms were found buried in the house. Police had taken the decision to pull down the house following inputs that the criminal had hidden firearms on the premises, he said.Station house officer, Bithoor, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, one of the seven policemen injured in the shootout at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3, said he had been asked by station officer, Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari to accompany the raiding team. Tiwari was suspended on Saturday. Kanpur shootout accused arrested: Watch Vikas Dubey’s aide’s claim on cameraOn reaching Bikru village, the police team left their vehicles on the road and walked about 100 metres, said Singh, who is under treatment at a hospital. They found a heavy earthmoving machine blocking the road. The team, he said, somehow reached close to Dubey’s house.“Suddenly, firing began from all the directions. We looked for safe places. But the majority of our men went down in the first hail of bullets,” he said.Gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide says cop tipped off his boss about police raidThe police officer added that the remaining policemen fired back but were constrained by the fact that while the criminals could see them, policemen could not see the criminals.“Two of my constables Ajay Sengar and Ajay Kashyap were injured. My priority at that time was to save them and take them to safer ground as others had fallen,” he said. Singh was injured when he was taking the constables away.Kanpur shootout probe: More policemen under scanner for links with accusedRam Kumar Dubey, the father of gangster Vikas Dubey, said he was unaware of the shootout in which eight policemen were killed. Ramkumar had been living in Vikas’s new house that was demolished on Saturday. When asked if Vikas Dubey was present during the shootout, he said he didn’t know that either. He said if his son had done anything wrong, the state government should punish him. Otherwise, he had faith in the court where the truth would come out. “We will see the case in court,” he said at Bikru village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bunker-2-kg-explosives-found-in-demolished-house-of-kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey/story-m3I3n8SA7EnCGEorIbVnoJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest officials rescue deer, crocodile in two separate ops||Uttarakhand forest officials rescued a spotted deer and a crocodile in Garhwal and Kumaon regions in two separate operations over the weekend , officials said.In Garhwal region, a spotted deer had fallen into a well in Malhan range of Dehradun forest division on Sunday afternoon.Uday Gaur, range officer Malhan said that the forest officials were informed by the beat watcher that a spotted deer had fallen into an empty well.“Around 1:10 pm we were informed by our beat watcher that a deer had fallen into a well while it was running. The place where it had fallen is close to a residential area, but we are lucky that the well was empty. A rescue team rushed to the spot and quickly blindfolded the deer and rescued it,” said Gaur.The deer ran towards the forest as soon as it was rescued from the well, the officer said.In the Kumaon region’s Sitarganj area in Udham Singh Nagar district, a five-foot-long crocodile was rescued from a house late on Saturday night. Later it was released in a local dam, an official said.“We were informed by villagers at about 11 pm on Saturday that a crocodile had been spotted in a house. We rushed to the house and rescued the crocodile,” said Dhirendra Pant, deputy ranger, Barakoli range in Terai-East forest division in Kumaon.The crocodile was spotted in the house of one Dalchand Rathore, a villager of Baghora village in Sitarganj. It created panic among family members and neighbours immediately informed forest officials. They rushed to the spot and rescued it after half-an-hour. Later they released it in Nanak Sagar dam.Dalchand said, “A nullah flows at the rear of my house. It is nowadays overflowing due to rain. The crocodile might have entered the house from there.”Nitish Mani Tripathi, divisional forest officer (DFO), Terai East forest division, said, “Water level of rivers and nullahs is the reason for spotting crocodiles in the villages. In monsoon, rivers and nullahs swell with rainwater due to which crocodiles enter human habitations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-officials-rescue-deer-crocodile-in-two-separate-ops/story-D51QsImRAVwp1TzPXYEy5I.html
05-07-2020||India||With 895 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths, Bengal registers highest single-day spike||West Bengal registered 895 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths on Sunday, marking the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began. So far, 757 people have died of the coronavirus disease in Bengal and the number of active cases stood at 6,658 on Sunday.Till Saturday, the total number of cases in Bengal was 21,231, according to the daily bulletin the state government released in the evening. This has risen to 22,126 cases. Till Sunday, 14,711 people have been discharged from hospital after being cured.This is the first time that the single-day spike crossed the 800-mark. On Saturday the state reported 743 new cases. Out of the 895 new cases, 244 cases were reported from Kolkata while the adjoining districts of North and South 24 Parganas registered 214 and 118 cases.On June 29, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “The number of cases in Kolkata is apparently high because patients from the districts are also getting admitting to hospitals in Kolkata.”To contain the spread of the coronavirus infection the state government has asked the civil aviation ministry to stop flights from six cities from July 6 to July 19.Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad will not land in Kolkata till July 19. “It is informed that no flights shall operate to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from 6th to 19th July 2020 or till further orders whichever is earlier. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” read a statement issued by the Kolkata airport authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-895-new-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-bengal-registers-highest-single-day-spike/story-fMC2b5dSLoVH0JMbXDzWbN.html
05-07-2020||India||For grooms in Odisha’s Rourkela, Covid-19 turns marriages costlier||Grooms coming to the steel city of Rourkela for marriages would have to stay in quarantine for 14 days before they can marry while the Puri district administration restricted entry of outsiders to the district till July 31 amid a surge in Covid-19 casesThe Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has stopped entry of labourers from outside the state till July 31.As the Covid cases in Odisha crossed 9,000, several districts in the state have now imposed additional restrictions on inter-district visit in addition to weekend shutdowns as the number of local cases in the state went up quickly. Over the last two days the number of local cases (outside quarantine centres) have been around 30 per cent of the total reported cases. With 66 new Covid-19 cases reported from Sundergarh district in the last 24 hours, Rourkela city in the district decided to introduce stricter quarantine norms for returnees and travellers coming to the city, said additional district magistrate Aboli Sunil Naravane. “Every person coming to Rourkela will have to spend 14-days in home or institutional quarantine,” she said.“As there has been a rise in Covid-19 in several districts, people coming from 14 Covid hotspot areas of the state will have to remain in 14-day quarantine (home, institutional or paid) as per advice of doctors. After their arrival in Rourkela, people will have to register themselves at the registration counter at BPUT(Biju Patnaik University of Technology),” said Naravane.Similarly, the administration has stopped entry of people into Puri district. Puri district collector Balwant Singh said visitors without valid permission will not be allowed to enter the district. In case of any emergency only those with valid permission will be allowed to enter the district.Officials said the additional measures were necessary to keep the spectre of community transmission at bay. Of the 469 cases reported in the state on Sunday, more than 32 per cent cases were local contacts. Even the positivity rate(positive cases to total samples tested) has gone up to 9 per cent in the last three days from 5-6 per cent over last month. At least 19 of the 30 districts in the state have resorted to weekend shutdown to check community transmission.But despite the restrictions, officials said more and more people are violating Covid guidelines of maintaining social distancing norms and wearing masks. On Saturday, five persons including a groom and his hotelier father in Ganjam district were arrested for a marriage procession involving over 150 people while BJP MP from Bhubaneswar Aparajita Sarangi was booked for violating social distancing norms while distributing leaflets about her achievement report on completion of first year as MP.In the southern Odisha district of Rayagada, a migrant family of three that returned from Andhra Pradesh last month ended up infecting 87 others as they did not adhere to the social distancing norms. The family -- a man, his wife and their daughter - had returned to their village Bijaypur. During their home quarantine, the family members allegedly did not adhere to prescribed norms and came in contact with several people in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-grooms-in-odisha-s-rourkela-covid-19-turns-marriages-costlier/story-rxp1e65oMc4F9sDNd7C5UN.html
05-07-2020||India||Ghaziabad factory fire kills eight; local cops, owner faulted for ‘illegal’ operation||Seven women and an 18-year-old man were charred to death while eleven others were injured in a major fire in an illegal factory manufacturing party poppers at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town of Ghaziabad on Sunday evening. The officials of the fire department said a mass of hydrocarbons and manufactured items stocked at the complex somehow caught fire at around 4pm on Sunday.The department officials, requesting anonymity, said the factory had no permission to operate and teams of forensic experts had been roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire.The district magistrate said there was laxity on the part of the local police post.“The CM has taken cognisance of the incident and asked us to conduct an immediate inquiry. We have found laxity on the part of local police post in-charge as he was prima facie expected to have knowledge about the operation of the factory,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters at Bakharwa village.Senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said: “The factory was illegal as we have found no documents or records of its operation or permission.”Fire department officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said manufactured items stocked at the complex caught fire around 4pm. Forensic experts were roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire. All the 11 injured are women.Modinagar fire tragedy claims 7 lives, CM Adityanath seeks reportUP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police to rush to the spot and submit a report by Sunday night. He also ordered a compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the families of the deceased.“The CM has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased. I have also directed for a magisterial inquiry. An FIR will also be lodged against the person who was operating the factory and he will be sent to jail,” added Ajay Shankar Pandey.The villagers alleged that the factory was operated illegally by one Nitin Chuaudhary and his partner, Momeen, and the operations of the factory continued unabated despite a police raid conducted about a fortnight ago.“There were no safety measures in place here and the factory didn’t have a licence. It was operating illegally. 25 to 30 women were employed here as workers and even children used to work here. There was a raid at the factory several days ago but it continued operations. The local police had information of the operation of the factory,” said Bupender Kumar, a villager.Following the incident, Ghaziabad administration and police officials rushed to the spot.Later, angry villagers blocked the way of ambulances called to ferry the injured and the dead and shouted slogans against the administration.“Villagers were demanding strict action as the factory operated illegally. My aunt was working here for the past one year in order to support her family including four children. She was given a job for Rs 4,500 per month. She went for work at 8am and later we found she died in a fire. About 15 days ago, cops had raided the factory, but operations continued. The land belongs to a villager and the factory is operated by someone else,” said Sahil, nephew of a victim woman.“After the fire started, many women got stuck in the factory and an earthmoving machine had to demolish the walls to pull them out. The factory owner was manufacturing party candles (poppers) here, while some work of packing the items was also given to villagers at their homes. The owner had also roped in boys aged 15 to 19 years for distribution of goods to nearby areas,” he added.Fire breaks out at multi-storey building in KolkataSanjay Kumar, another villager whose wife Geeta sustained severe burn injuries at the factory, said she had been working at the factory for the past one month and was paid Rs 200 per day.“Since I do wall painting work, which was suspended during the lockdown, I sent her to work at the factory. Her hands and face suffered burn injuries in the fire. At present, she is the only one who is supporting the entire family including me and our three children,” he added.Modinagar MLA Dr Manju Siwach also reached the spot. “The factory was manufacturing poppers which are used for birthday celebrations. The work was going on illegally and explosive chemicals which were also stored, caught fire,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-factory-fire-kills-eight-local-cops-owner-faulted-for-illegal-operation/story-yXPeWz7BkHjTunj6wDWApL.html
05-07-2020||India||‘I’m happy that so much is happening in this phase!’||Along with his recent digital success, lot is happening on musical front for actor-singer Namit Das. He lately released a cover ‘Zaroorat Hai’ and is all set to come up with his next cover soon. Currently he is busy working on his musical album with his band. Earlier, Namit has composed three songs for Mira Nair’s upcoming series, ‘A Suitable Boy’ that he shot for in Lucknow last year.Telling more about his musical ventures, he said, “I have recently released a cover version which is getting quite a good response and then another cover will be released soon. Next along with my band members I will start working on my album but for that we need to meet and have a real jam session. I think it will probably be possible only after a month when we all be together face-to-face doing live music. Covers can be done online but for the album we need to be together to create real music.”Most of the songs for the album have already been written and composed. “A few songs which we have previously sung in live shows will also be added in the album but of course they all will be in a new avatar. We want to bring in the poetry of ’60s-70s – like nazm of Faiz Ahmed Faiz, ghazal of Jigar Muradabadi which has been composed by my grandfather, then one of the song is based on saint Kabir’s couplet and maybe the song ‘Jigar me dard paaya ja raha hai’ in a different form too can be included,” he said.His next OTT series is all set to release on his birthday. Sharing more about his upcoming shows, he said, “It’s always special to have some of your work being launched on your birthday. The series is a psychological thriller about six friends and with a flashback story. My character is of an extremely mysterious guy. After my ‘atrangi’ (different colours) shades as Jawahar in ‘Arya’ this is going to be another very interesting character to play so I’m really excited about my new series, ‘Mafia’.”The adaptation of ‘A Suitable Boy’, in which he plays the role Haresh, a suitor, is expected to release next month. “It will first release in London and then it will be launched in India on a big platform. I am happy that so much of work is happening in this tough phase,” says the ‘Sumit Sambhal Lega’ actor. Namit has composed three songs in folk genre for the project but is not sure how many of them will be used in the series.With Covid-19 cases refusing to come down Namit is playing very safe. “Not much has changed since the lockdown phase. Only, that we can walk, run and cycle outside. I am not venturing out much except essentials. Besides, I go to my meet father (noted singer Chandan Das) and mother to help them with regular stuff. Sometimes I go out for cycling near my house only but with full precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-happy-that-so-much-is-happening-in-this-phase/story-KnNuXll00BQi2moLsAY9II.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Crisis or no crisis, good work always leaves a mark’||Lucknow’s Piiyush Singh feels crisis or no crisis, good work never fails to leave a mark. The film producer and award organiser Piiyush, who was in his home town recently, said, “We have been living in unprecedented times. And, one has to continue to strive to survive. Thankfully for the entertainment industry, there was a way to stay afloat and release our projects via OTT platforms that turned out to be a new lease of life for all of us. So, projects that were all complete and needed a little or no post-production work got to see the light of the day.”He believes that content is and will be a king always. “Me and my team are glad to be associated with films that offer riveting content with talented cast.” Piiyush feels that earlier it was a co-incidence that all his films have a strong storyline and performers like legendary actor Pankaj Kapur, Nandita Das, Manoj Bajpayee, Abhay Deol, Dhanush and Manav Kaul. But later, it was more of finding right actors for their subjects. “With time these actors who are great in their space of work , trust as a production house that targets content driven projects. Like, my recently released film, ‘Bhonsle’ was a subject that was introduced to us by Manoj (Bajpayee) himself. After a meeting with his director-friend Devashish Makhija, we along with Manoj were on the board as producers.” The filmmaker is on cloud that their last offing had none other than Amitabh Bachchan. “Yes, ‘AB aani CD’, was a beautiful script and had great star cast with Marathi legend Vikram Gokahle and Amit sir. After our first Hollywood project, ‘The Extraordinary Journey of the Fakir,’ that also won Audience Award for Best Comedy at Barcelona Sant-Jordi International Film Festival last year, we knew that now things will be on a roll for us. It was presented under our banner Golden Ratio Films (GRF), that was founded by me and Abhayanand Singh,” he said.Talking about his upcoming projects, Piiyush said, “Our next release will be ‘Jail 50’ with Pankaj Kapur, Abhay Deol, Piyush Mishra followed by film ‘Seher’ again with Pankaj sir and that was extensively shot in Lucknow last year. After three months of post-production, the film will be all set to release.” Feeling proud that his home town has turned into a film-makers hub, he said, “Of course it gives immense pride in seeing how Lucknow is catering to entertainment industry with quite a number of films, series and shows were being shot here. For me, the reason is mainly its people who are extremely helpful and go an extra mile to help anyone and everyone. I too try to always give back to my city by helping youngsters who wish to make it big in the industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/crisis-or-no-crisis-good-work-always-leaves-a-mark/story-n1gFFa0JShGkJ5YNy5uiPJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Gaitri Issar Kumar takes over as Indian high commissioner to the UK||Gaitri Issar Kumar of the 1986 batch of the Indian Foreign Service has taken over as India’s high commissioner to the United Kingdom – the third woman envoy in the key post since independence, after Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit and Ruchi Ghanashyam.Soon after taking over, Kumar held virtual meetings with Tariq Ahmad, minister in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office; Richard Moore, FCO political director, and leading members of the Indian community such as industrialist Swraj Paul and Raj Loomba, the mission said on Saturday.Paul tweeted: “India has a great foreign service & very bright women diplomats starting from Mrs Pandit & have had the pleasure of knowing few. Said goodbye to Ruchi Ghanashyam & welcome Gaitri Kumar. Wish you a great stay, you will enjoy this assignment”.Pandit was the high commissioner from 1954 to 1961, while Ghanshayam, who retired in May after a tenure in London she described as a ‘roller-coaster ride”, took over in December 2018. Kumar was the Indian ambassador to Belgium, the EU and Luxembourg before joining in London.Kumar takes over at a time when the Boris Johnson government currently dealing with the pandemic will soon focus more on Brexit-related issues as the end of the transition period on December 31 draws near. More trade with India in the post-Brexit UK has been a key aim.The ceremonial event at Buckingham Palace when Kumar will present credentials to Queen Elizabeth is expected later in the year due to restrictions imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. The queen has been in the Windsor Castle since March.The event with a royal touch involves new envoys being collected from their residence or high commission/embassy in a state landau (horse-drawn carriage), and travelling through the streets of London led by a second carriage in which the marshal of the diplomatic corps travels.Diplomatic audiences with the queen have barely changed since Victorian times. There are more than 170 ambassadors and high commissioners based in London at any given time. Each has an audience with the queen shortly after taking up his or her role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaitri-issar-kumar-takes-over-as-indian-high-commissioner-to-the-uk/story-XqN9uWsJEgkvsERL0as4uJ.html
05-07-2020||India||‘People behaving like pre-Covid days’:Kerala backs tightening of rules, traders sceptical||The Kerala government on Sunday tightened measures to check the spread of Covid-19 cases by making wearing of facemask and observance of social distancing mandatory for one year. The government backed the penal measures saying people had begun to take safety rules casually after relaxation in restrictions came into force with the stage of Unlock-1. However, the traders in the state said the tightening of norms may prove to be counterproductive for businesses.Fine for those not wearing a mask has been increased to Rs 10,000 or to a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.“We don’t want to lower our guard at the critical juncture. After norms were eased some people are behaving like pre-Covid days, we want to check this. As long as the virus is in our backyard we have to follow three basic norms, social distancing, masks and hand hygiene,” said state health minister K K Shailaja explaining the rationale behind the extension.Kerala records 225 new Covid-19 casesThe government had amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 on Saturday to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. Spitting in public places has also been made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20, depending on the size of the trading area. Even at work places, masks are mandatory and wearing them casually will also invite a fine. Business establishments have been asked to avoid air-conditioning and closed enclosures and told to maintain office temperature in the range of 25 and 27 degree Celsius.‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid-19 community transmissionsWhile Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter, which had called for stricter norms, welcomed the move, the traders and businessmen were guarded in their reaction.“Containment measures are welcome but at the same time, the government will have to ensure a proper atmosphere for traders. Even in the worst-hit areas in Tamil Nadu and Mumbai, these norms have not been extended to one year,” said M P Prashanth,a trader in Chalai market in Thiruvananthapuram.The state gold and silver merchants’ association also said such measures will send wrong signals. The tightening of measures follows the number of Covid infections going past the 200 mark for the past three days. With 225 fresh cases on Sunday, the total number of infections in the state went up to 5,429. However, the number of total recoveries stands at 3,174 leaving 2,228 active cases. With one more death registered in the last 24 hours, the death toll has gone up to 26. Though a majority of fresh cases are imported--either expatriates or people arriving from other states-- the number of secondary infections are also on the rise.In state capital Thiruvananthapuram alone, at least 22 secondary infections were reported on Sunday, forcing the authorities to enforce a total lockdown. Earlier in the day, state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said the situation in the state capital was really serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-behaving-like-pre-covid-days-kerala-backs-tightening-of-rules-traders-sceptical/story-O5vPXiu7OrAoGsFwvuKhWJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Hours before marriage, woman killed by stalker inside beauty parlour in MP||A 33-year-old woman was allegedly killed by a stalker who slit her throat in a beauty parlour at Jaora in Ratlam district Sunday morning hours before her marriage, police said.The woman, Sonu Yadav, a resident of Shajapur district and her family reached Jaora in the morning where her marriage was to be solemnised with one Gaurav, a resident of Nagda in Ujjain, at a resort. Jaora is about 300 km northwest of Bhopal. Ruchi Yadav, cousin of the deceased said the victim was getting her make-up done when the accused called.“The accused introduced himself as one Rahul and said he wanted to talk to my cousin who told him that she was in the beauty parlour. He disconnected the phone and within five minutes reached the parlour on a bike. He barged into the parlour and before we could understand anything he slit her throat with a knife and fled the spot. We rushed to a nearby hospital in an auto-rickshaw but doctors declared her dead.” Superintendent of police (SP), Ratlam district Gaurav Tiwari said, “The main accused knew the deceased for three years and they had conversation through phone calls and messages. The woman was a divorcee and it was her second marriage to be solemnised.”Refusing to disclose the identity of the main accused till he is arrested and also the name of accomplice the SP said, “In the CCTV footage two persons were seen reaching the beauty parlour on a bike. One of them entered the parlour while another was keeping a watch outside. The second person seen outside was arrested later while the main accused is still absconding. The man arrested told us during interrogation that the main accused was upset with the marriage of the woman and told him three days back that if she didn’t marry him he would kill her. The main accused is bachelor and unemployed while the accomplice is married and is engaged in some job at a shop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-marriage-woman-killed-by-stalker-inside-beauty-parlour-in-mp/story-TkT1MUIlCPyYIvUF84Co2L.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Complete lockdown in Chennai, other districts to be eased from Monday||The complete lockdown that was earlier announced in Chennai and some other districts of Tamil Nadu is all set to ease, as relaxation will come into effect from tomorrow. On Saturday, state Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced relaxations in lockdown in Chennai from July 6. He also said that all grocery and vegetable shops would remain open for 12 hours.“Relaxations in Chennai lockdown will come in effect from July 6. Vegetable and grocery shops will be allowed to open from 6 am to 6 pm, textile, hardware shops from 10 am to 6 pm and restaurants from 6 am to 9 pm,” he had said.Earlier, the state government announced a 12-hour strict lockdown in four cities on June 19 in Tiruvallur, Chennai, Kancheepuram, and Chengalpattu.Currently, the state has 1,07,001 cases. Of them, 60,592 have recovered, while 8671 people lost their lives due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-complete-lockdown-in-chennai-other-districts-to-be-eased-from-monday/story-FrG3uoIbJnM5UCBuxXfUbI.html
05-07-2020||India||Pro-khalistan group websites blocked, SFJ’s Pannun is govt’s next target||The Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to the banned pro-Khalistan group - Sikhs For Justice (SFJ)-- being used to propagate an anti-India sentiment across the world and for enticing Sikh youth to join militancy, people familiar with the development said. The ministry of information technology took down the websites on a recommendation from the ministry of home affairs after it was found that SFJ, primarily operating from the United States, was aggressively using the medium for its agenda. The outfit has already been banned by the government in July 2019 while its leader - Gurpatwant Singh Pannun has been declared an “individual terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on Wednesday. Both MHA and IT ministry refused to divulge the details of websites that have been blocked, one of the key websites associated widely with the group –www.referendum2020.org-- through which support from Sikh youth for a separate Khalistani state is sought by SFJ, could not be accessed as it has been blocked by the department of telecommunications. According to a gazette notification issued last year while banning SFJ, “The outfit is involved in anti-national and subversive activities in Punjab and elsewhere, intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.”The central government’s order had stated that SFJ was in close touch with the militant outfits and activists, and was supporting violent forms of extremism and militancy in Punjab and elsewhere to carve out a sovereign Khalistan out of the territory of Union of India.“SFJ is encouraging and aiding the activities for secession of a part of the Indian territory from the Union of India and supporting (the) separatist groups fighting for this purpose in India and elsewhere by indulging in activities and articulations intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India,” the notification had said. Key Sikhs For Justice operative sent to NIA remand till June 29The declaration to ban the group was upheld by the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal headed by Delhi High Court chief justice DN Patel. In its judgment, issued on January 6 this year, the tribunal said, “The notification dated July 10, 2019 issued by the Union of India under the Act, declaring Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) to be an unlawful association is hereby confirmed. The reference is answered in the affirmative.”It is in the judgment that a mention to the website, www.referendum2020.org, “which is replete with pro-Khalistani posts and anti-India insinuations” is found.Agencies are trying to get an Interpol red notice issued against Pannun. Indian officials have claimed that Pannun is getting support from Pakistan for his anti-India activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-khalistan-group-websites-blocked-sfj-s-pannun-is-govt-s-next-target/story-0Q74ZUaRkbdjEKpGz6r9JO.html
05-07-2020||India||Taj Mahal will not reopen for tourists tomorrow after Covid-19 cases soar in Agra||The iconic Taj Mahal in Agra will not open for tourists from July 6, tomorrow, with 55 new cases of Covid-19 being detected within the last four days in the city. The Agra district administration has decided to keep all monuments, including the Taj Mahal closed in the larger interest of safety of people. There are also 71 live containment zones in Agra with a high concentration of Covid-19 cases, which make the reopening of historical monuments difficult as they are likely to attract crowds.Union Culture Minister Prahlad Patel, a couple of days ago had declared that all Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) protected monuments will reopen from July 6 for tourists. The Archaeological Survey of India office in Agra and district administration had also begun preparing for the opening, but the final call was due to be taken by the district administration at a meeting on Sunday evening.“55 new Covid-19 positive cases have been traced in the last four days in Agra. There are 71 live containment zones in the city and the monument of Taj Mahal is within the Tajganj area which has both containment and buffer zones. Similarly, the monuments of Sikandra, Itimad-ud-daula, Fatehpur Sikri and Agra Fort are to be considered within buffer zones,” District Magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh said after Sunday’s meeting. “The opening of these monuments will bring in tourists and may become a reason for the spread of coronavirus. In a meeting held between a district level Covid-19 team and the members of Archaeological Survey of India on Sunday, a decision was taken in public interest not to open the monuments of Agra as of now,” the District Magistrate said. Monuments in Agra including the Taj Mahal have remained closed since March 17, even before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Hotels were asked to open but did not get much business with the Taj Mahal, the main tourist attraction of the city closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-will-not-reopen-for-tourists-tomorrow-after-covid-19-cases-soar-in-agra/story-VVvb8rNfY2xZVed2QJINoJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide says cop tipped off his boss about police raid||An aide of Vikas Dubey has told the Uttar Pradesh police that the gangster behind the killings of eight policemen in Kanpur district was informed about the raid at his house by a policeman, a senior official said on Sunday.Daya Shankar Agnihotri, one of the accused in the killings, was arrested earlier in the day after a gunfight in Kalyanpur area near Kanpur.The senior official said Agnihotri revealed the information during the interrogation. The 48-year-old Dubey, who has 60 cases of murder and kidnapping among others, is the main accused in the killing of the policemen early on Friday.Agnihotri told the police Vikas Dubey got a call from the Chaubeypur police station, informing him that a team from three police stations led by Devendra Mishra, the circle officer of Bilhaur, would come to his village past midnight.Agnihotri also said that at least 25 people were present with Dubey when the police team approached his house in Kanpur’s Bikru village.Dubey’s men had fired indiscriminately on the police team out to nab him, killing Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said was a “well-planned conspiracy”.Officials have said Agnihotri suffered a bullet wound in his right leg in the retaliatory firing by the police team.He is one of the 18 aides of Dubey named in the first information report (FIR) lodged in connection with the killing of the policemen.Inspector general of police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal said Agnihotri was the right-hand man of Dubey and carried a bounty of Rs 25,000 on his head at the time of his arrest.Agnihotri has three criminal cases against him, including two of attempt to murder.Police have seized a gun and cartridges from Agnihotri’s possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangster-vikas-dubey-s-aide-says-cop-tipped-off-his-boss-about-police-raid/story-jSYA5em28l0AFuYAOtCkSL.html
05-07-2020||India||Mizoram hit by 4.6 magnitude earthquake, seventh to hit NE state in less than 3 weeks||An earthquake of 4.6 magnitude hit Mizoram’s Champhai district on Sunday afternoon, the seventh one to jolt the northeastern state in less than three weeks, officials said. The earthquake occurred around 5.26 pm and the epicentre was 25 km south-southwest of Champhai, according to the National Centre for Seismology. The depth of the earthquake was 77 km, it said. This was the second earthquake to hit Champhai district, located on the India-Myanmar border, in the last three days and seventh one to rock the state since June 18. An earthquake of 4.6 magnitude hit the district on Friday afternoon. Besides Champhai, a series of quakes also hit Saitual and Serchhip between June 18 and June 24. In the worst-hit Champhai, a total of 138 buildings, including those of churches and the government, were affected in the earlier quakes, according to officials. Of these, 118 houses were in Khawbung rural development block and 20 others in Champhai rural development block. However, there were no casualties. Champhai district was the epicentre of the first earthquake of 4.6 magnitude on June 18. The neighbouring Saitual district was hit by another earthquake of 5.1 magnitude on June 21. Another earthquake of 5.3 magnitude rocked Champhai on June 22. On June 23, an earthquake of 3.7 magnitude hit the Serchhip district. Another earthquake of 4.1 magnitude hit the Champhai district again on June 24. Officials also said at least six aftershocks of light intensity were experienced between June 23 and June 24 in Khawbung and neighbouring villages in Champhai district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-hit-by-4-6-magnitude-earthquake-seventh-to-hit-ne-state-in-less-than-3-weeks/story-xvjC2Sk0mKPFHXxevJBYIO.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s coronavirus cases crosses 99K-mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 99K-mark, over 2,000 new cases in last 24 hoursDelhi’s coronavirus case tally inched closer to one lakh-mark on Sunday after 2,244 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The cumulative tally for national capital reached 99,444, while 63 deaths were recorded, pushing the total death toll to 3,067.Read more. ‘Must be held accountable’: Trump bashes China for Covid-19 in July 4 speechAs the United States celebrated its 244th birthday in an unusually somber manner reflecting the mood of a country in the throes of deadly coronavirus disease outbreak, President Donald Trump once again blamed China for it and held out hopes of a vaccine by the end of the year.Read more. Govt blocks 40 websites of banned pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For JusticeThe Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to pro-Khalistan gourp Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for ‘a campaign for registering supporters for its cause’. “Sikhs For Justice(SFJ), an unlawful organization under the UAPA, 1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendations of MHA, MeitY, has issued orders under sec 69A of the I.T. Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ”, a home ministry order read.Read more. Bungalow that Priyanka Gandhi will vacate allotted to BJP MP Anil BaluniDays after cancelling the government accommodation allotted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Centre has given its nod to BJP MP Anil Baluni to move into the bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in New Delhi.Read more. ‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid-19 community transmissionsKerala reported more than 200 new Coved 19 cases for the third straight day on Sunday taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 5,429. While the number of active cases at 2,228 may not seem to be very high, the authorities have sounded an alarm since fears of the disease entering the community-spread stage in some regions have risen due to inability to trace contacts of some positive cases.Read more. Watch: Helicopter sprays pesticides in Jodhpur to ward off locustsRajasthan administration is now using helicopters to spray pesticides in parts of Jodhpur to ward off swarms of locusts. Rajasthan is the worst affected state by locusts which devour summer crops. Earlier, drones had also been used to spray pesticides in the fields to tackle the locust menace in the area. Watch the full video for all the details.Watch here. Rahul Dravid took note of him and said he was destined for big things: Carlos Brathwaite banks on Sharmarh Brooks to shine in EnglandSharmarh Brooks could be the anchor West Indies requires in the three-match Test series against England starting on July 8 - it will also mark the return of international cricket after a gap of more than three months due to Covid-19 - believes former West Indies T20 captain Carlos Brathwaite.Read more. Airtel to take on JioMeet with its own video conferencing appBharti Airtel is planning to launch its own video conferencing app to take on the recently launched JioMeet and others like Zoom, Microsoft Teams and Google Hangouts. Reports state that this app will be for start-ups and enterprises.Read more. Finding a soulmate is Step 1. Making it last is the real testMost people would say that wasn’t her soulmate then, because aren’t soulmates supposed to stay together? Aren’t they supposed to have the kind of love, connection of minds, mutual respect and understanding that, by definition, last?Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-coronavirus-cases-crosses-99k-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-F6rzoCWyubQKCCwn4qTxgK.html
05-07-2020||India||With record spike of 725, Gujarat Covid-19 tally now 36,123||Gujarat reported its highest single-day spike of 725 new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, pushing the state’s overall tally to 36,123, the health department said.Coronavirus claimed the lives of 18 more patients, taking the death toll in the state to 1,945, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith 486 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered cases in the state grew to 25,900.The state now has 8,278 active cases, of which the condition of 72 patients is critical, the department said in its statement.Gujarat’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 36,123, new cases: 725, deaths: 1,945, discharged: 25,900, active cases: 8,278 and people tested so far: 4,12,124.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-record-spike-of-725-gujarat-covid-19-tally-now-36-123/story-ZOiYM9mwKCVRMFdpAutD5J.html
05-07-2020||India||With a spurt in Covid 19 cases, not wearing a mask in Kerala will invite Rs 10,000 fine||As coronavirus cases increase steadily in Kerala, a worried state government has tightened measures and not only made facemask and social distancing mandatory for one year but also increased the fine for not wearing a mask to a whopping Rs 10,000 or a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.The government amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2,000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSpitting in public places will also be made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20. Even at work places, wearing masks has been made mandatory and wearing them casually will invite fine.The tightening of measures follows the number of Covid infections going past the 200 mark for the past three days. With 225 fresh cases on Sunday, the total number of infections in the state went up to 5,429. However, the number of total recoveries stands at 3,174 leaving 2,228 active cases. With one more death registered in the last 24 hours, the death toll has gone up to 26. Though a majority of fresh cases are imported--either expatriates or people arriving from other states-- the number of secondary infections are also on the rise.‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid 19 community transmissionsIn state capital Thiruvananthapuram, at least 22 secondary infections were reported on a single day. Earlier in the day, state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said the situation in the state capital was really serious and the government would enforce complete lockdown if it didn’t improve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-not-wearing-a-mask-in-kerala-will-invite-rs-10-000-fine/story-UM3F2q4Hhz0Xz5OFRW0MmI.html
05-07-2020||India||Maharashtra logs 6,555 new Covid-19 infections, state count over 2.06 lakh||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 6,555 new Covid-19 cases and 151 deaths, taking the state’s coronavirus count to 2,06,619, the state health department said.With the addition of 151 fatalities, the death toll in the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic has now mounted to 8,822. The number of active coronavirus patients stands at 86,040, the health department’s data indicated.Capital Mumbai detected 1,287 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the city’s coronavirus count to 84,524. At least 69 people have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the financial capital of the country.ALSO READ | 12 new infections in Mumbai’s Dharavi take slum colony’s tally to 2,323Twelve new Covid-19 cases have emerged in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus patients to 2,323, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.A day earlier, on Saturday, the slum colony Dharavi recorded only two fresh Covid-19 cases, the city’s civic agency had said. The area has recorded a small rise in coronavirus cases for the first time since the first week of April after a brief respite in the middle of June.According to a senior BMC official, no fresh deaths were reported in Dharavi in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the slum dwelling currently remains unchanged at 86.With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 deaths, India’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 6,73,165, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry.The country has so far recorded over 20,000 cases of the viral infection for the third consecutive day.According to the Johns Hopkins University in the United States, which has been compiling Covid-19 data globally, India is the third worst-hit nation by the pandemic and at the eighth position in terms of the death toll due to the viral disease.Of the 613 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in the country due to the infectious disease, 295 are from Maharashtra, 81 from Delhi, 65 from Tamil Nadu, 42 from Karnataka, 24 from Uttar Pradesh, 21 from Gujarat, 19 from West Bengal, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, nine from Bihar, eight from Jammu and Kashmir, seven from Rajasthan, five each from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-logs-6-555-new-covid-19-infections-state-count-over-2-06-lakh/story-ne1YfovweuyQWBozV988gP.html
05-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey, UP’s most wanted man, may have fled UP before borders were sealed: Cops||Police suspect that Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the massacre of eight policemen in an ambush in Kanpur early Friday may have slipped out of Uttar Pradesh before the state’s borders were sealed,UP’s Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy had sounded an alert in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster was intensified.Later, a reward of Rs 1 lakh was announced for his arrest. Fifty dedicated teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed in a massive manhunt to nab him. But the gangster has remained elusive.Police officials associated with the investigation said the recovery of an abandoned SUV parked by the roadside in Auraiya and the tracking of Dubey’s last cell phone location in the same area hinted that he, along with some of his accomplices, had sneaked into Madhya Pradesh by road via Etawah and Jhansi districts.“There are multiple shortcuts and interior roads from Auraiya that lead to the Madhya Pradesh border,” a senior police official in Kanpur said.He expressed the apprehension that Dubey left the state after the attack on the policemen early on Friday, much before the state police sounded an alert and sealed the borders.He said vehicle checks at the state borders were initiated at least five-six hours after the incident which was more than enough to leave the state.There is a possibility that Dubey may have moved to other states after entering Madhya Pradesh, he added.When asked about the possibility of Dubey having fled the state, the DGP said several types of inputs were being received that hinted that he either moved to Madhya Pradesh or Nepal. But nothing substantial had emerged so far to clearly pinpoint Dubey’s exact location, he said.The DGP said police had recovered an abandoned SUV in Auraiya registered in the name of his close aide Amit Dubey. Local authorities were further verifying whether Dubey and his other aides were travelling in the vehicle and escaped after ditching it by the roadside.He said that Vikas Dubey’s domestic help and close aide Daya Shankar Agnihotri were arrested in Kanpur.Crucial details had been obtained from Agnihotri about the incident as well as those associated with Dubey, the state police chief said.He also said the police were raiding all possible hideouts and scanning mobile phone records, as well as rigorously questioning his friends and relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-up-s-most-wanted-man-may-have-fled-up-before-border-were-sealed-cops/story-bUNZRSI4UDc11Bf2RiSF9K.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam govt admits to community spread of Covid-19 in Kamrup Metro, may extend lockdown||The Assam government on Sunday admitted that community spread of Covid-19 has taken place in the state’s biggest city, Guwahati and the rest of Kamrup Metro district and the ongoing total lockdown to control the pandemic might be extended.The development comes a day after 777 Covid-19 positive cases, the single biggest spike in a day, was reported from Kamrup Metro taking the district’s tally for 10 days between June 24 and July 4 to 2,741 cases---nearly one-fourth of the total 11,001 cases in the state.“In the last 10 days we have recorded 2,741 positive cases in Guwahati and the rest of Kamrup Metro. Almost all of these cases are from community transmission,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while addressing a press conference on Sunday.“We have formally entered the Covid-19 pandemic since June 24 and can no longer blame Karnataka, Mumbai, Tamil Nadu or Delhi (from where returnees came back during May and June) for Covid-19 spread in our state,” he added.Following a surge in cases without any travel or contact history, the Assam government had imposed a 14-day total lockdown in Kamrup Metro from June 28, allowing only pharmacies to operate.But with the number of cases not coming down in the first 7 days, Sarma indicated that the lockdown might get extended after the 14-day period on July 12 depending on the existing scenario.“Extension of lockdown in Kamrup Metro depends on the number of cases. We might have to extend it by another week. There will be a need to find a balance between allowing economic activity and risking lives of people,” he said.“We had to announce total lockdown from June 28 due to special circumstances and the present situation in Kamrup Metro shows the government move was timely and needed,” Sarma added.Covid-19 patients were kept in government hospitals till now, but the surge in the number of cases has forced the government to consider keeping some in private hospitals. Sarma indicated that the government might take over a few private hospitals in Guwahati to admit patients.The minister informed that a plasma bank has become operational in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and a doctor who has recovered from Covid-19 was the first donor. The health department has also started administering Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, to Covid-19 patients with serious complications.“Till Sunday, we have conducted 455,223 tests across the state and with 13,471 tests per million, Assam is placed fourth after Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu among all states in the country. As part of our community surveillance, we have conducted nearly 82,000 tests till now,” Sarma said.On Sunday, Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna announced a fresh set of lockdown guidelines for Kamrup Metro for the period between July 5 and July 12 allowing opening of grocery shops and the sale of fruits and vegetables.All standalone grocery shops in the district will be allowed to open between 11 am and 4 pm from July 6 to July 10 and house-to-house sale of fruits and vegetables allowed from 8 am to 2 pm on July 6 and July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-admits-to-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-kamrup-metro-may-extend-lockdown/story-5VmLGg90FfDVIK0vqzfSKO.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Sitting on an active volcano’: Kerala minister worried about Covid-19 community transmissions||Kerala reported more than 200 new Coved 19 cases for the third straight day on Sunday taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 5,429. While the number of active cases at 2,228 may not seem to be very high, the authorities have sounded an alarm since fears of the disease entering the community-spread stage in some regions have risen due to inability to trace contacts of some positive cases.Reflecting the heightened state of alert in the state, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran stated that the Thiruvananthapuram district could potentially be “sitting on an active volcano” while expressing the fear centered around the beginning of community transmissions of the deadly contagion.“It’s like we are sitting on top of an active volcano which can burst anytime. Just because there has been no community spread till now doesn’t mean it will not occur,” the minister was quoted as having said by news agency PTI.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSurendran said that the state government had decided to further raise the number of tests by conducting more antigen tests in the district to better understand the patter of the spread of the virus.Kerala reported one more death due to the virus taking the toll to 26. While the majority of fresh cases are among the returnees to the state-- either from abroad or from other states, there is also a rise in the number of secondary infections, which is the main cause of worry.Surendran said the restrictions in containment zones would be tightened further and food delivery boys will be tested following reports of a policeman and a food delivery boy testing positive.To add to the Covid 19 containment challenges in the capital district, two people jumped quarantine from a state facility in Varkala on Sunday morning before they were nabbed. This is not the first such instance in the state and the government has specifically warned people against jumping quarantine, which is suspected to be one of the reasons triggering the second wave of infections seen earlier in the state.Kerala woman again turns Covid 19 positive after recovery, state medical board to study her caseOn Saturday, Kerala’s COVID-19 tally had crossed the 5,000 mark with 240 fresh cases- the highest single day spike so far. Thiruvananthapuram had reported 16 of those.Experts from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala chapter had asked the state government to enforce a strict lockdown in containment areas and restrict movement of people to avert community spread.The CM had also impressed upon the need for stricter curbs given the uniform spread of the disease within the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitting-on-an-active-volcano-kerala-minister-worried-about-covid-19-community-transmissions/story-qtWpdFiJVZHadehFMlzkqI.html
05-07-2020||India||Heavy rain likely in Odisha in next few days||Formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger heavy rainfall in Odisha in the next few days, the Meteorological Centre here said on Sunday.Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over west-central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts, a low pressure area has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal off Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts, the MeT Centre said in a bulletin.The monsoon trough now passes through the centre of the low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal off Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts and thence southeastwards to east-central Bay of Bengal, it said.Moreover, southwest monsoon has been active over Odisha and light to moderate rainfall has occurred at most places in the state with heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places over north coastal districts since Saturday.In view of the prevailing weather conditions, there will be heavy to very heavy rainfall in one or two places over the south coastal, north interior and south Odisha districts at least till July 7, the bulletin said.There will be light to moderate rain or thundershower at many places in north interior Odisha and Koraput, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur, Rayagada districts and in other parts of the state on July 8 and 9, it said.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur in some places in the districts of Nuapada, Balangir, Kalahandi on Monday.Similarly, heavy rainfall is expected in some areas in Sundargarh, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj districts on Tuesday, it said.As squally weather condition with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail over west-central and adjoining north Bay of Bengal off the Odisha coast, fishermen are advised not to venture into the deep sea in these areas during the next 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-odisha-in-next-few-days/story-lyhUy9fL1aSxoA2NBMcrbL.html
05-07-2020||India||Govt blocks 40 websites of banned pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For Justice||The Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to pro-Khalistan gourp Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for ‘a campaign for registering supporters for its cause’.“Sikhs For Justice(SFJ), an unlawful organization under the UAPA, 1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendations of MHA, MeitY, has issued orders under sec 69A of the I.T. Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ”, an home ministry order said.  Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), an unlawful organization under the UAPA,1967, launched a campaign for registering supporters for its cause. On recommendation of MHA, MeitY has issued orders under sec. 69 A of the I.T. Act, 2000, for blocking 40 websites of SFJ@AmitShah @HMOIndiaThe Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) is the nodal authority for monitoring the cyber space in India.Last year, the home ministry had banned the SFJ for its alleged anti-national activities, according to news agency PTI.The SFJ pushed for Sikh Referendum 2020 as part of its separatist agenda. The US-based organisation had declared July 4 as the inaugural day for registration of referendum on Khalistan.Also Watch l Punjab CM hails Centre’s decision to ban pro-Khalistan group Earlier this week, the Centre had declared nine Khalistani terrorists, including SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who has been spearheading a campaign under the banner of “Referendum 2020” for a separate Khalistani state, as ‘individual terrorists’ under recently amended fourth schedule of UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Amendment Act).Others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA are Babbar Khalsa International’s UK chief Paramijit Singh, Canada-based head of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Germany-based members of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) Gurmeet Singh Bagga and Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, and Pakistan-based terrorists – head of BKI Wadhawa Singh, Lakhbir Singh (International Sikh Youth Federation), Ranjeet Singh (Khalistan Zindabad Force) and Paramjit Singh (Khalistan Commando Force).(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-blocks-40-websites-of-banned-pro-khalistan-group-sikhs-for-justice/story-XGpEigOtBauJegATFLmLpK.html
05-07-2020||India||Bungalow that Priyanka Gandhi will vacate allotted to BJP MP Anil Baluni||Days after cancelling the government accommodation allotted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Centre has given its nod to BJP MP Anil Baluni to move into the bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in New Delhi.Officials aware of the development told Hindustan Times that the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs has allotted the type 6B bungalow to the BJP spokesperson. “Once the notice is served to vacate the bungalow it can be allocated within two months. The rental of the house starts from the day of the allotment and Mr Baluni can move in within two months. Usually if any repairs are needed CPWD asks for time for the maintenance work,” a senior ministry official said.The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday cancelled the government accommodation provided to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at 35, Lodhi Estate, on the grounds that she is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and so was not eligible to continue living in that bungalow.Also Watch l ‘Political harassment’: Ahmed Patel slams govt on Priyanka Gandhi bungalow row According to the current norms, there are no provisions for allotment or retention of government accommodation to those with Z+ security unless exceptions are made based on recommendations given by the home ministry.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Act under the administrative control of the directorate of estates.“Usually MPs are allotted type V bungalows but can also be allotted type 6A or B depending on the approval,” the official added. Baluni, who is also the BJP national media head, currently stays at 20, Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Road, a Type 6 B bungalow.Priyanka Gandhi has been asked to vacate the bungalow by August 1. Hours after the notice was served on Wednesday, she paid her dues till June 30 for the house. The ministry said that Priyanka Gandhi had accumulated dues of RS 3,46,677 towards the accommodation until June 30.Gandhi is now planning to move to Lucknow in February to the late Sheila Kaul’s house. The Congress party claims it was renovated months back for her with plans of working on the Uttar Pradesh state elections that are due in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bungalow-that-priyanka-gandhi-will-vacate-allotted-to-bjp-mp-anil-baluni/story-1tL3OMbJMcfLvGjpB8zh7O.html
05-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh reopens 16 RTO check posts on borders||Chhattisgarh government has decided to reopen 16 regional transport department ( RTO) check post on the borders of the state , which were closed by BJP government in 2017. The order in this regard has been issued by the state government on Saturday and state transport department has been asked to start deploying employees and flying squads at these check posts at the borders.It is worth mentioning that, on August 10, 2017, the then BJP government shut all 16 barriers claiming that after introduction of GST, the barriers are of no use. “ We have reopened these 16 check posts in 10 district because the government has been facing loss in Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue and there were many vehicles which used to enter in the state without any record and hence it has also been opened in the view of security,” Mohammad Akbar, transport minister, told Hindustan Times.The check posts that will reopen are Patekorha, Chhote Manpur and Manpur in Rajnandgaon district; Chilfi in Kabirdham; Khamharpali and Bagbahara in Mahasamund; Kevchi in Bilaspur; Dhanvar and Ramnujgunj in Balrampur; Ghuritola and Chanti in Korea; Rengarpali in Raigarh; Shankh and Lavakera in Jashpur; Konta in Sukma and Dhanpunji in Jagdalpur.“ We will get about 200 crore per year from these check posts,” the minister added.The opposition BJP attacked Congress-led government and said that through reopening check posts, the Congress government is encouraging corruption.“Weclosed these check posts in 2017 because there was massive corruption going on and minister Nitin Gadkari instructed us to close these barriers… But now Congress government has started it again, which suggests that they are encouraging corruption. On the other hand, there were security issue too , another reason why it was shut,” former transport minister and BJP leader, Rajesh Munat said.“Before attacking the Congress government in Chhattisgarh, they should check their government in Madhya Pradesh where these check posts are operating. The BJP has no issue hence they mislead people,” Akbar said responding on BJP’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-reopens-16-rto-check-posts-on-borders/story-G5trMxegIq7phWfLypPuuJ.html
05-07-2020||India||12 new infections in Mumbai’s Dharavi take slum colony’s tally to 2,323||Twelve new Covid-19 cases have emerged in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus patients to 2,323, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.A day earlier, on Saturday, the slum colony Dharavi recorded only two fresh Covid-19 cases, the city’s civic agency had said. The area recorded a small rise in coronavirus cases for the first time since the first week of April after a brief respite in the middle of June.According to a senior BMC official, no fresh deaths were reported in Dharavi in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the slum dwelling currently remains unchanged at 86.The congested slum area has about 551 active cases at present, a significant dip from the number recorded towards the end of last month.Spread across an area of roughly 2.5 square km, Dharavi is known as the largest slum cluster of Asia with a population of an estimated 6.5 lakh.The Union health ministry, recently, had said that due to proactive measures and containment strategies adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the Covid-19 growth rate in Dharavi had dipped to 1.02% in June. In the month of May, the growth rate for the Covid-19 disease in Dharavi was about 4.3%, a dip from the earlier 12% in April.An estimated 1,704 patients have been discharged in Dharavi after recovering from the coronavirus infection.On Friday, the average doubling rate of coronavirus cases for seven days in the area was 140 days and the average growth rate of cases was 0.55 per cent.Maharashtra on Saturday crossed two lakh Covid-19 positive cases with 7,074 new cases in the last 24 hours.The total number of cases went up to 2,00,064 in the state, which has the highest number of coronavirus patients in India, followed by Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-new-infections-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-take-slum-colony-s-tally-to-2-323/story-ttFv0WoMLOEooJFnFm9kEJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Modinagar fire tragedy claims 7 lives, CM Adityanath seeks report||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered senior officials to oversee relief work at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town in Ghaziabad, where a major fire at a factory killed seven people on Sunday evening. He has also asked for an official report by Sunday night.“Seven persons including women have died and three persons were severely injured in the fire incident. According to locals, about 20-25 persons were working when the fire broke out. The identification of the seven persons is being done. We are also trying to find the owner of the factory,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).Also Read: 7 dead in explosion at factory in UP’s Modi NagarFollowing the incident, the fire department officials rushed to the spot, they were assisted in their relief and rescue operations by the villagers.“There were no safety measures in place here and the factory didn’t have a license to operate. It was running illegally. Many women were employed here as workers along with children. There was a raid at the factory some time ago but it continued operations. The local police had information of the operation of the factory,” said Bhupender Kumar, a villager.Fire breaks out at multi-storey building in KolkataAccording to cops, the factory was involved in the manufacturing of party poppers used for birthday celebrations. The cops are also trying to find out if any chemicals were stored in the factory while attempting to establish the exact cause of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modinagar-fire-tragedy-factory-running-illegally-alleges-local-cm-adityanath-seeks-report/story-WjmzeH1bcsl0Bwf7Cjx6dI.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur shootout probe: More policemen under scanner for links with accused||Some more policemen are under investigation after the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force found that they had been in touch with Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the shootout in which eight police personnel were killed at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3, according to a senior police officer.These policemen are in addition to Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari who was suspended on Saturday for his allegedly suspicious role in the failed raid.Inspector general of police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal said, “Three policemen were in touch (with Dubey) and a parallel investigation is going on to unearth this nexus.”Also read: How did gangster Vikas Dubey get information about Kanpur raid? “Services of the police personnel in league with him will be terminated and they will face a criminal trial,” he said. Another official, who did not wish to be named, said the entire staff of the Chaubeypur police station in Kanpur was under suspect.But what has startled the investigators is the enormity of support the gangster had on caste-lines from some police personnel, according to those privy to the probe.Two senior police officers of deputy SP rank, one of them currently posted as a circle officer, a number of sub-inspectors and constables have also been questioned.The deputy SP posted in Kanpur was asked why did he not follow the routine procedure of invoking the Gangster’s Act for registering Dubey’s gang at the district level after another shootout, which Vikas Dubey’s men allegedly carried out in Kalyanpur.The officer was questioned in the context of a murderous assault on Vikas Dubey’s brother Anurag Dubey in Kalyanpur. Anurag’s wife Rita had lodged an FIR naming Vikas, his closest aides Pawan Tiwari, Aman Tiwari and two others with the police on April 18, 2018.“The officer kept mum on repeated questions about why he went soft on him (Dubey). The reaction of others was no different,” said an official involved with the investigation.Sub-inspectors and constables were a bit more forthcoming on this issue and said Vikas Dubey used to take good care of men from a particular caste.“Otherwise, he was abusive with all the policemen he spoke to over the phone or in person. Woh seedhe gaali dekar baat karta tha (he used to abuse cops right from the start),” the policemen said, adding that they were afraid of him.They preferred to extend support rather than be in his bad books, said an official.The caste support that Vikas Dubey allegedly enjoyed from some policemen was the reason that despite 60 known criminal cases against him and a career in crime spanning 28 years, he did not figure on the list of top 10 criminals of Kanpur, those privy to the probe said. The police never registered his gang’s name at the district level, they added.Before the shootout on July 3, Vikas Dubey had spoken to a sub-inspector who is now being investigated, said a senior officer.“A number of examples show that not only the mid-level officers and the constabulary but senior police officers also remained soft due to the caste factor. He survived all these years because of his activities on caste lines. It involved not only the police personnel but also politicians, businessmen and so on,” said an official who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-shootout-probe-more-policemen-under-scanner-for-links-with-accused/story-7hn2UgEDrcKqokXqPmFMWN.html
05-07-2020||India||After CM Nitish Kumar, Bihar Dy CM Sushil Modi tests Covid-19 negative||Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and legislative assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary tested negative for coronavirus among the several high profile people who had come in contact with a BJP functionary who tested positive for the disease on Saturday. Four of the 88 contacts of the BJP MLC have, however, tested positive.“Swab samples of the deputy CM and the assembly speaker have tested negative. However, four samples of security personnel and personal staff of politicians have tested positive for the virus,” said a senior health department official, who requested anonymity.“The sample of deputy chief minister has tested negative through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR), which is a confirmatory test for Covid-19. Earlier, his antigen test, done on CB NAAT machine, which is processed in an hour, was also negative,” the officer said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWhen asked about the need to conduct RT PCR test after testing through CB NAAT machine, the officer said the former had greater sensitivity capable of detecting even the mildest strain of the virus.“In case of top leaders, including the CM and the deputy CM, we did not want to take any chance,” said the officer.As per the health ministry’s advisory, RT PCR is done when a sample tests positive on CB NAAT.Shailendra Kumar Ojha, private secretary to deputy chief minister, also confirmed that Sushil Modi had tested negative.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had tested negative late Saturday evening. “All 16 samples from the chief minister’s residence have tested negative,” the health department functionary said.Kumar, Modi, Chaudhary, besides some other ministers and politicians had come in contact with Covid-infected BJP leader during the swearing-in ceremony of nine MLCs at the Bihar legislative council on July 1.The infected BJP leader, his wife, son and a personal assistant were among the five people admitted to the Covid-19 isolation ward at AIIMS-Patna on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cm-nitish-kumar-bihar-dy-cm-sushil-modi-tests-covid-19-negative/story-qDfU9muuoFCRtWPqyxbcLO.html
05-07-2020||India||Three Uttarakhand women washed away in swelled Kosi river, two bodies retrieved||Three women were washed away in Kosi river in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Sunday morning, said officials.The incident occurred in Garampani area of the district when the women were crossing the river after fetching fodder from the nearby forests. All three women have been identified as Kamla Devi, 30; Lalita Devi, 30 and Lata Devi, 26 - all residents of Chamadia village of the district.The water in the river has risen due to the intermittent rains in the upstream region in the past few days due to which the flow of the river has become fast.A team of state disaster response force (SDRF) and local police rushed to spot on the information by the locals and started the search operation. So far, they have retrieved two bodies while the search for the third woman (Lata Devi) is on, the officials said.“For reaching the forests they had to cross the Kosi river. When they were returning from the forest, the water level in the Kosi river had risen. There is no bridge in the area hence they decided to cross it anyway and got washed away,” said Richa Singh, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Koshya Kutoli, Nainital.Singh said that it is likely that these women had grass on their heads and lost their balance in the strong flow of the river and got swept away.“Some people saw them getting washed away and informed the police and officials about it. A team of the SDRF, police and other officials rushed to the spot and started the rescue and search operation. So far, bodies of two women have been retrieved,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-uttarakhand-women-washed-away-in-swelled-kosi-river-two-bodies-retrieved/story-Rk9jOvXbEtHMZn3CS7zMyK.html
05-07-2020||India||Cache of 30 kgs of gold seized from diplomatic baggage in Kerala’s capital||The Customs and Preventive Department on Sunday seized at least 30 kgs of gold from an air cargo consignment bound for the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Customs officials said it was the biggest seizure in the recent past that too from diplomatic baggage meant for employees of the consulate general’s office.The raid was carried out after customs obtained permission from the Ministry of External Affairs since most consignments to diplomatic missions enjoy immunity under the Vienna Convention. “We had definite intelligence about this. A search is going on and the quantity may go up. We have detained one person and are on the lookout for two more,” said Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep region.ALSO READ | Despite Covid-19 pandemic, gold smuggling in Kerala continues unabatedThe consignment came through a chartered flight. Customs suspect that the smuggling syndicate was using some of the lower level employees to make use of immunity to smuggle gold. Usually such consignments pass without any check. “We have to make it very clear that the consignment was booked in the name of some lower-level officials not in the name of the consular general of the friendly country. Our preliminary investigation shows the smuggling syndicate was using some of them,” he said.The gold was hidden inside some household equipment to avoid detection and it will be worth several crores of rupees. The commissioner said exact details will be revealed after checking some more baggage and the quantity of gold may go up. He said this will be the largest seizure in the recent past.After gold prices skyrocketed there has been a big spike in smuggling also. At least, 15 kgs of the yellow metal were seized from chartered flights from the middle-east countries in last two weeks-- Kozhikkode International Airport topped in seizures.Officials said often smuggling syndicates think that frisking norms are likely to be lax in the time of Covid-19 and there won’t be any tight checking on chartered flights but they are mistaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cache-of-30-kgs-of-gold-seized-from-diplomatic-baggage-in-kerala-s-capital/story-hrjfz5IsRInFhfKvlhJetJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Explosive to kill wild boars goes off in Kerala, woman injured||A 60-year-old woman was injured when an explosive meant to target wild boars in farmlands exploded near here, police said on Sunday.Janu suffered minor injuries in her hand when she came into contact with the explosive while cleaning a vacant plot near Panoor, along with a group of women as part of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme on Saturday.A case has been registered under various provisions including Sections3 and 5 of the Explosives Act in this connection.The woman was treated as an outpatient at a hospital.The explosive was suspected to be used to trap wild boars, police said adding investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosive-to-kill-wild-boars-goes-off-in-kerala-woman-injured/story-KTr4ur75nmkDg82dDvO4JM.html
05-07-2020||India||India, Afghanistan sign 5 pacts for developing educational infra in Afghan provinces||India and Afghanistan on Sunday signed five agreements for developing educational infrastructure in four Afghan provinces, with the move seen as a reiteration of New Delhi’s support to Kabul at a time when the war-torn country’s peace process is facing challenges.The five memorandums of understanding (MoUs) were signed under the high impact community development projects (HICDP) programme being implemented by India to further strengthen the bilateral development partnership, said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kabul.Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme over the period of five years. These projects are part of India’s commitment to assist Afghanistan emerge as a “peaceful, united, prosperous and pluralistic nation”, the statement said.The projects to be taken up under the five MoUs include the construction of classrooms, a higher education building and a road within the campus of Albironi University. The projects are spread across the four provinces of Nooristan, Badakhshan, Farah and Kapisa.Since 2005, the Indian government has committed $200 million to support more than 550 high impact community development projects across Afghanistan. Of these, more than 400 projects have already been completed while the rest are in various stages of implementation. These are usually smaller grassroots projects that involve a lower financial outlay but have a direct impact on local populations.The ceremony in Kabul for the signing of the MoUs was presided over by the Afghan minister of economy, Mustafa Mastoor. Tripartite agreements were signed between the Indian government, the Afghan ministry of economy and the implementing ministries, such as the ministry of education.Two MoUs were signed by Indian ambassador Vinay Kumar and ministers Mustafa Mastoor and Abdul Tawab Balakarzai, while three were signed by Kumar and ministers Mastoor and Rangina Hamidi.“The government of India remains committed to take forward the India-Afghanistan Development Partnership based on the national priorities of the government and people” of Afghanistan, the statement said.Despite an agreement signed by the US and the Taliban in February, Afghanistan has witnessed a surge in terrorist violence even as it grapples with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The intra-Afghan dialogue, a key component of the peace process, is yet to get underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-afghanistan-sign-5-pacts-for-developing-educational-infra-in-afghan-provinces/story-lrCdMSCtOMQzWBL4OCRVAM.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Ganga canal, dating back to British era, to be turned into water sports hub||To promote adventure and water sports, the Uttarakhand government will develop the British era Ganga canal stretch in Roorkee as a hub of water sports in the Himalayan state.Water sports activities such as river rafting and kayaking will be organised at the old Ganga canal which is adjacent to the new Ganga canal near the Dhanauri-Roorkee stretch.According to the cabinet minister for irrigation, tourism, culture, Satpal Maharaj, the use of the old Ganga canal stretch which was once the main Ganga canal built by the British is apt since it is suitable for water sports activities.“We need to promote adventure sports for which the state has vast potential. Adventure sports will provide a wide array of employment opportunities, revenue and infrastructure for these sports which can be utilized by our sportspersons. They can excel in these sports which also find a place in national and international sporting events,” Satpal Maharaj said.As the operation and management of the Ganga canal is still in the purview of the Uttar Pradesh government due to non-resolution of handing over of the properties to Uttarakhand, since the hill state was carved out of the former in 2000, Maharaj said that permission in this regard has been sought from the UP government.“We have written to the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department minister Mahendra Singh to permit the Uttarakhand government to use the old Ganga canal stretch for adventure sports. As and when permission is granted we will start work on fast track to develop the old Ganga canal for adventure sports purposes,” said Maharaj.On illegal encroachments coming up on the closed Ganga canal, the cabinet minister said that he has directed the irrigation department officials to ensure the removal of all such encroachments.Roorkee already has kayaking and canoeing options but with the development of the old Ganga canal, it would be easier to build infrastructural facilities according to international standards.Welcoming the state government’s initiative, assistant professor Dr Ajay Malik from Gurukul Kangri University’s physical education department said that rafting related aqua sports have become a major medal clincher in the Olympics, Asiad and other global sporting events. “So this initiative bodes well for the Himalayan state. Besides, it is good that the state government is exploring these non-conventional sports also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-ganga-canal-dating-back-to-british-era-to-be-turned-into-water-sports-hub/story-vYMc0n2UE3hbMTSUblp7vL.html
05-07-2020||India||Jharkhand launches immunization drive for 44K kids of migrant workers||Lathmin Tirkey, 27, a migrant labourer who went to Varanasi from Jamdai village in Ranchi’s Namkum block in October last year to work at a brick kiln unit, delivered a baby in February this year at workplace but her infant was deprived of her first immunization.A day after the birth of the baby, a relative of Tirkey took her to a health centre there for the newborn’s first vaccine. “But, we returned empty handed as there was no health staff at the centre,” Tirkey said.She returned to her job two days later and did not get time to get her baby immunized. She did not even have the MCP (mother-child protection) card.She returned to her home in Namkum in mid-June after she became jobless due to lockdown since March 25. After completing her mandatory 14-day quarantine, she got her baby its first vaccine here at a health centre in Namkum and also got an MCP card.Tirkey’s baby is not alone. As many as 44,000 children up to five years of age of migrant workers who returned to Jharkhand, were deprived of immunization during the period they stayed outside the state.More than five lakh migrant workers, who worked in different parts of the country, have returned to Jharkhand since May 1. In a bid to ascertain the immunization status of children of migrant workers, the state health department launched a massive door-to-door intensive health survey last month. The health staff visited more than 50 lakh households in 28,000 villages and urban slum areas to identify the kids of migrant workers.The survey started on June 18 and ended on June 25. “The survey had three objectives such as identifying people suffering with respiratory problems, cough or fever for Covid-19 test, people above 40 years of age suffering from various diseases which increases vulnerability to Covid-19. The third objective of the survey was to know the status of immunization among children of migrant workers who returned to Jharkhand,” said Akay Minz, state programme officer (SPO) for National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand.The survey found 55,215 people with complaints of respiratory, cough and fever complications, while 3,39,573 people above 40 years of age had complaints of blood pressure, diabetes, obesity, cancer and leprosy.“We also identified 44,191 children of migrant workers, who either missed doses of immunization or did not have a single vaccine after birth,” Minz said. “Parents were either ignorant about immunization or they had no time to take their children to a health centre due to work pressure at work place, particularly in the unorganized sector,” she said.Anjali Kohya, a migrant worker who also went to Varanasi from Sodag village in Ranchi’s Namkum block, said, “I worked at a brick kiln unit along with my husband Birju Khoya. Our two children stayed with us at the workplace. Since we came to Varanasi in October, we could not give a vaccine to our two-year-old son in Jharkhand. We tried it in Varanasi but did not find the location of the health centre. Due to pressure at the workplace, we struggled to find extra time to locate a health centre there.” Khoya’s son got the immunization at her village in Namkum on Thursday.The Jharkhand health department has now launched a major campaign to immunize these deprived children. A senior official in the state health department, who monitors immunization said they have set a target to immunize 8.30 lakh children between the age group of zero to five this year. “We are assessing the achievement figure so far, as the immunization drive was affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. Community health centres were closed from March 21 to May 1. However, immunization exercise was on in government medical college hospitals and private hospitals,” said the officer who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-launches-immunization-drive-for-44k-kids-of-migrant-workers/story-XyhTJsAQikJWYU41e1h6kO.html
05-07-2020||India||Kerala woman again turns Covid 19 positive after recovery, state medical board to study her case||A woman in Kerala has again tested positive for Covid 19, a few days after reportedly getting cured from the disease in the month of June. She had recently returned to the state from the United Arab Emirates. While the experts have called it worrisome, they have ruled it out as a case of re-infection. According to them, it is more likely to be a case of resurgence of viral remnant. In another possibility, they suspect the woman may not have recovered fully last month.Viral remnant is a condition where the virus remains dormant even after recovery but doesn’t show infectious tendencies due its weakened state. The experts add that the resurgence of the virus in the woman calls for a detailed study.“We have checked the case history of the patient. She had tested positive in the month of May and turned negative in the third week of June after treatment. She was quarantined after her return to Kerala in the last week of June. She tested positive two days back,” said Kottayam district medical officer Dr Jacob Varghese.He said either she was not fully cured or it could be a case of viral remnant. Experts say such cases are one in thousands and can’t be considered a regular phenomenon of the viral disease.“We have to examine her previous clinical records and positivity thoroughly. Chances of re-infection are unlikely. In some cases there are delayed remissions and in other cases they remain asymptomatic though infected,” said state health secretary Rajan Kobragade, adding that the state medical board will study the case in detail.Kerala CM writes to PM Modi seeking trial in Italy of marines who killed 2 fishermenIn Pathnamthitta, a girl student who had tested positive upon her return from Delhi remained asymptomatic throughout her positivity period and in another case, a woman turned negative after 19 continuous tests. The World Health Organization (WHO) has prescribed a 14-day incubation period but the state had extended it to 28 days and insisted on three consecutive negative tests for discharge, but it tweaked it after the number of cases increased. Now, a patient can be discharged after the first negative result.Another such case was reported in Idukki, again an expatriate who had returned from Abu Dhabi. But after checking his medical history, doctors found he had never tested positive in the UAE, despite claiming to have undergone treatment and turned negative later. His antibody test at Abu Dhabi airport was negative but he tested positive on his arrival at Cochin airport. He is currently undergoing treatment at the government medical college hospital in Ernakulam.India’s first Covid-19 vaccine races to meet mid-August target“It is a new virus and its features and behaviour are still under study. Cases of re-infection have not been validated anywhere. Kottayam case needs an in-depth study,” said public health expert V Ramankutty.He added that highly-populated countries like India will have to live with the virus for some time, resulting in the eventual development of herd immunity. The fight against Covid-19 can be made easier if those infected develop an adequate level of immunity through development of antibodies, said experts. Kerala has reported 5,204 cases, out of which, 3,050 have recovered, leaving 2,129 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-again-turns-covid-19-positive-after-recovery-state-medical-board-to-study-her-case/story-085gfWmc5Z0Hc2bprAOPvO.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 998 fresh Covid-19 cases in Andhra take state tally to 18,697 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra adds 998 new Covid-19 cases, state’s tally jumps to 18,697, 14 more dieAndhra Pradesh detected 998 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the Telugu state’s total number of coronavirus cases to 18,697, the state health department said on Sunday. Read more.Steady growth in domestic air travel, daily fliers cross 75k mark on July 4Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Sunday declared that over 75,000 passengers travelled on domestic flights on July 4, the highest daily traffic, seen 41 days after the resumption of domestic flights on May 25. Read more.How did gangster Vikas Dubey get information about Kanpur raid? Police explore caste angleThe police in Kanpur are investigating how gangster Vikas Dubey got the information about the raid at his house in which eight policemen were killed. The investigation has revealed that the cops helped Dubey on caste lines. Read more.Dil Bechara: Release date of Sushant Singh Rajput’s final film trailer announced, see new posterThe trailer of Dil Bechara, Sushant Singh Rajput’s swansong, will be out on Monday (July 6). Casting director-turned-filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, who is making his directorial debut with the film, shared the news via a new poster. The poster also features female lead Sanjana Sanghi. Read more.‘Ben, like Virat, does everything at 100 mile an hour’: Former England captain on similarities between Kohli and StokesFormer England captain Nasser Hussain has backed Ben Stokes to come out with flying colours as the all-rounder gets set to captain the national team for the first side. Stokes will be leading England in the first Test against West Indies starting Wednesday, in the absence of Joe Root – who will be with his wife for the birth of his child – and Hussain is hopeful the all-rounder will able to emulate India’s Virat Kohli and his captaincy. Read more.Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge: 5 things you need to knowThe Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge was announced by the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) and MyGov in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission, Niti Aayog for Indian tech entrepreneurs and startups. Read more.Paraglider soars high in sky while sitting on sofa, watching TV. Video is amusingly scaryIf after reading the title you find yourself saying ‘that is a joke,’ then believe us we are not kidding. However bizarre it may sound, this is something which actually happened and now a video of the incident has sparked chatter among people. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-998-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-take-state-tally-to-18-697-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TFv6ZzY3lqyDxyQMh0mP2N.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Fear all around’: Covid-19 leaves wellness sector in bad health||Fifteen years ago, I pushed a white salon door in a neighbourhood market to enter a space the size of a small kitchen, and reached a hairdresser after trampling over the feet of four others. Her name was Renila Lepcha, and we began to talk hair, by appointment, to each other in a rocky Hindi accent in a south Delhi locality every two months. Familiarity bred a ritual. “Trust me,” she would say, to which I would reply, “always do!” and she would get her scissors out and make the hair on top of my head look like a nuclear cloud to give it volume. So far, we had accepted this ritual for what it was: an unspoken commitment between a hairdresser and a satisfied client that this would continue, unless one of us changed the neighbourhood.The pandemic has changed every convention of everyday life. It has specified two metres to be the distance that must separate two human beings in order to be safe. Worldwide, this has hobbled the salon industry. In India, it hit its skilled workforce (including the barber on the street) with the closing down of salons; re-opening them in June still shows a grim picture. According to the Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council (B&WSSC), which works under the aegis of the union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship, the industry employs nearly 70 lakh people, which means that when the salons were forced shut amid the Covid-19 lockdown in March, something like the entire population of Bulgaria saw their earnings either shrink or disappear.***Monica Bahl, CEO, B&WSSC, also says this sector employs an economically vulnerable population – a migrant workforce and is women-dominated. “Our challenges to stay afloat are more than many other in the tertiary sector. It is not product based, it’s service based. A shampoo or a dish can be sold via distributors and a customer can opt for a no-touch-delivery service but ours is a touch-and-feel industry. You can demand and maintain a two-metre distance between two clients in a salon but a hair stylist can’t possibly attend to a client from two metres away.”Post ‘Unlock 1’, hair salons are officially back but are they ‘on’? The potential of infection between people in an enclosed space and whether salons are equal to the task of maintaining hygiene even with the most stringent of sanitation in the time of an epidemic is keeping clients away.There are also unanswered questions; trivial though they may seem, but not, when a misstep may mean life or death. Can blow-drying, almost an ‘essential’ service at salons, for instance, lead to an increased flow of virus-carrying particles? Is the PPE gear really being disposed of after each use? Is anyone doing random checks to ascertain this?There is a Free Online Certification Program on precautionary measures, health, safety and hygiene guidelines uploaded on the B&WSSC website for industry professionals. Of an industry strength of 70 lakh, the total registered for online certification – they allow three tries -- since the lockdown is 1,17,657; total pass-outs : 98,170. Passing it is not difficult; I did on first try.Hygiene priorities, however, seem to be very much an individual salon owner’s call. “Before the lockdown we had an approximate number of 40 visitors per salon each day in Mumbai whereas in Delhi we had approximately 50 visitors. Post lockdown we have seen a decrease in the number of visitors by 50% to 60 %,” says Sumit Israni, managing director of the high-end, pan-India brand, Geetanjali Salons and Studios. After ‘Unlock 1’, around 15 to 30 sanitiser bottles are used in each salon as per the size; pre-lockdown, it used to be 5 to 7. On a much smaller scale, at Hair & Glow, Delhi, Renila says sanitising is “sufficient”. “Earlier, on a good day”, the salon serviced 15 clients a day. After the easing of the lockdown, it gets no more than three.***The question of safety over aesthetics is actually a cul de sac. A year ago would you think it’s possible to watch opera from a car seat? But it’s happening in Europe. Hair is important even for those who are balding, says Mumbai stylist Placid Braganza, who runs a 15-member team hair salon in Mumbai. The Delhi government re-opened the salons in the first week of June; Mumbai’s salons re-opened by June-end.Placid says his lockdown experience has taught him that he needs to concentrate on his teaching career as a possible Plan B.“A hair cut makes you look groomed. You might be locked up in your home, but due to social media or work from home via video-calls, can you say you are invisible? Looking groomed is key messaging. It says you are on top of your game, even now.” But there is fear all around, he admits, no matter what gear you are wearing.Elias Canetti, who explores the psychology of crowds in his book, Crowds and Power, says that clothes, in a state of fear, gives insufficient insecurity. It is easy to fear their “tear…imagine skin as smooth, defenceless, naked, the flesh of a victim”. Is social distancing the new ostracism? Can fear make you look at your hair, skin and those you know differently? Can a virus decide the boundary of your being? Re-order who can touch you and who can’t? The future of one of the world’s oldest professions is at stake. The barber-surgeon was considered part of the medical profession in Europe in the Middle Ages; besides haircuts, he gave leech-treatments to soldiers injured in battle.***Australia and Japan deemed haircut an essential service during the pandemic. China lifted its lockdown in March. A South China Morning Post video in March shows hairdressers doing the ‘Long-distance Haircut’ using trimmers and scrubbers attached to long rods to trim and wash hair. Regular customers, the video noted, were keen to try this out.A video that did well in India was well-known hair stylist Jawed Habib’s DIY lockdown tutorial on Youtube. Sangeeta Rathi, a business strategist with an MNC, gave her son a trim after watching it. Friends and neighbours followed suit. Paper scissors were brought out to give a young child or a partner, haircuts; the more fastidious ordered on shopping sites the best trimmer and scissors that money could buy. Appointments given to local salon boys, who had started doing home visits service by May, were cancelled. Even in June, client number per day at these salons is in single digits.In April, Delhi-based academic Rama Paul’s sons emerged from the washroom with a “seminary cut” given by mum; in June they checked into the new-era salon where hairdressers “looking like astronauts” in PPE gowns gave them a professional snip. The family also started going to a branded salon instead of their regular one; the logic being they would be more conscious of a bad review, and hygiene standards would be better. Khokon Acharjee, a retired bank employee of Kolkata, called in a barber that his friends were using at home. If a hairdresser was a barber from the common pool, he seemed a safer bet.Aarti Khurana, who has been doing Insta Lives as a tarot card reader, called home a hairdresser recommended by a friend. She was desperate enough to let in a professional wearing PPE gear “stitched by his mom; he washes it everyday”. On the flip side this also shows that people are testing the limits of everyday courage and choosing to put their lives in the hands of virtual strangers in the face of a still unfathomable disease.“I don’t want to turn paranoid. That’s not me. Covid is here to stay. If you sanitise multiple times and both wear masks, it should be fine,” says Aarti. She paid R2,500 for hair colour, R1,500 for the haircut. The IANS reports a survey by Redquanta, which says salon visits are among the top three activities that people missed the most during the ongoing pandemic. “He charged me Bandra salon rates but I was filled with gratitude just to have him turn up so well covered. After he left, I immediately had a bath,” says Aarti.Convenience is the “new non-negotiable” in the service industry, says Ayush Bansal, a Mumbai gym owner. He calls his hairdresser, Nadeem, a friend. “Everyone is looking for end-to-end services sitting at home,” he says. “If you can get groceries, you can get a hairdresser as well.” His change of hairdressers in the past years maps this transition. He started to patronise Nadeem, who works in a salon five minutes from his home in Juhu over Michelle, his first regular hairstylist, as her salon was a 20-minute drive away at Pali Hill. Nadeem could soon become history with Ayush having started to use hairdressers with Urban Clap.The new rule for every segment of society is that don’t be overdressed, everyone understands you are at home, says actor Meeta Vashisht, who did a virtual press meet for her new film, Your Honour. “I just had to make sure my hair looked good for the camera, how it looks from the back really doesn’t matter. Recently, on Insta I just wore clothes one wears at home and did a spoof. It had 13,000 likes. When I put my hair up and dressed up to spoof a hit song in a movie, it had half the views.”All this, however, may not bode well for hairdressers. “Fear is impacting every business in the world, including ours,” says Jawed Habib, who runs 900-plus salons in 120 cities of India. “Clients are walking in like inspectors and asking if the shop is safe. If the shop is open, it must be! We want to be safe too. People are just getting essentials done now – a quick hair cut, or the covering of greys, or a repair job and they are out of the salon.” He suggests that the Council instead of “just focusing on rules and norms should also talk of support”. So far, the Andhra Pradesh government is one of the few state governments offering help to the fraternity. In June, it announced that it will soon launch a one-time financial assistance scheme of R10,000/beneficiary for traditional hairdressers, tailors and launderers.The Nagaland government has also offered a one-time R10 K to all returnees, irrespective of industry. Three hundred from the hair salon industry returned home this month.The industry employs around 70 lakh; women workforce is around 47%. The pandemic has also forced many migrants, especially from the North-east who are a sizeable population in the beauty and wellness industry to return home. According to Madhumita Saikia, president, Assam Aesthetician Association, 2,500 hair industry personnel from Assam have returned home in June; 300 to Nagaland, 60 plus to Manipur, 150 to Mizoram; Sikkim and Meghalaya having blocked re-entry to all migrants.Renila Lepcha of Darjeeling is staying put in Delhi. She is waiting for her husband, a chef, stranded in Russia, and also for her regular clients. She won’t be meeting any of them soon. “I trust you”, was told to her only once every two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-all-around-covid-19-leaves-wellness-sector-in-bad-health/story-lwIogOQgd14kfazFuVw70H.html
05-07-2020||India||How did gangster Vikas Dubey get information about Kanpur raid? Police explore caste angle||The police in Kanpur are investigating how gangster Vikas Dubey got the information about the raid at his house in which eight policemen were killed. The investigation has revealed that the cops helped Dubey on caste lines.This was the reason that despite 60 known criminal cases and a career spanning 28 years, Dubey did not figure in the top 10 criminals of the city.At present, around 30 policemen are under investigation after the UP Special Task Force (STF) and investigators found they were in touch with Dubey.“All the workers of the local police station are under our scope of investigation on how Vikas Dubey got information about police movement,” Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal said on Sunday.“Services of cops in league with him will be terminated and they will face criminal trial,” he added. Another official said that the staff of entire Chaubeypur police station was suspect.Also Watch l Kanpur shootout accused arrested: Watch Vikas Dubey’s aide’s claim on camera What has really startled the investigators is the enormity of support the gangster had on caste-lines from the police. Two senior police officers of Deputy SP rank, one of them is currently posted as a circle officer, a number of sub-inspectors and constables have been questioned.One of the deputy SPs was asked why he did not follow the routine procedure of invoking gangster act, registering his gang at district level after the 2019 shootout, which Dubey’s men carried out in Kalyanpur and a case of attempt to murder was registered.The questioning was in context of murderous assault mounted on the gangster’s brother Anurag Dubey in Kalyanpur. Anurag’s wife Rita had lodged an FIR naming Vikas, his closest aides Pawan Tiwari, Aman Tiwari and two others on April 18, 2018.“The officer kept mum; he chose not to answer to the question on why did he go soft on him. The reaction of other was no different,” said an official involved with the investigation. The sub-inspectors and constables were bit more forthcoming on this issue and said Dubey used to take good care of men from a particular caste.“Otherwise he was abusive to all the policemen he used to speak to over the phone or in person. Wo seedhe gaali dekar baat karta tha (he used to abuse cops right from the start),” the cops told, adding that they were afraid of him and preferred not to be at odds with him.Before Friday’s shooutout, Dubey had spoken to a sub-inspector, now being investigated, over the phone, said a senior officer.“A number of examples are available now that show the not only the mid level officer, constabulary and senior police officers remained soft due to the caste factor. He survived all these years because of his activities on the caste-lines. It involved not only the cops but politicians, businessmen and so on,” said an official who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-did-gangster-vikas-dubey-get-information-about-kanpur-raid-police-explore-caste-angle/story-zdhHmUMpG3qehlZhhXCdpN.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district turns tide with 99% recovery in Covid-19 cases||In a remarkable turnaround, Tehri Garhwal district in Uttarakhand has scripted a significant recovery in Covid-19 cases with just three active cases left on Saturday out of a tally of 421.Tehri Garhwal was one of the districts in the state with a high number of Covid-19 cases after it reported the first incident in the third week of May.The number of Covid-19 cases in the district began to rise after over 32,000 migrant workers returned home from other parts of the country. Out of a total of 421 Covid-19 cases, 416 have recovered successfully while two have died.Over 100 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Uttarakhand, the infection rate in the hilly districts was observed to be higher than the plain districts with the highest infection rate being reported from Tehri Garhwal district 11.56% on June 24.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities, a Dehradun-based think tank, who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the state said that Tehri Garhwal district has shown improvement over the weeks.“Tehri Garhwal district has done wonders. It reported over 420 Covid-19 cases and 416 of them have recovered. Other districts could learn from the strategies followed by the district administration. I appeal to health authorities that there should be research on how the Tehri Garhwal handled cases and reached a recovery rate of almost 99%. We might be able to learn something good from this small district,” said Nautiyal.Amit Singh Negi, secretary for health in the state during a review meeting with the chief minister on Saturday said, “The total active cases in the state have reduced and are now less than 500. The rate of infection in Uttarakhand is at 4.68% and the average rate in the country is 6.73%. Of the total positive cases in the state, 89% were found in urban areas and 11% in rural areas. The position of the state has been improving continuously on a lot of parameters.”He added that sampling has also increased steadily. The state has a doubling rate of 57.39 days while the country’s doubling rate is 23.52 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-tehri-garhwal-district-turns-tide-with-99-recovery-in-covid-19-cases/story-5fVkA6shuVUyCmZcI2uZ9K.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19 recovery rate in 21 states, UTs higher than national average of 60.77%: Health ministry||Twenty-one states and UTs, including Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, have a Covid-19 recovery rate higher than the national average of 60.77 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday as India’s case count mounted to 6.73 lakh and the death toll rose to 19,268.Collective and focused efforts for containment and management of Covid-19 by the government of India along with the states and union territories have led to the number of recovered Covid-19 patients to rise to 4,09,082 so far, it said.Presently, there are 2,44,814 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, the ministry’s data updated at 8 am showed.The recovered cases exceeded the active cases by 1,64,268 as of Sunday, the ministry said.During the last 24 hours, a total of 14,856 Covid-19 patients have been cured.“This takes the national recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients to 60.77 per cent,” the ministry said.“There are 21 states and UTs with a recovery rate more than the national average,” it stated.These 21 states and UTs are Chandigarh (85.9 per cent), Ladakh (82.2 per cent), Uttarakhand (80.9 per cent), Chhattisgarh (80.6 per cent), Rajasthan (80.1 per cent), Mizoram (79.3 per cent), Tripura (77.7 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (76.9 per cent), Jharkhand (74.3 per cent), Bihar (74.2 per cent), Haryana (74.1 per cent), Gujarat (71.9 per cent), Punjab (70.5 per cent), Delhi (70.2 per cent), Meghalaya (69.4 per cent), Odisha (69.0 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (68.4 per cent), Himachal Pradesh (67.3 per cent), West Bengal (66.7 per cent), Assam (62.4 per cent), and Jammu and Kashmir (62.4 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-21-states-uts-higher-than-national-average-of-60-77-health-ministry/story-8MPiseyPK6vzZYXiQ30eIJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Andhra adds 998 new Covid-19 cases in highest spike, tally jumps to 18,697||Andhra Pradesh detected 998 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the Telugu state’s total number of coronavirus cases to 18,697, the state health department said on Sunday.At present, there are 10,043 active cases in Andhra Pradesh. With the fresh 14 fatalities, the death toll due to coronavirus has now risen to 232 in the state. The coronavirus curve in the southern state has been rising steeply for the past one week, recording a surge in positive patients. A day earlier, on Saturday, an addition of 765 fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh to 17,699.ALSO READ | India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 765 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the overall tally of infections in the state to 17,699, the government said.The state also saw 12 coronavirus-related deaths, taking the toll to 218. The 12 deaths were the highest in a day in the state till Sunday, when it was topped by 14 fatalities.According to a government bulletin, 311 patients recovered from the infection and were discharged taking the number of recoveries to 8,008. On Sunday, the number of patients who have been cured rose to 8,422 in the state.Kurnool and Srikakulam reported three coronavirus deaths each, Visakhapatnam and Chittoor two each and Kadapa and Vizianagaram one each, the latest bulletin said.Kurnool, which leads the state in the number of positive cases at 2,354, also tops with the death toll at 76 and in the number of recoveries as well at 1,147.Anantapuramu is the second district in Andhra to register over 2,000 Covid-19 positive cases with a total of 2,099. It is also second in terms of recoveries with 1,139 people cured.With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 fatalities, India’s Covid-19 caseload soared to 6,73,165, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-adds-998-new-covid-19-cases-state-s-tally-jumps-to-18-697-14-more-die/story-tD60oKxpYp7J7BIDAAKmOI.html
05-07-2020||India||Steady growth in domestic air travel, daily fliers cross 75k mark on July 4||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Sunday declared that over 75,000 passengers travelled on domestic flights on July 4, the highest daily traffic, seen 41 days after the resumption of domestic flights on May 25. Puri noted that the Saturday figures were a great improvement on the 30,000 fliers, who boarded flights on May 25, after two months of suspension of air travel since March 25 following the outbreak of coronavirus disease in the country.“Domestic operations began with about 30K flyers on 25th May. Yesterday we crossed the 75K mark which indicates a slow & steady rise in number of domestic flyers,” Puri’s tweet said.Puri noted the steady increase in traffic and stated that a total of 1,560 domestic flights were operated on July 4 carrying 76,104 fliers. The footfalls at airports had also increased to 1,53,547 on the day.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesPuri’s tweet follows an attempt by his ministry to further remove impediments to domestic air travel by easing the attached conditions. In an order released on June 29, the ministry allowed anyone who had not tested Covid 19 positive in the last three weeks to travel by air. Passengers only need to make a self-declaration in this regard and those who have been cured from the disease are expected to produce a certificate confirming their cure or discharge before they are allowed to board an aircraft. The ministry said the decision had been taken in the view of the high number of recoveries taking place. The earlier condition barred air travel for people if they had tested positive in the last two months.The rise in domestic air travel coincides with a 14-day-long suspension of flights to Kolkata from Covid hotspots of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad between July 6 and July 19 on the request of the West Bengal government. The move is aimed to contain the rapid rise of positive cases in Bengal, said the state government.An average 65 domestic flights took off and touched down in Kolkata every day since June 2, said news agency PTI. During the pre-Covid period, the Kolkata airport operated around 200 domestic and 35 international flights regularly.Punjab allows staggered arrival of flightsAccording to the new rules for air travel that came into effect on May 25, vulnerable persons, such as very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues are advised to avoid air travel. However, this doesn’t apply to air ambulance services.Physical check-in at airport counters has been done away with and only passengers with confirmed web check-in are allowed to enter the airport. Passenger manifest sent electronically to each passenger is treated as a boarding pass. Passengers are required to show their Covid 19 status in the Aarogya Setu App. Fliers are required to wear protective gear, especially the face mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steady-growth-in-domestic-air-travel-daily-fliers-cross-75k-mark-on-july-4/story-iZkopUxbLeaDshoSz97PBP.html
05-07-2020||India||I-T dept amends TDS form, mandates deductors to give reasons for non-deduction of tax||The income tax department has amended the TDS form, making it more comprehensive and mandating deductors to state reasons for non-deduction of tax. As per the amended form, banks will also have to report Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) for cash withdrawals above Rs 1 crore. Through a notification, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has amended Income Tax Rules to include TDS on e-commerce operators, dividend distributed by mutual funds and business trusts, cash withdrawals, professional fees and interest. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said with this notification, the government has revised the format of forms 26Q and 27Q, where details of TDS amount deducted and deposited on various resident and non-resident payments are required to be filled. Form 26Q is used for quarterly filing of TDS returns on any payment other than salary to Indian residents by the government or corporates operating in India. Form 27Q is used for quarterly filing of TDS returns electronically on any payment other than salary to non- residents, including NRIs and foreigners. Except for government deductors, it is mandatory for all other deductors to mention their PAN in the form. Kumar said “the new forms are more comprehensive and require payers to report not only those cases where TDS is deducted, but also cases where TDS is not deducted for any reason. Separate codes have been provided to cover different situations of deduction of TDS at lower rate/ non-deduction of TDS.”  The revised forms and rules also seek to incorporate reporting for new sections of TDS inserted in the Income Tax Act, such as Section 194N for cash withdrawals, Section 197A permitting non-deduction of TDS in various situations, among others.  In the 2019-20 budget, the government had introduced a TDS levy of 2 per cent on cash withdrawals of more than Rs 1 crore from a bank account in one financial year to discourage business payments in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-amends-tds-form-mandates-deductors-to-give-reasons-for-non-deduction-of-tax/story-9V74PEDZ9NzCRO7rt2WFxM.html
05-07-2020||India||Indian drug firms recall products in US market||Indian drug firms like Lupin, Marksans Pharma, and Alembic Pharmaceuticals are recalling products in the US market, as per the latest enforcement report by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). While Lupin and Marksans Pharma are recalling diabetes drug, Aurobindo and Alembic are recalling psychiatric medication in the US market. As per the latest enforcement report, the US based-arm of Lupin is recalling 6,540 bottles of Metformin Hydrochloride extended-release tablets USP, 500 mg, due to CGMP (Current Good Manufacturing Practice) deviations. The drug has been manufactured at Lupin’s Goa-based manufacturing plant.Also read: US firm Gilead in talks with Indian drug companies to produce remdesivir Similarly, Marksans Pharma is recalling 11,279 bottles of the diabetes drug Metformin Hydrochloride extended-release tablets, which it had supplied to US-based Time-Cap Labs, Inc. The US health regulator said it detected N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) impurity above the acceptable intake level in product of both the companies. NDMA has been defined as a probable human carcinogen. Further, Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc, a unit of Hyderabad-based Aurobindo Pharma, is recalling 1,440 bottles of Clozapine tablets in the US market. The company is recalling the product, which is used to treat certain mood/mental disorders, across the US due to a consumer complaint of 50mg tablets being present in bottles of Clozapine 100mg. Similarly, Alembic Pharmaceuticals is recalling 19,153 bottles of Aripiprazole tablets in the US for labelling mix up. The product is used in treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. All the ongoing voluntary recalls have been classified as class II recalls. As per USFDA, a class II recall is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-drug-firms-recall-products-in-us-market/story-JY1jpawOmTHmzidOQgYv1I.html
05-07-2020||India||Goa port town councillor dies of Covid-19||The dreaded Covid-19 disease claimed the life of councillor of the Mormugao Municipality Pascoal D’Souza, who passed away after battling the infection for over a week at Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 Hospital on Saturday night, the family said. D’Souza was the brother of State President of the Nationalist Congress Party José Philip D’Souza, a former revenue minister in the Goa Government. “Deeply pained by the passing away of Mormugao Councillor Pascoal D’Souza. He was truly a leader of masses and always worked to help the needy. My condolences to his brother Jose Phillip D’Souza and family and supporters of Pascoalbab. May almighty give them strength to bear the loss,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted.The death takes Goa’s Covid-19 toll to seven. Three of them died in the last two days. Vasco da Gama town and its suburbs are the worst affected areas in the state that has so far recorded 1,576 cases of which 529 have been detected in the port town itself and neighbouring suburbs and slums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-port-town-councillor-dies-of-covid-19/story-dpZ2jcRpHP7A8yV2bzv1MN.html
05-07-2020||India||36 more BSF personnel test positive for Covid-19, force’s count climbs to 1,348||Thirty six more Border Security Force (BSF) personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and 33 others have recovered from the viral infection, a statement from the BSF said on Sunday. At least 526 security personnel are currently suffering from the infectious disease in the border guarding force. The force now has 1,348 coronavirus cases and out of these 526 personnel are under treatment.So far, 817 BSF personnel have been cured and discharged from medical camps.On Saturday, 79 personnel of the two border security forces-- the BSF and the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) -- tested positive for coronavirus.ALSO READ | India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsThe about 2.5-lakh personnel strong Border Security Force (BSF) reported 45 fresh Covid-19 cases and 39 recoveries a day earlier, officials said.There have been five deaths so far from the disease in the force, given the task of guarding India’s borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The fatalities include a BSF soldier who was killed in a road accident and his Covid-19 positive report came later.The 90,000 personnel strong mountain-warfare trained force — the ITBP has recorded two deaths due to the coronavirus disease. The maximum numbers of new Covid-19 cases in the two forces are of those security personnel who are joining their units and are under mandatory quarantine of 14 days before they resume active duty, a senior official said. India’s count of the coronavirus disease touched 673,165 with the highest single-day spike of 24,850 new cases and 613 deaths, data from the Union health ministry indicated on Sunday.The country’s death toll due to the disease has climbed to 19,268 and there are 244,481 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, according to the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36-more-bsf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-force-s-count-climbs-to-1-348/story-Z1inzYVrCKQHzx2GTCPclO.html
05-07-2020||India||BSF alerts units along Bangladesh border against spurt in human trafficking during Covid-19||The Border Security Force (BSF) has sounded an alert all along the 4,096 km long India-Bangladesh front to check cross-border human trafficking instances that may witness a spurt in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the linked lockdown, officials said on Sunday. The force has noticed some innovative methods to push the poor and vulnerable from across the border by luring them with job opportunities in cities like Kolkata, Guwahati, some other towns in north-east India and as far as Delhi and Mumbai, a senior officer of the BSF said. At least five Bangladeshi nationals were apprehended by the BSF in less than two weeks, between June 19-29, from railway wagons that entered India via Petrapole in the North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal. The wagons either contained bags of chilli or were empty, the officer said.The age group of the five males ranged between 12-25 years and their preliminary questioning by the force personnel revealed that they were trafficked by touts from the other side with help from local trafficking syndicates on this side, the officer said.  It is understood that job loss due to the Covid-19 lockdown and less work opportunities due to the ongoing pandemic were the reasons that these gullible people got lured and trafficked across the border, they said. While the border front under the 913 kms long south Bengal front of the BSF is prone to maximum instances of trans-border crimes, human trafficking and smuggling of cattle and narcotics, attempts to illegally push humans have been noticed at few other locations of this border since the outbreak of coronavirus, they said. The force has, therefore, alerted all its border posts to keep an enhanced vigil against human trafficking instances that, as per multiple intelligence inputs, is expected to witness a spurt owing to the loss of job opportunities and lockdown imposed in both the countries to contain the spread of the coronavirus infection, they said. “We are coordinating with our counterparts BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh) on these issues and it is our joint effort to ensure that the sanctity of the border is intact and crimes are check effectively,” a BSF officer said in Delhi. He said the force has initiated joint patrolling with the BGB troops in vulnerable and crime-prone patches of this entire border and they are sharing intelligence inputs and information with their counterparts. “The BSF and BGB have the best of relations at present. The two countries have a shared history and we are working to make the relations better,” the officer said. The force has also asked its border units to mount additional surveillance on cattle smuggling crimes which is expected to rise in view of Eid celebrations at the end of this month. The ongoing monsoon season and the rivers in spate help smugglers in pushing cattle from the Indian to the Bangaldeshi side using the water current, officials said. A first-of-its-kind trick was recently seen in the Malda district of West Bengal after BSF troops recovered a live calf that was being smuggled across the riverine border by concealing it in a carcass. Also, cattle tied on a raft made of banana trunks have been intercepted quiet a number of times after they were pushed by smugglers in border rivers to be collected on the other side by conduits. The border force has deployed an increased number of boats and ditches are being dug in the border areas to create an obstacle for cattle, they said.  More than 200 BSF troops have been injured between January 2018 and June this year while checking these crimes and in attacks by smugglers at the border, latest data has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-alerts-units-along-bangladesh-border-against-spurt-in-human-trafficking-during-covid-19/story-zvq5jmoEd4L2D73NTQ5AtM.html
05-07-2020||India||Italian Marines case ruling won’t affect India’s rights in exclusive economic zone||The ruling in the Italian marines case by the Permanent Court of Arbitration (tribunal) at Hague will not affect India’s rights in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) for fishing, exploration of gas etc, former additional solicitor general (ASG) PS Narasimha, who headed India’s legal team during the initial stages of the case before the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, told HT. The EEZ is a sea zone prescribed under the United Nations Convention on Law of Seas (UNCLOS) and extends up to 200 nautical miles (370 kilometers) from the coastline of the country. The UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of marine natural resources. As per Article 56 of UNCLOS, every country has sovereign rights within the EEZ including the right to exploit natural resources, living or non-living.The incident of shooting at Indian fishermen in 2012 happened within the EEZ. Despite that, the arbitral tribunal came to the conclusion that Italy has not violated India’s sovereign rights. The tribunal’s observations should be seen in the context of the specific incident of Enrica Lexie wherein it held that a vessel can take action to protect itself from what it assumed was an attack by pirates, Narasimha said. “The Tribunal’s ruling does not impact India’s rights in the EEZ for fishing, exploration of gas, fishing in any manner whatsoever. The tribunals’ observations (on Italy not having violated India’s sovereign rights) are limited to the extent of stating that a vessel has a right to protect itself from potential piracy attacks including in the EEZ of another state. These observations are only a reflection of the rights vested in a country’s vessel to protect itself in certain circumstances and not in derogation of the coastal state’s rights in the EEZ”, he said. Kerala CM writes to PM Modi seeking trial in Italy of marines who killed 2 fishermeNarasimha made it clear that the finding of the tribunal need not be categorized as Italy not having violated India’s sovereign rights at all. The Tribunal, he said, recorded in clear terms that India has the freedom of navigation in the high seas and that Italy has acted in breach of India’s freedom of navigation. “The tribunal has only held that in the specific incident of the Italian vessel, which was otherwise traversing peacefully through the EEZ, the action taken by Enrica Lexie due to its supposedly bonafide assumption of a potential piracy event, may not have been in violation of India’s sovereign rights in the EEZ. The tribunals’ ruling only proceeds to examine whether a vessel is entitled to take defensive in the event of an attack in the EEZ of another country. To this particular question, it has answered in the affirmative”, he said. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesNarasimha also pointed out that the tribunal rejected Italy’s claim that India is expected to make reparations for its actions of arrest and investigation of the Marines.“On India’s counter- claim of violation of Article 56 by Italy, the Tribunal has held that no foreign-flagged vessel can proceed to act against Indian sovereign interests and rights in the EEZ in any manner”, he added. While the tribunal held that Italy interfered with India’s right to navigation when Enrica Lexie fired at the Indian fishing boat St. Antony, it also held that India should stop exercising criminal jurisdiction over the marines, since they enjoyed state immunity while acting in their official capacity. Narasimha said that while there might be problems with regard to tribunal’s finding on marines enjoying state immunity, the same is not contradictory to the finding on violation of India’s right to navigation. “Though the issue of territoriality has been held in India’s favour, the issue of immunity is not contradictory but a different issue entirely,” he said. The tribunal, he said, correctly observed that the act of shooting by the marines, which caused St. Antony to change direction and head back to shore, was in violation of India’s freedom of navigation.But despite specifically holding that India has jurisdiction over the incident, the tribunal also observed that whether or not India can subsequently try the marines would also depend on the outcome of the question of immunity. The question of immunity was then answered in the favour of Italian marines, based on which, India was asked to stop the criminal proceedings against the marines. “The Tribunal’s finding that immunity was applicable to the marines in these facts and that they were ‘State officials of the Italian Republic’ and were ‘acting in their official capacity as officers of the Italian Navy is questionable. This approach is rather dangerous for the serious implications they entail in how countries are expected to act in similar situations in the future,” Narasimha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italian-marines-case-ruling-won-t-affect-india-s-rights-in-exclusive-economic-zone/story-S7JYt6QuyCL4UNilyv6oPL.html
05-07-2020||India||West Bengal’s Chandrodaya Temple reopens for devotees after more than 3 months||The gates of Chandrodaya Temple, Mayapur, world headquarters of the ISKCON, reopened for devotees on Sunday, more than three months after they were shut in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The ‘darshan’ of the deities began from 9 am and around 100 devotees came inside the premises through sanitiser tunnel, ISKCON (International Society For Krishna Consciousness) Mayapur spokesman Subrata Das told PTI.The temple will be open from 9 am to 7 pm every day.“We are expecting 200 visitors today. We expect the numbers to go up next week onwards,” he said.All the visitors were entering from the main gate and ‘Gammon gate’ and not allowed without masks.The temple premises, restaurants, toilets were being sanitised at frequent interval every day.The temple was closed since March 23.“Since the safety of our devotees and visitors is of paramount importance to us we took a little more time to open the temple for devotees,” Sri Madhava Gauranga Das, Vice Chairman of Mayapur Administrative Council said explaining the reason why the ISKCON, Mayapur authorities opened the gates for devotees one month after the West Bengal government allowed places of worship to open.However, authorities of ISKCON, Kolkata don’t have any immediate plans to open the Albert Road temple premises in the city, ISKCON Kolkata spokesman Radha Raman Das said when asked.Authorities of Dakshineswar Kali Temple, Tarapith Kali Temple, Kalighat Temple, Belur Math among others had opened the gates for devotees with several Covid-19 precautionary measures in place during the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-s-chandrodaya-temple-reopens-for-devotees-after-more-than-3-months/story-ZY5RKC3HJxynY1WYKB2NkJ.html
05-07-2020||India||With surge in Covid-19 cases, Devendra Fadnavis urges govt to pay heed to Kalyan Dombivli||The Maharashtra government should pay immediate attention to the spread of Covid-19 in Kalyan–Dombivli amid the rapidly increasing cases in the area, Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of the opposition in the Legislative Assembly said on Sunday.Fadnavis was on a visit to the Covid-19 hospitals to make a review of the overall situation. He visited the Holy Cross Covid-19 hospital in Kalyan (West).The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 555 new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive Covid-19 cases to 8,604. July has already seen a rapid increase in the number of coronavirus patients with 400-500 cases recorded every single day. “In the coming days the Covid-19 cases in Kalyan Dombivli will be out of control. With less manpower, the civic body will not be able to look after the patients with the existing infrastructure. The state should check if extra manpower can be provided to the civic body,” Fadnavis said.Speaking about the recent decision of the Maharashtra government on 27 villages he said, “The state should have considered establishing a civic body for the entire 27 villages, without dividing it. The state should plan well and then implement the decision on 27 villages or it will be a major disaster in future.”In the wake of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) civic polls to be held later this year, last month the Maharashtra government had passed a notification to form a separate municipal body for the 18 villages while remaining nine village will remain with KDMC. The villagers of these nine village though are unhappy with the notification and have demanded to be separated from KDMC. These 27 villages were added into KDMC before the previous civic polls held in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-surge-in-covid-19-cases-devendra-fadnavis-urges-govt-to-pay-heed-to-kalyan-dombivli/story-LeqNWWI2vkB2JhYq8FqLVN.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19: 1,000 bed hospital in Delhi built in record 12 days, ICU named after Col B Santosh Babu||A 1,000 bed hospital, including 250 ICU beds, dedicated to treating patients of coronavirus disease outbreak has been built in record time of 12 days in the national capital, Union home minister Amit Shah said in a tweet on Sunday.“Visited the 1,000 bed Sardar Patel Covid Hospital, which has 250 ICU beds, along with @rajnathsingh ji. DRDO built it in record time of 12 days with assistance from MHA, MOHFW, Armed Forces and Tata Trust. Armed Forces Medical Services team will run it and DRDO will maintain,” Shah tweeted. Paying a tribute to the men killed in the Galwan clash last month, the ICU ward in the hospital has been named after Col B Santosh Babu and the other two medical wards have been named after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh. The union home minister visited the facility with defence minister Rajnath Singh a day after Delhi’s virus case tally clocked 97,200 cases. This facility has been made functional in addition to among several other facilities, including a 10,000 beds centre at the campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur which will start admitting patients from Sunday.The cases in Delhi have averaged at 2,628 a day over the past week compared to 3,400 daily cases the week before, according to public health experts.Delhi, due to a timely expansion of its treatment capacity, is also in a comparatively better situation in its fight against coronavirus, despite the high number of cases. A total of 16,265 hospital beds are vacant in the city as of Saturday, as per the health bulletin.There are 448 containment zones in the city as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-1-000-bed-hospital-in-delhi-built-in-record-12-days-says-amit-shah/story-pu8fUJMBrCGDljGaNWgpsI.html
05-07-2020||India||PM’s Ladakh visit raised morale of armed forces at the border, says ITBP DG||The morale of the Indian armed forces is “very high” and the troops are ready to sacrifice their lives for the nation like in the past, ITBP chief S S Deswal said on Sunday as the military standoff with China continued in Ladakh.The ITBP Director General (DG) said the recent visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Ladakh and his address to troops in Nimu “have raised the morale of all the forces at the border”.“The complete national leadership, political leadership and the forces and jawans...they are dedicated to the nation.“They are dedicated to border security and the morale of all forces, be it the Indian Army, Air Force or ITBP, is very high,” Deswal told reporters on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate an over-10,000-bed COVID care centre here.Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the facility for which the mountain-warfare trained force is the nodal agency.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital and volunteers of the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas have joined hands to run the “Sardar Patel COVID care centre” located in south Delhi’s Chattarpur area.Deswal said armed forces personnel have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty in the past and they are ready to dedicate their lives to the nation in the future as well.Talking about the facility, he said the team of doctors and paramedics of the force is “capable” of handling a large number of patients as it has the experience of running the country’s first coronavirus quarantine centre created by the ITBP in the Chhawla area of the national capital as also of treating police personnel infected with the virus at the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) referral hospital in Greater Noida.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China on the country’s eastern flank and its troops are present, along with the Army, to counter the Chinese forces during the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley area and other locations.The force has inducted about 30 fresh companies (around 3,000 personnel) to bolster its numbers at various locations along the LAC in view of the standoff with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-ladakh-visit-raised-morale-of-armed-forces-at-border-says-itbp-dg/story-ZfLPCwbM7XhTlxiUQzwAjP.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam crosses 10,000-mark, over 21,000 cases in Karnataka: Covid-19 state tally||In another sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, India has reported 24,850 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking the national Covid-19 tally to 673,165. As per the latest data shared by the Ministry of Health, 409,082 people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country - over 60% of the total infections in the country. The Covid-19 death toll in India stands at 19,268.Assam has reported a total of 10,668 Covid-19 cases and has joined states with over 10,000 coronavirus cases. Karnataka continues to report a surge in Covid-19 cases as total infections breached the 20,000-mark in the state.Also read: India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deaths With over 2 lakh cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally followed by Tamil Nadu which has reported over 1 lakh cases till date.   Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 200,064 on Sunday. Over 108,082 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,671 have died.Tamil NaduWith 107,001 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,450 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 60,592.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 97,200 on Sunday. As many as 68,256 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 3,004 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratThe state has seen Covid-19 cases reach 35,312 on Sunday. The state has seen 25,406 people recover from coronavirus while 1925 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 26,554 while the number of recoveries has touched 18,154. The state’s death toll stands at 773.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 22,312 coronavirus cases. While 11,537 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 288 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 21,549 coronavirus cases till date while three hundred and thirty-five people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 9,244 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 21,231 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 14,166 recover from coronavirus while 736 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 19,532 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 447 while 15,640 patients have recovered.HaryanaThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 16,548 while the death toll stands at 260. Over 12,257 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Situation in other statesOver 14,600 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. Andhra Pradesh has 17,699 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has crossed 11,000, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 8,246. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 8,601 while Assam has reported over 10,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 6,109, and the number of cases in Kerala is 5,204. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,000 cases.States with less than 3,000 casesNagaland, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Chandigarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya is the lone state with less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-crosses-10-000-mark-over-21-000-cases-in-karnataka-covid-19-state-tally/story-dKRvTJysOyax8MkopCueyJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Atma nirbhar Bharat call to help country capitalise on its inherent strengths: Venkaiah Naidu||The call for a self-reliant India is not aimed at encouraging “protectionism or isolationism”, but for adopting a pragmatic development strategy to enable the country recognise and capitalise on its inherent strengths, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Sunday. Speaking at the virtual launch of ‘Elyments’ mobile app, Naidu said the “atma nirbhar Bharat” campaign was aimed at giving a new boost to the economic potential of the country by strengthening infrastructure, using modern technologies, enriching human resource, and creating robust supply chains.Naidu said it was quite appropriate that  Prime Minister Narendra Modi  announced the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’ on Saturday as it would encourage Indian IT specialists to prepare apps for various uses to enhance quality of life.The vice president noted that more than a thousand IT professionals, who are also the volunteers of the Art of Living, have together created the app.Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar was also part of the virtual launch.On the the YouTube link of the launch event, the developers said on Elyments, “People will be able to connect globally and shop locally”. Data of users is stored in India and user’s data will never be shared with a third party without user’s consent, the write up said.It allows free audio-video calls and a private chat connection.The vice president said such initiatives by the Indian tech industry and professionals were truly praiseworthy as they not only demonstrated India’s prowess in technology but also were a step towards a self-reliant India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atma-nirbhar-bharat-call-to-help-country-capitalise-on-its-inherent-strengths-venkaiah-naidu/story-9YWkOmKcKYzQp9OCZeCx9L.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur encounter accused received call from police station before cops came to arrest||The main accused in the Kanpur encounter case, Vikas Dubey, had received a phone call from the police station before the police came to arrest him following which he had called other accomplices and fired bullets on the police personnel, claimed Daya Shankar Agnihotri, an accomplice of Dubey. Earlier today, the police arrested Daya Shankar Agnihotri, an alleged accomplice of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey in Kalyanpur.“He (Vikas Dubey) received a phone call from the police station before the police came to arrest him. Following this, he called around 25-30 people. He fired bullets on police personnel,” said Agnihotri. “I was locked inside the house at the time of encounter, therefore, saw nothing,” he added.Dubey is the main accused in the Kanpur encounter case, in which a group of assailants allegedly opened fire on a police team that was trying to arrest a criminal in the city late on Thursday night. Eight policemen were killed in the incident.In another development, a photo of Vikas Dubey has been put up at check-post near the India-Nepal border in Rupaidiha, Bahraich district. According to sources, Dubey’s last location was traced in Auraiya and it is suspected that he might have gone to Madhya Pradesh or Rajasthan, crossing the Uttar Pradesh border. The Uttar Pradesh Police has contacted the police of both the states. Even after 55 hours, UP Police and ATS have not yet discovered anything in this regard, sources informed. Review of all the old cases of Dubey has been commenced, the Director-General of Police (DGP) has asked for the current status of these reports while it is being monitored by the Police Headquarters, sources added.In March, the STF had sent a list of 25 felony criminals to the police headquarters, which did not have Dubey’s name. Vikas has run away with CCTV recordings of a dozen cameras installed at his home, said sources. The sources have also stated that the names of about 20 policemen have come out in Dubey’s call details in which there is evidence of constant contact with two policemen beside one police personnel from Chaubepur Police Station. According to police sources, Vinay Tiwari, station house officer at Chaubepur Police station tried to save Dubey. Tiwari did not want the backup police party to reach the spot, so he delayed the rest of the team from going to the spot, sources said.Tiwari was on a constant phone conversation with Dubey, he did not want any action to be taken, sources informed. Under pressure from CO Devendra Mishra, the SHO became a part of this operation.Vinay Tiwari had already told Dubey about the pressure coming from CO following which CO Devendra was killed ruthlessly, said sources. Meanwhile, Chhatrapal Singh, Operator, Shivli Power Sub-station, Kanpur said, “On 3rd July, I had received a call from Chaubeypur Power Station to cut power in Bikaru village (site of Kanpur encounter) as a power line was damaged there.”Following which the power was cut from this sub-station, at present, the Kanpur police is also questioning the operator of this sub-station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-encounter-accused-received-call-from-police-station-before-cops-came-to-arrest/story-vHxcU3NXnw6jKa9zxFSkCO.html
05-07-2020||India||Karnataka to build Rs 200 crore pilgrim complexes at Tirumala||The Karnataka government will soon build a massive pilgrim amenities complex and marriage hall at Tirumala, the hill abode of Lord Venkateswara, at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore, a temple official said here on Saturday. The state would soon submit a blueprint for the construction of the Rs 200 crore mega complexes to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the hill shrine, the official told PTI. Consequently, based on the designs, TTD would construct the complexes with the given fund and after completion, they would be handed over to the Karnataka government, he said. Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa would lay the foundation stone for the mammoth complexes on the hills some time next month, he said. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to take part in the programme, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-build-rs-200-crore-pilgrim-complexes-at-tirumala/story-TRd6jf9jo9QX0dThm7BDiK.html
05-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu on intense lockdown today as part of efforts to curb Covid-19 spread||An intense lockdown, without any relaxations, was imposed across Tamil Nadu on Sunday as part of the state government’s efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus, with roads remaining deserted and shops downing shutters.The state government had earlier announced that on all the four Sundays in July, intense lockdown will be in force across Tamil Nadu and only health care services, including pharmacies and hospitals, will be functional.People remained indoors in different cities in the state, even as no commercial activities were witnessed, reports reaching here said. Shops, including those selling vegetables and groceries were closed in many parts and there was no movement of vehicular traffic on key roads in different parts of the state. Police personnel were posted in various junctions as part of total implementation of the lockdown. Earlier, the government had announced implementing intense lockdown from June 19 to July 5 in Chennai and its neighbouring districts--Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet.The said districts will however, see relaxations in the curbs starting Monday, with the government allowing extension of business hours of vegetable shops, provision stores and restaurants, which can only serve takeaways.Tea shops, closed since June 19, could resume functioning, while barring malls, all kinds of showrooms and others, including textiles and jewellery, can be back in business, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had said on Saturday.IT firms and private units can also resume activity with various safety precautions in place.However, curbs would continue in Madurai and nearby areas till July 12.Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of virus cases in the country behind Maharashtra, and its cumulative tally stood at 1.07 lakh as of Saturday.The virus load is more pronounced in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Madurai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-on-intense-lockdown-today-as-part-of-efforts-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19/story-6tmlCFDh4Ct4ArOJPL9mDK.html
05-07-2020||India||Power demand slump narrows to 2.6% in July beginning||Power demand slump has narrowed to 2.6 per cent in the beginning of July from 9.6 per cent in June, showing improvement in commercial and industrial activities in the country. The peak power demand had declined by about 25 per cent in April and 8.82 per cent in May this year due to lower commercial and industrial demand during the Covid-19 induced lockdown.   The government had imposed the lockdown from March 25. Experts have expressed hope that power demand would reach normal levels by August this year. Unlock 2.0 is expected to bring economic activities to almost normal levels, which would be reflected in power demand data. The government had started easing the lockdown from April 20, 2020. According to power ministry data, peak power demand met was recorded at 170.54 GW on July 2, which is just 2.61 per cent lower than 175.12 GW in July 2019.  The peak power demand met was 166.78GW on July 1, 168.34GW on July 3 and 160.83 GW on July 4.  The peak power demand met in June dipped 9.6 per cent at 164.94GW compared to 182.45 GW in June 2019. Peak power demand met is defined as the highest energy supply during the day across the country. In May, the peak power demand met stood at 166.42 GW, 8.82 per cent less than 182.55 GW in the year-ago period. In April, it stood at 132.77 GW, about 25 per cent lower than 176.81 GW recorded in the corresponding month a year earlier. Many lockdown relaxations from May 4 to 31 perked up industrial and commercial demand. Rising temperatures due to the intense heat wave also led to an increase in power demand. The data also showed that the slump in power consumption narrowed in June to 9.74 per cent from 14.86 per cent registered in May and 23.21 per cent recorded in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-demand-slump-narrows-to-2-6-in-july-beginning/story-Bm6xBQLNOcmnsk5qkOpz1L.html
05-07-2020||India||PFI national chairman holds government office in Kerala, sparks row||The Popular Front of India (PFI), which is under the scanner for alleged anti-national activities and fanning violence during the anti-CAA protests, is in the news lately after its national chairman Mohammed Abdul Salam Ovungal, 47, better known as OMA Salam, was reported to hold a state government office in Kerala.Working as a senior assistant with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), Salam is currently posted at the Manjeri (Malappuram) SEB circle office, documents with the Hindustan Times show which was later clarified by the SEB headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram.Is it possible for a government official to be part of an outfit marred by many controversies? Senior officials of the SEB say a strict no to it, adding that nobody has made any complaints in this regard and no criminal case is pending against him, at least in Kerala. Though the SEB vigilance department had made some inquiries in this regard last year but it was dropped later. The state service rules stipulate that a government employee should not be an active member of any organisation other than the service-related recognised trade unions.“There are around 36,000 employees with the state electricity board. Usually, during the joining period, there is a verification of personal details and credentials. If any case or complaints surface later, we have an internal mechanism to check it and take action against the erring,” said a senior SEB official who did not want to be named.Salam joined the SEB in 2000, his records also show he made some seven foreign trips in the last six years or so under “personal trips” by seeking permission from the SEB. There are many allegations against the PFI, including one where it is alleged that it used to get regular funding from some West Asian countries - some of the foreign trips of its functionaries are also under the intelligence radar now.Salam was elected as the chairman of the PFI in February at its general assembly meet held in Puthanathani in Malappuram district. A PFI insider said he was active in the organisation since it was floated in 2006.“He is working in our office. Since I joined the Manjeri department office last month I have no other details about him,” said deputy chief engineer of Manjeri region P Ramani. Salam was not reachable for his comments.The PFI was launched in Kerala in 2006 after merging three Muslim outfits floated after the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992 - the National Development Front of Kerala, Karnataka Forum for Dignity and Manitha Neethi Pasari of Tamil Nadu. Now, the PFI claims it has units in 22 states. Majority of the PFI leaders are from Kerala and some of them are former members of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI).The PFI calls itself a neo-social movement committed to empowering people belonging to the minority communities, Dalits and other weaker sections of the society. In a short span of time, it became popular among Muslim youth. “Live with pride in India” is its guiding principle. On the lines of the RSS, the PFI has uniforms and often conducts drills at public places. In 2013, the Kerala government had banned its freedom parade - which it conducts on the Independence Day - after the police found its cadres were carrying stars and emblems on the uniform.Every year on February 17, it conducts unity marches at all its district headquarters. It has cadre training centres in many districts and usually associates with many human rights organizations to get a sombre outlook, police officials said. It’s religious school ‘Sathya Sarani’ in Manjeri was in the news after parents of some Hindu and Christian girls alleged that it was a conversion hub. Akhila Ashokan alias Hadiya Jehan, a dentist who embraced Islam and later married a Muslim youth, was reportedly converted here.In Kerala, the PFI was mired in many clashes and political murders. It was allegedly involved in at least 30 political murders in the past decade. In 2015, 13 of its workers were awarded life-term for chopping the palm of a college professor, TJ Joseph, who prepared a question paper which was alleged to be blasphemous. Two years ago, six PFI activists were held in connection with the murder of an ABVP leader in Kannur and nine were arrested for allegedly killing SFI leader Abhimanyu at Maharajas College in Ernakulam. After last year’s protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act turned violent in many parts of the country, there was a demand to ban the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfi-national-chairman-holds-government-office-in-kerala-sparks-row/story-DtXw2ail3rasTkFKjPT7RL.html
05-07-2020||India||Woman PSI in Gujarat arrested for taking Rs 20 lakh bribe||A woman police sub-inspector (PSI) has been arrested for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 20 lakh from a rape accused for not charging him under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, police said on Sunday.Shweta Jadeja, who was the in-charge of Mahila police station in Ahmedabad-West, had allegedly demanded Rs 35 lakh from the brother of Kenal Shah, against whom she was investigating a rape case registered in 2019, a police official said.She demanded the money for not booking Shah under provisions of the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) Act, where the police can send an accused to a jail outside his native district, he said.As per the First Information Report (FIR) lodged by the city crime branch, Jadeja accepted Rs 20 lakh through a middleman and demanded an additional Rs 15 lakh from the rape case accused.The complainant gave Rs 20 lakh to Jadeja in February, and she was forcing him to pay the remaining amount, the FIR said.She was arrested on Friday and a case was registered against her under the Prevention of Corruption Act, the official said.She was on Saturday produced before a sessions court where police sought her remand for seven days.The court, however, granted three-day remand to the police for further investigation, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt said.“The main point is the police need to recover Rs 20 lakh accepted by the accused. So far, the investigation has revealed the bribe money was accepted by a middleman,” the prosecutor said.Shah is the managing director of a crop solution company in Ahmedabad and is facing two separate rape cases under Indian Penal Code Section 376, one of which was being investigated by Jadeja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-psi-in-gujarat-arrested-for-taking-rs-20-lakh-bribe/story-8oXtnyhwM3tVy6aLDvf5FL.html
05-07-2020||India||Sudan national dies before boarding repatriation flight at Hyderabad airport||A 62-year-old Sudan national, who was a part of a repatriation flight, died before boarding a flight at RGI airport here on Sunday.The woman has been identified as Heyeeba Mohammed Taha Ali, police said.According to airport sources, “A 62-year-old woman passenger, part of a repatriation flight, after completing all formalities, died near the boarding gate while boarding a Badr Airlines flight J4-226/227 at RGI airport in Hyderabad today.”The flight was scheduled from Sudan-Hyderabad-Muscat.“Today at 7 am, one Sudan national, Heyeeba Mohammed Taha Ali (62), arrived at the airport to board a flight back to Sudan on a wheelchair. At the boarding gate, she collapsed. Immediately, she was shifted to Apollo Hospital where she died. She was a cancer patient and had undergone treatment at Virinchi Hospital, Banjara Hill in last seven months,” RGIA police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudan-national-dies-before-boarding-repatriation-flight-at-hyderabad-airport/story-l6J22ZCXFxY9VrSwAGeb1H.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: At 200.8mm, Mumbai sees second-highest 24 hour July rain in 5 years and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At 200.8mm, Mumbai sees second-highest 24 hour July rain in 5 yearsIncessant downpour over the weekend allowed Mumbai to record its second-highest 24-hour rain in the month of July in over the past five years. Read moreIndia records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsIndia’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 673,165 with the biggest single-day increase of 24,850 new cases and 613 deaths, data from the Union health ministry on Sunday showed. Read morePakistan have beaten India so much that they’d ask us for forgiveness after the match: Shahid AfridiIn yet another bold statement, former captain Shahid Afridi has claimed that Pakistan’s domination over their arch-rivals was such that Indian cricketers would seek forgiveness from Pakistan. Read moreSmriti Irani’s motivational quote impresses many. ‘Very true,’ say peopleUnion Minister Smriti Irani took to Instagram to share a motivational quote on life lessons and now it has left many impressed, including actors Sonu Sood, Divya Dutta, and Ronit Bose Roy. Read moreThe Way We Were: Fragmented tales from a beautiful mindIn June 2006, a 63-year-old man walked out of his rambling old house in Ambala, Haryana, and never returned. To this day, no one knows what happened to him. Read moreApple’s Chinese App Store removes 4,500 games in just 3 daysApple has removed more than 4,500 mobile games from the Chinese App Store in three days thanks to a change in licensing restrictions in China. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-at-200-8mm-mumbai-sees-second-highest-24-hour-july-rain-in-5-years-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dcSjFYSoZxccKBSvAp237M.html
05-07-2020||India||4 Maoists including two women shot dead in encounter in Odisha’s Kandhamal||A police team shot dead at least four Maoists including two women in an encounter in a forest in Odisha’s Kandhamal district early Sunday morning.Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist operations) Amitabh Thakur said a team of Special Operation Group and District Voluntary Force policemen of Kandhamal district went on a combing operation at Sirla forest near Tumudibandh area of Kandhamal district on early Sunday morning ran into the Maoists in the forest. In the encounter that followed, the police killed four Maoists and seized a huge cache of weapons.Police launched a search operation late Saturday night near Sirla reserve forest area after a tip off about presence of armed Maoists.“While the search operation was going on, the police team saw a large group of Maoists camping in the jungle area. Police party tried to approach them but they came under heavy fire from the Maoists. When the police asked them to surrender they continued to fire and also lobbed grenades. When police fired back, the Maoists escaped taking cover of dense forest,” said Thakur. There were around 35-40 armed Maoists in the camp when the encounter started, he said.When the firing stopped, the police found the bodies of four Maoists of Bansadhara Ghumsar Nagabali division which is active in that area. Their identities are being verified. Police also seized six sophisticated weapons from the area including three SLR rifles, one INSAS rifle along with magazines.This is the first killing of Maoists by police in Odisha this year. In August last year, police in Malkangiri district had killed Rakesh Sodhi, a platoon commander with a bounty of Rs 8 lakh on his head during an encounter. A policeman was killed and another critically injured in that encounter. On Thursday, security forces had busted a Maoist camp inside a forest in Kandhamal district and seized explosives and other materials from there. The SOG personnel seized over 15 kilogram of explosives, 28 detonators and tiffin carriers meant to be used as Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) from the camp located near Samarbandh village under Phiringia police station area.Other articles such as bags, shoes, documents and Maoist literature were also found in the camp. The Maoists, however, had fled from the camp before the security personnel could reach there.For the last six months, Maoists are on the backfoot in Andhra-Odisha border areas in Koraput and Malkangiri districts after building of a bridge that connects the Swabhiman Anchal (the area qhich used to be cut-off from the mainland and acted as safe havens for the Maoists) to the mainland of Malkangiri. As their influence wanes on southern Odisha borders, they are trying to intensify their activities on Ganjam-Kandhamal-Kalahandi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-maoists-killed-during-encounter-with-police-in-odisha-s-kandhamal/story-VkGU6SzZampIQD50AAM7XJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Built in 10 days, world’s ‘largest’ Covid-19 care facility to admit patients from today||India’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility with 10,000 beds at the campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur will start admitting patients from Sunday.The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital (SPCCCH) will function as an isolation centre for mild and asymptomatic patients of the coronavirus disease. It was created by the South Delhi District administration with the support of the Union ministry of home affairs in just 10 days.“This facility has been created to provide stress-free and mindful isolation to the patients,” a government release said.It has been linked to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital and Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital. And its referral tertiary care hospitals are Lok Narayan Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.Covid-19 patients from all over Delhi will be admitted at the centre through respective district surveillance officers.Here are the details of the centre:* The centre is 1,700 feet long, 700 feet wide or roughly the size of 20 football fields and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.* The hospital, which will be cooled by 18,000 tons of air-conditioners, has mud floor covered by carpets and then topped with vinyl sheets for easy cleaning.* Relatives of patients won’t be allowed inside the gates. * The Delhi government has provided administrative support and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) will be the nodal agency operating the centre. Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas will also help run the centre.* ITBP will run the first 2,000 beds at present with the help of its 170 doctors and specialists and more than 700 nurses and paramedics. * Ten per cent of the centre’s beds will have oxygen facility in case a patient develops severe breathlessness and requires tertiary hospital care.* The facility is divided into three sections: the largest for the patients, another for nurses and doctors, and the third will serve as the command section. There will be 116 sections of 88 beds each for patients.* Every patient will have a bed, a stool, a chair, a small plastic cupboard, a dustbin and utensils, and will be given a toiletry kit.* Individual phone and laptop charging facility will be available for each bed. Patients can also bring their laptops but for any video or audio application, they will have to use headphones.* Patients will have access to a recreational centre along with a library, board games, skipping ropes, etc.* Food will be served to the patients by volunteers who will roll them on trolleys along the rows of beds.* There are 600-odd toilets at the centre with 70 portable toilets, including three special ones for disabled people, stationed outside. * The government has installed hydrants for the underground reservoir facility that has a capacity of 1.7 lakh litres for uninterrupted water supply at the centre.* Authorities will use an e-hospital app that is being developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to handle the admission and discharge of patients. A team will work on 400 computers at the centre.* Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL) has been asked to provide landline and internet connection at the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/built-in-10-days-world-s-largest-covid-19-care-facility-to-admit-patients-from-today/story-RA7Z1ZQxszBVAQDftCWBcL.html
05-07-2020||India||Goa councillor dies of coronavirus infection||A 72-year-old councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council in Goa died due to Covid-19 in the wee hours on Sunday, a state health department official said.Pascoal DSouza, who did not belong to any political party, tested positive for coronavirus last month following which he was admitted to Margao-based ESI Hospital, a specially designated facility for Covid-19 patients.He succumbed to the viral infection on Sunday, the official said.D’Souza represented a ward in Mangor Hill area, which has been declared as a containment zone after more than 200 people there tested positive for coronavirus.The municipal council elections in Goa are not fought on party lines.With the councillor’s death, the overall toll in the coastal state has reached seven.Till Saturday, the state reported 1,684 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-councillor-dies-of-coronavirus-infection/story-65IrSnNsksSAZyhnjTZOhJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh government to buy cow-dung at Rs 1.5 per kg, scheme begins from July 20||The Chhattisgarh government will procure cow-dung at Rs 1.5 per kilogram from July 20 under the scheme ‘Gaudhan Nyay Yojana’ launched on June 25.A committee headed by Agriculture Minister Ravindra Chaubey was formed to fix the rate of procuring the rate of cow-dung.“On Saturday, the committee decided to procure cow-dung at Rs 1.5 kg with the aim of preserving and improving cow shedding, promoting the production of vermicompost and improving the rural economy,” said a Commissioner (agriculture production) M Geeta.The officer further said that the cow dung will be collected door-to-door by Gaudhan Samiti.“The committee also recommended that fortnightly payments should be made to cattle owners and farmers for the procurement,” said officer adding that there are about a crore cattle in the state.On June 25, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel launched ‘Gaudhan Nyay Yojana’ claiming that there has been a tradition of open grazing in Chhattisgarh, which results in loss of crops. He also said that the stray cattle cause road accidents, loss of life and property in cities. The chief minister further highlighted the fact that the cows are abandoned after they stop giving milk and hence to make cow rearing a profitable business, the government has decided to procure cow dung from farmers and cattle owners.The government also directed urban administration department to make complete arrangements to prevent stray animals from roaming in the cities. The department will be responsible for purchasing cow dung and production of vermicompost.“The purpose of this scheme is to promote cattle rearing in the state and to benefit the cattle owners, who are mostly farmers. The government tried to strengthen the rural economy of the state through the ‘Narva, Garuva, Ghuruwa, Badi’ scheme in which we have developed cowsheds in 2,200 villages of the state. In the next two-three months, about 5,000 more cowsheds will be developed in the state. This scheme is an incremental step forward,” said the chief minister.The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, claimed that the scheme is not practical and its implementation is not possible.“In Chhattisgarh, the farmers never sell cow-dung to anyone. I don’t know what is government talking about? Secondly, if the government is procuring it, there is no infrastructure. And where is the budget? This scheme is not practically possible in the state,” senior BJP leader and former minister Ajay Chandrakar told HT.On June 20, Chhattisgarh government launched the ‘Roka-Chheka Abhiyan’ in all the villages in the state, which seeks to revive traditional agricultural methods and to save kharif crops from open grazing by stray cattle.Roka-Chheka is one of the popular traditional agricultural methods of Chhattisgarh, which the state government has decided to make more organised and effective from this year. The programme aims to ban the open grazing of stray cattle after the sowing season is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-government-to-buy-cow-dung-at-rs-1-5-per-kg-scheme-begins-from-july-20/story-bNlg7pcLuVVX3nhm2bRWpI.html
05-07-2020||India||World’s largest Covid Care facility with 10,000 beds inaugurated in Delhi||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the 10,000-bedded Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital (SPCCCH) at Radha Soami Satsang Beas on Sunday. The facility is created on an emergent basis by the South Delhi District Administration with full support of the ministry of home affairs in record time of 10 days.This the world’s largest Covid care facility which will function as an isolation centre for mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients. At least 10% of the beds have oxygen facility in case the patient develops severe breathlessness and requires tertiary hospital care.Operationally, the SPCCCH has been linked to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital. The referral tertiary care hospitals are Lok Nayank Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.ITBP will be running the first 2,000 beds at present with their 170 doctors/specialists and more than 700 nurses and paramedics. This facility, having large number of beds, to the tune of 10,000 in one single campus, requires speed of management as well as analysis and operations that makes it imperative to explore extensive use of IT. Therefore, the e-Hospital software of NIC is being used to manage all medical operations, right from admission to treatment, investigation, progress, referral and discharge through software. The patients will be admitted from all over Delhi through respective District Surveillance Officers.Most of the basic infrastructure such as beds, matresses, linens, etc. has been donated by various civil society organisations and non-governmental organisations. This facility has been created to provide a stress-free and mindful isolation to the patients. A recreational centre has been made available to the patients along with a library, board games, skipping ropes, etc. They will be provided 5 healthy meals a day along with immunity boosting chawanprash, juices, hot kadha etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-s-largest-covid-care-facility-with-10-000-beds-inaugurated-in-delhi/story-JS0yy17MTSVheVwgrukkPN.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur firing accused Vikas Dubey knew about raid, aide tell cops after arrest||An aide of Vikas Dubey has told the police the gangster behind the killings of the eight policemen in Kanpur Dehat district was informed about the raid at his house by a policeman, a senior official said on Sunday.Daya Shankar Agnihotri, one of the accused in the killings, was arrested earlier in the day after a gunfight in Kalyanpur area near Kanpur city.The senior official said Agnihotri revealed the information during the interrogation. The 48-year-old Dubey, a hardened criminal who has 60 cases of murder and kidnapping among others, is the main accused in the killing of the policemen.Agnihotri told the police Vikas Dubey got a call from the Chaubeypur police station informing him that a team from three police stations led by Devendra Mishra, the circle officer of Bilhaur who was among eight killed in the incident, will come to his village past midnight.Agnihotri also said that at least 25 people were present with Dubey when the police team approached his house in Kanpur Dehat’s Bikri village.Also read: ‘Was our ancestral home’, says mother of Kanpur firing accused on razed houseA sub-inspector, who is under the scanner after the failed raid, has been suspended. Officials probing the case questioned Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari for nine hours. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow.Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru, is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey on Wednesday by a villager. Dubey’s men had fired indiscriminately on the police team out to nab him, killing Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said was a “well-planned conspiracy”. Officials have said Agnihotri suffered a bullet wound in his right leg in the retaliatory firing by the police team. He is one of the 18 aides of Dubey named in the first information report (FIR) lodged in connection with the killing of the policemen. Police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 to find him.According to news agency ANI, Agnihotri opened fire at the police team going to arrest him on Saturday night. Police have recovered a gun and cartridges from Agnihotri’s possession, it reported.Officials had said on Saturday they will seize illegal properties and money in Dubey’s bank accounts under the gangster act, following which Lucknow Police seized the vehicles parked at his residence in the state capital of Uttar Pradesh.Police have also increased the prize money for the arrest of Dubey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-firing-case-police-nab-vikas-dubey-s-aide-after-gunfight/story-R6qAqmBWeY3a2MXz5h8YsK.html
05-07-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor performs Pratham Aarti, Amarnath Yatra to begin on July 23||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, GC Murmu, peformed “Pratham Aarti” of the ice stalagmite at the holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir on Sunday morning.He was accompanied by his principal secretary and chief executive officer of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) Bipul Pathak, additional CEO AK Soni, Division Commissioner Kashmir Pandurang K Pole and other senior officials.“The LG along with senior officials reached the cave shrine early Sunday morning and performed Pratham Aarti,” said an official of the SASB.Prasar Bharati, India’s official broadcaster, showed the aarti live. It will do so till August 3.“Happy to share that the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board in association with Prasar Bharati will bring the live telecast of Aarti from the Holy Cave of Shri Amarnathji on various Doordarshan channels,” Prasar Bharti CEO Shashi Shekhar had tweeted on Saturday. The aarti will be shown live at 3 am and 7 pm.The chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir BVR Subrahmanyam on Saturday had said that this year’s Amarnath Yatra in south Kashmir Himalayas would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner, so that the SOPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered to.“Given the constraints, a maximum of 500 yatris will be allowed per day by road from Jammu. Therefore, arrangements will have to be limited to this number,” he had said while chairing a meeting of the sub-committee constituted by the Supreme Court.The curtailed yatra (pilgrimage) is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 this year from the shorter Baltal route.On June 5, the top officials of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) performed “Pratham Pooja” in the state’s winter capital Jammu on the occasion of Jayestha Purnima signifying commencement of the annual pilgrimage.The “Pratham Pooja” at SASB’s Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Ashram was conducted by Principal secretary to J&K Lieutenant Governor and CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, Bipul Pathak, ACEO AK Soni.Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45-km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 16-km Baltal route to the holy shrine every year.One of the holiest pilgrimages in Hinduism, the Amarnath Yatra attracts pilgrims from India as well as across the world. There have been terror attacks on the route of the yatra in the past. The last attack took place in 2017 on a bus from Gujarat in Anantnag district that left seven pilgrims dead.Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir high court has sought to know from the government about arrangements and various safety precautions on Amarnath Yatra in view of Covid-19 pandemic.On Friday, advocate Sachin Sharma had moved an application before the high court that was heard by Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Vinod Chatterji Koul.The division bench issued notice to the government. Additional Advocate General (AAG) Aseem Sawhney accepted notice on behalf of the government. Monika Kohli who is assisting the court as Amicus Curiae also accepted the notice.The court asked the AAG to place before it the proposal and decision of the government with regard to the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-lt-gen-performs-pratham-aarti-amarnath-yatra-to-begin-on-july-23/story-VAe9uDtBliW0u4JIgtgCNL.html
05-07-2020||India||Manipur launches web portal to share Covid-19 related stories||In a move to share Covid-19 related stories and track volunteering activities in the State, a web portal (manipurcovidstories.org) was launched in Imphal at a function held at Chief Minister’s Secretariat in Imphal on Saturday.The web portal features crowd-sourced stories collected from people who have been Covid-19 positive and recovered, volunteers who have worked at quarantine centres, selfless work carried out by individuals, NGOs, Civil Society Organisations and medical professionals, among others.The stories are segregated in the form of texts, photo features and videos. The website will be managed by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Manipur and conceptualised and designed by Fluorescence Communications.Also read: India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deathsFormally launching the web portal, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh while speaking through a video message, said, “The platform will act as a source of positivity and showcase such stories that will reflect the perseverance and determination of the people of Manipur in fighting the global pandemic in the tiny state.“He also appealed to the people of Manipur to share their inspiring stories about the fight against Covid-19 pandemic through this website. He further appreciated the efforts of all those who have been involved in the fight against the deadly virus due to which, so far, there hasn’t been any case of fatality due to coronavirus.Various state cabinet ministers, such as Th Biswajit Singh, Karam Shyam, Losii Dikho, Awangbow Newmai, along with chief secretary Dr J Suresh Babu, DGP LM Khaute, principal secretary (health) V Vumlunmang and the directors of the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS), among others were present during the function.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Manipur has increased to 1,325 with 9 new cases while the total number of active cases stands at 658, according to official sources.“In the last 24 hours, 28 persons were discharged from Covid-19 care centres of Meitram(16), Senapati (8) and Thoubal (4) after they were found Covid-19 free on a Real-Time PCR test,” said Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department.“The cumulative number of positive cases is 1,316. The number of active and recovered cases is 658 and 667 respectively. The recovery rate is 50.33 percent,” he added.As on Saturday, a total of 2,91,947 persons were screened while 54,483 were tested for Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-launches-web-portal-to-share-covid-19-related-stories/story-XXDgnyyFaOdKXOpPo4iRqK.html
05-07-2020||India||Manipur district put under complete lockdown after ‘sudden spurt’ in Covid-19 cases||After reports of a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last 48 hours, Jiribam district in Manipur has been put under “complete lockdown”.State Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu, who is the chairperson of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order in this regard on Saturday evening.“There shall be complete curfew in the entire Jiribam district until further orders or till July 15 whichever is earlier,” the order of the chief secretary said. “Only the personnel of essential services permitted by the Deputy Commissioner, Jiribam will be allowed.”Effecting the lockdown and curfew in the whole of Jiribam district, which borders Assam’s Cachar district, the order allows “only inter-state good carrying vehicles” to pass the Jiribam gate, which is located about 220 km west of Manipur’s capital Imphal. It is one of the key points to enter the state.“Passenger coming by vehicles at Jiribam gate after the midnight of July 5 will not be allowed to pass and will be put in institutional quarantine at Jiribam,” the order added.The order of the Chief Secretary came after a meeting of the State Consultative Committee on Covid-19 which was chaired by state Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh.The decision to lockdown the whole of the district was taken after 28 police personnel stationed in the district headquarter tested positive for Covid-19.This followed the Covid-19 positive result of an assistant sub-inspector posted in Jiribam.All the personnel have been sent to Covid-19 care centres, and state health authority has traced 180 people who came in close contact with the infected police personnel.Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner of Jiribam District had declared 17 areas as containment zones. An order has also been issued in this regard on Saturday.However, Manipur’s Covid-19 recovered cases surpassed the number of active cases on Saturday for the first time since the government began evacuation of stranded people of the state from other states in early May. Manipur has so far recorded 1,325 cases of Covid-19. While 667 patients have recovered, the total number of active cases stand at 658. The recovery rate in the state is 50.33 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-district-put-under-complete-lockdown-after-sudden-spurt-in-covid-19-cases/story-xeQemUzfOBUap9QTiFBW5K.html
05-07-2020||India||‘Was our ancestral home’: Mother of Kanpur firing accused on razed house||A day after she urged police to shoot and kill her son, the mother of Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the killing of eight police personnel in Kanpur on Saturday said that she is “unhappy” over the razing down of the notorious gangster’s hideout in Bikru village, the scene of the brutal crime.The house demolished by the Kanpur administration was her ancestral house, said Sarla Devi.Dubey is main accused in the Kanpur encounter case, in which a group of assailants opened fire on a police team which was trying to arrest the history-sheeter Dubey in the city late on Thursday night in which 8 policemen including a DSP were killed. Also read| Kanpur shootout: UP police raise prize money for arrest of Vikas DubeyThe district administration today demolished the house and visuals showed cars and other vehicles in the premises of the building complex being crushed by machines.“I am saddened by this action. It was our ancestral house. The house was built by my husband and father-in-law and not by my son Vikas Dubey. The administration could have demolished Vikas’s properties, not ours,” Sarla Devi told ANI.“I have not met my husband in the last 4 months and I am living here in Lucknow with my young son. Vikas should surrender to the police. We are facing problems because of him. Police is asking questions to us and our relatives,” she added.Also read: UP cops out on raid were killed by their own weapons, says autopsy reportSarla Devi had on Friday said that Dubey should surrender himself before the police. “If he continues to remain at large, police may kill him in the encounter. I say kill him even if you (police) manage to catch him. Strict punishment should be given to him,” Devi said.Meanwhile, Vikas’ father Rajkumar Dubey said that he is not aware of the Thursday’s night incident.“I am not aware of the incident. I am on medication. My son was doing his work. From the last few days, he was in a government job of constructing bridges and providing job to labourers. He is also involved in Panchayat related works,” Rajkumar Dubey, father of Vikas said.Meanwhile, Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal said that police will seize illegal properties and money in Dubey’s bank accounts under the Gangsters Act.Earlier the IG Kanpur had announced that Rs 50,000 cash for anybody providing any information regarding the whereabouts of Dubey.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in the Bikaru village encounter at the police line. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-our-ancestral-home-mother-of-kanpur-firing-accused-on-razed-house/story-Tf6bi3AggkzmTsFlVg0d2M.html
05-07-2020||India||India records biggest one-day jump of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deaths||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 673,165 with the biggest single-day increase of 24,850 new cases and 613 deaths, data from the Union health ministry on Sunday showed. The country’s death toll due to the disease has reached 19,268 and there are 244,4814 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.The number of recoveries stands at 409,082 with 14,856 people cured of the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate is now 60.76%, slightly down from Saturday’s 60.80%. This is the third consecutive day when coronavirus disease cases have increased by more than 20,000. There are 14 states in the country which have reported more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases and Maharashtra remained the worst-hit on Sunday.Maharashtra has 200,064 Covid-19 cases and a death toll of 8,671. The state’s first lakh cases took 96 days, while the second took just 22 days. Amit Deshmukh, medical education minister, has said the state’s health infrastructure is ready to tackle the rising number of cases. Deshmukh has also said that July and August are crucial and the government expects the decline in cases to begin in a month.Tamil Nadu has crossed the 100,000-mark with 10,7001 infections and 1,450 deaths as the state government announced relaxations for Chennai while extending curbs for Madurai and nearby regions till July 12 after 17 days of intense lockdown in the state capital and suburban areas. The state capital of Chennai, which is under tightened restrictions from June 19 to help fight mounting Covid-19 cases, would see an easing of curbs from Monday.In Delhi, the number of Covid-19 cases is inching towards the 100,000-mark. The Union health ministry dashboard showed there were 97,200 cases and 3,004 deaths in the national capital so far.In the northeast region of the country, Assam’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 11,000-mark on Saturday with the detection of 1,202 new cases, the single biggest spike in a day.State data showed that the figure jumped from 9,777 cases to 11,001 with Guwahati, which along with the rest of Kamrup Metro district is under a 14-day total lockdown since June 28, registering 777 infections—the biggest daily spike for the state’s largest city.However, according to the Union health ministry, there are 10,668 cases of the coronavirus disease for the state.India has the fourth-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world after the United States, Brazil and Russia.The number of coronavirus cases worldwide is 11,240,943, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. And, 530,137 people have died globally due to the infection, according to the data compiled by the American university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-biggest-one-day-jump-of-24-850-covid-19-cases-613-deaths/story-lkKezDUWH9pOlTcYYus4hO.html
05-07-2020||India||Over 97 lakh samples tested for Covid-19 across India, 2.4 lakh on Saturday alone||The number of samples tested for Covid-19 across India till July 4 is 97,89,066 of which 2,48,934 samples were tested on Saturday alone, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stated on Sunday. Earlier this week, the government said that many bottlenecks have been removed and various steps have been taken to ramp up India’s Covid-19 testing as a result of which the country will soon touch the milestone of testing one crore samples for coronavirus. On Wednesday, the government announced a significant step through which Covid-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner and not exclusively by a government doctor. The move will ensure more testing of people for coronavirus.According to the ICMR, the daily testing capacity is also growing rapidly across the country. Around 1.5 lakh tests per day were conducted on May 25 which rose to more than three lakh tests per day now.India’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday touched 673,165 with over 60 percent of patients recovering from the deadly contagion across the country. In a record single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, India’s reported 24,850 cases in the last 24 hours. As many as 409,082 people have recovered or have been discharged from the hospitals. India’s Covid-19 death toll stands nears 20,000 at 19,268.Maharashtra sits at the top of the Covid-19 tally with over 2 lakh coronavirus cases while in Tamil Nadu the number of cases has crossed the one lakh mark. In the national capital, Covid-19 cases near the one lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-97-lakh-samples-tested-for-covid-19-across-india-2-4-lakh-on-saturday-alone/story-blHBcIGf0XR3Al7q0ESqpO.html
05-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: Govt puts six states on high alert as locust swarms migrate from Somalia and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Six states on high alert as govt warns of more locust swarmsOperations to control infestation are continuing in six states -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana. The locust invasions have caused “minor crop losses”, according to a status update till July 3. Read more here. May I have a word, please?We’re only halfway through 2020 and already it’s changed how we speak. It’s pushed the US-based Merriam-Webster Dictionary to make its fastest update in history. Read more here. When Aishwarya Rai put family before career, turned down Will Smith’s film to return to IndiaAishwarya Rai was offered three films by Will Smith but she turned down all of them due to time constraints. Here’s what she said about the Hollywood actor.Top 10 things you can do to boost WiFi and improve internet speedAt a time like this, it is vital we know how best to boost the WiFi connection we have at home so as our Internet speeds increase and we can make the best use of the connection we are paying for. Read more here. Before Ganguly India were a ‘nice’ side: Hussain on Dada’s impactFormer England captain Nasser Hussain, who fought many battles against Ganguly’s India, spoke about his impact on Indian cricket recently. “I have always said, and this is a generalisation, but I have always said about Ganguly, that he made India a tougher side. Read more here. Amit Trivedi on music, nepotism and working with Sushant Singh RajputAmit Trivedi talks to Ruchi Kaushal of Hindustan Times about music, films and nepotism. The Kai Po Che and Kedarnath singer also opens about working closely with Sushant Singh Rajput and how heartbroken he is on his passing away. Watch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-govt-puts-six-states-on-high-alert-as-locust-swarms-migrate-from-somalia-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IQIFHseuFesTViKdiDUSQK.html
05-07-2020||India||CRPF trooper injured in IED blast on Srinagar-Pulwama road||One personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was injured in an IED blast in Gangoo area of Pulwama, in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. The injured jawan has been identified as GD Pardeep Dass.The IED blast was carried out by terrorists, news agency ANI reported. It took place on the Srinagar-Pulwama road when the Road Opening Party of the CRPF was being deployed in the area.News agency PTI quoted a police officer as saying that the CRPF personnel suffered injuries in his hands due to the blast, but his condition is stable.ANI further reported that during the search operation, police found one more IED planted in the area and it was defused. The area has been cordoned off.This is the second attack on CRPF in the last four days. A CRPF jawan and a civilian were killed in Sopore on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-trooper-injured-in-ied-blast-on-srinagar-pulwama-road/story-TBlSd0ZsNu753t599DEflJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam’s Covid-19 tally crosses 11,000-mark with single biggest spike of 1,202 cases||Assam’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 11,000-mark on Saturday with the detection of 1,202 new cases, the single biggest spike in a day.The figure jumped from 9,777 cases to 11,001 with Guwahati, which along with the rest of Kamrup Metro district is under a 14-day total lockdown since June 28, registering 777 infections—the biggest daily spike for the state’s largest city.“In the biggest spike ever, Assam on 4th July reported 1202 cases, 777 of these from Guwahati city alone. Time for all of us to be extra vigilant,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted around midnight on Saturday.The day recorded 416 recoveries taking the number of patients who have been discharged from hospitals across the state to 6,743. Till Saturday, the state had recorded 14 Covid-19 fatalities.In recent days, many cases have been detected among healthcare workers and police personnel. Till Saturday, 149 police personnel had been found positive across the state.“Till July 4, 149 Assam Police personnel have tested COVID positive, out of them 30 have recovered. A total 1114 personnel are under quarantine,” GP Singh, additional DGP (law and order) tweeted on Saturday.The Assam government had imposed a 14-day total lockdown in Guwahati and other areas falling in Kamrup Metro district from June 28, allowing only pharmacies to remain open, in a bid to control the spread of the pandemic.On Saturday, chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna issued a fresh set of guidelines from the week between July 5 and July 12 allowing certain relaxations for people to procure grocery items and fruits and vegetables.Twenty percent of grocery shops in the district have been allowed to open from 11am to 4pm on July 6 and July 8. Customers and shopkeepers will have to wear hand gloves, face masks and maintain social distancing.Wholesalers of grocery items have been asked to replenish stocks of retailers on July 5 and July 7 for three hours between 3pm and 6pm. No retail sale will be allowed during this period.House to house sale of fruits and vegetables will be allowed between 8am and 2pm on July 6 and July 8. Wholesale medicine dealers are allowed to distribute medicines/medical equipment between 10am and 3pm on July 6 and July 8.Veterinary clinics and veterinary medicine shops are allowed to open on all days between 10am and 4pm while shops selling pet feed are allowed to operate only on July 6 and July 8.Distribution of items purchased through e-commerce will be allowed between 11am and 4pm on July 10. No roadside vending of any fruits, vegetables, meat and poultry products will be allowed during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-11-000-mark-with-single-biggest-spike-of-1-202-cases/story-xe4SYXCGMS7DgvJmMCmqXJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Chinese PLA’s rear defences in Ladakh’s Galwan valley face an icy challenge||China’s People’s Liberation Army, which had amassed a large number of troops 5 km from the standoff points in Galwan, may need to shift around its soldiers after its rear positions on the Galwan bank have been flooded due to a sharp rise in water levels, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.A senior military commander said the water level of the icy-cold, snow-fed Galwan river that originates from the Aksai Chin region had risen sharply due to an increase in temperature. “With snow melting at a rapid pace, any position on the river bank is dangerous,” the senior army officer said, pointing that satellite and drone imagery had indicated flooding of Chinese tents located on the river bank at rear positions.Top generals of the Indian and Chinese armies have held three rounds of talks to work out a plan to disengage, de-escalate and eventually move back to their positions before the standoff between rival patrols near Pangong Tso started 60 days ago on the night of May 5. There were also broad agreements on initiating such an exercise. But there has been little forward movement to show for on the ground - the June 15 violent scrap took place 10 days after the first agreement to disengage - leading both sides to prepare for a long haul.But the military commander said it would be tough for China to hold on to current PLA positions in Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso. These, he said, are untenable in the long run, he said, a reference to the view that the standoff could continue well into the winter months if Beijing does not restore status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control.Also read: India increases tech surveillance on Ladakh LAC with Israeli Heron dronesIndia, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared during his visit to Ladakh this week, seeks peace but will stand up to defend its territorial integrity under all circumstances and the choice of how the standoff ends simply rests with Beijing.For now, despite the occasional public posturing in Beijing, there is no evidence on ground that China is looking at de-escalating any time soon. To the contrary, there are reports that the People’s Liberation Army was laying fibre optic cables at its locations in the Galwan valley. There is also a report with the army that the PLA is seeking to build a tunnel in the finger area of Pangong lake.These inputs confirm the Indian assessment in the early days of the standoff that the situation could go on for a long time, much longer than the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.This is an eventuality that the military has been prepping for. “We are rather prepared for all eventualities,” said a senior army officer.Apart from moving in weapons such as the Indian army’s M-777 ultra-light howitzers, T-90 missile firing tanks and the top-of-the-line shoulder fired anti-tank missile systems, the military has also been deploying the air force’s C-17 heavy-lifters, Apache attack helicopters and C-130J special operations aircraft as well as the India’s Navy’s P-8I surveillance aircraft. For Pangong lake, the navy is also flying in steel boats with gun mounts to match PLA’s heavy patrol boats used by China to dominate the fingers on the north bank of the salt water lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-pla-s-rear-defences-in-ladakh-s-galwan-valley-face-an-icy-challenge/story-Tj0nAmgnrN4p6cdbmRxapO.html
05-07-2020||India||Assam Raj Bhavan Campus turns to containment zone after new Covid-19 cases reported||In view of detection of Covid-19 positive patient at Raj Bhavan Campus in Guwahati, the area with following boundary description has been declared as a containment zone on Saturday.Kamrup Metropolitan District Deputy Commissioner Biswajit Pegu has issued an order declaring Raj Bhavan Campus as a containment zone. He has directed the Circle Officer, Guwahati Revenue Circle to seal the area immediately.The boundary of the containment zone is said to be till Hotel Belle View in North, Bonkowar Nagar in South, Borthakur Clinic in East and MG Road in West, stated the notice.According to the Union Health Ministry, Assam has reported 9,673 coronavirus cases in the state, including 3,310 active cases, 6,349 cured/discharged/migrated and 14 fatalities as of July 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-raj-bhavan-campus-turns-to-containment-zone-after-new-covid-19-cases-reported/story-EoFXgqot8Hk0aLDMt83S5M.html
05-07-2020||India||‘God’s will’: How the 12-day-long Rath Yatra was held without devotees||As Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra were ushered back into the 12th-century Jagannath Temple in Puri from the elaborately-decorated chariots on Saturday afternoon, Binayaka Das Mohapatra broke into a smile despite sweating profusely on a humid day. The Daitapatis, one among the 120 categories of servitors of the temple, are the ones who take out the three deities from the main temple to the chariots on the day of annual Rath Yatra and then again take them back to the sanctum sanctorum in a ceremony called Niladri Bije, that marks the end of the 12-day long festival. “It was Lord Jagannath’s miracle that the Rath Yatra could finally happen despite all the roadblocks. It was the Lord who facilitated his own Yatra during such a pandemic,” Das Mohapatra, a 70-something Daitapati of the temple, said.“Had the Yatra not happened it would have been catastrophic. That the entire festival happened without the participation of the single devotee is an example of the miracle,” he added.He was referring to the Supreme Court’s June 18 order and its subsequent reversal by the top court on June 22 about holding the festival.On June 18, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by chief justice SA Bobde had stalled the festival viewing that the possible congregation of 10-12 lakh people in Puri on Rath Yatra day may not be appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens. However, the same bench on June 22 allowed the festival to go on following the filing of more than 20 intervention petitions on the condition that no devotees be allowed.Considered as part and parcel of the social, religious and cultural ethos of the people of Odisha, the annual sojourn of Lord Jagannath and his siblings to the Gundicha Temple in their chariots is inconceivable without devotees.Eminent Jagannath scholar Surendra Mishra said the Rath Yatra is perhaps the only festival where the deity himself comes out on the road to meet his devotees.“In popular literature, Jagannath is revered as the first ruler and he was considered as king even Odisha has not become a separate state. What makes Jagannath so appealing to the poor and rich Odias is despite being a God, he is like an ordinary mortal who takes birth and dies,” Mishra said.“So to think of the Rath Yatra without devotees is unimaginable. But that’s what happened this year and it’s nothing short of a miracle,” he said.Several women devotees broke down after getting to know that they would have to watch it on television.But at least three months before that there was a cloud of uncertainty over the festival as the doors of the temple were shut to devotees on March 20 as part of Odisha government’s plans to shut down all religious places to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. Though the construction of the three rathas or chariots for the annual Rath Yatra was supposed to start on April 26 on the day of Akshaya Tritiya festival, it could not begin till May 9 due to the lockdown restrictions over religious activities. It was finally allowed by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on the grounds that it was a construction activity but with several preconditions that only Covid-19 negative Maharanas or carpenters who make the chariots would be allowed.“By the time the construction activity started, we were at least 10 days late and had a little over 40 days to finish the construction. Moreover, there were social distancing conditions to be followed during a physical activity like chariot construction when it is difficult to adhere to it,” said an official of the temple administration.“After ensuring that the 200-odd carpenters who would do the construction, tested negative, we ensured that they remained in isolation till the very end. As work was delayed, chariot construction continued till 10pm in the night,” the official added.Incidentally, the temple managing committee had decided that if the Rath Yatra is not held even after the construction of the chariots over fears of the spread of the coronavirus disease, the Rathas will be dismantled and the timber used as firewood in the temple kitchen.The first challenge, however, came on June 5 during Snana Purnima, the festival preceding the Rath Yatra when the deities had their ritualistic bath. Apprehending a turnout of thousands of devotees, 38 platoons of police cordoned the area around the temple to prevent the entry of anyone except the 800 servitors and few temple officials.The 800 servitors, who poured water on the deities, had undergone Covid-19 test to rule out any chances of spreading the infection.“This must be the first time in the history of the temple that the Snana Purnima was held without the presence of devotees,” said Rama Chandra Das Mohapatra, a senior servitor and member of the temple managing committee.But the successful conduct of the Snana Purnima notwithstanding, there was still uncertainty over the festival.A little-known outfit, the Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, first approached the Orissa High Court which said heavy-duty machines or elephants can be used to pull the chariots instead of hundreds of devotees. It then knocked the doors of the Supreme Court seeking direction to the Odisha government for cancelling or deferring the Rath Yatra arguing that the festival will grossly violate guidelines.On June 18, a three-judge bench of the top court headed by chief justice Bobde stalled the festival saying the Lord would not forgive them if Rath Yatra was held.Incidentally, senior advocate Harish Salve, who represented the Odisha government, supported the Bharatiya Vikash Parishad and argued that the moment there is a festivity, people will gather.Adding to the uncertainty was the state cabinet’s cryptic resolution on the evening of June 18 to abide by the top court’s order while calling it a “leela of Lord Jagannath”.Puri’s king Gajapati Dibya Singh Dev who was in favour of holding the Rath Yatra without the presence of any devotee said he initially felt dismayed but had no other way than to follow the Supreme Court order. “There was hardly any time as the SC was going on vacation after June 19 and any reversal of the order of the three-judge bench had to be done by the same bench. I thought it was not possible in such a limited time,” said the Gajapati, who wrote to chief minister Naveen Patnaik arguing that the coronavirus pandemic was not a situation which rendered it impossible to conduct Ratha Yatra in Puri.“If the Ratha Yatra is not held this year in Puri, it will hurt the religious sentiments of countless devotees around the world who watch the sacred Yatra live every year on electronic media,” he wrote.As dozens of intervention petitions, including one by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, started getting filed in the top court seeking reversal of the June 18 order, the Puri district administration got 1,143 more servitors tested for Covid-19 of which one tested positive. The servitor who tested positive was shifted to a Covid-19 hospital.“While isolation of the servitors during the festival is a pre-requisite, in Puri, Daitapatis, the class of servitors who come into action only during the Rath Yatra has been practising it ever since the Yatra started centuries ago,” Balwant Singh, Puri’s district collector, said.“By the time the festival got over, at least 8,000 persons involved with Rath Yatra were tested for Covid-19, some of them twice. For a population of 2.5 lakh in Puri town, the number of tests conducted is very high, around 32,000 per million population,” Singh said.Durgaprasad Das Mohapatra, a senior Daitapati, said beginning from the Snana Purnima ritual till the day the deities return to the main temple, they don’t step out of their homes and no one comes to meet them.“For a month, we and our families remain in virtual isolation. During this year’s Rath Yatra, we were tested twice for Covid-19 - once before Snana Purnima and again before the Bahuda Yatra when the deities come back to the main temple,” said Das Mohapatra.Just a day before the Rath Yatra, the government announced a 41-hour curfew in the temple town restricting the entry of the people to Puri. It also mobilised 50 platoons of force and restricted entry of unauthorised persons into the Grand Road. As per the Supreme Court order, about 500 servitors who had tested negative for Covid-19, pulled each of the chariots.Chief minister Patnaik did not visit Puri and instead watched the live telecast of the Rath Yatra on TV from his office.“Not a leaf moves without his will,” Patnaik said while offering his prayers from his office.Soon after the Rath Yatra was over, the Puri administration imposed a restriction on outsiders coming to the district till July 31 for non-essential activities. However, residents of Puri can go out of the district.Officials said with 291 cases reported in the district so far, the administration took the step to control the infection.Madhavi Sahu, an ardent devotee of Jagannath, said it was perhaps the Lord’s wish to have the festival conducted without any devotees.“The God perhaps ordained it that way,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/god-s-will-how-the-12-day-long-rath-yatra-was-held-without-devotees/story-BgJ4sSn3aEFJcB1kyJQlaL.html
05-07-2020||India||Goa registers 108 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in deadliest day yet||Goa registered 108 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday - its highest in a single day so far. The state also recorded two fresh fatalities due to the disease marking the worst 24-hour period Goa has witnessed so far since the pandemic began.The deaths have left state authorities puzzled. One of them was a 45-year-old man who died within two days of reporting to a health care centre asking to be tested after developing mild fever. “It is a surprising case and a surprising course of events. The patient reported to the health centre with a mild fever for a test and since his symptoms were mild and not requiring hospitalisation, he was sent home until his test results came. But by the time the results came in and we sought to communicate it to the family he had already passed away,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said.The other person was a 75-year-old woman who succumbed after days of treatment at a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Six people have succumbed to the disease in Goa so far while the infection tally stands at 1,684. Eight hundred fifty five people are currently under treatment. The previous single-day spike in cases in Goa was recorded on Thursday when it recorded 95 new infections. This is the first time Goa has recorded more than a 100 cases in a single day. Of the active patients, around 85 are symptomatic and are being treated at Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 Hospital. Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the Goa government plans to commence plasma therapy for patients after getting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“Considering the rise in cases in our state, I had an interactive session to discuss plasma therapy in the state. We will be writing to ICMR with our proposal to conduct plasma banking and plasma therapy. We will also be hiring an MD and trained technicians on a contractual basis to run the Plasma transfusion medicine department,” Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-registers-108-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-deadliest-day-yet/story-79Z4Kd96CqZJamuIdCETdM.html
05-07-2020||India||Groom among 5 held for flouting Covid-19 norms during wedding procession in Odisha||Odisha Police have arrested five persons including groom for gross negligence and violation of Covid-19 guidelines during his marriage procession in Berhampur.“A case has been registered for violation of Covid-19 guidelines for organising a marriage procession with more than 50 guests in the premises of a hotel. They disregarded the compulsory use of mask and flouted social distancing norms,” DIG Central Zone Satyabrata Bhoi said.The incident happened on July 2.“The case has been registered at Gopalpur PS under section 188/269/270 IPC, R/W Sec- 3 Epidemic Disease Act, and 34 IPC. Two vehicles used in the procession have also been seized. the arrested persons will be produced in the court,” he added.The District Collector has sealed the hotel for violating the Covid-19 norms.Following the incident, the chief minister’s office tweeted: “Odisha is in a crucial phase in the fight against COVID-19, hence, it is very essential that we all obey guidelines and regulations issued by State Government to contain the spread of COVID-19. Violation of the same would lead to strong action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/groom-among-5-held-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-during-wedding-procession-in-odisha/story-LTOLyy68NunmRg0xsPC7BN.html
05-07-2020||India||No kanwariyas to be allowed in Odisha as local Covid-19 cases spike||The Odisha government on Saturday announced it will not allow kanwariyas to collect water from any Shiva temple during the month of Shravan as the Covid-19 situation turned grim with around 28% of the cases reported from the local community.Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said the Shiva devotees would not be allowed to carry water from any religious place or any other sources. They will also not allowed to walk on any public road and pour water in any temple during Shravan beginning July 6.Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage as Shiva devotees walk to the River Ganga at different places such as Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri. They carry the holy water back to the local Shiva shrines in their areas. The state government order came as 140 of the 495 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Saturday were local indicating onset of community transmission. For the first time, Odisha reported five Covid-19 deaths in a single day, taking the toll to 34.Ganjam district, where Covid-19 cases have gone past 2,000, reported 216 cases, prompting the state government to send two IAS officers as additional district magistrates and six OAS officers to control the deteriorating situation there. But despite the government guidelines on no social gathering, people in Ganjam continued to flout the order forcing the district administration to seal an upscale hotel in Gopalpur that allowed a wedding to be held in its premises without adhering to the norms of social distancing and wearing of masks. The district administration levied a fine of Rs 50,000 on Hotel Mayfair and sealed it for seven days. The Regional Transport Office also impounded the vehicle in which the groom was going to the hotel.Police arrested the groom, his father, two brothers and uncle for violating Covid-19 guidelines. The matter came to light after a video of the wedding procession with participants dancing together without maintaining social distancing and wearing masks went viral.Meanwhile, the spread of the virus in medical institutions went on unabated with reports of 38 new cases in Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre and six in SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. The cancer centre has already reported more than 62 cases and SCB Medical College and Hospital 11 cases.Odisha has 8,106 cases of the coronavirus disease and 29 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-kanwariyas-to-be-allowed-in-odisha-as-local-covid-19-cases-spike/story-3LFGKgkhxg5QaGkjSmCQ8H.html
05-07-2020||India||Coronavirus: 14 antigen test kit makers approach govt for approval||Fourteen manufacturers of rapid antigen kits, which quickly detect the presence of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, have approached the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to get their kits validated.These kits help in speedier diagnosis, with the current gold standard RT-PCR tests taking at least 5-6 hours. The samples have to be sent to laboratories for testing adding to the time it takes for patients to get the results.Seven of other companies that have approached ICMR for validation of their are Indian, including HLL Lifecare Limited that helped Government of India in procuring supplies of PPE kits and ventilators for Covid-19 response.The South Korean company SD Biosensor, one of whose kits has already been validated by ICMR and is currently in use, has approached the body with another rapid test.The rest of the kits are manufactured by companies from Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Belgium. Apart from the one kit that has been approved so far, ICMR has received three others already, with five of the kits still in transit, according to an ICMR document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-14-antigen-test-kit-makers-approach-govt-for-approval/story-swvbaoYQrcFGE92LrYNraP.html
05-07-2020||India||Coronil: Plea in Delhi court for FIR against Ramdev||A Delhi court on Saturday asked the city police to file an Action Taken Report (ATR) after a city lawyer moved a plea seeking the registration of an FIR against yoga guru Baba Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna, Patanjali and the trustees of Divya Yog Mandir Trust for falsely claiming that they had found a cure for Covid-19 and launching the “coronil kit”.Chief metropolitan magistrate Sumeet Anand issued a notice to the city police on the basis of the plea by an advocate Tushar Anand who had has contended that on June 23, Baba Ramdev launched the coronil kit, claiming that it would cure a Covid-19 patient within seven days.The plea, filed through advocates Lalit Valecha and Manu Prabhakar, stated that the company promoted by the yoga guru falsely claimed that it had found a sure-shot cure for the Covid -19 virus.The complaint stated that Patanjali only had the requisite permission to make an immunity booster and their claim of AYUSH Ministry permitting them to make the cure is false. Appearing for the petitioner, his counsels told the court that he had first filed a complaint at the Vasant Vihar police station on June 24 seeking the registration of FIRs against Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna, their company, and all the trustees of the Divya Yog Mandir Trust. However, no action was taken, they said.Advocate Valecha said that the police could not avoid their duty of registering the FIR if a cognizable offence is disclosed in the complaint.“The registration of an FIR is mandatory under Section 154 of the Indian Penal Code, if the information discloses the commission of a cognizable offence and no preliminary inquiry is permissible in such a situation,” he said.Following this, the court sought the opposing counsel’s response and posted the matter for July 15.Patanjali spokesperson did not respond to HT’s calls, text messages or email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronil-plea-in-delhi-court-for-fir-against-ramdev/story-tz2wj7wPgwPN5AoKe8YYVJ.html
05-07-2020||India||KG kids homebound in first year of schooling, parents worried||It’s a gap year the parents hadn’t foreseen. Children set to enter kindergarten in 2020-21 are likely to lose a crucial year, the most crucial in the first decade of schooling.This is the stage at which three- and four-year-olds typically learn to socialise with a large group of peers, spend hours away from home, write the alphabet, learn the numbers, sing rhymes in groups, play, fight and make up, share toys and snacks.Classes are out of the question amid the Covid-19 pandemic and for this age group, remote learning is not as effective — their attention spans are short, the material calls for repetitive actions under direct supervision (how do you teach a child to write a through a computer screen?).So instead of structured play and supervised study, your tots may be spending the year watching educational videos on laptops, either alone or with a parent. In states like Maharashtra, where online classes have been discontinued for levels below Class 2, some schools are offering edutainment sessions via Facebook Live, where adults tell the kids that A is for Apple and it’s bad to tell a lie.“I encourage my child to attend because at least it’s something,” says the parent of a four-year-old who was supposed to start KG at Mumbai’s Villa Theresa School this month. “But they’re reciting the same nursery rhymes my daughter moved on from while in nursery, and that worries me. For her, A is now for Astronaut.”Given the short attention spans and high degrees of restlessness, the videos and online lessons are also becoming hard for the children to focus on, and differentiate one from another.“Initially, Advita adjusted and responded well. Her school did two 45-minute sessions with a 30-minute break in between. Activities ranged from colouring to storytelling sessions to learning the alphabet and numbers, with a little general knowledge and puzzle-solving thrown in. But after a while, not being able to go out and play made her irritable and restless,” says Manasvi Sareen, a software engineer from Delhi whose daughter is four.LONELY ONLIESWith so many urban families opting for a single child — mainly so they can make the most of available resources, from time to paying attention to money — a key fallout of the disrupted year for kindergarteners will be the lack of opportunity to socialise.Many parents are willing to juggle work, housework and schooling from home to help with the handwriting lessons, the learning of numbers and the storytelling, craft and puppetry sessions.“Academics aren’t a core concern. But the social isolation makes me worry,” says Rupa Kujur from Delhi, mother of three-year-old Arhan. “Missing out on regular school life means the child is missing out on experiences which cannot be made up for in online sessions.”Harsha Sambaraju, a techie in Hyderabad and father of three-year-old Himansh, worries too. “These early friendships, lunch-hour etiquette, little sports activities in the playground, these are key things my son is missing,” he says.FRESH SLATESEveryone agrees that online education is not ideal for this age group, but most are in agreement that it must continue. “In the absence of precedents to follow, we have to make the most of the situation,” says Aashrita Dass, principal of La Martiniere Girls’ College, Lucknow.Some schools are trying new kinds of activity-based learning. “We’re focusing on communication and gross motor skills. Teachers ask kids to count grains of dal and put them in a bowl and do gentle yoga sessions too,” says Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, Delhi.The connection with children must be maintained as best it can be, most educationists agree. “We’re looking at a gap of at least six months, during which we cannot let the children be deprived of all structured stimulation and connection,” says Swati Popat Vats, president of the Mumbai-based non-profit Early Childhood Association, “because then they would likely suffer an irreversible loss in terms of cognitive and socio-emotional development.”Innovation will be key, if this is not to be a zero year for the children. Vasireddy Amarnath, who runs Slate, The School in Hyderabad, says they have introduced 30 different Montessori modules to their online learning syllabus to try and get the most out of this time of remote learning.“The school will send videos of these teaching modules to parents, who can help their kids learn and practise them every day at a convenient time. Yes, this is not a replication of or substitute for the classroom. But it’s a chance to enhance learning capabilities,” Amarnath says.WHAT NEXT?Indranil Chakraborty from east Kolkata has a two-year-old son and he’s already worried he won’t be able to go to kindergarten next year, in 2021-22. “Even if the schools are reopened, it will be a risk. As of now my wife and I are trying to gauge from the internet how kindergarten schools teach through playing. We will try to create a similar atmosphere at home, but without other kids.”Lucknow homemaker Varsha Singh is planning to keep her child out of nursery, regardless of what unfolds in the unlock schedules. But it worries her, she says, that her son could be five before he spends a day in a classroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kg-kids-homebound-in-first-year-of-schooling-parents-worried/story-nV0Ldb1P76AV8VacwcvzCP.html
05-07-2020||India||China says it has border dispute with Bhutan too||China on Saturday officially stated for the first time it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, a development with significant implications for India as the region borders Arunachal Pradesh, which is also claimed by Beijing.The Chinese foreign ministry, in a statement issued to Hindustan Times, said the China-Bhutan boundary has never been delimited and there “have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sections for a long time”. The statement in Mandarin further said “a third party should not point fingers” in the China-Bhutan border issue – an apparent reference to India.Also read: US supercarriers in South China Sea, ambitious Beijing stretched on multiple frontsBhutan and China have held 24 rounds of talks between 1984 and 2016 to settle their border issue and, according to discussions in the Bhutanese parliament and other public records of these meetings, the discussions have only centred on disputes in the western and central sections of the boundary.People familiar with developments in Thimphu said on condition of anonymity that the eastern section has never figured in the border talks. “The two sides had said things had been narrowed down to the central and western sections and there was even talk of a package deal to settle the issue. If the Chinese position on the eastern section was legitimate, it should have been brought up earlier,” said one of the people cited above.An expert from Bhutan who has tracked the talks added: “This is an entirely new claim. There are signed minutes of the meetings from both sides narrowing the disputes to only the western and central sections.”There was no immediate reaction to China’s claim from Indian officials. However, China’s claim came against the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion during a visit to Ladakh on Friday that the “era of expansionism” is over – which was perceived as a signal to Beijing about New Delhi’s determination to defend its frontiers.Without elaborating on the actual areas of dispute, the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement said: “The boundary between China and Bhutan has never been delimited. There have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sectors for a long time, and there are no new disputed areas.“China always stands for a negotiated package solution to the China-Bhutan boundary issue,” added the statement, provided by the foreign ministry after HT reached out for a response to reports about China objecting to a grant request for Sakteng wildlife sanctuary in eastern Bhutan’s Trashigang district at a virtual meeting of the Washington-based Global Environment Facility (GEF) in June. The sanctuary, located in the easternmost part of Bhutan, covers 650 sq km.Also read: China opens border dispute with India ally BhutanAt the meeting, Chinese representative Zhongjing Wang claimed the sanctuary was located in an area disputed between Bhutan and China. Aparna Subramani, an Indian official serving as an executive director in the World Bank and representing Bhutan at the meeting, said the Chinese claim was not “unchallenged”.A majority of GEF’s council subsequently approved funding for the project while the Chinese representative abstained and didn’t join the decision. Official documents issued by GEF showed Sakteng sanctuary as part of Bhutan’s territory.The Chinese representative’s attempts to formally record his country’s objections through an amendment of GEF’s documents did not receive consensus. Bhutan’s views were also made part of the record: “Bhutan totally rejects the claim made by the Council Member of China. Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary is an integral and sovereign territory of Bhutan and at no point during the boundary discussions between Bhutan and China has it featured as a disputed area.”In addition to registering its position at GEF, Bhutan’s foreign ministry issued a demarche or formal diplomatic representation to the Chinese embassy in New Delhi on the matter, people familiar with developments said.Apart from India, Bhutan is the only other country with a land boundary dispute with China. Beijing and Thimphu currently don’t have diplomatic relations, though the Chinese envoy in New Delhi informally looks after relations with Bhutan.Experts believe China’s move is aimed at opening new fronts to increase the pressure on India amid the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Sangeeta Thapliyal of the School of International Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, a leading expert on the Himalayan region, said: “Bhutan’s Trashigang is at a tri-junction with India and China and opposite West Kameng district in Arunachal Pradesh, and this area has never been raised in Bhutan-China border talks. This is aimed at pressuring India and Bhutan and also challenging India’s relationship with Bhutan.“China is seeking to open up more theatres and this is a continuation of the policy to pressure India through the Himalayas. This is clearly a form of signalling by China amid the border stand-off.”The India-Bhutan Friendship Treaty of 2007 enjoins both sides to “cooperate closely with each other on issues relating to their national interests”, and experts believe the Chinese move, like the intrusions in Doklam in 2017 that also triggered a standoff, is aimed at driving a wedge between New Delhi and Thimphu.The Bhutan-China border talks have focused on differences over 495 sq km in Jakurlung and Pasamlung valleys in the central section and 269 sq km in western Bhutan, including the Doklam plateau.The so-called “package deal” offered by China to Bhutan reportedly involved Beijing giving up its claim in the central section and part of the western section in exchange for access to around 100 sq km in Doklam, which would bring China closer to India’s vulnerable “chicken’s neck” or the Siliguri corridor.Tenzing Lamsang, editor of The Bhutanese newspaper, said the eastern section now being claimed by China “is very much Bhutanese with a large Bhutanese population and traditional Dzongs (medieval fortresses) and two Bhutanese districts since time immemorial”. The Chinese claim would only “undermine the boundary talks”, he tweeted.The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement said the country has been in communication with Bhutan on the border issue through bilateral channels. “There is a ministerial boundary-talks mechanism and an expert group on boundary issues at the department level,” it said.“Both sides agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution in the spirit of friendly consultation and mutual understanding and accommodation. Pending the final settlement of the border issue the two sides are committed to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-it-has-border-dispute-with-bhutan-too/story-TlhVkk7TwAS97DiASzBSBK.html
05-07-2020||India||NIA planning to file closure report in Italian mariners’ case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) plans to close its case against Italian marines for killing two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012, two officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.This comes after the Centre on Thursday asked the Supreme Court to dispose of the matter related to the jurisdictional issues of the case as it has agreed to accept a UN tribunal’s ruling that the two marines cannot be prosecuted. The five-member arbitral tribunal, under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, said India is entitled to compensation in the case but said the marines deserve immunity and that India is “precluded from exercising its jurisdiction”.Also read: India to follow UN court order in Italian Marines case, Supreme Court toldThe officials cited above said they will file a closure report in the case in a few weeks after getting a go-ahead from the Union home ministry. “The case is more or less null and void now,” an official said on condition of anonymity.The official added that the report will be filed before the court of additional sessions judge-1 at New Delhi’s Patiala House Courts, which was designated for the case when it was filed in April 2013.The marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, moved the Supreme Court against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held the state government had the jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting was neither in the defence of the vessel nor the state. The matter is pending before the Supreme Court, which granted the marines conditional bail and allowed them to return to Italy in 2016.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has opposed the withdrawal of the case against the marines and asked the Centre to explore the possibility of a review petition.Also read: Kerala CM writes to PM Modi seeking trial in Italy of marines who killed 2 fishermenThe two fishermen were killed after the marines fired upon them from an oil tanker they were deployed at to guard against pirates. The ship was intercepted and brought to Kochi, where the marines were arrested and charged with murder.The officials cited above said NIA assigned a deputy superintendent-rank officer to complete its probe in the case when it took over the matter. NIA finalised a charge sheet against the marines in November 2013, when the probe report was submitted to the home ministry.The ministry gave the sanction to prosecute the marines in January 2014 under the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of Maritime Navigation and Fixed Platforms on Continental Shelf Act and for murder and attempt to murder. The ministry in February 2014 withdrew the charges under the Act, which provides for a death penalty, the officials said.NIA was then asked to go ahead with its charge sheet related to murder, attempt to murder and causing damage to the boat of the fishermen.A second official said six other crew members of the oil tanker were summoned to India to record their statements, but Italy refused to send them. “So we had to record their statements through audio and video means on November 11, 2013. We had also collected other evidence including post mortem reports, forensic evidence and statements of witnesses on Indian fishing boat,” said the second officer. “At every step, Italy tried to delay the proceedings.”India informed the tribunal that Italy was delaying the trial. During the final arguments in the case at The Hague on July 8 last year, India’s representative, G Balasubramanian, told the tribunal, “Given the status of work of investigating agencies in this process of criminal prosecution, the case has been practically ready for trial for some time. It is Italy which is not allowing the prosecution to progress further.”The tribunal said the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials and ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.International law expert Zulfiqar Memon called it a failure. “It shows that the life of poor Indian fishermen has no value when compared to the accused who happen to be citizens of a powerful European nation who are protected under immunity,” said Memon. He added the compensation cannot undo the irreversible damage the killings caused. “We must ask ourselves, as to what extent we have actually gone to seek justice for our citizens as compared to what Italy has done for its.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-planning-to-file-closure-report-in-italian-mariners-case/story-rgHb4I8RpbE61A6eCOgaZO.html
05-07-2020||India||Terrorist dead, two soldiers injured in Kulgam encounter||An unidentified militant was killed and two soldiers injured in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday.Officials from the Indian Army, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Jammu and Kashmir police launched a search operation in Arreh village in the district following information about the presence of militants in the area, Gurinderpal Singh, Kulgam’s superintendent of police, said.During the operation, the militants opened fire on the security personnel. A militant was killed in retaliatory firing, Singh said. There are two to three militants present in the village, people familiar with the matter said.The encounter has come a day after police and CRPF personnel on Friday killed a local militant Zahid Dass in Malbagh on the outskirts of the city. His accomplices, however, managed to escape under the cover of darkness. One CRPF jawan was also killed in the encounter.On Thursday, Kashmir inspector general Vijay Kumar said that security forces have prepared a list of top militants and commanders who will be neutralized in the coming months. Many top commanders of different militant outfits have been neutralised over the last few months, Kumar said, adding that about half of those killed belonged to the Hizbul Mujahideen outfit.In last six months, over 100 militants have been killed in different encounters. According to police data, there has been a nearly 50% decline in local recruitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-dead-two-soldiers-injured-in-kulgam-encounter/story-1pBRJsEl4sOjFGU8xAsr8J.html
05-07-2020||India||PM Modi lauds BJP state units for ‘putting nation first’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined on Saturday the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s commitment to selfless service, and said it is not just an “election-winning machine” but a means of serving people. “We consider power as a means of service. We have never considered power as a means of personal gain. Selfless service has been our motto and part of our values,” Modi said in a virtual address to BJP workers.Modi, who took stock of the work of the BJP state units amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said commentators see political organisations from an electoral point of view. For the BJP, the organisation means service, support for everyone, and happiness and prosperity for all, he added. Jagat Prakash Nadda, the party chief, had tasked the BJP workers with feeding 50 million families during the Covid-19 lockdown. Modi appreciated the efforts of the party workers in reaching out with aid despite the infection risk. He said it has always been the nation first for the BJP. “The idea behind the genesis of the Jana Sangh and the BJP was to make our country happy and prosperous and it is with this inspiration that we came into politics.”Modi called for the need to document the party’s work in helping people, saying it will serve as an inspiration and also be a reference for how service was provided on a large scale, overcoming challenges. “A challenge was turned into an opportunity,” he said.Modi said a multilingual digital booklet showcasing the work undertaken from the district to the national level should be launched on late Jana Sangh leader Deen Dayal Upadhyaya’s birth anniversary on September 25.“At a time when all were trying to save themselves, you went out to help those in need. In many cities, our workers knew there is danger but yet to fulfil their responsibilities kept working. Many of our workers died,” he said.He called selfless service, balance, restraint, consensus, positivity, harmony, and dialogue the BJP’s mantras and urged his colleagues to consider the experience gained while undertaking the work as a chance to understand the society. “At the time of elections, we go to people and hear all kinds of feedback. But this time when you went to people, your experience would have been different. ...you will see you will have felt that society has given you so much love and respect. This is the love and energy that did not allow you to tire. We need to understand the power of society. It has to be imbibed.”Responding to Modi’s comments, Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill said: “Death of 100 plus migrant labourers [during the lockdown] due to complete apathy of the central government’s East India Company approach of charging railway tickets from crores of labourers struggling to go home, raising 838% and 230% duty on diesel and petrol in biggest economic recession proves the BJP is the servant of politics and not the servant of people. The BJP believes in the use and throw policy towards the voters.”Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said the references in Modi’s remarks are aimed at blunting the discontent towards the government. “In Maharashtra, for instance, the BJP is in the opposition but is claiming to have distributed food packets to lakhs of people. It has made itself visible, even if there was not much done on the ground. This, in a way, is an attempt to tone down the anger that the migrant workers or people, in general, would have towards the government following the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-bjp-state-units-for-putting-nation-first/story-rozNDUPxG4qSMMJJ4dlL5N.html
05-07-2020||India||August 15 deadline for Covid-19 vaccine has dented ICMR’s credibility: Experts||Dr Balram Bhargava’s July 2 directive to lead researchers of several institutions chosen as test sites to complete clinical trials soon so as to have the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine ready on August 15 has dented the credibility of India’s apex medical research body that he heads, say top scientists, government officials, and public health experts, who are not buying the research’s agency argument that the letter was an effort to speed up vaccine trials.“It is good to be ambitious and aspirational but it should not be done at the cost of due diligence for ensuring the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. I would Iike to believe that it is a typographical error of saying 2020, instead of 2021. If not, the implications are serious as the proposed vaccine can only be ready by August 15 by fudging data or incomplete documentation. There is no other way,” said K Sujatha Rao, former secretary, ministry of health and family welfare.Also read: Can one be reinfected with coronavirus? No evidence yet, say expertsDr Bhargava’s letter to the heads of 12 hospitals doing human trials for Covaxin vaccine asked them to secure necessary approvals for human trials by July 7 with a warning that “non-compliance will be viewed very seriously”.Despite the statement from ICMR on July 4 that described the letter as an attempt to cut red tape, and which did not mention anything about a deadline, senior scientists in government say the incident has tarnished the credibility of an institute setting standards and guidelines for clinical research since 1911, and also of scientific research in India.“It has lowered the credibility of ICMR, and along with that of India’s scientific community, regulatory system government, and the potential vaccine (itself)... its reputation is dented before it is even ready. It’s bad enough to have (Baba) Ramdev declaring a Covid-19 cure by press release, now we have ICMR appearing to ask investigators to bypass scientific protocols. ICMR should, like Caesar’s wife, not just be above reproach but should also be perceived as infallible. That reputation has taken a beating,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist and former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.“Bharat Biotech will lose all the credibility it has earned all these years with hard work,” added Rao, referring to ICMR’s Hyderabad-based partner which is working on the vaccine.The vaccine strain of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was isolated in ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and transferred to Bharat Biotech on May 9.Also read| Covid-19 vaccine: No necessary process will be skipped, says ICMRIn a statement on Saturday, ICMR said the safety and interest of people of India was its topmost priority. “After intense characterisation and review of all data from BBIL (Bharat Biotech India Ltd), ICMR is supporting the clinical development as the vaccine candidate appears to be promising. Based on in-depth scrutiny of the available data from pre-clinical studies, the Drugs Controller General of India has accorded permission to conduct phase 1 and 2 clinical trial,” it said.The pre-clinical study has not been published. “In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite the clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine... ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” ICMR added in the statement.“It’s obvious to everyone with a smattering of scientific knowledge that three phases of clinical trials cannot be done in 42 days. At best, you can get early data in a month on whether the vaccine is safe, well tolerated and can produce an immune response against the virus, which gives clues to whether it will work or not. You cannot have it ready for mass use simply by fixing a deadline,” said a senior scientist, who did not want to be named because he works in a government institute.Interestingly, ICMR’s Saturday statement refers only to the first two phases of the trial for which it received regulatory approval from the Drug Controller General of India on June 30. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “It (the July 2 letter) is an internal circular not meant to be shared. I suspect it was issued to impress upon his supervisors in the ‘topmost level of government’ that he was driving his team hard to meet the August 15 deadline. The prime minister announced Isro’s human spaceflight mission Gaganyaan on Independence Day in 2018, but Isro kept quiet. Political announcements should be left to the government, scientists should focus on science,” added a senior bureaucrat, requesting anonymity.“The message is clear: all of us want a vaccine and we want a vaccine that is safe and effective. Pregnancy takes nine months; it is biology. Anything before that has risks,” tweeted Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a Delhi-based vaccinologist and public health specialist.Dr Bhargava did not respond to repeated calls and texts seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-s-credibility-hit-say-experts/story-5Dv4aHKYDNU5XtXPQvStsN.html
05-07-2020||India||Six states on high alert as govt warns of more locust swarms||More swarms of crop-eating locusts are likely to migrate from Somalia to the summer breeding areas along the India-Pakistan border, the agriculture ministry has said in a statement, prompting officials in six most “at-risk” states to be on high alert. Operations to control infestation are continuing in six states -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana -- by locust circle offices. The invasions have caused “minor crop losses”, according to a status update till July 3.The UN’s Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) has said locust invasions from Africa, the worst in 70 years, pose a “serious” risk to the country’s agriculture.Also read: Interministerial group set up to tackle locust invasion across statesCurrently, immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts are active in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jaipur, and Alwar of Rajasthan and Tikamgarh (Madhya Pradesh), according to the update.An inter-ministerial empowered group has ramped up resources to protect the country’s robustly progressing kharif or summer-sown crops. It has hired five technology firms to provide five advanced drones each of up to 50kg each, apart from helicopters hired from Pawan Hans Ltd. Till July 3, control operations have been carried out in 1,32,777 hectares in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. State governments have carried out containment in another 1,13,003 hectare. One hectare equals 2.5 acre.“The use of drones is something new and is evidently very effective. India should maintain enough production and supply of malathion, the main pesticide effective against locust, throughout the summer months,” said Pramod Vajpayi, a former entomologist with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Also read: FAO sounds high alert for India for next 4 weeks over locustSo far, 12 drones have been deployed in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, and Nagaur. Drones are effective for covering tall trees and inaccessible areas. One drone can douse crops with pesticides in 16-17 hectare area in one hour. In one of the largest operations so far, in the intervening night of 2nd and 3rd July, containment activities were carried out at 19 places across seven districts--Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sikar, Jaipur, and Alwar of Rajasthan and Tikamgarh, an official, requesting anonymity, said.Desert locusts can fly hundreds of kilometres a day and one square-km swarm can eat as much crop food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day, according to the FAO Desert Locust Information Service manual. If unchecked, locust infestations can cause a considerable drop in food output. The Horn of Africa has been witnessing large breading by locusts since 2019 due to frequent cyclones possibly linked to climate change and swarms have invaded several regions from there, according to FAO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-of-more-locust-swarms-in-six-states/story-5hqSMV3c3iVWY2OANhIUtJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Hold agricultural hackathons to boost economy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday directed the agriculture ministry to hold agricultural hackathons twice a year to solve problems in the farm economy by harnessing information technology solutions, an official statement said. At a review via videoconferencing of agricultural research activities, Modi asked these hackathons to be organised for efficient solutions to on-ground problems faced by farmers, including for farm management, farm tool designs, and crop protection, said an official, requesting anonymity.Hackathons are events where software developers, domain experts, and programmers come together to collaborate for developing problem-solving software products.Modi also held discussions with senior officials of the department of agricultural research and extension as well as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, the top farm research body.“The Prime Minister directed that start-ups and agri-entrepreneurs need to be promoted to ensure innovation and use of technology in agriculture and allied sectors. He highlighted the need to leverage information technology to provide information on demand to the farmers,” the statement said. Such hackathons should “meet design needs for tools and equipment that can reduce drudgery in farming activity, given that a large number of farmworkers are women”, the statement quoted Modi as saying.Scientists, who took part in the review, made presentations on India’s preparedness for climate-change-induced agricultural impacts, such as heatwaves, droughts, cold waves, and submergence due to heavy rains. They showcased various varieties developed to withstand these shocks, according to the statement. The country has seen a rise in agricultural start-ups. “Agritech startups are helping farmers monitor crop and soil conditions using internet of things sensors. Many are using artificial intelligence to forecast sowing time as well as realtime weather inputs,” said Avi Anand, the director of Agritex Ecosystems, a Bengaluru-based startup.In addition to the senior officials from the Prime Minister’s Office, the secretaries from departments of agriculture, animal husbandry, and dairy and fisheries were also present in the videoconference review.Modi stressed the need to adopt organic and natural farming practices on a cluster-based approach. He lauded efforts to develop crop varieties focusing on specific requirements for agro-climatic zones and stressed the need to provide strong market linkages for better returns to farmers, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-agri-hackathons-to-boost-economy-pm/story-FvGymZcknoJm6z6zmEvFiK.html
05-07-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: No necessary process will be skipped, says ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday that its attempt to speed up the development of a potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine was aimed at cutting red tape, a remark that came after its plan of a mid-August launch invited condemnation from experts for setting an impractical target not in line with rigorous scientific standards.Experts said the premier biomedical research body’s clarification on Saturday that the move was meant to cut red tape did not address how the accelerated timeline could be achieved. The timeline appeared unrealistic even by the best global standards and involved potential risks, they said.ICMR said on Friday it was attempting to launch the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 15, triggering disbelief in the scientific community. The plan was disclosed in a letter by ICMR to 12 institutes where human trials are to be held for the vaccine, Covaxin, ordering them to secure necessary approvals from internal committees and recruit people for clinical tests by July 7 with a warning that “non-compliance will be viewed very seriously”.The vaccine has been jointly developed by ICMR and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech (BBIL), with the latter itself previously indicating that a vaccine could take more time. In a report on Wednesday, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said that if clinical trials of Covaxin met safety and efficacy standards, the vaccine could be available for mass use by early 2021.On Saturday, ICMR said: “The letter by DG-ICMR to investigators of the clinical trial sites was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants... ICMR is committed to treat the safety and interest of people of India as a topmost priority.” This statement mentioned neither the August 15 deadline, nor the July 7 one . The statement followed widespread condemnation for ICMR for appearing to abandon clinical trial safeguards and putting the lives and safety of people at risk in its rush to produce an indigenous vaccine by Independence Day, a feat that is impossible if scientific protocols for trial and data review are followed.In the letter, dated July 2, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that the first indigenous vaccine being developed by India was one of “the top priority projects which is being monitored at the topmost level of the Government”.“ln view of the public health emergency due to Covid-19 pandemic and urgency to launch the vaccine, you are strictly advised to fast track all approvals related to initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than 7 July 2020. Kindly note that non-compliance will be viewed very seriously,” said the ICMR-DG.In the statement issued on Saturday, the apex research organisation said: “ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel.” “Our trials will be done following the best practices and rigour, and will be reviewed, as required, by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)... ICMR is committed to treat the safety and interest of people of India as a topmost priority,” it said.Bharat Biotech chairman Krishna Ella, who was copied on Dr Bhargava’s letter, declined to comment on ICMR’s timeline of clinical trials, but said previously that if clinical trials of Covaxin were successful, the vaccine would be ready for mass use by early 2021. Bharat Biotech is among seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines and was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin Phase 1 and Phase 2 human trials on Monday to test the vaccine for efficacy and safety.“In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite the clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine. Faced with the unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the consequent dislocation of the normal life, all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked. ICMR’s process is exactly in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel,” the ICMR statement said.Trials for vaccines can take several years. Several countries have allowed the development processes to be fast-tracked to tackle the unprecedented health emergency but even the leading efforts are estimated to conclude the development process only by the end of the year.Clinical trials involve inoculating people with an experimental vaccine to test whether it is safe and effective, a process that, on average, takes at least 10 years.Experts say ICMR’s timeline for Covaxin is scientifically implausible even by the global fast-tracked standards, as the vaccine is yet to begin human clinical trials. Globally, 18 experimental Covid-19 vaccines are in various phases of human trials.“There is no sensible scientific way that makes it possible to announce that a potential vaccine will be ready without three months of phases 1 and 2 trial data to indicate whether it will work at all. Even with fast-tracking and planning phase 3 trial in anticipation of the first two phases being successful, the trial can begin only after data from the first two trials is analysed and certified, which takes at least three months. You need at least six months for preliminary data on how effective and safe the vaccine is; how can you do it in six weeks?” asked Dr T Jacob John, virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.A researcher, who works with the government and did not wish to be named, said: “Never ever has such an end timeline to develop a vaccine or drug been given for a new antigen. Science depends on clinical outcomes; it doesn’t follow deadlines. The definitive language in the letter is problematic.”ICMR’s Saturday letter had a response to such criticism too. “While issues raised in public domain from time-to-time by commentators are welcome, as they form an important part of feedback loop, the best of India’s medical professionals and research scientists should not be second guessed for their professionalism or adherence to the highest scientific rigour.”Dr Bhargava did not respond to repeated calls and text messages seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-necessary-process-will-be-skipped-icmr/story-hJAq5PUlmQmRoNGIElIaLL.html
05-07-2020||India||Tejashwi Yadav as Bihar CM face? Allies unsure||Trouble appears to be brewing in the mahagathbandhan, or grand alliance, in Bihar over its chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections later this year.The Congress has suggested a state-wide survey to identify the face of the alliance after some of its leaders voiced their opposition to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s name.At a virtual meeting between former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Bihar Congress leaders, veteran Nikhil Kumar and legislative party leader Sadanand Singh expressed strong opposition to the move to project Tejwashwi as the CM face, according to people familiar with the development.The RJD had projected 30-year-old Tejashwi as the chief ministerial candidate of the grand alliance last year. The announcement came after the RJD’s national council meeting passed a resolution in Patna on December 10, 2019.The ruling Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine has already decided to fight the 2020 assembly polls under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership. Elections are due in the 243-member Bihar assembly in October-November.A Congress leader, who attended the meeting, said on the condition of anonymity that both Nikhil Kumar and Sadanand Singh argued that the move will further alienate upper castes who “despise RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi for their strong bias against forward castes”.The Congress party’s Bihar in-charge, Shaktisinh Gohil, then suggested that a state-wide survey should be conducted, and insisted that the grand alliance should go by the popular choice, the leader said.The issue has earlier been flagged by three constituents of the grouping — Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) president Mukesh Sahani. They have repeatedly been speaking publicly against the move to project Tejashwi as the CM face, saying the RJD took the decision unilaterally.At its meeting on Friday, the Congress rejected suggestions to go it alone in the assembly elections with the leadership insisting that there is no time left for such a move.“There was also a proposal to make the alliance broader by including the Left parties in it. Some leaders suggested that Congress, RJD and Left parties should come together and keep the other three parties – RLSP, HAM and VIP – out given that there is a big question mark on their ability to transfer votes to other constituents as seen in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” another leader said.Gohil, however, said it is important for all constituents to keep aside their “egos and self interests” and put up a united fight based on ideological commitment.He said the meeting also stressed the need for immediate settlement of seat-sharing and other issues among the alliance partners. “Talks on these issues should not stretch to the last minute, all parties should be flexible in their approach and the alliance should exhibit great political chemistry on the ground,” Gohil added.Senior leader Kishore Kumar Jha said the Congress should deal with the RJD on “equal terms” as far as seat-sharing is concerned. “We should not agree to less than 100 seats this time. If other allies are to be accommodated, both RJD and Congress should share the burden,” he said.At the meeting, another leader, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, claimed that Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is in touch with him and that he is unhappy in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).However, Bihar LJP leader Hula Pandey rejected the claim. “We have always seen that whoever we support goes on to form the government in Bihar. Since there is no one left to help Congress, they are thinking that if Ram Vilas ji goes with them, they can form the government. They (Congress) are just daydreaming,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-as-cm-face-allies-unsure/story-D22ssJu9aLj6vUCf16wIgJ.html
05-07-2020||India||Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s house demolished||Officials on Saturday razed the house of a dreaded criminal whose accomplices have shot dead eight policemen and suspended a sub-inspector who is under the scanner after the failed raid in a village in Kanpur Dehat district.For the demolition drive, the Kanpur district administration used the same earthmover machine that criminals used to block police vehicles arriving Bikru village, 45km from the district headquarters, on Thursday night for a raid against gangster Vikas Dubey, 48.Dubey’s men sprayed a volley of bullets on the policemen from the roofs of his house and structures nearby after they got off their vehicles, killing a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police said termed a “well-planned conspiracy”. The criminals looted their weapons and escaped in the dark.Kanpur inspector general Mohit Agarwal said the fortified one-storey house, built in 2013 over four bighas in the middle of the village, was a “hub of criminals”. The palatial house had a 12-foot boundary wall protected by barbed wire.“Most of the villagers have said that he [Dubey] grabbed people’s land using muscle power, and built his house. He used to extort money from people,” Agarwal said. He said the police were gathering details of Dubey’s other properties, including benami ones. “Dubey will be arrested soon,” Agarwal added.Two SUVs parked in Dubey’s garage were taken out and destroyed along with two tractors parked in the courtyard. The demolition began early morning amidst heavy police presence.Dubey’s father, Ram Kumar, was living in the house. He was taken to Lucknow. Dubey used to stay on the second floor, which has four rooms.Dubey’s wife she lives in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, with their younger son. The elder son is studying in the UK.After the shootout, Dubey could have taken away the digital video recorder (DVR), which stored the feed from CCTV cameras installed at his house, according to officials.He used CCTVs to keep a watch up to the main road that leads to his house. During a search of his house on Friday, police investigators could not find the DVR.The police were also investigating as to who snapped the power supply to the village when the police reached for a raid. An official said there was a total blackout at the time.In a related development, officials probing the case questioned Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari for nine hours. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow.Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru, is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey on Wednesday by a villager. The team that went to raid Dubey’s village past Thursday midnight set off from the police station in Chaubeypur.“In view of the allegations levelled against the SO, he has been suspended, and all the allegations are being thoroughly looked into. If his involvement or that of any other personnel of the police is found in this incident, then they will be sacked from the department, and also sent to jail,” Agarwal said at Chaubeypur police station.He did not specify on the allegations against Tiwari.Officials said the criminals used the weapons snatched from the policemen to fire at them. A police spokesperson said the weapons snatched in Bikru included an AK-47 rifle, an INSAS rifle, a Glock pistol and two .9mm pistols.Doctors took out AK-47 cartridges from the body of a constable, according to the post-mortem report. The doctors also retrieved pieces of .315 and .312 bore bullets, which were fired from rifles and single or double barrel guns, the police said.The maximum seven bullets hit a sub-inspector, the forensic experts said.Deputy superintendent Devendra Mishra was shot in the head, chest and legs from close range as doctors found carbon deposits around the wounds, said officials who are part of the investigation.Superintendent of police, rural, Brajesh Shrivastava said the bullets and their pieces recovered during the autopsy were being sent for forensic analysis.About 25 police teams have spread out across Uttar Pradesh and other states to apprehend Dubey, who is facing 60 criminal cases, and his associates, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-gangster-s-house-demolished/story-ruwgIfK6QoPl6AjRAkhnNN.html
05-07-2020||India||Drunk cop’s car hits a woman, runs her over trying to escape||Two separate cases of road accidents caused by alleged drunk drivers, including a Delhi Police sub-inspector, were reported from east Delhi’s Ghazipur and Chilla village. Both the accidents resulted in two women being injured. In both cases, the two women were hit and dragged under the cars for a few metres by the errant drivers. Both the drivers were caught by locals at the spot. While one of the women was discharged, the other woman, a 60-year-old hit by the police officer’s car, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Her condition is serious, senior police officers said. The footage of the accident was captured on a CCTV camera and widely circulated on social media.The first accident took place around 6.30pm in a narrow lane in Chilla village near Mayur Vihar. The video footage shows a woman falling on the car’s bonnet and then on the ground. Around the same time, she gets stuck between a motorcycle on the opposite lane and the car. As passersby try to rescue her, the car driver is seen trying to flee the spot and ends up dragging the woman under his car for a few metres before coming to a halt. The police identified the woman as Hajiran, 55.“My mother-in-law had gone to buy vegetables when the accident took place barely 50 metres away from our house. Despite being crushed and dragged under the car, she was not very injured. She was admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital and discharged last night itself. She is fine now,” Hajiran’s son-in-law Wasim said.Deputy Commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said the driver Bhanu Pratap, a water supplier, was arrested. His medical report confirmed that he was driving under the influence of alcohol. Pratap was later released on bail, he said. In the second accident, the police said Noor Jahan,60, was sitting on a chair outside her home in Ghazipur Dairy Farm when an allegedly speeding car driven by an inebriated sub-inspector hit her around 7.15pm on Friday.The woman was dragged for a few metres under the Swift Dzire car, the woman’s son Illiyas stated in the police complaint.“I was standing close to my mother along with some neighbours when the speeding car hit and dragged her. We stopped the car and pulled my mother from under the car after lifting it. The car driver misbehaved with us and abused us when we asked his name,” Illiyas stated.DCP Singh said that the car driver was a sub-inspector(SI) posted to the Delhi Police’s police control room (PCR) unit. “SI Joginder Kumar was off-duty and on his way home in Ghazipur when the accident took place. His medical report confirmed he was inebriated at the time of the accident. We registered a case and arrested him,” the DCP said, adding the injured woman’s condition is being monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cop-among-two-held-for-drink-driving-accidents/story-TQvij3tiD3hAMPlyTZolVM.html
05-07-2020||India||Since May 15, lightning strikes have killed 315 in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar||Weather conditions that are forming certain kinds of clouds and bountiful rains in the region that are encouraging paddy farmers to be out in the field planting the crop have together resulted in a quiet tragedy in east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar that has gone almost unnoticed during the Covid-19 crisis -- death from lightning strikes. There were 26 deaths on Thursday in Bihar alone from such strikes (or flashes as they are called scientifically). On Friday, 15 people were killed in lightning strikes in different districts of the state. Another 21 people lost their lives and over 40 were injured due to lightning amid heavy rain and thunderstorms in seven districts of Bihar on Saturday. And at least 253 more people have lost their lives to lightning strikes and 49 have been injured in the past one and half months with 90% of the deaths recorded in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, according to data from the National Disaster Management Authority. The injured are undergoing treatment in local hospitals. Most of the casualties are farmers and labourers who were doing agriculture-related work in fields. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief over the loss of lives. He has announced an ex-gratia of four lakh rupees each to the next of the kin of the deceased. Kumar has ordered free treatment of injured persons.Also read: Lightning strikes, takes 21 more lives in Bihar, CM asks people to stay indoorsA mix of meteorological and behavioural factors are leading to a very high number of deaths in Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh this year, say India Meteorological Department scientists. Every year at least 2000 to 3000 deaths in India occur due to lightning strikes and torrential rains in India. But this year there is a lot of convective or thunder cloud formation in the region along with extremely heavy and widespread rains, unusual for June. Bihar has received 66% excess rains from June 1 to July 2 with 77% excess rains in the week of June 24 to July 1. East Uttar Pradesh received 72% excess rains in the same period with 79% excess only in June 24 to July 1 week.The convective clouds result in lightning of the cloud to ground type (the rarest form of lightning according to scientists, and also the one that does the most damage). “There is a lot of convective activity there because the monsoon trough was passing near the Himalayan foothills and now there is a cyclonic circulation over east UP. Cloud to ground lightning (the kind which usually causes damage) is nothing but current passing from cloud to ground. Such discharge happens when certain kinds of convective clouds form. These clouds may be forming over east UP and Bihar the most now because of surface heating and weather systems bringing intense rain there. But we have to see if people in these states are taking adequate precautions against electrocution,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune.That may not be happening. Other scientists say that intense rains have led to more farmers being out in the field making the most of the monsoon for their paddy crop.Also read| Severe lightning strikes likely in Jharkhand on July 4, 5: State govt“This year the number of lightning incidents and lightning deaths is more frequent over Bihar and eastern UP because the region is seeing intense monsoon rain quite early in the monsoon in June. In previous years this region usually didn’t receive such rains in June. Because of good rainfall this year in June, farmers are out in the field farming. Paddy field water also attracts electricity and farmers on the field act as conductors of electricity from the thunderstorm,” explained Sunitha Devi, member of Ministry of Earth Sciences’ thunderstorm working group.In 2018, at least 100 people died due to thunder squalls in west UP, Rajasthan and Haryana following which the ministry of earth sciences formed a working group that developed a model to assess how many lightning flashes may occur and how strong the wind is likely to be during thunderstorms.IMD’s working group can forecast approaching thunderstorms two to three days in advance but cannot pinpoint the location of lightning strikes that much ahead of time; its nowcast feature predicts the location of lightning and thunder about 3 hours in advance.“Thunderstorms occur in different parts of the country. Marathwada for example is known to record the highest number of fatalities. Fatalities are not high in the pre monsoon months of April- May -- a major season for thunderstorm and lightning -- probably because people are not working on their fields. Lightning severity is more over Bihar and adjoining Uttar Pradesh due to the presence of humid air topped with comparatively drier air in the mid and upper levels, aiding more tall clouds. Over peninsular region and north east India, moisture depth and content being higher, clouds will start raining out, before growing tall. The lightning severity from such clouds are less,” added Sunitha Devi.Such tall clouds are prone to cause lightning strikes or flashes, another expert explained. “In monsoon season hydrometeoric (water or ice particles) concentration is more so there is more charge build up. If it’s a very tall cloud then charge neutralisation happens within the cloud also called intra cloud lightning. If cloud height is tall but not extremely tall there is more charge separation and cloud to ground lightning.Kharif crops are planted in this season. Paddy field acts as ionic fluid and many farmers get electrocuted at once,” said Soma Sen Roy, also from the working group.According to a paper titled “The major lightning regions and associated casualties over India” published in Springer Nature in February, the maximum casualties are reported in Madhya Pradesh (313 deaths), Maharashtra (281 deaths) and Orissa (255 deaths) on an average every year. On Saturday, IMD warned that intense thunderstorms and lightning are likely over south-east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, east Vidarbha and Odisha during the following 12 hours.Due to the convergence of strong moist westerly and southwesterly winds from the Arabian sea along the west coast and a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and its neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels, fairly widespread to widespread and very heavy rain is most likely over Gujarat during the next 4 to 5 days and over Konkan and Goa during the next 2 days. Some extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over Konkan during the next 24 hours; over Gujarat during July 4 to 6 and Saurashtra and Kutch during next 4 days, IMD said in an alert on Saturday.(with inputs from Avinash Kumar from Patna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/since-may-15-lightning-strikes-have-killed-315-in-up-and-bihar/story-s6IV2iiSCxnFte4NQTgV9L.html
05-07-2020||India||Defence projects may be exempt from green nod||The Centre is considering removing defence projects from the Union environment ministry’s purview, officials aware of the matter said. This means such projects like building of roads in areas of strategic importance will not be appraised for their environmental impact and will no longer require environmental and forest clearances if a proposal to the effect is accepted, they added.Projects of strategic importance currently need prior environmental and forest clearances although their details are not put in the public domain because of security concerns. The details of regular projects are publicised and people are allowed to submit their feedback. Public hearings are also held for people affected by such projects to get an opportunity to understand them and give their consent.R P Gupta, the environment ministry secretary, underlined there is no formal policy yet and the idea of exempting defence projects from prior clearances is at a conceptual stage. “We are waiting for a formal decision. All defence projects will be covered. The feeling in some quarters is that information on strategic projects should not get into the public domain,” said Gupta.Also Read: Defence Ministry approves purchase of 33 new fighter jets including 21 MiG-29s from RussiaThe proposal comes even as India is seeking to reinforce its border infrastructure , particularly along the frontier with China. This infrastructure development is seen to be among the reasons for recent tensions with China, which escalated when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troopers in Ladakh on June 15. “The new guidelines are in draft stage...,” said a defence ministry spokesperson, without offering more details.Environmental activists are concerned that a policy of exempting defence projects from green clearances could lead to environmental degradation in ecologically fragile and biodiversity-rich border areas mainly in the Eastern and Western Himalayas. They say it means defence projects along disaster-prone areas, coasts, dense forests in Arunachal Pradesh and Kashmir will not be scrutinised.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher with New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said this will send out signals that sectors like mining or highways can argue their way out of environmental scrutiny citing strategic or national interest. “There are already minimal public disclosures of the environmental scrutiny of defence projects. This decision would mean ecological expertise will not be a part of safeguarding critical defence infrastructure including naval bases or high altitude stations located in biodiverse habitat.”Also Read: Assured by Russia of speedy completion of defence contracts, says Rajnath SinghActivists also cite the example of the 880-km Chardham all-weather highway for the pilgrimage to four religious sites in Uttarakhand. As per the Border Roads Organisation’s submission to the National Green Tribunal in 2018, the highway is of “strategic importance” even as it covers areas that are extremely fragile and prone to landslides.Citizens of Green Doon (CGD), a civil society organisation, moved NGT in 2018 saying the highway has not undergone an environmental impact assessment (EIA) and pleaded that its cumulative impact be assessed first.The environment ministry, in its response to the organisation’s petition, submitted that only new national highways and expansion of those longer than 100 km need to get prior environmental clearance. The highway has been broken into several parts, each shorter than 100 km. NGT formed an expert panel for a rapid EIA and to come up with an environmental management plan after studying issues like slope stabilisation and disaster management. Unhappy with the panel’s terms of reference, CGD moved the Supreme Court last year.The Supreme Court in August 2019 formed another high-powered committee with representatives from ministries of defence and environment as well as the Wildlife Institute of India. The committee was asked to do a cumulative EIA of the highway and consider whether revision of the project is needed to minimise its adverse impact on the environment. The committee is yet to submit its report.Mallika Bhanot, a member of Uttarakhand-based Ganga Ahvaan, a civil society organisation, said the Chardham project entails road widening along fragile Himalayan stretches in violation of the Union road transport ministry’s 2018 circular, which proposed narrow roads in the hills to prevent extensive environmental damage. According to Bhanot, the construction is underway and some slope cutting was done recently even after the Supreme Court’s high powered committee took charge.“A small section of the highway, under this project comes in the vicinity of border roads. Thus it is important to make roads that are safe for the movement of pilgrims and for the military too.”Bhanot said since the road widening has started, tree felling, slope instability; have activated several landslides along the Chardham route and created fatal bottlenecks. “Such a road thus will be unsafe for movement, disastrous in future and counterproductive to border security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-projects-may-be-exempt-from-green-nod/story-uXefbXOEP28YxNbB7LTsrO.html
05-07-2020||India||On Leh visit, PM Modi’s 15-minute conversation with 14 Corps commander||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a 15 minute one-to-one conversation with XIV Corps Commander Lt General Harinder Singh at the force’s Nimu Headquarters outside Leh on Friday, even as India has decided it will closely monitor the promised disengagement and withdrawal of the Chinese PLA from East Ladakh for the next 10 days before deciding on any further action.Military commanders and government officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that China’s public posture on a withdrawal isn’t playing out on the ground, with the PLA’s rear positions on the Galwan bank have been flooded due to sharp rise in river water levels. “We have satellite and drone imagery to show that Chinese PLA tents five kilometres in depth have been flooded by the icy rising waters of the Galwan. With snow melting at a rapid pace, any position on the river bank is dangerous. Even though China is engaging in more public posturing on the withdrawal, the current PLA positions in Galwan, Gogra, Hot Springs and Pangong Tso are untenable in the long run,” said a senior military commander.With the Indian Army deployed in full strength all along the LAC in East Ladakh, the Indian Navy’s steel patrol boats will be introduced for defence of Pangong Tso by next Wednesday. The top of the patrol boats are being cut so that they can be transported from Mumbai in a C-17 heavy transporter to Leh for deployment. The steel boats with gun mounts are being introduced to match the PLA’s heavy patrol boats, which were used by China to capture the fingers on the north bank of the salt water lake.Also read| ‘Malicious, unsubstantiated’: Indian Army on reports of PM Modi’s ‘fake hospital visit’With three senior military commander level meetings and two senior diplomatic level parleys between India and China, the next 10 days are critical -- it is expected that during this period , PLA will start to withdraw from the contested positions and restore status quo ante.Sitting under camouflage netting at Nimu with artillery and anti aircraft guns deployed, PM Modi was briefed in full about PLA’s operational deployment and the status of the four contested points by Northern Army commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi. The PM then had a one-on-one conversation with Gen Harinder Singh, giving the latter clear cut instructions.“India will not initiate any military operation on its own but will stand up PLA and retaliate to any move from the Chinese side all along the 3488 km line of actual control. Our troops are in far better position in East Ladakh and we will wait for full PLA withdrawal , not just symbolic removal of some vehicles and troopers ,” said a senior official.During PM Modi’s visit, the entire military brass, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat, Army Chief Gen Manoj Naravane , Gen Joshi and Gen Singh discussed the Ladakh situation threadbare. They were told that there should be let up in upgrading border infrastructure, right up to the Depsang Plains and Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO).Also read| Indo-China stand-off: Global support for India growsThe PM has no words of criticism for the Indian Army, Air Force or ITBP, but only pumped up the troopers with wholesome praise and the promise of full backing, said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lt-gen-singh-discuss-lac-stand-off/story-PuZ96zdkDon3gZTbsYXIiM.html
05-07-2020||India||Aspersions about how our personnel are treated are unfortunate: Indian Army||The Army on Saturday said “malicious and unsubstantiated” accusations were made in some quarters regarding the status of the facility visited by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the General Hospital at Leh on Friday.In a statement, the public relations officer (defence) said, “It is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated. The Armed Forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel.”The statement comes in the wake of comments made on social media platforms, which raised questions about the facility. The comments questioned why there was no medical equipment visible in the pictures that were shared. Some even suggested that the beds were put up in a conference room. Modi on Friday made a surprise visit to Leh in Ladakh, where India and Chinese forces were involved in a face-off on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. After addressing the soldiers, Modi also interacted with those recuperating at the medical centre.“It is clarified that the said facility is part of the Crisis Expansion capacity of 100 beds and is very much part of the General Hospital complex. The Covid-19 protocol had necessitated some wards of the General Hospital to be converted into isolation facilities. Hence, this hall which otherwise was normally used as a Training Audio Video Hall was converted into a ward ever since the hospital was also designated as Covid treatment hospital,” the statement said.The army also clarified that the injured soldiers were kept there since their arrival from the Galwan Valley, the scene of the June 15 clash, to ensure quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aspersions-about-how-our-personnel-are-treated-are-unfortunate-army/story-DInKXUSTohL4aL3iBzAWKM.html
05-07-2020||India||Lucknow girl’s encounter with Gordon Ramsay!||Producer-writer Noopur Sinha is surely going places. Her latest TV show, ‘Gordon Ramsay: Uncharted,’ saw her work closely with the popular British chef. As the creative producer of the show, which was extensively shot in India earlier this year, Noopur is super thrilled with the final product, “I never thought I would go halfway around the world, and then return to my own country to shoot with the most celebrated chef! We shot India based episodes at gorgeous coastal region of Kannur and in a coffee estate in Coorg in January, this year. I must say that Gordon love India and local food and he is an expert at making it, so the challenge for us was to introduce him to Indian food he wasn’t familiar with,” said the Lucknowite over the phone from Los Angles, US.Talking more about her experience of shooting with him in India she said, “We took him to the land of spices, Kerala, so he could know more about the 3000-year history of Indian spices that make our food so complex and delicious. It was fun to see Gordon sample extremely spicy food — his British palate couldn’t handle our Indian spices!”Gordon learnt to make black ‘pandi’ (pork) curry and was given the challenge of harvesting dangerous fire ants to make the tribal ant chutney of the region, she adds.Noopur’s first encounter with the Michelin star chef happened in Durban, South Africa. “He’s older than most of the team members but we have a tough time keeping up with him! He’s always up for any crazy adventure — he jumped out of helicopters, eaten a tarantula spider, done bull-racing and many more crazy activities on our show. I remember, a hippopotamus was swimming in the lake just 20 feet away from us…and the hippo even charged at us! We all thankfully survived.”The rich art and culture of Lucknow inspired Noopur to film making and she started her career with the singing reality show Saregamapa and then produced food shows with chefs like Ajay Chopra and Ranveer Brar. “I’ve produced a variety of content - digital series, TV, short films etc - while working in Hollywood/ Los Angeles. Currently, I’m involved as festival producer for the prestigious Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles that brings the best of Indian independent cinema to a wider global audience.”Her first feature film ‘Shoebox’ which she co-wrote with Faraz Ali (director) was 25 ‘Film Bazaar Recommends’ films at the NFDC Film Bazaar organised in Goa. “I am also the executive producer of the film and we’re currently finishing the film to premiere it at international film festivals. The story is close to my heart and is based on many of my childhood experiences in Lucknow, even though we shot the film and based it in Allahabad (now Prayagraj),” she said. As the shoot is set resume she is all geared up, “Due to Covid spread, we had to halt our shooting midway through the season, but thankfully we have been given permission to shoot again! We are now shooting more episodes in Europe this month, and then more in US, Caribbean, South East Asia and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-girl-s-encounter-with-gordan-ramsay/story-mNfbqEtaqcEFJf7MgyrOLO.html
05-07-2020||India||Rajasthan police officer booked for seeking Rs 2 crore bribe, another top cop in crosshairs||Rajasthan’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) booked an additional superintendent of police from the special operation group, Satpal Midha for allegedly demanding Rs 2 crore as bribe on behalf of additional director general of police (ADGP), SOG-ATS, Anil Paliwal from an official of credit cooperative society, in lieu of settling a case, officials said on Saturday.“In the beginning of June, the victim had approached the ACB and filed a complaint that Midha and his few other colleagues were demanding Rs two crore for not registering an FIR against the complainant in a case of cheating,” said Saurabh Srivastava, ADG, ACB.An investor had filed a complaint with the SOG against the victim’s cooperative society two months ago, alleging he was duped into depositing Rs 25,000 in the co-operative society.“The complaint was being investigated by Midha. In June, the accused addl SP demanded Rs 2 crore as a bribe on behalf of ADGP Paliwal,” added Srivastava.Srivastava further said that between June 2 and June 30, the accused and his subordinates made the victim meet a person in Tammanah towers, located in Vaishali Nagar area of the city, introducing him as Anil Paliwal. Interestingly, there are eight to ten shops in the building owned by people with the surname Paliwal.In second major restructuring in 2 days, Rajasthan reshuffles 66 IPS officersSrivastava said the victim expressed his inability to pay the hefty amount demanded and finally approached the ACB, following which an investigation was launched into the case and evidence against Midha obtained.He added that a case was lodged against Midha under section 7 (public servant, attempts to obtain bribe from any person) and 7A (for himself or for any other person) of Prevention of Corruption Act and section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Three more die of Covid-19 in Rajasthan; state reports 204 new casesOfficials privy to developments claimed that the accused police officer and his subordinates are likely to be called for questioning by the ACB before proceeding further.Addl SP Midha and ADGP Paliwal didn’t respond to requests for a comment.Midha, had in the past, handled high-profile economic fraud cases. He was the investigation officer for Adrash Credit and Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society fraud cases.Interestingly, Paliwal was made ADGP personnel in the mass reshuffle carried out in the police department two days ago. He was replaced by Ashok Rathore and Midha was transferred to Rajasthan armed constabulary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-officer-booked-for-seeking-rs-2-crore-bribe-another-top-cop-in-crosshairs/story-DSqncfqceRPgde7QqLcNGO.html
05-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand residents will be allowed to visit Char Dham shrines from July 1||Almost a month after allowing only locals from nearby the Char Dham shrines to visit the temples, the Uttarakhand government on Monday decided to allow pilgrims from all the districts in the state to visit the shrines from July 1.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said that people from across the state will be allowed to visit the shrines following certain guidelines. However, anyone staying in a containment zone or buffer zone will not be allowed to enter any of the shrine premises. Anyone with symptoms similar to Covid-19 will not be allowed to undertake the yatra.“The residents of Uttarakhand are being permitted to visit the shrines right now, but again they all have to follow the guidelines and standard operating procedures issued by the state and Central government so far. There might be people who are residents of Uttarakhand but have travelled from outside the state and they are supposed to observe the mandatory quarantine period,” said Raman.He said that those who want to visit the shrines will first have to get themselves enrolled on the website of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, https://badrinath-kedarnath.gov.in.“After enrolment, those who want to visit the shrine will have to give a self-declaration, details like when they would start the yatra, submit an address and photo ID proof. After this an auto-generated e-pass will be given which the pilgrims should carry with themselves along with the address and photo ID proof submitted earlier, only then will police and respective district administration allow them to enter,” added Raman. The pass will be valid for two-days.The guidelines further mention that pilgrims will be allowed an overnight stay of only one night in the area where the shrine is situated, However, in the condition of a disaster, roadblock or health concern the time period can be increased. People who own or work at restaurants, hotels, guest houses near the shrine premises can take special permission from the district administration and stay for longer periods.Those above 65 years of age and below 10 years of age will not be allowed to undertake yatra. It is mandatory to wear masks, use hand sanitiser and follow social distancing in the shrine premises. Keeping in view the health safety concerns of the priests and others working at the shrines, pilgrims will not be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the shrines.Pilgrims will mandatorily have to wash their hands and feet before entering the shrine and any offering brought from outside the shrine will not be allowed. Pilgrims have also been advised to not touch any idol while visiting the temples.In an order on June 9, the state government had capped the number of pilgrims allowed at the shrines till June 30 to a maximum of 1,200 pilgrims per day for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for the Yamunotri shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-residents-will-be-allowed-to-visit-char-dham-shrines-from-july-1/story-jpkhA0BSZ6OelVvs1LtFlN.html
