06-07-2020||India||Manipur Dy CM’s portfolios restored after NPP renews support to BJP-led coalition||Manipur’s Deputy Chief Minister and National People party MLA Yumnam Joykumar Singh has been reallocated the portfolios of finance, science and technology, economics and statistics departments that he held earlier before he withdrew support to the government last month.Manipur Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu issued a notification (dated July 5, 2020) of reallocation of the portfolios.As per the notification, Chief Minister N Biren Singh presently holds the charge of Home, Personnel, Planning, GAD, Vigilance, Transport, Minor irrigation, Tourism, Minority affairs OBC & SC, Information Technology, Municipal Administration, Housing & Urban Development (MAHUD),Horticulture & Soil Conservation and any other departments not allocated specifically.Joykumar was reallocated the portfolios 11 days after he and three other NPP MLAs, L Jayentakumar, N Kayisii and Letpao Haokip who had withdrawn support to the BJP-led coalition government, agreed to return to the government. Biren Singh’s government was in trouble after nine MLAs, including the four NPP ministers and three BJP MLAs withdrew support to it on June 17.To resolve the political crisis, NPP chief and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma air dashed to Imphal twice. They also flew to Delhi along with NPP MLAs to call on the BJP national leaders to patch up differences in the Manipur coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-dy-cm-s-portfolios-restored-after-npp-renews-support-to-bjp-led-coalition/story-hKYCYGZ025bE0iiFvBs9ZO.html
06-07-2020||India||Police arrest MP man who killed woman in hours before her marriage||The main accused in the murder of a woman, who was killed just hours before her wedding on Sunday in Madhya Pradesh’s Ratlam district, has been arrested, police said on Monday. The accused, 27-year-old Ram Yadav, a resident of Ratlam town, was arrested in Rajasthan’s Rajsamand district where he had fled after committing the crime. His accomplice Pawan Panchal was arrested earlier. The duo have been booked for the murder of the 33-year-old woman at Jaora in Ratlam district, more than 290 kilometres north west of Bhopal, police said on Monday.Ratlam superintendent of police, Gaurav Tiwari said Ram Yadav slit the throat of Sonu Yadav, a resident of Shajapur, with a knife in a beauty parlour in Jaora when she was getting ready for her wedding.“After committing the crime, Ram Yadav and Panchal fled on a bike. Later, Panchal returned to Ratlam while Ram Yadav fled to Rajasthan. Police arrested Panchal from Ratlam with the help of CCTV footage on Sunday late evening. Panchal informed the police that Ram Yadav had gone to a Sanwaria temple in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan, more than 300 kilometres from Ratlam. Police arrested him from the temple on Sunday night,” said Tiwari.The SP said, “During the interrogation, Ram Yadav confessed that he knew Sonu for the three years and they met several times. They wanted to marry but five days ago, Sonu called him and informed him about her marriage with another person. This development infuriated him (Yadav) who asked her to break off the marriage but Sonu refused to do so, given her parents’ wishes.”“After that Ram decided to kill her. He purchased a knife and called Sonu to meet him one last time. Sonu asked him to come to the parlour. Ram reached there and killed her,” said the SP. Police have also recovered the weapon used in crime.Ram Yadav worked in a jewellery shop while Sonu was a teacher in a private school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-arrest-mp-man-who-killed-woman-in-hours-before-her-marriage/story-libmK1N4svLNn7JFwL3fSM.html
06-07-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 positivity rate soars, opposition leaders allege low testing||As Odisha’s Covid-19 positivity rate crossed the national positivity rate of 6.73% and more and more hospitals turned into Covid-19 hotspots, opposition leaders accused the state government of failing to control the pandemic by not increasing daily testing.On Monday, Odisha reported 456 new Covid-19 cases from the 4,827 samples tested indicating a positivity rate of 9.44 per cent, a sharp departure from the positivity rate of 4-6 per cent that it reported till July 1. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state shot up to 9,526 and the state reported 38 deaths. There are close to 3,000 active cases currently. For the third day today, the number of local cases was more than 30 per cent of the total cases suggesting the onset of community transmission. Among the positive cases reported was a BJP MLA, a 70-year-old priest attached to one of the prominent temples in Dhenkanal town, two doctors and a pharmacist working at a community health centre of Ganjam district. The MLA is the first legislator in Odisha to get infected by Covid-19.The rise in cases came even as opposition Congress and BJP slammed the state government for falling tests. Senior Congress leader Santosh Singh Saluja said the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Odisha would have been more than 1 lakh had the state government done more testing. “Had all migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra and Gujarat been tested for Covid-19, then we would have known the actual spread of the disease. The government is just picking and choosing a few infected people from a large number of people already infected,” said Saluja.BJP’s state general secretary Golak Mahapatra alleged that the state government has miserably failed in scaling up the daily tests to 15,000 resulting in the current situation. “Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik in April had announced that the government would conduct 15,000 Covid-19 tests a day in June. It’s already July, and we are testing around 4000-5000 samples a day,” said Mahapatra.Referring to Delhi, Mahapatra said increasing testing there has brought the situation under control.Another BJP general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan also raised questions over the Covid-19 management by the state government saying it had become more bureaucratic which is not yielding any results. “Over the last month, we have seen weekly shutdowns. Has it helped bring down the numbers? The state government has just no clue about the spread of the virus,” said Harichandan.Meanwhile, a Covid-19 positive person escaped from a Covid-19 hospital of Nabarangpur district by scaling the boundary wall. Nabarangpur district collector, Ajit Kumar Mishra said a 50-year-old patient who was brought to the Covid-19 hospital on July 3, went missing on July 5 morning. “The patient was missing when the hospital staff went to offer him breakfast. A police complaint has been lodged,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-soars-opposition-leaders-allege-low-testing/story-8HIFAyb2he9brzQYhCk5EJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Manipur’s recovered Covid-19 cases surpass active cases for 3rd straight day||Manipur’s Covid-19 recovered cases surpassed the number of active cases for the third day on Monday. The state reported a total of 1,390 positive cases out of which 734 have recovered and been discharged while the number of active cases stand at 656. The recovery rate is 52.80 percent.Till date, 2,94,024 persons have been screened at various entry points of the state while 56,584 others were tested for Covid-19, according to a report by the state surveillance officer of integrated disease surveillance programme. Meanwhile, the Thangmeiband Polem Leikei locality in Imphal West district was declared as containment zone on Monday after a seven-year-old girl tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening. The child was under home quarantine.An order notifying the containment zone was issued by the Imphal West district deputy commissioner on Sunday and necessary measures have been taken by sealing the locality, banning vehicular movement in the area and initiating active surveillance of Covid-19 cases.Giving details of the Covid-19 positive case, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Managang, additional director and spokesperson of the state health department in a press release on Monday evening said, “She ( the girl) returned from New Delhi on June 22 with her parents. On June 28, the parents were found positive and girl was negative.”The parents were shifted to Imphal’s Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) while the girl was put under home-quarantine at their Thangmeiband residence in Imphal West District. However, after she tested positive, the girl, too, has been shifted to Covid Care facility at JNIMS.On Saturday evening, Jiribam district was placed under a ‘complete lockdown’ and a curfew until further orders or till July 15 following a sudden spurt in the number of Covid- 19 cases. The decision was taken in a meeting of the state consultative committee on Covid-19 after 28 police personnel stationed in the district headquarter tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-recovered-covid-19-cases-surpass-active-cases-for-3rd-straight-day/story-Hjv4UH2hqfCRQzrXNuAYLP.html
06-07-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, Covid-19 tests to now cost Rs 1980 in private labs||The Madhya Pradesh government has fixed the rate for Covid-19 tests in private laboratories in the state at Rs 1,980 per test reduced from Rs 2,500. Earlier, the rate was Rs 4,500 per test, as per the health department’s order.The order dated July 3, 2020 of the Public Health and Family Welfare department, Madhya Pradesh stated, “In the 20 government hospitals Covid-19 tests are being conducted free of cost. Besides, the test is being carried out in 7 private laboratories approved by NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research).”The order issued by principal secretary, Public Health and Family Welfare Faiz Ahmad Kidwai said, “The maximum rate of Covid-19 tests in private laboratories was fixed at Rs 4,500 as per ICMR’s circular dated March 17, 2020. This rate was later fixed at Rs 2,500 per test as per a letter dated April 24, 2020 issued by commissioner, Health services. Now, given the manufacturing of RT-PCR testing kits in the country itself the rate has been fixed at a maximum of Rs 1980 for people. The rate includes sample collection, packaging and reporting.”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “We have been demanding for a long time that the rate be reduced considerably so that a common man can afford the expense if he needs it. The state government should implement its order effectively and ensure that the private laboratories don’t realise any other and hidden charge from people in the name of tests.”Meanwhile, as per a letter written to the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), Bhopal by the director of Bhopal Gas Tragedy and Relief and Rehabilitation department of Madhya Pradesh Basant Kurre the Covid-19 patients affected by Bhopal Gas Tragedy would be referred to the Chirayu Medical College, a private medical college from the hospital when they are taken there. The letter said the decision was taken as per the instructions given by chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains.Welcoming the order, Rachna Dhingra, co-founder of the Bhopal Group of Action and Information, an organisation working for Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims, said, “We had been demanding for a long time for the shifting of the gas tragedy victims affected by Covid-19 to Chirayu Hospital instead of Hamidia Hospital but the government didn’t listen to us and many gas tragedy victims died. The government should also ensure that not only confirmed cases of Covid-19 disease but Covid-19 suspects too should be shifted to the private medical college. At the same time, referral and shifting should be done promptly without any hassles for the patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-covid-19-tests-to-now-cost-rs-1980-in-private-labs/story-4zdA8dnLnEuf5iAaZIEcjP.html
06-07-2020||India||No sanitation worker will go down manholes to clean sewers, orders Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday directed all district collectors and municipal authorities to ensure that no sanitation worker enters sewers through manholes to clean sewage.“This work should be done completely by machines. There should be no incident of death because of entering a manhole for cleaning sewage,” he said.There have been many cases across the country where sanitation workers have died after falling unconscious in sewers because of noxious gases. Gehlot said the dedication with which the sanitation workers and representatives of urban bodies have worked has helped to curb the spread of coronavirus infection.Interacting with the public representatives of urban bodies and sanitation staff of around 196 urban bodies, he said the hard work of all including the sanitation staff, doctors, nursing, anganwadi workers and police has increased the honor and respect of Rajasthan in the country.He called upon sanitation workers to maintain the same spirit for the future that they have shown in the battle against Covid-19.The CM said that for the last four months, Rajasthan has managed to control Covid-19 and sanitation workers have played a big role in keeping the city, street and neighborhood free from infection by risking their lives.The state government provided Rs 1,000 to sanitation staff for masks, gloves, sanitizers and other safety items. Rajasthan is the first state to provide an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to government and non-government personnel, he said.The Chief Minister interacted with public representatives such as Mayor, Chairman, Councilors and took suggestions from them. He interacted with sanitation inspectors and workers, asked their experience and problems.UDH Minister Shanti Dhariwal said that the state government is going to introduce Indira Rasoi Yojana in all the urban bodies of the state. Under this, twice a day nutritious food will be made available to the poor at a subsidized rate of Rs 8 per plate in the permanent canteens. The number of canteens in each urban body will be determined based on the area and population. The state government will spend Rs 100 crore annually on this scheme. A committee will be constituted for its monitoring under the chairmanship of the District Collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-sanitation-worker-will-go-down-manholes-to-clean-sewers-orders-rajasthan-cm/story-DV9yuwQ5sMm3zqBgrflbWK.html
06-07-2020||India||Congress’ student wing accuses Delhi University of leaking students’ data||The Congress-affiliated NSUI on Monday filed a police complaint accusing Delhi University (DU) of allegedly leaking the data of lakhs of students online.Akshay Lakra, president of the Delhi unit of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), and former DU students’ union president Arun Hooda approached the Maurice Nagar police station in north police district with the complaint.“Not just mobile number but information like Aadhar card number, bank account number, mode of transportation taken by student from college to home is readily available on the Delhi University website. It is not just a blunder but also breach of privacy of students and endangers the lives of students in DU,” they said.A senior police officer said they have received a complaint and are looking into the matter.Several students here objected to the uploading of their admit cards containing personal information on the Delhi University website, flagging privacy concerns.Final-year students, who will be appearing for an online open-book exam, claimed that access to their admit cards is so easy that anyone aware of their roll numbers and the gateway password can download it.Meanwhile, the NSUI said Hooda also surrendered his LLB degree to dean of examination Vinay Gupta in protest after “the DU completely failed to hold a mock test”, leaving students clueless.Network problems, incorrect question papers and difficulty in logging in are some of the issues that Delhi University students have been facing while attempting to take the mock online exam.Despite opposition from students and teachers, the university is going to conduct online open-book exams for final year students from July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-student-wing-accuses-delhi-university-of-leaking-students-data/story-sSX3OZT2oPTtTfTy5MrImL.html
06-07-2020||India||Labourer flooded with calls on phone over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||A 20-year-old labourer from here in Madhya Pradesh has approached the police fed up with a large number of calls he has been receiving on his mobile phone on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Investigation conducted by the cyber cell of Indore unit’s Superintendent of Police Jitendra Singh has revealed that a page created on Facebook in the name of Rajput’s rumoured girlfriend Ankita Lokhande had the mobile number of the labourer mentioned in the ‘about’ section.Lokhande had links with Indore.“After Sushant’s suicide, the labourer is getting many calls daily. While some disconnect the call after realising that it was a wrong number others express their anguish over the Sushant issue,” the SP said.Singh said more than 40,000 people are following this particular page on Facebook.“To find out reality, police had forwarded a message on the messenger to the operator of the page, but yielded no response so far,” he said.Police are trying to unravel the operator of the page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourer-flooded-with-calls-on-phone-over-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-WN8oYCmCEJ2QUPI1ba4I5M.html
06-07-2020||India||ED slaps Kolkata firm with biggest ever FEMA notice of Rs 7,220 cr||In its biggest ever action under Foreign Exchange Management Enforcement Act (FEMA), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent a notice to Kolkata-based Shree Ganesh Jewellery House and its promoters - Nilesh, Umesh and Kamlesh Parekh for allegedly resorting to unauthorized foreign exchange dealings, holding of foreign exchange outside India and willfully siphoning off Rs 7,220 crore as export proceeds. According to a statement issued by ED on Monday, “investigation has revealed that Parekhs are serial offenders and various cases are pending against him (Nilesh) in several departments like, Central Bureau of Investigation, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Special Economic Zone, Enforcement Directorate and even internationally.”A Letter of Request is pending in the case in Switzerland. “Contravention of Foreign Exchange Management Act has been noticed against their other company, namely Easy Fit Jewellery Pvt Ltd amounting to more than 250 Crores earlier as well. Shree Ganesh Jewellery House Ltd is one among top 100 willful defaulters as per RBI,” said ED. “The investigation has also revealed that Shree Ganesh Jewellery House has huge outstanding for the foreign bills drawn on M/s Al Marhaba Trading FZC, M/s Sparkle Jewellery LLC, UAE and M/s Astha Jewellery LLC, UAE which are companies promoted by themselves. The bank funds availed by it were ostensibly routed in the garb of export to above foreign entities and others and the proceeds against the same were parked outside India,” the ED said. Nilesh Parekh was arrested by CBI in May 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-slaps-kolkata-firm-with-biggest-ever-fema-notice-of-rs-7-220-cr/story-52qhzg3m2kmznPexNImQMJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Ending terror sanctuaries essential for peace in Afghanistan, says India||India on Monday told a meeting on the development of Afghanistan that putting an end to terror sanctuaries and safe havens is an essential condition for ensuring peace and stability in the war-torn country.JP Singh, the new head of the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran desk in the external affairs ministry, represented India at “Strengthening Consensus for Peace”, a meeting of regional partners that was hosted by the Afghan government.The meeting was chaired by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. Twenty countries and international organisations, including the United Nations, participated in the meet.“India highlighted the fact that in order to achieve durable peace in Afghanistan, putting an end to terrorist sanctuaries and safe havens is an essential pre-requisite,” said a statement from the external affairs ministry.Indian and Afghan officials have often blamed Pakistan-based terror groups for fomenting violence in Afghanistan. There is also growing concern in New Delhi over a spike in violence by the Taliban despite the group signing a deal with the US in February.The meeting discussed issues related to the Afghan peace and reconciliation process and support of regional partners for an independent, unified, democratic and sovereign Afghanistan, the statement said.“India, one of the largest development partners of Afghanistan, with a commitment of more than US $3 billion, reiterated the importance of an inclusive, Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, Afghan-controlled peace and reconciliation process,” the statement said.“India expressed support for a constitutional order in Afghanistan, which would protect the interest of all sections of Afghan society, including women, children and minorities,” it added.Ghani thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending Covid-19-related assistance to Afghanistan and for hosting the Saarc leaders’ meeting for coordinated efforts in the region to overcome the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ending-terror-sanctuaries-essential-for-peace-in-afghanistan-says-india/story-afE0oPqjXiNS1NH9sbtf7H.html
06-07-2020||India||Cop deployed for Lalu Prasad’s security returns from leave, tests Covid-19 positive||A policeman deployed for the security of incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav was found infected with Covid-19 after returning from 12 days of leave on Monday.The policeman had gone to his native place in Bihar and returned to Ranchi on Sunday. As per the set protocols, he was put in quarantine after his return and his samples were taken for testing. The confirmatory test report came on Monday.The ailing Prasad, 72, who has been serving jail term in two fodder scam cases, has been under medical treatment in custody for over two years in Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS).He is currently admitted in the hospital’s paying ward under a tight security manned by nearly 40 police personnel.“The policeman who was found infected with the respiratory disease, had gone to his native village in Bihar on a 12-day leave. After his return, he was in quarantine and tested positive. Since he had not joined duty, there is no threat to anyone,” Sadar deputy superintendent of police Deepak Pandey said.The patient has been shifted to the district’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital.State RJD spokesperson Anita Yadav said, “RJD supporters should not worry about Prasad’s health after the security personnel was found infected with Covid-19. The policeman was not on duty.”Meanwhile, three other police personnel including a woman also tested positive for coronavirus. The three cops are posted at Ranchi’s Hindpiri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-deployed-for-lalu-prasad-s-security-returns-from-leave-tests-covid-19-positive/story-EhZIEm7OXRIy9SOFaBLwkJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Odisha MLA Bishnu Charan Das dies||Former minister and six-time MLA from Odisha Bishnu Charan Das died at a hospital in Bhubaneswar today, weeks after he suffered a stroke. Das is survived by his wife and son. The Dalit MLA had won from Tirtol assembly segment of coastal Jagatsinghpur district in 2019. He started his career as a lawyer, but gave up practice and entered politics in 1985, when he contested assembly polls. He won five Assembly elections in a row from Jagatsinghpur assembly constituency.Made school and mass education minister in 2006, he had to step down in 2007 amid allegations that he directed the officials of his department to increase the marks of his son in high school certificate exam. Das was also a member of Rajya Sabha for a brief period.Das was the second MLA from Odisha to pass away this year. Last month, BJP MLA from Balasore Madan Mohan Dutta had passed away at a hospital in Bhubaneswar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mla-bishnu-charan-das-dies/story-AEVQYpimVor5CQ1VzXHpLN.html
06-07-2020||India||Special trains to Bengal from Covid-19 hotspots will now run once a week||Special trains between Howrah in West Bengal and coronavirus ‘hotspot’ areas including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad will now run only once a week, railway officials said on Monday.The Mamata Banerjee administration in West Bengal had urged the Indian Railways to reduce the number of trains from hotspot areas as Covid-19 numbers in the state have been hitting new highs almost every day over the past one week.A spokesperson of the South Eastern Railway said that instead of daily trains, only one train would run between Howrah and Ahmedabad every week. The Howrah-Ahmedabad special will leave every Friday starting from July 10, while the Ahmedabad-Howrah Special will leave every Monday from July 13.Similarly, the Howrah– Mumbai CSMT special will leave Howrah every Wednesday from July 15, while Mumbai CSMT- Howrah will leave Mumbai every Friday from July 17.“The timings and stoppages will remain the same,” the official said.The special trains between Howrah and New Delhi – both via Patna and via Dhaanbad – would also operate once a week starting from July 11. These trains used to run at least three to four times a week till date. Earlier, the civil aviation ministry suspended flights coming to Kolkata from six cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad between July 6 and July 19. No such restrictions were imposed on flights leaving Kolkata and travelling to the six cities.Till date, West Bengal has registered 22,987 Covid-19 cases with 861 new cases being reported on Monday. The death toll now stands at 779.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-trains-to-bengal-from-covid-19-hotspots-will-now-run-once-a-week/story-sLS34UMeG2xi7dzhGPuDyN.html
06-07-2020||India||Thiruvananthapuram under triple lockdown as Kerala’s Covid-19 tally rises to 5,622||The Kerala government on Monday imposed a week-long triple lockdown in state capital Thiruvananthapuram and in some areas of Malappuram district as the coronavirus graph continued to rise steadily.With 193 new Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the state’s tally went up to 5,622 while two more deaths reported during the day took the death toll to 28. Active cases in the state now stand at 2,252.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that around 1.60 lakh people are under observation, adding that strict norms were introduced to check the spread of the disease.The announcement about the triple lockdown was made on Sunday, hours after state’s tourism minister K Surendran said the district was ‘’sitting on an active volcano’’ with rising number of Covid-19 cases.On Monday, while acknowledging the fact that the triple lockdown will lead to “some difficulties”, the CM said that it was in the larger interest.“True, there will be some difficulties due to the triple lockdown. But we have to suffer it for the larger interest,” said the CM.During the week-long lockdown, people have been asked not to step outside their homes. In case of any emergency, they can contact the police and seek their help. All streets and roads have been blocked and each locality will have only a single entry / exit point. Each area will be manned by a senior officer and violators will be either arrested or shifted to institutional quarantine. There will be no public transport. However, after protests against the strict rules, the government gave some relaxation in the lockdown, allowing people to purchase essential items between 7 am and 11 am in Thiruvananthapuram. .On Sunday the government had amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 to give more teeth to lockdown laws. The guidelines, made mandatory for a year, include wearing face masks and observing social distancing . The not wearing face masks can be slapped with an increased fine of Rs 10,000 or face two-year jail term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thiruvananthapuram-under-triple-lockdown-as-kerala-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-5-622/story-dUInIQ89qQlfAhQp9xp84H.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19 casualty denied dignity in death, body dumped by earthmover||In yet another instance of inhuman treatment to a deceased Covid-19 patient, municipal staff of the temple town of Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district used an earthmover to dump a body into a grave on Monday.A video of the sanitation staff of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation lifting the dead body of the Covid-19 victim using an earth mover and dumping it into the pit already dug in the graveyard went viral in the social media in the evening.The body was that of a 50-year old man, a resident of a village on the outskirts of Tirupati, who was admitted to state-run Sri Venkateshwara Ram Narayan Ruia Hospitals last week. He died of Covid-19 on Monday.The municipal staff, wearing PPE and masks, brought the body in the ambulance belonging to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to Harischandra Cremation Ground located in the town. They pulled the body out of the ambulance and placed it on the ground.Also read: Denied cremation over Covid-19 scare, siblings in Odisha bury man’s bodyHowever, instead of carrying the body and lowering into the grave with due respect, they chose to use the earthmover to dump the body. The earthmover was brought there to dig the grave.After a video of the incident found its way into local television channels, Tirupati municipal commissioner P S Girisha hurriedly called a press conference and gave an explanation. “Generally, we cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims in the electric crematorium. So far, we have cremated 17 bodies without any complaints,” he said.Similarly, the body of this particular Covid-19 victim was also taken to the electric crematorium. “However, it was very heavy, weighing around 175-180 kgs, and tall and it did not fit into the pyre. As it was being lifted, the wrapping around the body was torn. As part of standard operating procedure, the body was again taken to the hospital for re-wrapping,” he said.The municipal authorities finally decided to give it a burial instead of cremation. As per the Covid-19 protocol, they had to dig the pit 14 ft deep using an earthmover. The body was taken to the graveyard in the ambulance.“The municipal staff were exhausted as they had already carried the heavy weight body three or four times. So, they had to use the earthmover to shift the body from the ambulance to the grave, hardly two metres away and bury it. This was done only after taking the consent of the deceased’s relatives,” Girisha said.He, however, conceded that the municipal staff should not have used the machine to dump the body in such disrespectful manner. “They should have engaged another five or six more workers to carry the body physically,” the municipal commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-casualty-in-tirupati-denied-dignity-in-death-body-dumped-by-earthmover/story-n50XDF5qs9MSJpgtAGGXeO.html
06-07-2020||India||‘We need to shoot, alter way we used to live’||As shootings begin under the ‘new normal’, there are many changes in the daily life of actors on TV sets too - from the mode of greeting to make-up in PPE kits, to social distancing, said actor Jiten Lalwani.On going back to the sets, the Kanpurite said, “Shooting and acting is like oxygen for an actor. And though there is a risk factor, no one knows whether all this will get over in a few weeks or few months! We need to shoot but then lead a certain way of life. After our production house, our artiste association and others decided to shoot so I too went with the flow.”His family had apprehensions. “They have loads of advice: wear a mask, maintain distance and sanitise every now and then, which we are doing. Namaste is the new greeting and in scenes too, we aren’t coming close, nor are we touching each other. The crew too has reduced considerably. Now, to check looks in mirror we help ourselves, we drink ample water so it’s not needed in between and so on,” said the actor best known for ‘Kunki Saas Bhi Kabi Bhau Thi’, ‘Nagin 3’ and ‘Sasural Genda Phool’.Lalwani feels that creativity is being compromised with all this but then safety is of utmost importance. “It’s not about one person but it’s about the entire unit as the virus is very contagious. We can’t afford to get over-enthusiastic about creativity.”The actor had a mix of ‘khatte-meethe anubhav’ (sweet and sour experiences) during lockdown. “From workout to rest, we did it all. I wrote a web-series and then a short film on the current situation. I also kept myself busy with master classes and watched a lot of films and series.” He visits Kanpur regularly. “We used to live in Govind Nagar and over the years, my brother shifted to Civil Lines. I got interested in acting through plays in school and college. But, my acting career started when I shifted to Mumbai in 1993. I started with Makrand Deshpande’s play ‘Yatri’ and my debut show was ‘Labella’ and since then, it has been over 25 years now,” he said.Lalwani is currently shooting for ‘Kahat Hanuman Jai Shri Ram’. “The process of getting ready is a little tough in this show. From Jiten to transforming into Kesri is a little tiresome – I have to put on special make-up, mukut (crown), denture and tail. Then you have to be careful that the tail does not hurt anyone! But, once I am in that avatar it’s normal for me. Then, that is the thrill of being an actor!” He is also shooting for ‘Shubharambh’.Expressing his happiness at facing the camera again, he said, “I feel very lucky as so many actors are craving to come in front of the camera. We need to understand that this is a phase and will pass eventually. I will be more than happy if all of us get back to work and we all enjoy the way we used to in the pre-Covid stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/we-need-to-shoot-alter-way-we-used-to-live/story-X7HYoFb7idaRaEK92QMRLN.html
06-07-2020||India||After panel report blames firm, Andhra govt plans to relocate LG Polymers from Vizag||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday hinted at the relocation of the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, from where there was a leakage of Styrene gas on May 7, resulting in the death of 12 people and hospitalisation of nearly 500, from the existing place to a distant location.Following a report submitted by an eight-member expert committee headed by special chief secretary (environment and forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad that probed the Styrene gas leakage accident, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed that a fool proof action plan be brought out to prevent recurring of such accidents.Jagan suggested that based on the recommendations of the report, industries be classified into green and white categories and should be relocated far from residential colonies so that people should not suffer. “All the departments concerned should work out an action plan and protocols in this connection,” he said.In its 4,000-page report, the committee held the management of LG Polymers Ltd solely responsible for the May 7 accident. “There was slackness on the part of the company with regard to safety measures. There was no proper preventive mechanism to avert such incidents,” it said.The report concluded that the accident occurred due to uncontrolled Styrene vapour release from the N6 tank. “The temperature in the tank rose substantially, which resulted in vapourisation of Styrene liquid and increase in the pressure in the tank,” it said.Poor design of the Styrene tank, inadequate refrigeration and faulty cooling system, absence of circulation and mixing systems, poor safety protocol and management systems, inadequate risk assessment response, insufficient knowledge among staff about chemical properties of styrene, especially during storage conditions, total breakdown of the emergency response of the procedures and non-following of safety protocol by the authorities during the lockdown period were responsible for the accident, the report said.It also observed that the alarm system was not used despite having 36 activation points, including one at the factory gate. “Using the alarm could’ve alerted the people in the vicinity,” the report said.The committee also observed that the factory has absolutely no stock of inhibitors and negligible stock of terminators which could’ve been used to minimize the impact of the accident if not neutralise it.None of the LG Polymers Ltd management was available for reaction on the expert committee report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-panel-report-blames-firm-andhra-govt-plans-to-relocate-lg-polymers-from-vizag/story-yZtZGfMIBznZWQkC9DornN.html
06-07-2020||India||Gold worth over Rs 50 lakh seized at airport, 2 arrested||Over Rs 50 lakh worth of gold has been seized from two passengers of a chartered flight at the Karipur airport, sources said on Monday.The two had come by chartered flights from Dubai and were arrested by the Customs, the airport sources said. Sayed Abdul Faiz had concealed 545 gm of the yellow metal in his undergarments while Muhammed Afsar had concealed 582 gm of the gold in the pedal of a cycle he had brought with him as baggage, airport sources said.There have been several instances of attempt to smuggle gold from Gulf countries by passengers coming on chartered flights and Vande Bharat Mission, as part of the Covid-19 triggered evacuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-worth-over-rs-50-lakh-seized-at-airport-2-arrested/story-wSqfvCNhsnKnlBYlG1rNGO.html
06-07-2020||India||Religious intolerance, majoritarian politics shouldn’t be allowed to undermine India’s soft power: Tharoor||The “precious pluralism” that has been a civilisational asset to India in the globalised world is “sadly” under threat today and religious intolerance and majoritarian politics should not be allowed to undermine the country’s soft power, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Monday. Speaking on ‘India’s Soft Power: Contours of Cultural Diplomacy’ at an event organised by FICCI, Tharoor said India must remain the land of the “better story” as a society with free press and thriving mass media. “We need both soft power and hard power. I do want to stress on the importance of preserving these qualities in India that make us appealing to the world. The precious pluralism that has been a civilisational asset for India in the globalised world and is sadly under threat in our country today,” he said. “Our democracy and dissent, our thriving free media, our contentious civil society forums, our energetic human rights groups, our free elections and our fractious political parties all of this show India in a very positive light in the eyes of the world so the kinds of things the government likes to delegitimize -- dissent is bad, you are anti-national -- actually these are the things that strengthen our image abroad,” he said. He further said it is essential that India does not allow “spectre of religious intolerance and majoritarian politics to undermine our soft power which remains our greatest asset in the world of the 21st century”. “These assets (soft power) may not directly persuade others to support India but it goes a long way in enhancing India’s intangible standing in the world’s eyes and that is why I am talking about soft power in this context as one of actually promoting the assets and products of our society and culture that the world would find attractive,” he said. Calling Information Technology as India’s soft power, he said, “We have gone from being associated with beggars and snake charmers and fakirs and we are now associated with being computer geeks.” Noting that India has been benefiting from the future and the past, he elaborated on the reach of yoga across the world. “International Day of Yoga was a genuine coup for our government because it meant every year one day people will be performing yoga and recalling India in many ways,” he said. He also talked about the popularity of Indian cuisine and the film and television industry. “Indian restaurants have proliferated around the world. You are looking at ways our cuisine has acquired universal ability. It is striking that in the UK, the curry houses employ more people than ship building, coal mining and steel making industries combined but we can go beyond to talk about cinema,” he said. “I can tell you from my international experience of innumerable conversations with African ministers and diplomats who would speak fondly of the expectations of looking forward as young children of the next Bollywood film coming to their village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-intolerance-majoritarian-politics-shouldn-t-be-allowed-to-undermine-india-s-soft-power-tharoor/story-a5VG4l320fhunjtingBStM.html
06-07-2020||India||In just 10 days, Bengaluru has seen a six-fold rise in active Covid-19 cases||On Friday, July 3, a resident of Hanumanthanagar in Bengaluru who was suffering from fever and breathing difficulties collapsed in the middle of the road even as his family ran from pillar to post across seven different private and government hospitals to get him admitted, but to no avail. Eventually, the man died and his body lay prone on the road as it took four hours for an ambulance to finally arrive, only to eventually cart away the man’s body. His case is not alone. After an initial bout of success, the Karnataka government seems to have lost the plot on containing the rising Covid-19 cases especially in state capital Bengaluru .On Sunday, when Medical Education minister Dr K Sudhakar visited the Jayanagar General Hospital, patients there poured out a litany of woes. From availability of ambulances to arrive at the hospital, hygiene, quality of food to time taken for Covid-19 reports to be provided, they highlighted numerous problems. Sudhakar admitted that there were issues and promised that 400 additional ambulances (at the rate of two per ward for the 200 wards in Bengaluru ) would be provided and complained that as cases mounted private hospitals which had promised to provide 2,734 beds had in fact provided only 116. Expressing his frustration the minister warned of initiating criminal cases against hospitals which did not provide treatment or turned away Covid-19 patients.A day earlier on Saturday Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy, daughter of Congress heavyweight Ramalinga Reddy, tweeted her anger at the government’s mismanagement of the situation after trying to help a constituent get a bed saying, “On the phone calling hospital after hospital. They don’t respond/switched off, if they do they say no beds with oxygen/ICU. So angry...pathetic state of our healthcare.” Pointing out that inspite of being an MLA, this was her experience and said, “Imagine the plight of people who don’t have connections or strings to pull.” Reddy also said a 30-year-old and not just people with co-morbidities had died unable to get a hospital bed.The state government’s response has been a mixture of denial and passing the buck. Ever since the first case was detected on March 8 – that of a software engineer who had returned from the US – the government had been declaring its ‘success’ in containing the spread as well as the ‘low mortality’ rate in the state compared to other states with a similar size of population.As recently as a month back – on June 6 to be precise – Bengaluru had a mere 162 cases of the 3,184 active Covid-19 cases in the state and did not even figure in the top three districts with most cases in the state. It then accounted for a mere 5 per cent of the total cases in Karnataka. However, as of Sunday it has 8,167 active Covid-19 cases and accounted for more than 60 per cent of all active cases in Karnataka.How did things spin out of control so quickly? If opposition parties are to be believed it is gross incompetence and lack of coordination between various ministries. In the cabinet, the health and welfare minister is B Sriramulu and the Medical Education minister is Dr K Sudhakar. However, after some ego clashes, the Chief Minister was forced to nominate the primary and secondary education minister and one of the government’s most articulate spokespersons Suresh Kumar to brief the media and give daily updates on the statewide situation. Sriramulu and Sudhakar themselves were accused of violating quarantine norms and later when the medical education minister had to go on home quarantine after family members tested Covid-19 positive, the CM nominated former Deputy CM and current revenue minister, the ambitious R Ashoka as the new Covid-19 spokesperson for the government.After announcing various relief packages, the CM who saw that the treasury was empty decided to go full throttle on opening up of Bengaluru. Even as some migrant labourers wanted to go back to their native places, initially the state government refused permission and tied to dissuade them. After backlash by civil society and the opposition, the government reluctantly agreed but continued its plan to open up the city for business as it was the main revenue driver. A medical advisor to the Covid-19 taskforce who did not want to be identified said: “The pace at which the opening up of the city took place was probably too fast but the government had made up its mind.”Former Bellary MP and Congress spokesperson V S Ugrappa says lack of co-ordination and one-upmanship between various ministers is one of the key reasons for things spinning out of control. “What was the government doing for the last three months? Were they sleeping? Why was infrastructure not put in place? Why are people dying waiting for ambulances and why are patients being turned away without treatment?”However, a senior official of the health and family welfare department who did not want to be identified – as he is not authorized to speak to the media – said, “I think given the circumstances we have done a good job. The scale of the challenge is humongous. Yes, there might have been some lacunae which we are addressing but remember this is a situation without a precedent. Also, numbers went up as people also did not follow social distancing norms plus the testing has gone up, which all have led to the current situation. Things are under control and it is incorrect to paint a picture of it being otherwise.”On Saturday, as thousands jammed the highways leading out of Bengaluru hoping to escape the city and the deadly spread of the virus, Vignesh Gowda an auto driver who originally hails from Chennapatna told HT, “I have a 3-year-old son and a wife. My younger brother tills some family land in Byrapatna. Instead of dying here, I would rather go back and take up agriculture until things improve.” A worried CM on Monday appealed to people not to leave Bengaluru . “There is no need to panic. Please cooperate with the government. We have added 10,000 more beds as well as 450 more ambulances and if required will add more. Unfortunately, we have to co-exist with this situation as there is no solution for now. Your lives are important and the government is taking all measures to protect you.”For now, though people of Bengaluru are apprehensive and worried about the evolving situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-just-10-days-bangalore-has-seen-a-six-fold-rise-in-active-covid-19-cases/story-Stx8Jw5a66dqdXye0cygoM.html
06-07-2020||India||Kerala sacks IT consultant after Customs allege link to gold smuggling racket||The Kerala government on Monday terminated the service of information technology consultant Swapna Suresh after the Customs department unearthed her alleged links to a gold smuggling racket following the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment on Sunday.Customs had seized the precious metal from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram after permission from the Ministry of External Affairs.Swapna Suresh who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry is said to have gone underground after the seizure.After the Customs department intensified its search for her, an embarrassed state government issued a terse statement saying her contract with the IT department was terminated with immediate effect. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan holds the IT portfolio.The opposition BJP and Congress stepped up pressure on Vijayan asking him to explain his position in the case. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that after the seizure of gold, a senior official from the CM’s office made a desperate call to Customs officials pleading them to spare some people involved in the case.“Before taking up her latest job Swapna Suresh worked in the UAE embassy for some time as a PR consultant and was sacked after some irregularities. There is a case against her in Thiruvananthapuram also. Then how did she take up an important position in the IT department?,” asked Surendran. He said large quantities of gold were smuggled through diplomatic consignment earlier also using her contacts and many got their share of the booty. He also alleged that she was close to IT secretary M Shivashankar who helped her to get plum the assignment.“It is disturbing that the CM’s office has turned into a haven for smugglers and others. The IT secretary should be sacked. Since the case is getting murkier we want the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe it,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. IT Secretary M Shivshankar said he was ready for any investigation and will share all information with the customs department. He said since the investigation was on it would not be proper for him to comment on the case.The CM played down the incident and denied reports that his office made any intervention. “Customs is with the Union government. Let it investigate and find out the truth,” Vijayan said. When asked about the appointment of Swapna in a key position he said it did not come to his notice and he will find out how it happened. He said a recent tendency to drag the CM’s office into all issues will not succeed.Amid the political sparring that the gold seizure has sparked, Customs have refused to comment. “Our investigation is continuing. We have got some information that earlier also the syndicate smuggled gold like this,” said Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep region.The UAE embassy said in a statement that none of its officials had any role in the smuggling and one of its former employees made use of diplomatic immunity to indulge in such an act. The gold bars and sticks were hidden inside some of the household equipment to avoid detection. The seized gold is worth Rs 15 crore in the market, a Customs official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sacks-it-consultant-after-customs-allege-link-to-gold-smuggling-racket/story-Fs8CRiG0EafOSig17b6xZN.html
06-07-2020||India||Amid coal mining row, Assam govt decides to upgrade Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary to a national park||Guwahati: Assam government on Monday decided to upgrade the Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary into a national park amid an ongoing row over allowing coal mining within its jurisdiction.“Our government has decided to upgrade the Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary in Assam, which is home to a variety of flora and fauna, to a national park. In a meeting held with senior officials on Monday, I have directed them to take necessary steps in this regard,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted.While a limited number of human activities are allowed in wildlife sanctuaries, national parks are strictly off-limits.The state government appears to have taken a decision with an eye on next year’s assembly polls as the coal mining issue has triggered a raging controversy in Assam.A release from the CM’s office (CMO) mentioned that in order to expedite the process of upgrading the wildlife sanctuary to a national park the forest department has been asked to prepare a draft notification and hold a public hearing to get views from local dwellers residing in and around Dehing Patkai. Reiterating the state government’s commitment to preserving Assam’s natural resources and environment, Sonowal also instructed to prepare an action plan for conserving the adjoining areas of the wildlife sanctuary and include the opinion of the public in it. Assam has five national parks and Dehing Patkai, if upgraded, will increase the tally to 6.Earlier in April, the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEFCC) had recommended coal mining to be allowed within a portion of Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve with a caveat that fulfiled 28 pre-conditions.Spread across 937 square kilometres, Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve falls in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts and is located within the periphery of the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary, which is said to be the largest lowland tropical rainforest in India.NBWL authorities had allowed the state-run Coal India Limited (CIL) to conduct opencast coal mining in 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest. CIL had been carrying out mining in 57 hectares of the reserve and the fresh recommendation allowed it to do mining in another 41 hectares, which was unbroken.Besides elephants, leopards, hoolock gibbons, pangolins and bears, Dehing Patkai is also home to over 200 species of birds, various replies and many species of butterflies and orchids. Concerns were raised that the habitats of these species as well as foraging routes of elephants would be affected due to wanton coal mining.The NBWL order had triggered a howl of protests in Assam, opposing the coal mining move.Assam government had also sent forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the site in May and assured there would be no compromise on protecting the state’s forests and biodiversity.Though the NBWL recommendation was passed in April, a right to information (RTI) query has revealed that mining in the area was already underway even before the approval was given.A response to an RTI query by environment activist Rohit Choudhury had revealed mining-related work had already started in 17 hectares (or nearly 39% of the area) of the 41 hectares claimed by CIL to be unbroken. “It was confirmed that about nine hectares out of 41.39 hectares has already been broken up and operated and another approximately seven hectares have been cleared,” mentioned a November, 2019, site inspection report by the MoEFCC’s Shillong office.North-Eastern Coalfields, a subsidiary of CIL, had got the lease for coal mining over an area of around 11 square kilometres in the Saleki area of Dehing Patkai for 30 years from 1973.Though the lease had expired in 2003, CIL applied for lease/diversion of forest land in 2012 seeking permission for coal extraction in 98.59 hectares.Taking up a suo motu (on its own motion) case against a proposed move to allow coal mining in the fragile ecological zone, in June the Gauhati high court (HC) issued notices to Centre, Assam government, CIL and others last month.A two-member division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ajay Lamba and Justice Soumitra Saikia, heard two public interest litigations (PILs) on the same issue, and directed the Central and Assam governments, CIL, NBWL, mines and mineral department of Assam, home department, Assam Police and others to appear before it on the next date of the hearing on July 20. However, all respondents were asked to file affidavits by July 14 before the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-coal-mining-row-assam-govt-decides-to-upgrade-dehing-patkai-wildlife-sanctuary-to-a-national-park/story-UzKY10dX7n0Il5A69sszSJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Bengal’s serial killer - Chain man - sentenced to death in rape and murder case||A 38-year-old serial killer, who had murdered at least nine women and raped two of the victims, was sentenced to death in a rape and murder case by a district court in south Bengal’s East Burdwan district on Monday, police said.“The accused Kamruzzaman Sarkar was sentenced to death by the additional district and session’s judge court for raping and murdering a 16-year-old girl in May 2019. He was arrested on June 2, 2019,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, superintendent of police of East Burdwan district. He has been charged in 15 cases in two districts – East Burdwan and Hooghly. There were two were rape and murder cases, seven murder cases and six attempt to murder cases. The victims were aged between 16 and 75 years.In some cases he was charged with sections related to robbery as he had robbed the victims. All the crimes took place between 2013 and 2019 till he was arrested.“The court observed that it was one of the rarest of the rare cases. I stressed on maximum punishment as the man had hit the minor helpless girl on her forehead and then tried to strangulate her and raped her. Nothing can be more heinous than this,” said Soumyajit Raha, special public prosecutor of the case. The survivors told the police that the accused entered their houses posing an official of the electricity department to take meter readings. In most cases he would strangulate his victims with a metal chain. These common links had earned him the notorious tags of ‘chain man’ and ‘meter man’ in the two districts. “He chose his prey carefully and usually struck in the afternoons, when the men of the houses were away at work. He would conduct a recce for two-three days to find out whether the woman he wanted to target was alone at home,” said MukherjeeOriginally hailing from Murshidabad district, Sarar used to stay with his wife, two sons and a daughter in East Burdwan. He used to deal with scrap metal, police said.Interrogation had revealed that Sarkar’s downfall was brought on by his superstition. Police said his astrologer had told him that red was his lucky colour, so he had stuck to a red motorbike and red helmet even after some of his targets escaped alive.“On June 1 last year, the police shared all clues that they could gather to civic volunteers who help cops in traffic management. The breakthrough came the next day,” said a police official. Two civic volunteers Anirban Ghosh, 28, and Khokon Santra, 30, had flagged down a red motorcycle and was noting down the number when another man on another red motorbike tried to speed past the barricade, lost his balance, and fell. It was Sarkar.Born in a lower middle-class family in Bengal’s Murshidabad district in 1982 as the fourth of nine siblings, Sarkar lost his mother at the age of 13. His father married soon after, and following a few months of trouble, Sarkar dropped out of the local madrasa and left home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-serial-killer-chain-man-sentenced-to-death-in-rape-and-murder-case/story-BCm7uY7ILh6SEXfpXNEozO.html
06-07-2020||India||HC hears case in open court instead video conferencing, grants custody of child to mother||Bhopal: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh (MP) high court (HC) held a hearing in an open court in a child custody case to gauge the child’s willingness and overruled a lower court’s verdict of granting custody of the three-year-old to his father after getting a first-hand feel of his love for his mother.Though courts across the country have been holding virtual hearing via video-conference links amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the HC bench made an exception in a bid to fathom the child’s love for his mother.The mother, a resident of Ujjain district, had filed a petition on January 14 in the HC, challenging the Mandsaur district family court’s order on January 6 that had granted the child’s custody to his father under The Hindu Minority & Guardianship Act, 1956. The hearing on the petition was delayed due to the prevailing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.A hearing was held on June 25, when the court had directed the father to ensure the presence of the child in the court on July 1.The HC bench upheld the woman’s plea and said that she was from a well-off family and she was able to maintain herself “and it is nobody’s case that the wife doesn’t have an income to look after the child”.It granted the custody of the child to his mother, and ordered her to allow the father to meet the infant on every alternate Saturday of a month at Mandsaur.It also directed that the trial court is free to pass a final order and must not be influenced by its own order on January 6 and also the one passed by the HC on July1.RR Bhatnagar, the woman’s counsel, said: “It’s a unique case, when the court decided to hear the plea in an open court, a departure from the usual practice of hearing through a video-conferencing link because of the viral outbreak. All of us had taken adequate precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms. However, the moment my client removed her mask, the child rushed towards her and came to her lap. The family court, which is hearing the divorce suit filed by the child’s father, will take a final decision on the infant’s custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-hears-case-in-open-court-instead-video-conferencing-grants-custody-of-child-to-mother/story-qemG7HttWT8DlIOUIJnnPL.html
06-07-2020||India||With 3,827 new Covid-19 cases, 61 deaths, Tamil Nadu retains 2nd worst-hit state tag||Tamil Nadu’s coronavirus curve continued to rise steeply on Monday with the state reporting 3,827 new Covid-19 positive cases and 61 deaths from the viral infection, the state health department said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu is now at a staggering 1,14,978.With the 61 fresh fatalities, the southern state’s death toll has now mounted to 1,571.There are at least 46,833 active cases in the state with capital city Chennai having a high concentration of coronavirus patients.ALSO READ | Deadline of Aug 15 for Covid-19 vaccine unrealistic: Indian Academy of SciencesA day earlier, on Sunday, Tamil Nadu had reported over 4,000 fresh cases for the fourth straight day, taking the tally to 1,11,151. At least 60 people had succumbed to the virus on Sunday.A ruling AIADMK lawmaker from Coimbatore had tested positive for the virus, pushing the number of legislators from the state to have contracted the infection to nine.Patients who recovered from the infectious disease climbed to 62,778 with 2,186 people being discharged after treatment from various health care facilities in the last 24 hours.ALSO READ | ‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of HealthChennai, which has been recording the biggest surge among the 37 districts in the state, saw a dip in new infections over the weekend, reporting 1,713 cases on Sunday as against the earlier 1,842 on Saturday.Besides Chennai, neighboring Chengalpattu reported 274 new cases, Kancheepuram 152, Tiruvallur 209, Tiruvannamalai 141, Vellore 179 and Villpuram 109 new cases.Temple town Madurai also recorded a surge of 308 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.A record single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally close to the 7-lakh mark on Monday morning, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 19,693 with 425 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry.With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the fourth consecutive day. India crossed Russia on Sunday to become the third worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The United States and Brazil are ahead of India in terms of the total number of coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-827-new-covid-19-cases-61-deaths-tamil-nadu-retains-2nd-worst-hit-state-tag/story-GxaAUNJF5EbPKxgLvkqLdJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Kuwait approves draft law on expat quota; move may reduce strength of Indian community by up to 700,000||A Kuwaiti parliamentary committee has approved a draft law to set a quota system for expatriates that, if it is passed by the National Assembly, could reduce the strength of the Indian community in the West Asian country by up to 700,000.The legal and legislative committee of Kuwait’s National Assembly decided on July 2 that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and laws. The panel also decided to refer the bill to another committee that will study all legislation related to expatriates with the aim of cutting their numbers, Kuwait Times reported.According to the Indian embassy’s website, Kuwait is currently home to 920,000 Indians. The draft bill proposes the number of Indians – the largest foreign community in Kuwait – must not exceed 15% of the population of Kuwaitis, currently at 1.45 million. If the bill is enacted, a little more than 700,000 Indians will have to leave the country.The bill has come at a time when the Kuwaiti government is grappling with a serious downturn in its economy due to the reduced demand for oil amid the Covid-19 crisis and a growing clamour among parliamentarians for reducing the number of expatriates.During a meeting with editors of local newspapers on June 3, Kuwait’s Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Khaled al-Hamad al-Sabah said the country is facing a “big challenge” in addressing the population structure, with Kuwaitis making up only 30% of the total population of 4.8 million.“The ideal population structure is to have Kuwaitis being 70% and non-Kuwaitis 30%, so we have a big challenge in the future which is to address the discrepancy in population,” he was quoted as saying by state-run Kuna news agency.The issue should be handled in phases till Kuwait reaches a “final adjustment to the population in future”, he said, adding the government is keen on cooperating with Parliament on this issue.The developments are being closely followed by the external affairs ministry, though people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the draft law has so far only been cleared by a parliamentary panel. Moreover, they pointed out the bill was proposed by only five MPs.The total strength of Kuwait’s National Assembly is 65, including 50 directly elected members.Kuwait Times reported that hundreds of thousands of Indians leaving the country, if the bill is approved, would be “an impossible task by all means”.Another report in the Kuwait Times quoted interior minister Anas Al-Saleh as saying that a separate draft law on amending the residency law will be submitted to the National Assembly within two weeks as Parliament prepares to complete legislation to reduce the number of expatriates within a few months.This draft law calls for Kuwait to benefit from neighbouring and advanced countries with the aim of encouraging only those expatriates who are needed in the country, he said.National Assembly speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanem also told Kuwait TV that he and a group of lawmakers will submit yet another draft law calling for a phased reduction of expatriates. He contended that 1.3 million of the 3.35 million expatriates “are either illiterate or can merely read and write”, and are not the type of people Kuwait needs. He also said 100,000 foreign workers are illiterate.Ghanem said the National Assembly intends to complete the population structure legislation before the end of its term in October.Experts questioned the viability of the move, noting that expatriate workers from India and other countries had played a major role in building the infrastructure and services of Kuwait.Former ambassador Talmiz Ahmad, who served extensively in West Asia, including in Kuwait, said the move appeared to be driven “more by emotions rather than good sense” following the economic crisis due to the pandemic.“These workers have gone on legal work contracts and with visas, which makes the state party to their recruitment. The workers went because there is a need for them. It is demeaning to describe these blue collar, semi-skilled and skilled workers as illiterate. These are the people who transformed Kuwait from a desert sheikhdom into a modern state,” he said.“It appears the move is driven more by the downturn, which is temporary. It is a pipe dream without any understanding of the ground realities.”The Indian population of 920,000 in Kuwait includes nearly 28,000 employed in the government sector and more than 426,000 in the private sector. Their annual remittances to India are about $4.8 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kuwait-approves-draft-law-on-expat-quota-move-may-reduce-strength-of-indian-community-by-up-to-700-000/story-oR0op42vIte6SxjOIyPYUL.html
06-07-2020||India||Hyderabad restaurants wait for customers month after restrictions were eased||It has been nearly a month since restrictions on opening of restaurants were lifted as part of Unlock 1 strategy for Covid-19 pandemic, but many eateries in Hyderabad are yet to attract customers as the sharp increase in the number of cases has kept people away from visiting outlets. A random check in some popular restaurants in the city has revealed that the footfall has been abysmally low and they are finding it difficult to recover even the maintenance cost.For instance, The Paradise Restaurant at Secunderabad, which is known for its authentic Hyderabadi Biryani and kebabs, is one of the worst-hit in the city. The jaunt is a hot favourite of every VIP visiting Hyderabad: from Rahul Gandhi to cricketer Sachin Tendulkar to celebrities from Bollywood and Tollywood.“During lunch and dinner hours, getting a seat was impossible because of the long queue of customers. The hotel staff used to give tokens to the customers asking them to wait for their turn. But now, the restaurant is struggling to lure customers, let alone VIPs,” said D Suresh D, a foodie who used to be a regular customer at the restaurant.The group, which has a chain of restaurants all over the city, is now operating a single centralised kitchen, from where biryanis and kebabs are transported to different branches depending on the customer flow.At one of its branches near Prasad’s Imax Multiplex, there were hardly five to six customers during the lunch hour. There were just two stewards taking the order and serving the biryani. “We just have biryani and a few chicken kebabs sir. Nothing more than that,” said one of the stewards.Same is the case with popular vegetarian restaurant chain Minerva Coffee Shop. One of its branches at Somajiguda circle, which is generally packed with customers right from the breakfast time till late night dinner, is also getting hardly 15-20 customers a day.Following the government order, these restaurants are strictly enforcing the Covid-19 norms, like thermal screening, using sanitisers, wearing masks, maintaining adequate gaps between the tables, no supply of tissue papers etc. “Yet, customers are scared to visit the restaurants. They are preferring take-aways rather than dine-in,” Prasad, manager of a restaurant in Punjagutta said.Mohammad Abdul Majeed, owner of another popular chain of restaurants Pista House, says the total footfall does not exceed 20-30 in his restaurants even at the software hubs of Madhapur and Kondapur. “We are running the show just for the sake of maintenance. We don’t know when we can get back to the normal business,” he said.He said if the same situation continues, it is certain that many of the restaurants would have to wind up their business and look for alternatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-restaurants-wait-for-customers-month-after-restrictions-were-eased/story-07w5BLt4x8ZGN1D3tc5iUI.html
06-07-2020||India||220 Assam police personnel test Covid-19 positive, 932 in quarantine||A total of 220 police personnel in Assam have tested positive for Covid-19 with 932 of them are in quarantine.Director General of Police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta informed on Monday that 171 of those found positive are still admitted at Covid care centres (CCCs) while 49 have recovered.“The number of Covid-19 cases in Assam has surged and it is only expected the police personnel who are involved in carrying out duties related to the pandemic and other law and order issues will also get infected,” he said while addressing a press conference.Mahanta informed all police personnel on Covid-19 duty to take necessary precautions. Four personnel from the DGP’s security ring had also tested positive recently following which he also undertook swab tests, results of which came negative.“We have evolved a system where we follow up each positive case regularly by talking to them about their well being and any other issue that they might have. A dedicated team also remains in touch with their families,” said Mahanta.He informed that police have registered 3,705 cases of lockdown violations since March 25, detained over 35,000 vehicles, arrested 4,777 persons and collected over Rs 4.57 crore during the period. They have also collected Rs 73.24 lakh as fines from people for not wearing masks.Since the lockdown began on March 25, the department has recovered 65 arms including AK-56 and AK-47 assault rifles, 1628 rounds of ammunition, 197 grenades, 3 bombs, 26 detonators and 2 kg explosives.Assam had recorded a total of 11,736 positive cases till date with 7433 recoveries and 14 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/220-assam-police-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-932-in-quarantine/story-M5VlysHiqQoFiqHPyZll5H.html
06-07-2020||India||Nepal ropes in Chinese telco to improve mobile connectivity in border villages||The KP Oli-led Nepal government, whose ties with India has strained of late because of a border dispute in Uttarakhand, will install fourth-generation (4G) mobile telephony services in two villages on the Indo-Nepal open border within three months with the help of a Chinese telecommunication company in a bid to improve connectivity in the remote region, a Nepalese government official said.Tek Singh Kunwar, assistant chief district officer (CDO) of Nepal’s Darchula district in the far western region, confirmed the bid to improve mobile telephony services in the border villages.Plans are afoot to provide 4G in Chhangru and Byas and 3G services in Tinkar villages in Darchula district, said KB Gurung, a Nepal Telecom official.“Mobile telephony services are being upgraded in the border villages, where connectivity is often an issue. Initial work started two weeks ago after officials did a feasibility study,” said KB Gurung, a Nepal Telecom (NT) official.“Work has started to improve the mobile telephony connectivity in three border villages. Though there were mobile towers equipped with 3G connectivity in Chhangru and Byas villages, Tinkar had none,” said Gurung, who was part of the NT team that conducted the feasibility study.“Chhangru and Vyas mobile subscribers can avail of 4G service soon. However, Tinkar will have the basic 3G service for now,” Gurung added.Indian intelligence officials said Nepal is taking the help of a Chinese telecom giant to roll-out 4G services in the two border villages, raising alarm bells about national security and sovereignty amid the border stand-off.In June, Nepal’s National Assembly, the Upper House of Nepalese Parliament, had unanimously passed a constituent amendment bill to update the Himalayan nation’s political and administrative map incorporating three Indian territories that fall in Uttarakhand while New Delhi’s objected to “untenable artificial enlargement” of Kathamandu’s territorial claims.Earlier, Nepal’s House of Representatives, the Lower House of Nepalese Parliament, had also endorsed the new political and administrative map, incorporating these three Indian territories. Gurung, however, downplayed the Chinese hand in the roll-out of 4G services. “We can’t say it’s all Chinese because the components are from various countries, including China,” he said.“It is the Nepalese authorities’ prerogative to opt for a Chinese company to upgrade their mobile telephony services in the border district,” said Amit Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dharchula, Pithoragarh district.In Dharchula, the district authorities are trying to overcome mobile telephony woes on the Indo-Nepal border areas. “We have provided 34 satellite phones to village heads in Dharchula to tackle the connectivity problem to some extent. However, the Centre’s permission is pending to instal permanent mobile towers in the area,” he added.Indian mobile phone users in Uttarakhand’s remote Pithoragarh district use the pre-paid subscriber identification module (SIM) cards of Nepalese service providers for better connectivity for an estimated monthly cost between Rs 150 and Rs 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-ropes-in-chinese-telco-to-improve-mobile-connectivity-in-border-villages/story-oHTqXJnVSH1j4TworLQL9K.html
06-07-2020||India||With PM Oli under fire, Nepal removes 2 new border outposts near Uttarakhand||The Nepal Sashastra Prahari (NSP) or Nepal Armed Police which was manning six new border outposts set up along border with India near Dharchula area of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district have withdrawn two of them a few days ago, state government officials said on Monday. The development has come amid reports of Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli coming under attack from his ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) for his anti-India posture. A standing committee of the NCP was also to hold a meeting to decide Oli’s future on Monday but was postponed till Wednesday. The six new border outposts were set up by Nepal about a month ago following a rift in relations with New Delhi after India inaugurated a strategically important road connecting the Lipulekh Pass with Dharchula town in Pithoragarh district.Since then, Oli’s government has claimed that Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas of Pithoragarh district were Nepalese territories. Nepal’s Parliament also passed a new map showing the three areas in it. Confirming the removal of the border posts, Anil Kumar Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate of Dharchula said, “The two border outposts manned by NSP were removed two days ago.”Shukla said, “We noticed it during a brief meeting with Nepalese authorities a few days ago at the check post. When we enquired about it, they said it was done on order of higher authorities.”Another official privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity, “The two outposts that were removed were located in Ukku and Bakra areas of their Darchula district near Indo-Nepal border.”“There are reports that three more newly set up Nepal border outposts would soon be removed, which is a major development,” he said. SDM Shukla said the high cost of maintaining the posts at remote areas could have been a factor in their removal.“It seems their move came after the purpose, for which the border outposts were set up, was not served,” he said.“They were largely set up amid the territorial dispute to check on illegal activities, if any, and the movement of Indian forces at the border. But, as illegal activities are mainly confined to drug trafficking or smuggling at a minor scale through this border, their purpose was not served. And on top of that, the cost of maintaining these posts with men at such a remote location was significantly high. Hence, they removed the two posts,” said Shukla. Experts on Indo-Nepal relations in Uttarakhand termed Nepal’s move a significant one amid the tension in bilateral ties. L L Verma, a retired professor of political science at Kumaon University and a close observer of Indo-Nepal ties said, “The removal of the outposts by Nepal signifies the change in its approach towards India amid tensions and PM Oli’s slipping grip in the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-pm-oli-under-fire-nepal-removes-2-new-border-outposts-near-uttarakhand/story-T7CjLPRju1u4mkSvdoBtZO.html
06-07-2020||India||Goa MLA at ‘lockdown party’ hours after CM’s ‘don’t visit’ appeal to people||A BJP MLA finds himself in a bit of a pickle after attending a “lockdown party”, on the very day chief minister Pramod Sawant asked people in the state to double down on social distancing and avoid celebrations.Pointed out that his own MLA was seen at a party, CM Sawant said: “I will enquire into it.”The offending video, circulated widely in Goa, shows a group of young men, including a BJP councillor Francisco Carvalho, enjoying a party and dancing. One person in the clip is heard saying “Special guest in the house… for the special party… lockdown party” as BJP MLA Glenn Souza Ticlo enters.The MLA, speaking on phone, can be seen shaking hands and waving to people. A mask is also seen around his face.Defending himself, MLA Ticlo said he only visited the location “for a few minutes” because he was called there by a close aide.“People are making a big issue out of this. I was there only for a few minutes because my man called me there. I respect social distancing norms,” Ticlo said.The party, held in a small hotel along the state’s coastal belt on Sunday, witnessed a gathering of around 35-40 people who were seen enjoying themselves and dancing to Bollywood numbers.BJP councillor Francisco Carvalho, present at the scene, said that the party was “permitted” and no wrong was done.On Sunday evening, CM Sawant had reiterated the importance of maintaining social distancing even among friends, neighbours and relatives.“Even in such times, people are being invited for birthdays, other functions. This has to stop. We are used to visiting people’s homes especially. Do not even visit your neighbours to inquire about their health,” Sawant had said on Sunday.“We should not hold parties. We should not also not call people home. You never know when asymptomatic persons can spread virus,” Sawant added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-mla-at-lockdown-party-hours-after-cm-s-don-t-visit-appeal-to-people/story-kH8CzYqe7WaeSvrwHhhIrM.html
06-07-2020||India||World Bank, government of India sign $750 mn agreement to support MSMEs amid Covid-19 crisis||The World Bank and the central government has signed an agreement worth $750 million to boost the flow of finance to micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) amid the Covid-19 crisis, the Ministry of Finance stated. The agreement is for the MSME Emergency Response Programme which will provide increased financial support to the MSMEs that have borne the impact of the coronavirus crisis in the past few months.  This just in! @WorldBank's latest $750 million support to help #India's #MSMEs. More on: https://t.co/Xf3F9SbtqJ pic.twitter.com/LK4eHS8Y8m“The World Bank’s MSME Emergency Response program will address the immediate liquidity and credit needs of some 1.5 million viable MSMEs to help them withstand the impact of the current shock and protect millions of jobs. This is the first step among a broader set of reforms that are needed to propel the MSME sector over time,” read a statement released by the World Bank. On the behalf on the Government of India, the agreement was signed by Sameer Kumar Khare, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Junaid Ahmad, Country Director, India on behalf of the World Bank.“This project will support the Government in providing targeted guarantees to incentivize NBFCs and banks to continue lending to viable MSMEs to help sustain them through the crisis,” Khare said.The international baning body, including its private sector arm – the International Finance Corporation (IFC), will support the government’s initiatives to protect the MSME sector by “unlocking liquidity, enabling financial innovations” and supporting “key market-oriented channels of credit such as the NBFCs and Small Finance Bank (SFBs),” the release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-government-of-india-sign-750-mn-agreement-to-support-msmes-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-CVF2bqnmRTtbhRrJ5fETlN.html
06-07-2020||India||India-China ties in complex situation, says Beijing after Doval-Wang icebreaker||China on Monday said the consensus reached with India to disengage troops at the border should be implemented as soon as possible, indicating cooling down of tension with India at the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China clashed earlier last month along the disputed border in Galwan Valley, resulting in death of 20 Indian soldiers and purported casualties of Chinese troops. Acknowledging that current bilateral ties were facing a “complex situation”, Beijing said both sides should adhere to the “to the strategic judgement that they do not pose a threat to each other…”.A statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry on a conversation between foreign minister, Wang Yi and India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval on Sunday said both New Delhi and Beijing welcome recent military and diplomatic talks to resolve the last month’s crisis at the border.Also read: Before PLA’s step back, a 2-hr video call between Doval and China’s WangWang was referring to the June 30 meeting – and two previous ones in June -- between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.ALSO WATCH | China pulls back from Galwan after Ajit Doval-Wang Li chat: The key details “The two sides welcome the progress made in the recent military and diplomatic meetings between the two countries, and agree to continue the dialogue and consultation and emphasise that the consensus reached at the level of the two border defence forces’ commanders should be implemented as soon as possible to complete the process of disengagement of the front-line forces of the two sides as soon as possible,’’ the statement in Mandarin released Monday evening read.China’s statement comes on the same afternoon India released its statement agreeing that both sides “should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously” and also “ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation” in the border areas.India, in its statement, also said that Wang and Doval re-affirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control, and that they should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas. This was the first contact between the Special Representatives since the border standoff between the two sides began in May. The two countries have held discussions through diplomatic and military channels, including the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.Also read | China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialHowever, China in its statement, also made it clear who Beijing thinks was responsible for the standoff in Galwan Valley and then the violence at the border.“What happened recently in the western part of the border between China and India in the Galwan Valley is very clear. China will continue to effectively defend its territorial sovereignty and maintain peace and tranquility in the border area,” said Wang, who is also state councillor told Doval, according to the statement. It referred to the existing mechanisms between the two countries to resolve the long-standing 3488 km boundary problem – currently the longest land border dispute in the world.“The two sides agreed to strengthen communication through the special representative meeting mechanism, the working mechanism for consultations and coordination on Sino-Indian border affairs, and constantly improve and strengthen confidence-building measures in border areas to avoid the recurrence of incidents affecting peace and tranquility in border areas,” the Chinese statement said, quoting Wang.The relationship between India and China is complex and both sides should work to reverse it, Wang said.“The two sides should always adhere to the strategic judgement that they do not pose a threat to each other and provide each other opportunities for development, attach great importance to the complex situation facing the current relationship between the two countries, and work together to overcome and reverse them as soon as possible,” the Chinese statement said.Wang’s statement emphasised the importance of guiding “public opinion and public will” on the ties between the two countries.“It is hoped that India and China will act in the same direction, correctly guide public opinion and public will, maintain and promote normal exchanges and cooperation between the two countries, avoid adopting practices that expand disputes, and jointly safeguard the overall situation of China-India relations,” the statement said.Unlike India, China is yet to release the PLA’s casualty figures it sustained during the June 15 brawl.A senior Chinese official had told foreign diplomats last month that one of the reasons Beijing hadn’t released official figures was because it did not want to stir sentiments.The other reason, the Chinese official said, was because the casualty numbers were low for the PLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-stand-off-china-says-ties-with-india-complex-situation-agrees-to-pull-back-troops/story-gy0cweRmuo8XsdFOGdsV3O.html
06-07-2020||India||Maharashtra allows hotels outside containment zones to operate from July 8||Further easing coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Maharashtra government on Monday decided to allow hotels and other entities providing accommodation services like lodges and guest houses outside containment zones to operate from July 8 at 33 per cent of their capacity.The government announced the decision through a notification here.The permission has been granted on conditions of these entities adhering to social distancing norms and other protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-allows-hotels-outside-containment-zones-to-operate-from-july-8/story-R8LLXShyLazcZBYP4yYgFP.html
06-07-2020||India||Telangana trails Andhra by a huge margin in numbers of Covid-19 tests||Despite the sharp rise in the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the last one month, Telangana has been lagging far behind neighbouring Andhra Pradesh in testing, tracing and treatment of the people affected with the virus.The Andhra Pradesh government has claimed to have crossed the one million mark in conducting tests, but Telangana has reported only one-tenth of it till now. By Monday morning, the total number of tests conducted in AP was 10,33,852, whereas only 1,15,835 tests were conducted in Telangana.“Right from the beginning, we have been aggressively implementing the three-pronged strategy of tracing, testing and treating to contain the spread and intensity of Covid-19. We have been trying to cover every household to ensure that no suspect is left untested,” Andhra Pradesh nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Arja Sreekanth said.He pointed out that Andhra had started its journey from zero labs for testing on March 6 and it now has 78 facilities, including government, private and TrueNat labs along with dedicated hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients.“While it took 59 days to complete the first one lakh tests for Covid-19, the state has consistently increased the testing capacity and completed the last three lakh tests in just 12 days,” he said.Stating that extensive testing has been the weapon in the battle against Covid-19, Sreekanth said the state government had made use of the services of village volunteers for community surveillance, monitoring the health condition of the people. So far, the state has reported 238 deaths and 20,009 Covid-19 positive cases.The tests per million population in Andhra Pradesh has reached 19,047 against the national average of 6,878 tests per million. With extensive testing and timely treatment, the mortality rate stands at 1.24 per cent which is much lower than the national average of 2.86 per cent.On the other hand, the rate of testing has been very low in Telangana from the beginning. In fact, the state medical and health department had been reluctant to disclose the total number of samples tested in the regular media bulletins for quite some time.It was on May 16, that the department disclosed, while presenting data analytics of testing based on gender and age distribution among the patients that a total of 23,388 samples were tested till then. It was exactly after a month– from June 16, that the department started sharing the details of testing.On June 16, it disclosed that as many as 44,431 samples were tested since the first case was reported in the state on March 1. So, between May 16 and June 16, only 21,043 tests were conducted in a span of 31 days – an average of just 678 tests per day.Between June 16 and till now, as many as 71,404 samples were tested in a span of 19 days – an average of 3,758 tests per day. This is basically because the Telangana government has stepped up testing and allowed private labs to test the samples, following the visit of central teams and a reprimand from the state high court.“We have taken up 50,000 rapid tests in Hyderabad and surrounding districts, besides allowing private laboratories for the first time. We are going by the ICMR guidelines for testing, instead of doing indiscriminate testing,” state medical and health director, G Srinivasa Rao said.Compared to 78 testing labs in Andhra including seven private labs, Telangana has only 36 testing labs including 22 private ones. However, the Telangana health department has noticed that the positive cases have been shooting up abnormally ever since the private labs have started testing.In the last one month, the number of positive cases for Covid-19 went up by over 19,000 – from 3,290 to 22,312. The number of deaths has also gone up from 113 to 288, an increase of 175 fatalities in one month.“Our expert teams have found a lot of discrepancies in the testing by certain private labs which has resulted in a high positivity rate. In one lab, it was as high as 71 per cent. We have served notices to 13 private labs seeking an explanation and asking them to rectify errors in testing,” Rao said.Health expert Somasekhar Mulugu, however, said the figures being furnished by the state government cannot be taken for granted and there had been several discrepancies between the bulletins and actual figures.“What is more important for the government is to create sufficient health infrastructure in state-run hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The existing infrastructure is grossly insufficient to tackle the increasing pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-trails-andhra-by-a-huge-margin-in-numbers-of-covid-19-tests/story-yhpdwAdvsF8Elb4yeRsZKI.html
06-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman constable allegedly commits suicide||A woman constable of Uttarakhand Police allegedly died by suicide at her government accommodation on Sunday night in Haridwar.The deceased constable was a resident of Dehradun district and was posted at Jharbeda police station in Haridwar a few months ago, said police.The constable had gone to her room after duty hours on Sunday. However, calls were on her mobile phone from the police station went unanswered. This raised the suspicion that something was amiss, said the police.“Her door was found locked from inside and her mobile phone, too, went unanswered. We had to break into her room, where we found her dead,” said Jhabreda Abhay Pratap Singh, circle officer, Jharbeda police station.Her body has been sent for an autopsy and her family members have been informed.“It’s not clear what made her take this drastic step,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-constable-allegedly-commits-suicide/story-6O6EgcywuYQImqwAeSP58M.html
06-07-2020||India||Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party preps to switch sides again ahead of Bihar elections||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) –(HAM-S), in all likelihood, may become a part of the NDA. If party sources are to be believed, an announcement in this regard will be made on July 10.The party, which contested the Lok Sabha elections as part of the Grand Alliance, had issued an ultimatum for formation of a coordination committee in the alliance by June 25, to start seat sharing talks.“Now that our deadline is over, the party core committee at a recently held meeting has authorized party president Jitan Ram Manjhi to take a call on the party’s future course of action. The core committee is meeting on July 10 and the picture will become clear after that,” party’s spokesperson Danish Rizwan said.HAM-S has one member each in the Bihar Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council.Sources in the party said that HAM-S becoming a part of the NDA is all but a formality. “The party has laid no pre-conditions on seats,” said a senior party leader, who wished not to be quoted.Party sources said that despite assurance of an early settlement on issues related to seat adjustment and demand for a co-ordination committee at a virtual meeting of Grand Alliance parties, there seems to be no urgency for bigger parties of the alliance,” Rizwan said.Manjhi had demanded a discussion on the forthcoming polls on issues of seat adjustment, candidates, etc., and had also demanded a co-ordination committee in the GA. “In case a co-ordination committee could not be formed by June 25, I will be free to take a call on my future course of action,” Manjhi had said.NDA leaders feel that if at all Manjhi joins the alliance; the JD (U) will use it to silence LJP, which of late has been embarrassing the government by raising different issues. “If somebody shows trust in NDA’s leadership and policy, we do not have any problem in anybody’s joining,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.Manjhi was with JD (U) before he was picked as chief minister in 2014. He, however, had to resign a year later, as he lost the trust of his own party and went on to form a new party.The RJD does not seem rattled by Manjhi’s ultimatum. Instead, it accused him of weakening the alliance. “RJD is the biggest party in the GA and allies should remain united to defeat the ruling NDA in the forthcoming polls,” he said. In fact, leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, had said on Sunday that “everybody should be ready for a bigger sacrifice,” in an oblique reference to pressure politics by some partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-s-assembly-polls-jitan-ram-manjhi-s-ham-s-likely-to-join-nda/story-g8VAzGl8jwmhcLo6fmT9CJ.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Govt making all efforts to increase ICU beds in Delhi hospitals’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the administration is making all efforts to increase ICU beds amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal’s comments came after he visited Rajiv Gandhi Hospital and reviewed the Covid-19 preparedness at the facility. “We are increasing ICU capacity today from 45 beds to 200 beds for Corona treatment,” the chief minister tweeted. He also stated that ICU beds at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital have been increased to 180 and 200 respectively from 60 and 45. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal urged Covid-19 patients to donate blood plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease. Also read: ‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’ - Ministry of HealthTill a few days back, LNJP had 60 ICU beds and Rajiv Gandhi hospital had 45 ICU beds. They have been increased to 180 and 200 respectively. After making sufficient arrangements for COVID hospital beds, Govt is now making all efforts to increase ICU beds.“I request recovered coronavirus patients to come forward and donate their plasma in large numbers,” he said.During a virtual address on Monday, Kejriwal said that there has been a major spike in demand for plasma over the past 4-5 days, after the opening of the country’s first plasma bank in Delhi.“I also appeal to all hospitals to counsel their Covid-19 patients for five minutes to donate their plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease,” he said.Covid-19 patients in the national capital near the one lakh-mark with the tally touching 99,444. Delhi’s coronavirus death toll stands at 3,067 while 71,339 people have recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-making-all-efforts-to-increase-icu-beds-in-delhi-hospitals-kejriwal/story-I6mGdNCzjR9Fs0tf6xw37O.html
06-07-2020||India||Mylan to launch generic version of Covid-19 treatment drug remdesivir in India this month||Drugmaker Mylan said on Monday it would launch its generic version of Gilead Sciences Inc’s Covid-19 treatment remdesivir in India this month at 4,800 rupees ($64.31) per 100 mg vial, as infections surge in the world’s third worst-hit country.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Mylan’s remdesivir version, to be called Desrem, for the treatment of suspected or laboratory confirmed severe incidences of Covid-19 in adults and children, the company said in a statement.Mylan’s version comes after two Indian drugmakers, Cipla Ltd and privately-held Hetero Labs Ltd, launched their generic versions of the drug.Cipla will price its version, Cipremi, at less than 5,000 rupees, while Hetero has priced its version, Covifor, at 5,400 rupees.Gilead has priced remdesivir at $2,340 per patient for wealthier nations. It has agreed to send nearly all of its supply of the drug to the United States over the next three months, stirring concerns about availability elsewhere. Remdesivir is in high demand after the intravenously-administered medicine helped to shorten hospital recovery times in a clinical trial. On Friday, it got conditional approval from the European Commission for use in severe Covid-19 patients. Mylan said it was working toward expanding emergency use access for patients in the 127 low- and middle-income countries where it is licensed by Gilead Sciences to do so.Gilead has signed licensing agreements with India’s Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd , Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd , Syngene International Ltd and Zydus Cadila, listed as Cadila Healthcare Ltd , to make and sell remdesivir.Cases of the novel coronavirus in India stood at 697,413 on Monday, health ministry data showed, while the death toll stood at nearly 20,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-treatment-drug-remdesivir-s-generic-version-to-be-launched-in-india-this-month/story-3lO9WyDlmz5UuFhwJtFRBO.html
06-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: India’s Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 6.37 percent, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of HealthThe national positivity rate of Covid-19 - the average rate of samples testing positive for the coronavirus disease across the country - stands at 6.73 percent, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated on Monday.The ministry added that the central government had emphasized increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases.Read more. LAC stand off: India, China agree to expeditiously complete disengagementIndia and China have agreed to expeditiously complete the disengagement of their border troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not to take any unilateral action to alter the status quo along the disputed border, the external affairs ministry said on Monday.Read more. NIA files charge sheet against J-K rogue cop Davinder SinghThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a charge sheet against suspended deputy superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh for his association with terrorist groups in Kashmir valley, officials said Monday. Singh was arrested in January this year for providing safe passage to terrorists Naveed Babu, Rafi Ahmed Rather and Irfan Shafi Mir.Read more. Massacre of cops in Kanpur exposes ‘encounter specialist’ UP govt: Shiv SenaThe Shiv Sena on Monday targeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over the killings of eight police personnel by henchmen of notorious gangster Vikas Dubey last week and warned that he should not become ‘Dawood (Ibrahim) of Nepal’ for India.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput death: Bhansali records statement with Mumbai copsBollywood filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali reached Bandra police station on Monday around noon to record his statement in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. On June 14, Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment following which a probe was ordered to ascertain the cause of his death by suicide.Read more. Watch: Heavy rains wreak havoc in Gujarat, flood like situation in some areasSeveral parts of Gujarat have witnessed heavy rainfall in the past 24 hours. Roads were waterlogged in several areas such as Porbandar. Flood like situation prevailed in parts of Dwarka and the highway from Somnath to Una was also closed due to heavy rainfall. Water level in the Shetrunji river also increased. The IMD has predicted rainfall for the next 4 days in the area. Watch the full video for all the details.‘Virat Kohli could never be the cool ice man like MS Dhoni’: Nasser Hussain on how India captain is different from MSDFormer England captain Nasser Hussain has lauded Virat Kohli for making his own mark in captaincy and not following his predecessor MS Dhoni’s style of leadership. Kohli followed Dhoni to become India’s Test captain in 2015 and ODI skipper in 2017 and while he could have chosen to lead India the way Dhoni did, Hussain credited Kohli for developing his unique leadership skills.Read more. Got an SMS to download TikTok Pro? Don’t do it, it’s a scamThe government recently banned 59 China-based apps in India for posing a threat to the country’s security. The list of the banned apps includes TikTok, which prior to the ban had amassed nearly 200 million users in India. The ban has led to an increase in the popularity of the app’s India-based alternative. It has also led to a rise in TikTok-based scams.Read more. Tweeple are really relating to this tweet about being an adult. How about you?The tweet has been shared on the ‘Life at Tiffany’s’ Twitter handle. She wrote, “A thing I never realized about being an adult is that you will always be cleaning your kitchen. No matter if you get take out, no matter if you’re gone all day, you will be cleaning. the. kitchen.”Read more. Sushant’s Dil Bechara trailer lands and we can’t stop our tearsSushant Singh Rajput is back on screen one last time as Dil Bechara trailer came out on Monday. The experience was always going to be poignant, more so given the theme of the Mukesh Chhabra’s film. The official remake of Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort’s The Fault In Our Stars, Dil Bechara casts Sushant and debutante Sanjana Sanghi as two youngsters battling cancer with a stoic aplomb.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-india-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-stands-at-6-37-percent-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IaoJSvvK19O0MiDKpV3ZNL.html
06-07-2020||India||NIA files charge sheet against J-K rogue cop Davinder Singh, 5 others||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a charge sheet against suspended deputy superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh for his association with terrorist groups in Kashmir valley, officials said Monday.The charge sheet which also names five others including Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmad Rather, Irfan Shafi Mir, Tanveer Ahmad Wani, a former trader on the LoC and Syed Irfan Ahmad (brother of Naveed Babu) was filed in a NIA Special Court in Jammu, the agency said in a statement.The charge sheet was filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the Explosive Substances Act..“The investigation has revealed that accused were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy hatched by the Pakistan-based terrorist organization Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Pakistani State Agencies to commit violent acts and to wage war against the Union of India,” the NIA statement said.Singh was arrested in January this year for providing safe passage to terrorists Naveed Babu, Rafi Ahmed Rather and Irfan Shafi Mir.“Accused Devender Singh was also in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information,” the NIA said.It also said that in February 2019, in order to shield Hizbul Mujahideen Syed Naveed Mushtaq from the heightened surveillance of security agencies, Devender Singh along with Irfan Shafi Mir and Syed Irfan Ahmad, arranged safe shelter for him and his associate in Jammu.” Accused Devender Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of HM terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons,” the NIA said.Earlier last month, a Delhi court had granted bail to Davinder Singh after the Delhi police failed to file charge sheet against him during the statutory period of 90 days in a conspiracy case.The Delhi police’s special cell (anti terror unit) had filed a case against Singh, for alleged criminal conspiracy and activities against the interest of the country.Despite the bail, Singh has remained in jail in the case being probed by the NIA following his arrest while ferrying Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu highway in January.Singh’s bail in the conspiracy case drew fire from the opposition. The NIA had then tweeted that the investigation was in full swing and that the agency would file a charge sheet against Davinder Singh and other accused persons in the first week of July.The police officer who is suspected to have turned rogue, was arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, or UAPA, the anti-terror law.The J-K Police had seized an AK-47 assault rifle, three pistols, five hand grenades, 174 rounds of AK-47 and 36 rounds of pistol ammunition and other incriminating material from his carThe NIA later took over the case from the Jammu and Kashmir Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-j-k-rogue-cop-davinder-singh/story-sjs8FvWOpjeK8eBgv7x0dJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand can’t radio collar this elephant, points to its ‘size’||The Uttarakhand forest department and researchers from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) have come across a ‘giant’ elephant near Haridwar in Rajaji landscape recently which they say is so huge they can’t radio collar it. They said it is one of the biggest elephants they have come across in the Himalayan state, where the elephant population has crossed the 2000 mark, according to the elephant census released a few days back.Bivash Pandav, a senior scientist from WII, who is heading the identification and selection process, confirmed that this was one of the largest animals found in the particular landscape.“This elephant is likely to be one of the largest animals in the area around Haridwar forest division, where it primarily roams around and goes up to Uttar Pradesh. We have also seen it in the eastern part of Rajaji Tiger Reserve occasionally. It moves in the human-dominated area, except crop-raiding it has not attacked anyone,” said Pandav.He added that this adult male elephant, approximately around 50 years of age, “roams around solitary and does not stay with the herd.”The forest officials came across the jumbo while identifying elephants that need to be radio-collared ahead of Maha Kumbh 2021. The elephant is a suspected ‘problem elephant’ which ventures alone in the forests.“There are many bulls (male elephants) roaming in the area and he is one of them. It would be difficult to radio-collar this elephant given its size as it is one of the largest elephants we have come across. We are still identifying problematic elephants which venture into human habitations that will be radio-collared for monitoring to ensure they don’t come into conflict with pilgrims during Maha Kumbh 2021. We have roughly identified around nine bulls who frequently use that area (where Maha Kumbh will take place),” added Pandav.The researchers are trying to find out where the elephants spend time during the day so that a plan on tranquilising and radio-collaring them can be formulated. The elephants usually come out at night, when radio-collaring the animal is difficult.Dr Aditi Sharma, senior veterinarian of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, said, “This elephant is most likely a full-grown nine feet animal. Usually, dominant male elephants found in this region grow eight feet, but this particular elephant is most likely around nine feet given its physical features.”Uttarakhand forest department authorities with the WII are working on radio-collaring some of the elephants prone to straying into human habitations in a bid to prevent attacks on pilgrims, who are expected to congregate in Haridwar for the next year’s Mahakumbh.The state government is waiting for approval from the Central government before putting into motion the radio collar exercise. State forest department officials said elephants usually venture into areas, where tents are set up for the Mahakumbh pilgrims.Tedhipuliya and Shyampur regions, near Haridwar, are found to be some of the areas most prone to man-elephant conflict, forest officials said. “Those elephants, which stray into human habitations, will be radio-collared. We’ll get a sense of their movement pattern after they’re radio-collared and work out a mechanism to prevent man-animal conflicts,” Sharma said.The forest officials had started their preparations since last November, when man-animal conflict hotspots were identified and geo-tagged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-officials-can-t-radio-collar-this-elephant-point-to-its-size/story-sfQP3SBFwSykzu8BhboomI.html
06-07-2020||India||‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of Health||The national positivity rate of Covid-19 - the average rate of samples testing positive for the coronavirus disease across the country - stands at 6.73 percent, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated on Monday. The ministry added that the central government had emphasized increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases.The ministry said that with the help of effort undertaken by the central government, a big jump in Covid-19 testing in Delhi has been achieved while the positivity rate has gone down. The rate of positivity is an important marker in assessing the trend of an outbreak. According to Johns Hopkins University, the rate can provide insights into whether a community is conducting enough tests. Also read: Deadline of Aug 15 for Covid-19 vaccine unrealistic - Indian Academy of Sciences Union Government has emphasized on increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of the COVID19 cases. The national Positivity Rate stands at 6.73% : Ministry of Health and Family Welfare“If a community’s positivity is high, it suggests that that community may largely be testing the sickest patients and possibly missing milder or asymptomatic cases,” it says. A lower positivity rate, on the other hand, may indicate testing of patients with milder or no symptoms. “The WHO has said that in countries that have conducted extensive testing for Covid-19, should remain at 5% or lower for at least 14 days,” it states. India overtook Russia on Sunday as the third-worst affected country with Covid-19. India’s Covid-19 death toll stands at 196,93 while the tally now nears 7 lakh with a total of 697,413 cases. More than 60% of people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country with 424,432 patients recovering or getting discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-stands-at-6-37-percent-ministry-of-health/story-yrI4LUeuRHwvswMpaUB7OO.html
06-07-2020||India||No unilateral change to status quo, agree India-China: 10 points||The Chinese army on Monday begun falling back in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, which last month saw the worst flare-up of violence in four decades.Behind this development is a video call between National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi. During the call, they had a frank discussion on the recent developments, people familiar with the matter said.Here are the latest developments in the India-China border face-off:1. Both NSA Doval and minister Wang agreed that both sides should maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas as it is essential for further development of bilateral relations between India and China, top government officials said. They also agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) expeditiously, the officials added.2. During the discussions, both the Special Representatives on the boundary issue re-affirmed that India and China should strictly respect and observe the LAC and not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo, an external affairs ministry statement issued later said.3. It was also agreed upon that the diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions, the statement said.4. The disengagement came six days after commander-level talks took place (on June 30) to cool the situation in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley area.5. China on Monday said “progress” had been made between the two militaries, and that the two sides will continue to work to implement the consensus reached at the two previous rounds of talks.6. The Chinese troops agreed to move back in the Galwan Valley on Monday. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site, people familiar with developments said.7. “Disengagement with the PLA has started as per agreed terms in the Corps Commander’s meeting. The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point 14,” said a person aware of the developments.8. The Chinese foreign ministry on July 1 had welcomed the June 30 military-level talks.9. During the talks, th military commanders had agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority”.10. There have been several rounds of talks between top Chinese and Indian army commanders in the Ladakh region since 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops were killed on June 15 in their worst clash in 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-unilateral-change-to-status-quo-agree-india-china-10-points/story-jdFyPov3xTM67bVbJgomVI.html
06-07-2020||India||NSA Ajit Doval talks to China’s Wang Yi, troops pulled back along LAC: Read full statement here||A day before China and India took first step indicating truce on Monday at the site of clash in Galwan Valley, India’s national security advisor Ajit Doval had a telephonic conversation with China’s minister of foreign affairs Wang Yi. India and China reached an agreement during the conversation to expeditiously complete the disengagement of their border troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China initiated talks focussing on expeditious de-escalation last week, days after India’s demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points along the LAC. India had also sought the restoration of status quo ante in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.Here is the full statement released by Ministry of External Affairs on NSA Doval’s conversation with China’s Wang:1. The Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question - Shri Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor of India and H.E. Mr. Wang Yi, State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs of China had a telephone conversation on 5th July 2020. The two Special Representatives had a frank and in-depth exchange of views on the recent developments in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas.2.The two Special Representatives agreed that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas was essential for the further development of our bilateral relations and that two sides should not allow differences to become disputes. Therefore, they agreed that it was necessary to ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity. In this regard they further agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously. The two sides should also ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation in the India-China border areas. They re-affirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas.3.The two Special Representatives agreed that the diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions, including under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC), and implement the understandings reached in a timely manner to achieve the above outcomes. It was also agreed that the two Special Representatives will continue their conversations to ensure full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-ajit-doval-talks-to-china-s-wang-yi-troops-pulled-back-along-lac-full-text/story-WZ2c3lnSrYs4pz9SX5u5xI.html
06-07-2020||India||Deadline of Aug 15 for Covid-19 vaccine unrealistic: Indian Academy of Sciences||The Bengaluru-based Indian Academy of Sciences has said that the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) aim to launch a vaccine for the coronavirus infection by August 15 is simply “unfeasible” as well as “unrealistic”.Admitting that there is a crucial and urgent need for a vaccine to curb the spread of the disease, the body of scientists said that development of a vaccine for use on human beings needs scientifically done clinical trials conducted in a staggered manner.“Administrative approvals can be expedited, but the “scientific processes of experimentation and data collection have a natural time span that cannot be hastened without compromising standards of scientific rigour,” the IASc said in a statement on Monday.ALSO READ | India races to release first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15It also referred to the ICMR’s letter which states that “it is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15th, 2020 after completion of all clinical trials”.The Indian Council for Medical Research in collaboration with Bharat Biotech India Limited, a private pharma company, is jointly developing a vaccine against the coronavirus or Covid-19. A target of August 15 has been set by the ICMR for the launch of the vaccine in the countryThough the scientists’ body has welcomed the development of a candidate vaccine, it feels that the idea is “unrealistic”, the statement said.ALSO READ | August 15 deadline for Covid-19 vaccine has dented ICMR’s credibility: Experts“However, as a body of scientists – including many who are engaged in vaccine development – IASc strongly believes that the announced timeline is unfeasible. This timeline has raised unrealistic hopes and expectations in the minds of our people,” the statement read.Looking at launching an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15, the ICMR had written to select medical institutions and facilities to fast-track clinical trial approvals for the vaccine candidate.Health experts too have cautioned against hastening the process for developing a Covid-19 vaccine and stressed that it is not in keeping with globally accepted norms to fast-track vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential.The IASc said trials for a vaccine involve evaluation of safety (Phase 1 trial), efficacy and side effects at different dose levels (Phase 2 trial), and confirmation of safety and efficacy in thousands of healthy people (Phase 3 trial) before its release for public use.Clinical trials for a candidate vaccine require participation of healthy human volunteers. So, many ethical and regulatory approvals need to be obtained prior to starting the trials, it added.The IASc cautioned the immune responses usually take several weeks to develop and relevant data should not be collected earlier.“Moreover, data collected in one phase must be adequately analyzed before the next phase can be initiated. If the data of any phase is unacceptable then the clinical trial is required to be immediately aborted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-of-aug-15-for-covid-19-vaccine-unrealistic-says-indian-academy-of-sciences/story-WXfhr5WNj0wEICyTJP7qFI.html
06-07-2020||India||LAC stand-off: India, China agree to expeditiously complete disengagement of troops, says MEA||India and China have agreed to expeditiously complete the disengagement of their border troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and not to take any unilateral action to alter the status quo along the disputed border, the external affairs ministry said on Monday.The agreement was reached during a phone conversation between the Special Representatives of the two sides on the boundary issue, India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi, on Sunday, the ministry said in a statement.This was the first contact between the Special Representatives since the border standoff between the two sides began in May. The two countries have held discussions through diplomatic and military channels, including the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.Also read | NSA Ajit Doval talks to China’s Wang Yi, troops pulled back along LAC: Read full statement hereThe statement was issued against the backdrop of reports that troops from both sides had pulled back in a limited manner at several key points in the Ladakh sector.The Special Representatives agreed it was necessary to “ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity”, the Indian readout said.They agreed that both sides “should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously” and also “ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation” in the border areas.“They reaffirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas,” the statement said.Also read | China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialDoval and Wang, who had last met in New Delhi on December 21, had what was described as a “frank and in-depth exchange of views” on recent developments in the western sector of the India-China border areas, or Ladakh, which has been the focus of tensions that have taken bilateral relations to a fresh low.The two sides had deployed additional forces at several key stretches of the LAC after Chinese troops trespassed across the disputed border and hindered patrolling by Indian troops. A violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15 had left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties.The Special Representatives agreed that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of leaders of India and China that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is essential for further development of bilateral relations and that the “two sides should not allow differences to become disputes”.They further agreed that diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions, including under the framework of the WMCC, and implement understandings reached in a timely manner to achieve the disengagement and de-escalation.The Special Representatives also agreed to continue their conversations to “ensure full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-stand-off-india-china-agree-to-expeditiously-complete-disengagement-of-troops-says-mea/story-KyCJSrxruVsynMrJUgAIIO.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Himachal Pradesh first state where cent percent households have LPG gas connections’: CM Thakur||Himachal Pradesh has become the first state in the country to have cent percent households with LPG gas connections, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. “Today, Himachal is the first state in the country where every family has a gas connection. Women have got the most relief because of this scheme. The work that women used to do in smoke on the stove is easily done with the help of gas connections,” Thakur tweeted.Thakur’s comments after his virtual interaction with the beneficiaries of Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana on Monday. आज हमने "हिमाचल गृहणी सुविधा योजना" के लाभार्थियों से वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के माध्यम से संवाद किया । हर्ष का विषय है कि इस महत्वाकांक्षी योजना की वजह से हिमाचल प्रदेश के उन लाखों परिवारों को राहत मिली है जिनके घर गैस कनेक्शन नही था।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/MEPVeXju3vToday we interacted with the beneficiaries of ‘Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana’ through video conferencing. It is a matter of joy that due to this ambitious scheme, lakhs of families of Himachal Pradesh who have no gas connection have benefitted,” the chief minister posted.Last month, CM Thakur said that over 1.36 lakh women across the state were provided free gas connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna besides three free gas cylinders during Covid-19 pandemic.  आज हमने "हिमाचल गृहणी सुविधा योजना" के लाभार्थियों से वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंसिंग के माध्यम से संवाद किया । हर्ष का विषय है कि इस महत्वाकांक्षी योजना की वजह से हिमाचल प्रदेश के उन लाखों परिवारों को राहत मिली है जिनके घर गैस कनेक्शन नही था।#शिखरकीओरहिमाचल pic.twitter.com/MEPVeXju3v“Besides, over 1.12 lakh beneficiaries were benefitted under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana by giving them two installments of ₹ 500 each. The Union government also deposited ₹500 each for three months from April to June, into the accounts of 5.90 lakh women under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna,” Thakur said last month while addressing a virtual rally of office bearers and workers of Hamirpur parliamentary constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-first-state-where-cent-percent-households-have-lpg-gas-connections-cm-thakur/story-KP2Rtj7hzJSUGi5ehzNiwL.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Integrity doubtful’: Officer killed in Kanpur had warned about fellow policeman||One of the policemen killed in Bikru village in rural Kanpur had alerted his senior that station officer of Chaubeypur police station Vinay Tiwari was saving gangster Vikas Dubey, the man behind the brutal killing of eight cops.Circle Officer Devendra Mishra, who was killed along with seven of his men, had sent a special report on March 14 this year to then Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) which said that Twari’s inaction could lead to something major.Almost prophetic Mishra mentioned in the report, which is in possession of HT, that Tiwari’s integrity was doubtful, and he was sympathetic to the gangster. Mishra also said that Tiwari tries to save Dubey. Officials now admit in private that Mishra was regularly complaining about Tiwari to then SSP.The officials said Mishra asked for preliminary enquiry (PE) against Tiwari eight times; he sent the special report the ninth time based on his findings. Questions are now being asked as to why the then SSP did not act against Tiwari or initiate tough action against Dubey whom Mishra described as “one of most hardened criminals”.ADG Kanpur Jai Narayan Singh said that the report has been brought to his knowledge and he has asked for all the documents for examination. “If the report is true it is damning,” he said.The special report was sent on basis of Mishra’s review of a case lodged against Dubey this year under Section 386 (extortion), and other sections pertaining to threat, intimidation and violence. Mishra mentioned in the report that there were 150 criminal cases of heinous nature registered against the gangster. “He (Dubey) killed a man in Shivli police station, I had instructed SO Chaubeypur to initiate strict action against such a hardened criminal. I have already spoken you (SSP) about the criminal and the case,” he said in the report.During the review, Mishra outlined that the investigating officer of case, Azhar Ishrat, had dropped Section 386 and mentioned in his report that the case pertained to an old rivalry. While Mishra said he had communicated the lapse and asked for action, Ishrat told him that Tiwari had told him to do so.In such a scenario, the integrity of the SO was clearly doubtful, he said, adding that he had learnt from other mediums that Tiwari is in regular touch with Dubey. “If SO Chaubeypur doesn’t mend his ways a major happening could take place. As for getting the Section 386 dropped I recommend action against SO Chaubeypur,” he said in the report.The Chaubeypur SO, for the record, was beaten up by Dubey a day before the killing of the policemen when he went to Bikru with Rahul Tiwari who had filed a complaint of attempt to murder against the dreaded criminal. He hid the incident from his superiors and did not register Rahul’s case, which eventually was lodged following intervention of Mishra, the investigation has revealed.Tiwari is currently under investigation and has been suspended.Mishra had also unearthed a gambling den last month in Chaubeypur with SHO Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav, who was among those killed on Thursday. And in his report sent to then SSP, he had mentioned it was being run under Tiwari’s patronage. Officials admit that Tiwari and Mishra had extremely strained working ties and the latter was closely monitoring the Chaubeypur SO’s activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/integrity-doubtful-officer-killed-in-kanpur-had-warned-about-fellow-policeman/story-DtZS81QYbLUIZVp2ZxiPCI.html
06-07-2020||India||Before PLA took a step back, a 2-hr long video call between NSA Doval and China’s Wang Yi||National Security Advisor Ajit Doval held talks with Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi over video call on Sunday, right before soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army were reported to have taken the early steps to move back from the standoff points in the Galwan area and near Pangong Tso, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Monday.NSA Ajit Doval and the Chinese foreign minister Wang’s conversation is learnt to have focused on “full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity” along the Line of Actual Control. The two sides also spoke about working together to avoid such incidents in future, a top government official said.Also Read: China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialAn external affairs ministry statement issued later said NSA Doval and minister Wang - two Special Representatives on the boundary issue - had “a frank and in-depth exchange of views on the recent developments in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas.”Ice-breaker meeting: What Doval, Wang agreedNecessary to complete disengagement of troops along LACShould complete the disengagement process expeditiouslyShould also ensure phased, stepwise de-escalation in border areasShould strictly respect and observe the line of actual controlShould not take any unilateral action to alter the status quoShould work together to avoid any incident in the futureDiplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue discussions“They agreed that it was necessary to ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity. In this regard they further agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously,” an external affairs ministry statement issued later said.The first impact of the ice-breaker meeting started becoming visible soon after. Officials said the PLA appeared to have moved about a kilometre from the standoff point in Galwan where soldiers of the two armies had clashed on June 15, leading to casualties on both sides. The violent scrap had led to a sharp slide in relations between the two countries, provoking New Delhi to ban Chinese mobile applications and keep out China-linked firms from future contracts across sectors.In their conversation, Doval and Wang agreed that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas “was essential for the further development of our bilateral relations and that two sides should not allow differences to become disputes.”The two sides should also ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation in the India-China border areas. They reaffirmed that both sides should strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-pla-took-a-step-back-a-video-call-between-nsa-doval-and-china-s-yi/story-kAsrvMlrf3eSWVBdut5YjM.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Progress on frontline troops to disengage’: China on talks with India||China on Monday said “progress” had been made between the two militaries to disengage and ease tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), six days after commander-level talks took place to cool the situation in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley area.The Chinese foreign ministry did not elaborate on the details of the progress that were made in the past six days.“Chinese and Indian troops held a commander-level talk on June 30. The two sides continue to work to implement the consensus reached at the two previous rounds of talks,” Zhao Lijian, foreign ministry spokesperson, said at the ministry briefing on Monday.Lijian was answering a query on whether China, as per reports in Indian media on Monday, had withdrawn troops from the area of tension. In his response, Zhao referred to the June 30 meeting – and two previous ones in June -- between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.“There is progress made on frontline troops taking effective measures to disengage and ease the tensions,” he said.“We hope the Indian side will move towards China and through concrete actions implement the consensus and continue close communication through military and diplomatic channels to jointly push for the de-escalation on the border region,” Zhao said.The reaction from China came within hours of Indian media reporting that Chinese troops had agreed to move back around 1.5 km from the area of friction in the Galwan Valley.At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a bloody brawl with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers in the Galwan Valley area on the night of June 15. China has admitted casualties on its side but has not revealed details.The PLA “…has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site in Galwan Valley”, people familiar with developments told HT in New Delhi on Monday.“Disengagement with the PLA has started as per agreed terms in the Corps Commander’s meeting. The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point 14,” said a person aware of the developments. The Chinese foreign ministry on July 1 had welcomed the June 30 military-level talks.“China welcomes that. We hope the Indian side will work with the Chinese side towards the same goal, keep up close communication through military and diplomatic channels, and ease the situation and reduce the temperature along the border,” Zhao had said according to a statement published on the website of the Chinese foreign ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/progress-on-frontline-troops-to-disengage-china-on-talks-with-india/story-A3F8AtesRuSkSSGJ4aFtPK.html
06-07-2020||India||Rajasthan registers 99 new Covid-19 cases, state tally reaches 20,263||As many as 99 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Rajasthan since Sunday night. Three patients have also lost their lives due to the deadly pandemic.With this, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 20,263. Of them, 15,968 have already recovered and 3,836 cases still remain active. So far, the virus has led to the deaths of 459, the state health department said on Monday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here At present, Rajasthan is among the top 10 states in the country affected by the virus. It is closely behind West Bengal, which has 22,126 total cases, 14,711 recovered and 757 deaths. Maharashtra is the worst affected state in the country with 206,619 confirmed cases, 111,740 recovered and 8,822 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Across the country, there are 697,413 confirmed cases, 424,433 recovered, while 19,693 people have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-registers-99-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-reaches-20-263/story-20COgOpV7Uo7fBovuyY00H.html
06-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Bhansali records statement with Mumbai cops||Bollywood filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali reached Bandra police station on Monday around noon to record his statement in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.On June 14, Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment following which a probe was ordered to ascertain the cause of his death by suicide.So far, Mumbai Police authorities have recorded the statements of 28 people in connection with Rajput’s death, including his cook Neeraj Singh, domestic house Keshav Bachner, his manager Deepesh Sawant, his creative manager Siddharth Ramnath Murti Pithani, his sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, his father KK Singh, his friend and small-screen actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, his business manager Shruti Modi, his public relations (PR) manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, employees of Yash Raj Films (YRF), among others.Also read: ‘Sushant Singh Rajput’s father still in deep shock’: Shekhar Suman after meeting actor’s familyAbhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, (DCP), (Zone 9), Mumbai Police, said, “We have called Sanjay Leela Bhansali to record his statement in connection with the ongoing investigation of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-filmmaker-sanjay-leela-bhansali-records-statement-with-mumbai-police/story-INwdKmGmrwG5KAnkAFWpyO.html
06-07-2020||India||From chemistry to fiction, how a Kota teacher wrote a book on lockdown||Dhiraj Tak (39), who teaches chemistry at an institute in Kota – the coaching hub of the country for aspiring engineering and medical students – took to fiction to capture the tales of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions for her baby daughter and her generation for posterity.The 197-page labour of love – called Lockdown 5:0 – has been brought out by a Hyderabad-based publisher. “My daughter was born a month before the lockdown restrictions were announced in end-March. I wrote a book on lockdown tales for my baby daughter and others of her generation, which they can read when they grow up,” said Tak.The teacher said the lockdown gave him ample time to pursue creative writing, his second love after teaching.“I have had time at hand to pursue creative writing because the coaching institute was closed due to the pandemic,” he said.“The book deals with human psychology. I have tried to explore the diverse aspects of lockdown in a nuanced manner,” said Tak, who has been a teacher for 16 years. The teacher-turned-author said the lockdown triggered a lot of negativity amid the prevailing uncertainty over when the restrictions would end as the raging viral outbreak is yet to show any sign of abating.“But, I would like the readers to remember my book as a tribute to the lockdown’s positive aspects,” he said.He explained the reason behind the book’s title, Lockdown 5:0.“Even though the restrictions ended in Rajasthan with lockdown 4:0, many are still adhering to the norms, as if a new variant is still in place,” he said.The book’s central theme is that the ongoing viral outbreak, too, will pass in a transient world. However, positive thinking holds the key in dealing with the pandemic, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-chemistry-to-fiction-how-a-kota-teacher-wrote-a-book-on-lockdown/story-gvB61Rg5EKMdJkEo44vKOJ.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Criminalisation of politics has scaled new heights’: Nadda calls for TMC govt ouster||BJP president JP Nadda Monday launched a broadside against the TMC government in West Bengal, alleging criminalisation of politics and corruption have scaled new heights under it and calling for its ouster.Lauding Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee for fighting for a united India and opposing the “appeasement politics” of Jawaharlal Nehru, Nadda said it is an honour to celebrate his birth anniversary at a time when the Modi government has fulfilled his dream of scrapping Article 370 that bestowed on Kashmir a special status.On one hand we have Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who fought for a united India and always kept his ideals and principles above anything, and on the other we have the present TMC government in Bengal for which clinging to power by any means is everything.“Criminalisation of politics has scaled new heights, now we all hear about cut money in Bengal. We need to cut to size these leaders who demand cut money. We need to restore Bengal’s glory and remove this government lock, stock and barrel, Nadda told a virtual rally for West Bengal on the birth anniversary of Mookerjee.Speaking about Mookerjee’s contributions to the nation, Nadda asserted it was because of the efforts of the Jana Sangh founder that West Bengal and large parts of Punjab are with India.It is due to Syama Prasad Mookerjee that Bengal and Punjab are with India. Otherwise they would have gone to Pakistan during Partition...He opposed the appeasement politics of Nehru in post-Independent India.... but the Congress has a bad habit of stifling democratic voices, he said.He also attacked the state’s Mamata Banerjee government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis.“The West Bengal chief minister doesn’t believe in cooperative federalism. She is not keen on sharing COVID data with the Centre,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminalisation-of-politics-has-scaled-new-heights-nadda-calls-for-tmc-govt-ouster/story-awhdx4YsmAJNq5qROpQz3J.html
06-07-2020||India||3 more Kanpur cops suspected of ‘leaking raid info’ to Vikas Dubey suspended||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh on Monday suspended three more policemen over allegations that they were in regular contact with Vikas Dubey, the main accused behind the killings of eight personnel of the force in Kanpur Dehat district last week.Dinesh Kumar P, Kanpur’s senior superintendent of police, said two sub-inspectors Kunwar Pal and KK Sharma and constable Rajeev of Chaubeypur police station were among those who have been suspended.The role of these three policemen has been confirmed in the in-house investigation conducted by the force, officials have said. Their calls records were checked threadbare before they were suspended. They said the process to terminate them from service would begin soon.Officials said they are under investigation for leaking the information about the raid as well.Dubey’s aide, Daya Shankar Agnihotri who was arrested on Sunday, said in a video statement that a caller from a police station informed the 48-year-old Dubey, who faces 60 criminal cases, about the raid.Agnihotri is suspected to be part of the gang that laid a trap for the police team raiding Kanpur Dehat’s Bikru village and attacked them on Thursday night.Officials suspect it could be the police station in Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru. It is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey by a villager on Wednesday. The team that went to raid Dubey’s village past Thursday midnight left from Chaubeypur.Before this, Chaubeypur’s station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari was suspended and shifted to Lucknow last Saturday after being questioned for nine hours over his role in leaking information about the raid. Officials have not specified the nature of allegations against him.Officials have said they are investigation 30 policemen for their links with the 48-year-old gangster, who is on the run.Officials believe that Dubey, an influential gangster whose criminal records date back to 1993, has support within the police force and that they helped him and his gang enjoy a free run despite cases of murder, attempted murder and abduction against them.Mohit Agarwal, inspector general of police, Kanpur range, had said earlier at least three policemen were suspected to be in touch with Dubey and that an investigation was underway.“Services of police personnel in league with him will be terminated and they will face a criminal trial,” Agarwal had said.Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, Uttar Pradesh’s police chief, has also increased the reward amount for his arrest on Vikas Dubey to Rs 2.5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh after Agarwal sent a proposal on Sunday night.The police have launched a massive manhunt for Dubey, who they believe slipped out of Uttar Pradesh before the state’s borders were sealed. An alert has been sounded in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster intensified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-kanpur-cops-suspected-of-leaking-raid-info-to-vikas-dubey-suspended/story-WGbwFTqh834p78mDReC4WI.html
06-07-2020||India||UP Police increase prize money for arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey to Rs 2.5 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday further increased the prize money for the arrest of dreaded criminal Vikas Dubey, who headed the gang which shot dead eight policemen who came to arrest him.The prize money has been increased to Rs 2.5 lakh, news agency ANI quoted Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy as saying. The prize money was increased from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh on Sunday for the arrest of Dubey, who has been on the run since the killing of the policemen near his home in Bikru village in Kanpur rural late on Thursday night.Fifty dedicated teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed in a massive manhunt to nab the gangster.DGP Awasthy had said that an alert has been sounded in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster intensified.His photo was put up at Unnao toll plaza on Monday by the police.A huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered from Dubey’s house after it was demolished on Sunday.The police are also probing how did Dubey get the information about the police raid. At least 30 cops are being investigated for their links with the gangster.Meanwhile, three more policemen have been suspended after investigation revealed that they were in regular touch with Dubey. The suspended policemen include two sub-inspectors and a constable.News agency PTI reported SSP as saying that an FIR will be lodged against these policemen. Their role was confirmed in the in-house investigation conducted by the force, officials said.The call records of these cops were checked to arrive at the conclusion that they were speaking to the gangster regularly. The process to terminate them from service will also begin, senior officials said.Before this, Chaubeypur’s station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari was suspended and shifted to Lucknow on Saturday.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in Bikru village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-increase-prize-money-for-arrest-of-gangster-vikas-dubey-to-rs-2-5-lakh/story-Bo7Wv8Uvexcl2PQcF54VKL.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Let gyms reopen as allowed for restaurants’: CM Baghel writes to PM Modi||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission for conditional reopening of gymnasiums, which continue to remain shut since the first lockdown came into effect on March 25.Citing the Centre’s plan to unlock economic activities in a phased manner, the CM drew attention to the financial issues being faced by the gym and fitness centre owners. Referencing the permission to reopen restaurants, hotels and various other activities, the CM also pitched for the reopening of gymnasiums, adding that strict compliance to standard operating procedures (SOP) will be observed. “I urge you to allow opening of gyms with the condition of compliance to SOP, as it has been permitted for restaurants, hotels and other economic activities,” the CM said in his letter to PM Modi.The fresh Unlock 2 guidelines said schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. It added that Metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain shut. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to be banned.“Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation,” the Centre had said.The government has said that the plan to unlock the country has an “economic focus”, as it looks to bring stalled businesses and activities back on track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-gyms-reopen-as-allowed-for-restaurants-cm-baghel-writes-to-pm-modi/story-AlwIhXHemHa27TYQ21inUK.html
06-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ’No need to panic’, says Delhi CM as Covid-19 cases cross 1 lakh mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No need to panic’, says Kejriwal as Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 1 lakh markDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that though the number of coronavirus disease cases has crossed one lakh in the national capital, there is no need to panic. Read moreChina pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: OfficialSix days after top Indian and Chinese military commanders agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority,” the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site in Galwan Valley, people familiar with developments said on Monday. Read moreRahul Dravid turned down opportunity to be India’s head coach: CoA chairman Vinod RaiVinod Rai, Chairman of the Committee of Administrators, has revealed that the panel approached Rahul Dravid for the post of the head coach of the Indian men’s cricket team but the former batsman turned down the offer to give preference to his family. Read moreNetflix India asks tweeple to ‘caption this’ still from Kuch Kuch Hota Hai. Netizens hilariously complyMany of you probably still remember some lines from Kuch Kuch Hota Hai. From, “Pyar dosti hai” to the classic, “Kuch kuch hota hai Rahul, tum nahi samjhoge”. Read moreHappy birthday Ranveer Singh: Why he remains one of the most versatile actors of his generationExactly a year back, on Ranveer Singh’s 34th birthday on July 6, the first look of his upcoming Kabir Khan directorial, 83, had been unveiled. Read moreCovid-19: India ranks no. 3 in total cases after US and BrazilHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, after US and Brazil, India ranks no. 3 in total number of cases, improvement in the country’s daily tests, community spread begins in Assam and more. Read moreHappy Birthday Ranveer: Celebrating the best looks of the king of quirk fashionTo talk of eccentric fashion and not take Ranveer Singh’s name in the same breath might be nearly as good as making a huge folly. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-cross-1-lakh-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YGGZjXOQoLVcAg05HexW2O.html
06-07-2020||India||China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: Official||Six days after top Indian and Chinese military commanders agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority,” the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has possibly moved back by 1 to 1.5 km from the friction site in Galwan Valley, people familiar with developments said on Monday.“Disengagement with the PLA has started as per agreed terms in the Corps Commander’s meeting. The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point 14,” said one of the persons cited above.Disengagement will involve rival troops pulling back a few hundred metres from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the complex plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides, as reported by Hindustan Times on Thursday.Rearward movement of vehicles of the PLA was also seen at “General area Galwan, Hot Springs-Gogra Post,” said a second person. Specific distances can be confirmed only after verification, he said.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pulls-back-troops-in-galwan-valley-by-at-least-a-km-official/story-W6dcjoOSpNTtHv1zZo8b8N.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19 antigen test for every patient in four hospitals in Odisha||The Naveen Patnaik-led Odisha government has decided to conduct the rapid antigen test (RAT) for all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and healthcare staff in four hospitals in Cuttack city after they reported 135 viral outbreak cases in the past week. Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary (ACS), health department, said RAT would be conducted on the following hospitals in Cuttack city -- SCB Medical College & Hospital, Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Sishu Bhawan, and City Hospital.Data showed that these four hospitals have reported 135 Covid-19 positive cases in the past week, including Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (111) and SCB Medical College & Hospital (22).On Monday, a warden in Cuttack’s Choudwar Circle Jail also tested Covid-19 positive after he reportedly came in contact with an inmate, who is undergoing treatment at Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre.The ACS said all patients undergoing treatment in these hospitals would undergo RAT along with those who are seeking fresh admission.He said that patients have been urged not to visit these hospitals’ outpatient departments (OPDs) until Wednesday (July 8), unless there is an emergency.The Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) authorities have enforced lockdown restrictions in the ancient and densely-populated city until Wednesday and would quarantine people, who are found to be visiting its slums from Covid-19 hotspot districts such as Khurda and Ganjam.Cuttack district has reported 813 Covid-19 positive cases to date, including 190 under CMC’s jurisdiction.RAT can quickly detect SARS-CoV-2 and the procedure is also inexpensive, as compared to the conventional reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.In the case of RAT, mucus is collected from the back of a person’s throat or nose using a swab that is dipped into a liquid to release the virus. Later, the liquid is applied to the surface of a test slide coated with antibodies.A second mixture of antibodies, which is chemically modified with a dye, is subsequently applied to the slide. These antibodies are visible to both the naked eye and fluorescent light. If the swab sample contains SARS-CoV-2, the dye will become visible, underlining the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-antigen-test-for-every-patient-in-four-hospitals-in-odisha/story-2GhzFMifjesNPBmgXiJrvL.html
06-07-2020||India||Kuwait expat bill cleared, 8 lakh Indians could be forced to leave||The legal and legislative committee of Kuwait’s National Assembly (Parliament) has approved a draft expat quota bill which could result in eight lakh Indians leaving the country.According to the committee, the draft bill is constitutional and seeks to limit the number of Indians to 15 per cent of the population. It will now be transferred to the respective committee so that a comprehensive plan is created.The move comes a month after Kuwait’s prime minister had said that the country’s expatriate population should be reduced from 70 to 30 per cent of the total.“We have a future challenge to redress this imbalance,” Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah told a local media publication, and the statement was released by state-run Kuwait News Agency or KUNA.Foreigners account for 3.4 million of Kuwait’s 4.8 million population, according to government data cited by local news outlets.Gulf News cited local media reports to say that the new bill could see eight lakh Indians leaving Kuwait, “as the Indian community constitutes the largest expat community in Kuwait, totalling 1.45 million”.There are, however, many critics of the quota approach (thereby reducing the number of expats) propounded by some of the Kuwaiti lawmakers since the prime minister’s statement.On Twitter, users reacted with anger.“The deputies at Kuwait National Assembly should have their mental health regularly checked!” tweeted a user who goes by a single username M. The deputies at Kuwait National Assembly should have their mental health regularly checked!#JustSaying“Wait, next shocking news will be from UAE,” tweeted Salem Faisal. Wait, next shocking news will be from UAE.The anti-expat rhetoric have spiked since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic with lawmakers and governmental officials call for reducing the number of foreigners in Kuwait.According to latest data from Johns Hopkins University, more than 49,000 cases of coronavirus have been reported in the Gulf country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kuwait-expat-bill-cleared-8-lakh-indian-could-be-forced-to-leave/story-Hd2PNfm0hlUs223FWiaYDJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crosses 20,000-mark, Delhi nears one lakh cases: Covid-19 state tally||India is now the third worst-affected country by the coronavirus pandemic after overtaking Russia on Sunday. The country has reported a steep rise of 24,248 new cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the Ministry of Health stated on Monday. As many as 425 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the national death toll to 19,693. India’s Covid-19 tally now nears 7 lakh with a total of 697,413 cases. More than 60% of people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country with 424,432 patients recovering or getting discharged from the hospitals. Rajasthan has seen its Covid-19 tally breach the 20,000-mark while the cases continue to surge across India and much rapidly in states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, among others. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.97 lakh, death toll at 19,693Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 206,619 on Monday. Over 111,740 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 8,822 have died.Tamil NaduWith 111,151 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,510 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 62,778.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 99,444 on Monday. As many as 71,339 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 3,067 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 36,037 on Monday. The state has seen 25,892 people recover from coronavirus while 1,943 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 27,707 while the number of recoveries has touched 18,761. The state’s death toll stands at 785.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 23,902 coronavirus cases. While 12,703 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 295 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 23,474 coronavirus cases till date while three hundred and seventy two people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 9,847 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 22,126 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 14,711 recover from coronavirus while 757 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 20,164 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 456 while 15,928 patients have recovered.Andhra Pradesh The state has 18,697 Covid-19 patients while the death toll stands at 232. Over 8,400 people have recovered from the contagion in Andhra Pradesh.Situation in other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 17,005. Over 14,930 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar nears 12,000, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 8,429. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 9,070 while Assam has reported over 10,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 6,283, and the number of cases in Kerala is 5,429. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,000 cases.States with less than 3,000 casesNagaland, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Chandigarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya is the lone state with less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crosses-20-000-mark-delhi-nears-one-lakh-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-jXqs0DShEiZQ7Mfnm7y6DP.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Really sad’: JP Nadda questions Rahul Gandhi’s attack on govt, raps ‘dynastic tradition’ too||JP Nadda, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Monday once again trained his guns at Rahul Gandhi for what he called was the Congress leader’s irresponsible behaviour as an opposition leader.Nadda’s tweet attacks came after Rahul Gandhi’s comments on the government’s policies, including its handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), saying they become case studies for the Harvard Business School.The BJP president, on his part, questioned Gandhi’s absence from the meetings of Parliament’s committee on defence-related matters.“Rahul Gandhi does not attend a single meeting of Standing Committee on Defence. But sadly, he continues to demoralise the nation, question the valour of our armed forces and do everything that a responsible opposition leader should not do,” Nadda tweeted. Rahul Gandhi does not attend a single meeting of Standing Committee on Defence. But sadly, he continues to demoralise the nation, question the valour of our armed forces and do everything that a responsible opposition leader should not do.The senior BJP leader has questioned Rahul Gandhi in the past as well over his continuous criticism of the Centre after the June 15 violent border standoff with China in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.Before this, Nadda had accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to “divide the nation” and “demoralise” the country’s armed forces after the Congress leader’s allegations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese.Nadda had asked him last month whether it was the “effect” of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) the Congress had signed with the Communist Party of China.He has also hit out at the Congress, alleging that its leaders were demoralising the Indian Army. He had, in a series of tweets, questioned Manmohan Singh’s statement over the June 15 brutal clash in Galwan Valley.Nadda also focussed on the “glorious dynastic tradition”. “Rahul Gandhi belongs to that glorious dynastic tradition where as far as defence is concerned, committees don’t matter, only commissions do. Congress has many deserving members who understand parliamentary matters but one dynasty will never let such leaders grow. Really sad,” Nadda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/really-sad-jp-nadda-questions-rahul-gandhi-s-attack-on-govt-raps-dynastic-tradition-too/story-S9DX8IHGLXVnh3hPgK65IK.html
06-07-2020||India||‘Vikas Dubey operated like Maoists’: Police after bunker, explosives found in gangster’s demolished house||Vikas Dubey, head of the gang that laid a trap for the police team in Kanpur, operated like Maoists, a senior police officer said after huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from his house.“A huge cache of arms and ammunition recovered from the residence of Vikas Dubey, during search. Some of the weapons recovered are licensed under names of people associated with him, but they were used by Vikas. This is similar to how naxals operate,” BK Srivastava, Superintendent of Police, Kanpur Rural told mediapersons on Sunday.A bunker, two kg of explosives, six country-made pistols, 25 live rounds and shrapnels were found in Dubey’s house when it was demolished by the police.“Heavy explosives were kept there, it could be so powerful that it would blow up the whole house. He has about 12 licensed weapons in his family. Vikas Dubey used to issue arms licenses in the name of people living with him and then used them for himself,” Srivastava added.Kanpur inspector general (IG) Mohit Agarwal said that the bunker that Dubey built was stocked with items on which he and his men could have survived for days in case of a prolonged siege. Police had taken the decision to pull down the house following inputs that the criminal had hidden firearms on the premises, he said.The police are looking for Dubey, who they believe slipped out of Uttar Pradesh before the state’s borders were sealed. UP’s Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said that an alert has been sounded in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of Dubey and the search for the gangster intensified.Fifty dedicated teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed in a massive manhunt to nab the gangster.Dubey is the main accused in the case in which eight policemen, part of a team whch had gone to arrest the gangster, were killed after being attacked by his men late on Thursday night.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced Rs 1 crore each ex-gratia for the families of the policemen who were killed in the Bikru village encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-operated-like-maoists-police-after-bunker-explosives-found-in-gangster-s-demolished-house/story-xu4JBLFaWHIdFnwXOZXPQJ.html
06-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 6.97 lakh, death toll at 19,693||The Union health ministry on Monday reported there were 24,248 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 425 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 697,413.India had on Sunday overtaken Russia to become the third-most affected country globally in terms of the numbers of Covid-19 cases. More than 11 million infections and 536,776 deaths have been reported worldwide, data from Worldometers shows.The country’s death toll stands at 19,693 and there are 253,287 active cases of the disease so far, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here With 15,350 patients cured between Sunday and Monday morning, there are 424,432 people who have been discharged from hospitals across the country. It has pushed the recovery rate to 60.85%.Maharashtra has most of the country’s Covid-19 cases at 206,619 and the state has reported 8,822 deaths so far. Tamil Nadu with 111,151 infections is the second worst-affected state and has also reported 1,510 fatalities.The national capital has seen 99,444 patients of the viral disease and 3,067 deaths to date. The Union health ministry had said on Sunday that 21 states and Union territories, including Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, have a recovery rate higher than the national average of 60.77%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It said collective and focused efforts for containment and management of Covid-19 by the Centre along with the states and Union territories have led to the number of recovered patients to rise.The United States is the worst-hit country in the world with 2,982,928 cases and 132,569 deaths, followed by Brazil, which has nearly 1,604,585 cases and 64,900 deaths, according to worldometers.info. Russia now has 681,251 Covid-19 infections and 10,161 deaths, followed by Peru with 302,718 cases and 10,589 deaths on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-past-6-97-lakh-death-toll-at-19-693/story-49CWbhygrYYVWMlaK2P5YJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Devotees throng Lord Shiva temples on first Monday of Sawan||On the first Monday of ‘Sawan’ (Shravan) month, devotees started coming to Lord Shiva temples in different parts of the country from the early morning to offer prayers.At Gauri Shankar Temple in Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, the temperature of devotees is being checked with thermometer gun, as a precautionary measure that has become a new normal.However, the usual hustle-bustle is missing at the temple due to coronavirus outbreak which has affected the lives of people across the globe.A priest at Gauri Shankar Temple said: “We pray to Lord Shiva to free us from coronavirus. We have done barricading, ensuring social distancing and temple premise is being regularly sanitised. We are not allowing anyone to offer water.”“Many things have changed at the temple. Social distancing is being maintained. People are not allowed to gather at one place,” a devotee told ANI.In Varanasi, devotees in large numbers throng Kashi Vishwanath temple. Police was present at the temple to maintain social distancing. Shravan, the fifth month in the Hindu calendar, is considered to be the most auspicious month of the year. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva who, according to Hindu religious beliefs, is the creator, preserver, and destroyer of this universe.While Lord Shiva is worshipped on Mondays throughout the year, Mondays during this particular month are considered highly significant and auspicious. The festival is predominantly celebrated in North Indian states.It is believed that on ‘sawan ke somwar’ (Mondays falling in the month of Shravan), devotees observe a special fast and visit Shiva temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-throng-lord-shiva-temples-on-first-monday-of-sawan/story-w6KhpolHHjAzZE4bvDwkNL.html
06-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Days after intense Covid-19 lockdown, Chennai to open partially today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chennai to open partially today after 17 days of intense lockdownAuthorities will on Monday ease several curbs in Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu, which was under intense lockdown from June 19 to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease. Read moreActor Phonsok Ladakhi composes song for Indian jawans of Galwan ClashActor Phonsok Ladakhi sings a song for Indian soldiers who fought in Galwan Clash. He composed a song on the bravery of the soldiers who fought with Chinese troops. Read moreThis cat video perfectly depicts the difference between the honeymoon stage and marriage stage of being a pet parentMany may agree that being a pet parent is probably as fun and rewarding as it is tiresome. This sweet dichotomy is showcased best in this cat video which depicts the difference between the honeymoon stage and marriage stage of raising a feline. Read moreHis Holiness the Dalai Lama XIV 85th birthday: Teachings to find inner strength and happinessRevered and idolised around the world, spiritual leader HH the Dalai Lama transcends all barriers of religion, language. On July 6, the esteemed leader is turning 85 and his followers have lined up global celebrations. Read moreMohammad Azharuddin could be a reason behind Flower’s knife allegations against Younis Khan: Ex-Pak captain Rashid LatifThe Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) may have declined to comment on the issue but former batting coach Grant Flower’s revelation about Younis Khan’s behaviour inside the dressing room refuses to die down. Read moreAmit Trivedi: ‘Nothing called nepotism in the music industry, this is the most time-waste topic’Composer and singer Amit Trivedi had sung various songs for late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and is at loss for words on being asked about him. The musician, however, doesn’t believe in the nepotism debate that has taken over social media ever since his demise. Read moreHT Salutes: Assam doctor who makes face shields, masks for Covid warriorsDr Dipannita Kaushik in Guwahati is making face shields and masks for her co-workers and frontline warriors. With no access to 3D printers or raw materials, Dipannita is making masks and shields by recycled products. The doctor is getting her mother’s and her fiance’s help in making the shields. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-days-after-covid-19-lockdown-chennai-to-open-partially-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-waanS1y835UdZj7RY4naAN.html
06-07-2020||India||Gandhi lists 3 potential case studies at Harvard. It’s a dig at the Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has once again targeted the Narendra Modi government, calling its demonetisation policy and implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) failures. He also said that these policies along with the government’s failure in handling of the coronavirus situation will be studied by the Harvard Business School.“Future HBS case studies on failure: 1. Covid19. 2. Demonetisation. 3. GST implementation,” Gandhi said on Twitter. Future HBS case studies on failure:1. Covid19.2. Demonetisation.3. GST implementation. pic.twitter.com/fkzJ3BlLH4He also attached a clip of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, superimposing a graph which shows the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the country and India reaching the third spot globally.Gandhi and his Congress party have been attacking the government over the Covid-19 situation in the country, comparing its policies with those of the western countries. He has also held a series of talks with public intellectuals and business leaders where Gandhi accused the government of centralising the power. He also talked about the migrant workers and the poor people who were hurt the most by the Covid-19 lockdown.When the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the five lakh mark last month, Gandhi had said that the Modi government is refusing to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Gandhi posted a media report on his Twitter handle in support of his comments and remarked that while coronavirus is rapidly spreading into new parts of the country, the government “has no plan to defeat it”.The prime minister is silent, Gandhi had tweeted.During a conversation with former US diplomat Nicholas Burns in June, Gandhi had accused the central government of taking decisions unilaterally. “We have a government which takes decisions unilaterally. It decided to impose a hard lockdown and the result was for everyone to see. You had thousands of migrant workers walking thousands of kilometres to their hometowns. This type of episodic leadership is very very disruptive,” he had said.India, meanwhile, went past Russia in terms of the number of Covid-19 infections to become the third biggest hotspot of the coroanvirus disease. The grim milestone came after four consecutive days of record highs in new cases of Covid-19.The country reported 24,422 new cases and 421 new deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 697,284 and fatalities to 19,700.Public health experts, however, say that while India has a high Covid-19 caseload, its case fatality rate, at 2.8%, is much lower than the global average of 4.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-on-failures-will-include-gst-demonetisation-and-covid-19-rahul-gandhi-targets-govt/story-LZDLrHXfABuetSWZImj73O.html
06-07-2020||India||BJP MP alleges car vandalised by workers of Trinamool Congress, party denies claim||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker in West Bengal claimed on Monday that his car was vandalised by the workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).Arjun Singh, the Member of Parliament (MP) from Barrackpore, alleged that the incident happened in Halisahar area of North 24 Parganans district on Sunday.Singh said the incident took place when he had gone to a party worker’s home. “I had gone for a meeting there but as soon as I joined it, supporters of TMC started throwing bricks at my vehicle,” Singh told mediapersons.Some motorcycles parked outside the home were also vandalised, alleged the MP.TMC leaders, however, refuted the charge and instead alleged that BJP workers had ransacked one of the offices of their party.Partha Bhowmick, TMC legislator from Naihati, told the media that Singh was making false allegations to be in the news as his party was losing ground.No senior police officer could be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-alleges-car-vandalised-by-workers-of-trinamool-congress-party-denies-claim/story-LFHMSKAk6gqyVdirE5pohL.html
06-07-2020||India||Several monuments to reopen today: Time slots, separate entry and exit points||Several monuments across the country will reopen from Monday for the first time in more than 100 days since the lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus disease was clamped in March.However, only those monuments that are in non-containment zones will be open for visitors.District authorities in Agra have said the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Akbar’s tomb in Sikandra and other monuments will remain closed until further orders as they fall under containment zones.The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) had shut down more than 3,400 monuments on March 17, days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown.Some 820 religious places under the ASI were reopened when the government announced a graded exit from the total shutdown under “Unlock1”.The Union culture ministry had on June 8 allowed 820 monuments to open, including the Taj Mahal. But the Agra administration decided against opening the Mughal-era monument in view of the rising number of coronavirus disease cases in the city. The Nizamuddin Dargah also got approval but its administration decided against opening the site.The culture ministry had given its approval last week for the reopening of monuments, places of worship, museums and heritage sites controlled by ASI. Officials said the decision to open these sites outside containment zones was taken in consultation with ASI.Here are the rules visitor have to follow while visiting these places:* No physical tickets will be issued until further orders and visitors will have to buy entry tickets through e-mode only* They will have to mandatorily use the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu mobile application* They will have to compulsorily wear masks and use sanitisers regularly* There will be separate paths for entry and exit* There will be thermal scanners at the entry points* Visitors’ status on Aarogya Setu will be checked before they are allowed to get in* There will be staggered entry and a cap on the number of people who can be present in a monument at a given time* ASI will also collect visitors’ phone numbers in case contact-tracing needs to be done later* E-ticketing facilities will also be ramped to ensure smooth and easy access* The number of visitors will be capped and there will be slots every day. * Visitors will have to stick to a time limit in order to ensure social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-monuments-to-reopen-today-time-slots-separate-entry-and-exit-points/story-q1BDAsl8suCzLaXi9FTE8M.html
06-07-2020||India||China to supply 4 attack drones to Pak, prompts India to revive Predator-B plan||China is in the process of supplying four armed drones to Pakistan, ostensibly to protect the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and the People’s Liberation Army Navy’s new base at Gwadar port, according to people familiar with the development said on Sunday.Gwadar, in the highly restive southwestern province of Baluchistan, is described as the crown jewel of China’s $60 billion investment in Belt and Road Initiative projects in Pakistan.The supply of two systems (each has two drones and a ground station) comes ahead of Beijing’s plan to jointly produce 48 GJ-2 drones, the military version of Wing Loong II, designed in China for use by Pakistan’s air force. Also Watch | India-China border: IAF uses attack choppers, fighter jets for surveillanceChina has already been selling the reconnaissance and strike drone Wing Loong II to several countries in Asia and West Asia and emerged as the largest exporter of armed drones. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) arms transfer database, China had delivered 163 UAVs to a dozen-odd countries including Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Algeria, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates from 2008 to 2018.Unlike the US that follows an elaborate process to determine and regulate the end-use of its high-end weapons, China has no such qualms.China’s attack drone, said to be armed with 12 air-to-surface missiles, are currently being used by UAE-backed forces in Libya against the Turkish-backed government in Tripoli with limited success. Four of them were shot down in the last two months in Libya, according to data compiled by non profit Drone Wars UK.China’s aggressive postures in Ladakh where the two armies are engaged in a standoff that has lasted two months and its supply to Pakistan has prompted India to conveyed to the US its renewed interest in the medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) armed Predator-B drone, which not only collects intelligence through surveillance and reconnaissance but also locates and destroys the target with missiles or laser-guided bombs.The Indian Navy has been in negotiations with the US for its unarmed naval variant, but national security planners feel that due to the prohibitive cost of the UAV, it would be better to have an all-in-one drone rather than separate ones for surveillance and targeting. Also called the MQ-9 Reaper, the armed remotely piloted aircraft is battle-proven in the Iraq, Afghanistan and Syrian theatres with the capability of carrying four Hell-Fire missiles and two 500 pounds of laser-guided bombs.For the future, Indian private sector companies on the outskirts of New Delhi are in the process of developing medium-altitude long-endurance drones for India. But the capacity to acquire armed drones within the country is some distance away. The Defence Research and Development Organisation also has plans to produce the Rustom drone prototype by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-to-get-4-attack-drones-from-china-prompts-india-to-revive-predator-b-plan/story-M5jUeCOLPnyyofzh03LSzI.html
06-07-2020||India||Indian Railways may run more special trains from Delhi to several cities: Report||The Indian Railways is planning to operate about 40 pairs of additional special trains from Delhi to several other cities across the country, a report said on Tuesday.According to HT’s sister publication Hindustan, the Indian Railways has sent a proposal to the Union ministry of home affairs for running these special trains. If given a nod, the railways will announce these trains soon.Hindustan reported citing unnamed sources that an action plan is being prepared on the number of passengers on these routes, ways to prevent the spread of coronavirus infections and adequate means of investigation, expenses etc before these trains are run. No final decision regarding the stoppage and route has been taken yet, it reported.These special trains will be regularly sanitised and passengers will have to arrive at the stations 90 minutes early. They will have to undergo thermal screening before they start their journey. Plans are being made to control the number of passengers at stations, Hindustan reported.It reported that tickets for these trains can be bought up to 120 days ahead. Some seats will also be kept under the Tatkal quota system in these trains. The ministry of railways is already operating 15 pairs of special Rajdhani trains from May 12 and 200 mails and express trains from June 1 onwards. Here is a list of expected trains:Trains from DelhiNew Delhi-Amritsar Old Delhi- Ferozepur Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Porbandar Delhi-BhagalpurNew Delhi-Chandigarh Delhi-Ghazipur City Train to BalliaTrains to DelhiJodhpur-DelhiKamakhya-DelhiDibrugarh-New DelhiGorakhpur-DelhiIndore-New DelhiMuzaffarpur-Anand Vihar, Kovid coach, this train will go to Old Delhi Habibganj-New DelhiLucknow-New DelhiMadhupur-Old DelhiTrains through DelhiKota-Dehradun-Nanda DeviDibrugarh-AmritsarDibrugarh-LalgarhMuzaffarpur-PorbandarYeshwantpur-Bikaner||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-may-run-more-special-trains-from-delhi-to-several-cities-report/story-wiYU0I5K9DRlgvMvYatJGI.html
06-07-2020||India||UP hospital offers Covid-19 negative report for Rs 2,500, licence suspended||The licence of a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut has been suspended after a video showing its staff member providing fake Covid-19 report had gone viral.“A video had gone viral in Meerut. We have registered a case in this regard. We have suspended the licence of the nursing home. Today, we have sealed it also. Strict action will be taken against anybody who will do something like this in this time of crisis,” said Anil Dhingra, District Magistrate, Meerut.In the video, the person can be heard saying that they provide Covid-19 negative report for Rs 2,500, Dhingra stated.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Meerut CMO Rajkumar said, “In the video, a man from the hospital can be heard saying that he can arrange COVID-19 negative report and the person can get operation or other things done. We have identified the man. We have suspended the licence of the hospital and an FIR has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-hospital-offers-covid-19-negative-report-for-rs-2-500-licence-suspended/story-sXi4ioRJGVzbdoM9V1KerO.html
06-07-2020||India||Four Maoists killed in gunfight with security forces in Odisha’s Kandhamal district||At least four Maoists including two women were killed in an encounter with policemen of district Voluntary Force in Odisha’s Kandhamal district in a forest early Sunday morning.Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist operations) Amitabh Thakur said based on intelligence inputs, a team of Special Operation Group and District Voluntary Force policemen of Kandhamal district went on a combing operation at Sirla forest near Tumudibandh area of Kandhamal district on early Sunday morning. In the encounter that ensued, four Maoists were killed. “While the search operation was going on, the police team saw a large group of Maoists camping in the jungle area. Police party tried to approach them but they came under heavy fire from the Maoist side. When the police asked them to surrender they continued to fire and also lobbed grenades. When police fired back, the Maoists escaped taking cover of dense forest cover,” said Thakur. There were around 35-40 armed Maoists in the camp when the encounter happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-maoists-killed-gunfight-with-security-forces-in-odisha-s-kandhamal-district/story-N0i6cacYt4mvyt2FSwNsaN.html
06-07-2020||India||Parts of Gujarat receive heavy rains; 434 mm rainfall in Khambhalia tehsil||Several districts in Gujarat witnessed heavy rains on Sunday, with Khambhalia tehsil in Devbhoomi Dwarka district receiving as much as 434 mm rainfall during the day, 292 mm between 6 and 8 pm alone, which led to major water-logging, officials said.Heavy rains also lashed parts of Porbandar, Gir Somnath, Junagadh and Amreli districts in Saurashtra region, as well as Valsad and Navsari districts in south Gujarat throughout the day, they said. The Ahmedabad centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Saurashtra, north and south Gujarat over the next three days.A farmer was killed in a lightning strike in Surendranagar district, while one person was feared drowned after a pickup van he was travelling in was swept away in a strong current of water following the downpour, police said.“A 33-year-old farmer, identified as Vikram Natubhai, died after lightning struck him when he was working at his farm at Umarda village of Surendranagar district,” a police official said.An Aji Dam police station official said that a pickup van carrying three persons was swept away in strong current of water in Khokhardar river near Rajkot Sunday afternoon. “The van was trying to cross a bridge over the river when it was swept away in overflowing water rushing with strong current. While two persons managed to escape from the van, a third one was swept away along with the van and he is yet to be traced,” the official said.As per the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), Khambhalia tehsil received a very heavy rainfall of 434 mm, with 292 mm rainfall occurring in just two hours, causing heavy waterlogging in the Khambhalia town.Ranavav in Porbandar received 152 mm rainfall, Porbandar 120 mm, Sutrapada in Gir Somnath 103 mm, Chikhli in Navsari 99 mm, and Pardi in Valsad received 98 mm rainfall from morning till 8 pm Sunday, the SEOC said.As per the IMD’s Ahmemdabad met centre, a low-pressure area has formed over Kutch and neighbouring regions, which is very likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours.The IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places in Saurashtra, north and south Gujarat regions over the next three days.Light thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, moderate rain with maximum surface wind speed less than 40kmph very likely to occur at isolated places in Sabarkantha, Aravalli, Mahisagar, Dwarka, Jamnagar and Kutch districts, it said.The SEOC has asked the local administrations to remain alert in view of the heavy rainfall warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-gujarat-receive-heavy-rains-434-mm-rainfall-in-khambhalia-tehsil/story-ofBVGQq9qjLRL51bVi3FKL.html
06-07-2020||India||Over 6 lakh people affected in 17 Assam districts due to floods||Around 6,80,931 people have been affected in 17 districts due to flood in the state, as per the Assam State Disaster Management Authority.4,852 people staying in 62 relief camps, the authority said.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-6-lakh-people-affected-in-17-assam-districts-due-to-floods/story-crqJ0wZE24HzsvHZmeZUXI.html
06-07-2020||India||The political economy of petrol-diesel price hike||Petrol and diesel prices have gone up by Rs 9.17 and 11.14 per litre respectively between June 6 and July 3 in Delhi. An HT analysis published on June 24 showed that the gap between retail prices in Delhi and international crude price reached an all-time high in March 2020; this still continues to be significantly higher than pre-pandemic levels. This is because of an increase in taxes on petrol and diesel. Between April 1 and July 1, the share of central and state taxes in petrol and diesel prices in Delhi increased from 45% to 63% for diesel and 54% to 64% for petrol. Central taxes per litre are almost twice state taxes. And while fuel prices vary across states, the trend across India is pretty much the same.See Chart 1: Build up of petrol-diesel prices in Delhi on 1 April and July 1 As is to be expected, the tax-driven hike in petrol-diesel prices has become a political issue. The Congress and other opposition parties are demanding a reduction in taxes. The central government has justified the move by saying that the tax proceeds are being used for spending on “healthcare, generating employment and giving people financial security” and claimed that the common man has not been hit by the price hike as their consumption has decreased due to the lockdown . The truth, as is often the case, lies somewhere in the middle.Unlike developed countries, a very small share of Indians own cars. According to the 2011 census, only 4.5% of households owned a car, jeep, or van. The 2015-16 National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) puts the share of households owning a car or truck at 6%. To be sure, the share of households owning a motorized two-wheeler is significantly higher, 21% according to the 2011 census and 38% as per the 2015-16 NFHS. The 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey (latest available data) shows that an overwhelming majority of Indian households either do not spend or spend very little on petrol and diesel. Petrol and diesel had a share of 2.4% in average Monthly Per Capita Expenditure (MPCE) in 2011-12. This increased from 0.1% for the bottom 10% of households to 4.2% for the top 10%. So, there is some merit to the claim that an increase in petrol-diesel prices does not affect household budgets directly.See Chart 2: Share of petrol-diesel in total MPCE by decile classDoes this mean that rise in petrol-diesel prices are a non-issue for the common man? Not necessarily. Petrol and diesel are crucial inputs for some of the poorest entrepreneurs in the Indian economy.Farmers use diesel as fuel in tractors and irrigation pumps. According to farmers activist Ramandeep Singh Mann, the diesel price hike might wipe out the benefit of the entire increase in Minimum Support Price (MSP) for paddy. It takes 25-30 litres of diesel to prepare an acre for cropping and another 75 litres of diesel over the entire season for irrigation, Mann said. Now, a hike of Rs 11 per litre in diesel prices means an additional expenditure of Rs 1,100, which is roughly equal to the MSP hike, assuming a yield of 22-23 quintal per acre, he added. To be sure, not all farmers use diesel pumps for irrigation purposes, as electricity is heavily subsidised for farmers.Another area where a fuel price hike can adversely affect poor people is in the transport sector. According to the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), 2.9% of India’s workforce is directly employed in the motorised road transport sector. This excludes railways and non-motorised transport. Of the 11 million who are employed in this sector, 40% are self-employed. This is higher than the average share of self-employed people (36%) in India’s non-agricultural workforce. Some states have a significantly higher share of workers in this sector than others.See Chart 3: State-wise share of motorised road transport in total employment The passenger transport sector is bound to have suffered a huge fall in revenue due to the lockdown and continued fears about using public transport due to the Covid-19 virus. A rise in fuel prices must have made matters worse, as passenger volumes continue to stay low. The poor financial health is certain to affect workers in the sector.What about the cascading effect of higher fuel prices on other commodities? Transport operators say that diesel prices comprise around 65% of their operational cost. Mahendra Arya, President, All India Transporters Welfare Association, said that diesel prices have increased by around 22% since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. Accordingly, their transport costs have increased by around 14%, he added. The operators also complained of their inability to transfer the increased transport costs to their customers at present. With transportation demand down by almost half in the last few months due to Covid-19 , operators do not have much leverage over customers and are not able to fully pass on the cost , said Naveen Gupta, secretary general at the All India Motor Transport Congress.The increase in the basic transport cost will eventually affect many sectors, said Himanshu, associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. This includes the food sector which has seen inflation in the last few months , he added. Even if the market is bad, transporters will have to increase prices to cover their costs, Himanshu said. Not everyone agrees. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings, said that with the quantum of goods transported being lower than before, operators may not increase the cost and bear it themselves, in the hope that this is temporary.With economic activity collapsing during the pandemic, petrol and diesel prices have emerged an important cushion for revenue mobilisation for both central and state governments. Given that even non-Bharatiya Janata Party state governments have resorted to its use, any blanket calls for a rollback in central taxes will not pass the hypocrisy test. Data available with the petroleum ministry shows that taxes imposed on fuel by states governments have gone up significantly during the pandemic. For example, in Delhi, state tax on diesel almost doubled between April 1 and July 1. State taxes on petroleum do not follow a uniform structure across India. All states except Kerala, Gujarat, and Telangana have increased taxes on petrol and diesel in the post-pandemic period. Madhya Pradesh, for example, has increased the ad valorem VAT on petrol from 28% to 33% and the fixed VAT from Rs 1.5/litre to Rs 3.5/litre in May this year. Rajasthan increased the ad valorem VAT from 26% last year to 36% in May this year and to 38% in June. Because the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell website does not give a historical archive of state taxes, this analysis has compared June tax rates with online archives for February 2019 and May 2020.Petrol and diesel consumption fell sharply because of the lockdown. April consumption in physical terms was less than half the consumption last year. Things improved in May, and the annual contraction was to the tune of 29% for diesel and 35% for petrol. With the easing of lockdown restrictions, June consumption should be closer to normal . With sales volumes increasing, the government can realise the same amount of revenue for lower per-unit taxes. A transparent revenue forecasting exercise, given the fact that institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank have already made their economic growth projections for the current fiscal, can be used to draft a plan about how much extra revenue should be drawn from petroleum products. State government could also argue that greater share of petroleum revenues be transferred to the divisible pool of taxes, rather than the centre keeping it all. The entire increase in central taxes on petrol and diesel after the pandemic has been under the heads of special additional excise duty and additional excise duty (road and infrastructure cess), neither of which forms a part of the divisible pool of central taxes.As far as vulnerable consumers such as farmers and the poor making a living in the passenger transport sector are concerned, concessions can be made through special channels such as Kisan Credit Cards or some sort of a limited subsidy against vehicle registration certificates. These, however, require nuance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-political-economy-of-petrol-diesel-price-hike/story-n1wUkMkOa86mPvgNng0LsJ.html
06-07-2020||India||Community spread of Covid has begun in Assam, total lockdown may get extended||Assam government on Sunday said that community spread of Covid-19 has begun in Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro district. The government added that the ongoing total lockdown to control the pandemic might get extended.The development comes a day after 777 Covid-19 positive cases, the single biggest spike in a day, were reported from Kamrup Metro taking the district’s tally for 10 days between June 24 and July 4 to 2,741 cases. The state has reported 11,001 cases so far.“In the last 10 days we have recorded 2741 positive cases in Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro. Almost all of these cases are from community transmission,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday.“We have formally entered pandemic since June 24 and can no longer blame Karnataka, Mumbai, Tamil Nadu or Delhi (from where returnees came back during May and June) for COVID-19 spread in our state,” he said.Assam government had imposed a 14-day total lockdown in Kamrup Metro from June 28 allowing only pharmacies to operate. However, with the number of cases not coming down, Sarma has indicated that the lockdown might get extended after the 14-day period on July 12.“Extension of lockdown in Kamrup Metro depends on the number of cases. We might have to extend it by another week. There will be a need to find balance between allowing economic activity and risking lives of people,” he said.“We had to announce total lockdown from June 28 due to special circumstances and the present situation in Kamrup Metro shows the government move was timely and needed,” Sarma said.While Covid-19 patients were kept in government hospitals till now, the surge has forced the government to consider keeping some in private hospitals. Sarma indicated that the government might take over a few private hospitals in Guwahati for management of Covid patients.The minister also informed that a plasma bank has become operational in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and a doctor who recovered from Covid-19 was the first donor. The health department has also started administering Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, to Covid-19 patients with serious complications.“Till Sunday, we have conducted 455,223 tests across the state and with 13,471 tests per million, Assam is placed fourth after Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu among all states in the country. As part of our community surveillance, we have conducted nearly 82,000 tests till now,” said Sarma.On Sunday, Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna announced a fresh set of guidelines for Kamrup Metro for the period between July 5 and July 12 allowing opening of grocery shops and sale of fruits and vegetables.All standalone grocery shops in the district will be allowed to open between 11 am and 4 pm from July 6 to July 10 and house to house sale of fruits and vegetables allowed from 8 am to 2 pm on July 6 and July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-spread-of-covid-has-begun-in-assam-total-lockdown-may-get-extended/story-Qenid30HZuJOu8JT5E2jUL.html
06-07-2020||India||5 start-ups in shortlist for Make in India video app||A video conferencing solution challenge launched by the ministry of electronics and information technology, aimed at finding an Indian alternative to Zoom, has thrown up a surprise – the top five companies to make it to the ministry’s list are all start-ups.The top three, which will be provided ₹20 lakh each as support from the government to develop an indigenous video conferencing application, are PeopleLink Unified Communications Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad; Sarv Webs Pvt Ltd, Jaipur; and Techgentsia Software Technologies Private Ltd, Alappuhza.The other two companies, Instrive Softlabs Private Ltd, Chennai; and Soulpage IT Solutions Private Ltd, Hyderabad, will be given ₹15 lakh each to develop the final product.Officials in the information and technology (IT) ministry said on condition of anonymity that over 2,000 applications had come in by potential participants in the video conferencing app challenge, which was launched on April 13. The challenge came in the backdrop of the nationwide lockdown that led to the need for video conferencing apps to support the country’s shift to working from home and comply with social distancing norms.Initially, American-origin application Zoom gained wide popularity, with even certain ministries and a number of officials taking to it to communicate. Security concerns surrounding Zoom led the central government to ask all ministries and departments to refrain from using the app and shift to the National Informatics Centre’s Vidyo application instead. Vidyo too is an American-origin company, but is vetted by the National Informatics Centre to ensure data privacy.After a series of presentations, the five start-ups were shortlisted. IT ministry officials told HT that tech giants such HCL Technologies Ltd and Zoho Corporation Private Ltd had also applied, but could not make it to the top five. Zoho, however, has been awarded a certificate of appreciation by the ministry.“PeopleLink is a slightly older company,” an IT ministry official said. “But Sarv and Techgentsia are nascent start-ups.”The official added that the latter two have devised “homegrown” solutions, from coding to ensuring that all information is encrypted in a secure fashion. “Sarv, for example, did their entire presentation in Hindi,” the official said.“Most tech solutions are built on Jitsi (an open source video conferencing application for web and mobile),” the official added. “That is the easy thing to do. However, the top three have unique design and were created independent of Jitsi. The entire architecture of the app is specialised. ”The official added that final versions of the solutions are likely to be rolled out by the end of the month.Ramesh Chaudhary, CEO of Sarv that has developed SARV wave, launched his company in 2011. “The product is completely indigenous,” said Chaudhary. “No data will travel out of India and it has been certified by CERT.”Chaudhary added that the solution is a one-click product that does not require a user to download the app. “You can view up to 50 people in one screen and will especially be able to cater to educational institutions. Its end-to-end encryption matches the standards of the European Union.”According to Techgentsia CEO Joy Sebastian, the beta version of the product has already been vetted by the IT ministry. “Ours is a server-site mixing solution,” said Sebastian. “The main aim was to enable the government to save money by reducing reliance on legacy video conferencing applications.”Techgentsia was founded in 2009 and has 50 people working on the project.“The servers will be in the government’s custody; so that ensures data security,” said Sebastian. “Nothing will be posted on a public cloud.”According to the essential and desirable features of the applications issued by the ministry and accessed by HT, the apps are required to provide end-to-end encryption for audio, video, data and files. They also have to store the data on the cloud for at least a month and provide multiple factor authentications for a user. Among desirable features were a CERT-In security audit and data privacy.According to Srinivas Kodali, an independent researcher working on technology, data and governance, the move to choose start-ups is a “logical one.”“If the ministry had picked an HCL or a Zoho, it would have helped those companies garner profits,” Kodali said. “However, by picking newer companies, it will help the government retain its money and create more jobs in the sector.”Kodali added that the privacy concerns will still remain as any product takes “time to stabilise.” “Zoom marketed itself as end-to-end encrypted, but it turned out otherwise,” Kodali said. “Even though CERT may have done an audit, they still have to prove it. It’s an evolution cycle. Moreover, the question remains whether compliance with local laws will ensure that these companies have to disallow what the government doesn’t want to grant access to, say an NGO holding a talk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-start-ups-in-shortlist-for-make-in-india-video-app/story-nRgq9RxD82at8hW1YudL4H.html
06-07-2020||India||Another grim milestone: India No.3 in total coronavirus cases||With four consecutive days of record highs in new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India on Sunday went past Russia in total infections to become the third biggest hot spot of the virus, ranking only behind the US and Brazil.The country reported 24,422 new cases and 421 new deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 697,284 and fatalities to 19,700.With nearly three million cases and 132,000 deaths, the United States is the worst-hit country in the world, followed by Brazil, which has nearly 1.6 million cases and over 64,000 deaths, according to worldometers.info. Russia, now at the fourth spot, has 681,251 Covid-19 infections and 10,161 deaths. Peru was placed fifth with over 299,000 cases and 10,000 deaths on Sunday night.Public health experts say that while India has a high Covid-19 caseload, its case fatality rate, at 2.8%, is much lower than the global average of 4.7%. Also read: Delhi’s Covid-19 case count likely to hit 100k today, fatality rate at 3%Another statistic that offers hope is that 424,596 patients, or 60.9%, have recovered from the disease — better than the global recovery rate of 56.6%. The recovery rate in India has been climbing steadily — it was 48% a month ago and 28.5% 30 days before that. This means that 36.4% of the total case count is currently “active”. Active cases are a crucial metric because they directly influence the patient load faced by the country’s health care infrastructure.  The three worst-hit states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi – account for more than 60% of all cases recorded in the country, indicating how the virus has created urban hot spots of the infection. Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai have remained the cities with the highest numbers of infections, with 99,444, 84,524 and 68,254 confirmed Covid-19 cases (36.2% of the national tally) as of Sunday. Nearly 85% of all cases in the country can be traced to the 10 worst-affected states.New Covid-19 cases have dropped substantially in China, the country where the pandemic originated, but surged in India and ravaged South America. Experts say that in countries with weak health care systems and impoverished populations, fighting the virus has proven to be difficult.Latin America has become the latest epicentre of the highly contagious disease, with Brazil and Mexico both reporting massive spike in cases over the past month.In India, the latest 100,000 infections were recorded in just five days. India recorded its first 50,000 Covid-19 cases in nearly 67 days, with a wave of infections beginning in March after three isolated cases were first reported in Kerala in January.The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a twofold rise, is 20.3 days. Across the world, many governments are easing restrictions as they face political and economic challenges triggered by the pandemic. So far, the disease has killed at least 535,000 people worldwide and infected more than 11.4 million.Also read: India tests 10 million samples for Covid-19, experts say more requiredConcerns are rising in India, where new cases showed another record jump on Sunday, going past 21,000 for the fourth straight day amid easing restrictions on travel and business activity. States with relatively few cases have seen spikes in recent days as residents, including migrant workers travelling in special trains, have returned home. On average, India has reported 22,377 cases over the last five days.Delhi reported 2,244 new cases on Sunday, taking the total infections to 99,444. A total of 3,067 people have died of the disease in the Capital so far. The numbers of daily cases in Delhi have remained under 3,000 for the last nine days, prompting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to say that situation had been controlled by joint efforts of his government and the Centre.While at the national level the new cases have risen by 3.5% on average over the past week, two states — Karnataka and Telangana — have shown nearly double the rate of increase in the same period. Though still considerably behind the “big three” in terms of total cases, Karnataka and Telangana have been climbing the national tally steadily, reporting the highest single-day cases outside the “big three” every day over the last week.India broke into the top three hot spots of the infectious disease on a day the country completed testing 10 million samples for Covid-19, with more than 230,000 being tested every day on average over the last week. This places India on the fifth spot in the world in absolute numbers of tests — behind China, the US, Russia and the UK. However, once the population of the country is factored in, India drops to the 135th position globally, with over 7,500 tests conducted for every million residents of the country.Experts, however, say that the death toll is a more effective indicator of how a country is performing against the pandemic. “Case counts are not a reliable indicator as there are too many variables. Cases detected depend on the number of tests, types of tests and false positives and false negatives associated with it, criterion for testing (who’s eligible, who’s not), and repeat testing. Given the fact that testing rates are different on each day and the numbers are not standardised, daily deaths are a more stable indicator of whether there is a decline in the epidemic,” said Dr Srinath K Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.“Since deaths lag behind cases by 10-20 days, a fall in daily deaths over 10 consecutive days is a more stable indicator of decline in new cases. Europe didn’t talk about case counts, they opened up when daily deaths started coming down. Italy, Spain and France all did that. But you need total deaths and deaths per million to assess the overall impact of the epidemic after it’s over,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-grim-milestone-india-no-3-in-total-cases/story-lJPkEouOjojcdp6HrxizVI.html
06-07-2020||India||Fire at Ghaziabad’s illegal factory kills 8; probe ordered||Seven women and an 18-year-old man were charred to death and 11 others injured in a fire that swept through an illegal factory manufacturing party poppers in Ghaziabad district’s Modinagar town, officials said on Sunday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took note of the incident and asked authorities to conduct an immediate probe, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, adding that he has already ordered a magisterial inquiry into the accident. A first information report (FIR) will be lodged against the person operating the factory and he will be sent to jail, Pandey told reporters in Bakharwa village, where the factory is located.“We have found laxity on part of the local police post in-charge as he was prima facie expected to have knowledge about the factory. The CM has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased,” Pandey said.Senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said: “The factory was illegal as we have found no documents or records of its operation or permission.”Fire department officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said manufactured items stocked at the complex caught fire around 4pm. Forensic experts were roped in to ascertain the exact cause of fire. All the 11 injured are women.“There were no safety measures and the factory did not have any licence. It was operating illegally. There were 25-30 women who were employed as workers; even children used to work here,” said Bupender Kumar, a villager.Villagers alleged that the factory was operated illegally by one Nitin Chuaudhary and his partner, Momeen. A police raid was conducted about a fortnight ago but the operations continued unaffected, they said.After the incident, officials in the Ghaziabad administration and the police rushed to the spot. Modinagar legislator Manju Siwach, too, visited the site.“The factory was manufacturing poppers which are used for birthday celebrations. The work was going on illegally and explosive chemicals which were also stored, caught fire,” she said.Later, villagers blocked a road and shouted slogans against officials.“Villagers were demanding strict action as the factory continued its operations. My aunt had been working there for the past year...She was given a job for Rs 4,500 a month. She went to work at 8am and later we found that she died in the fire,” said Sahil, the nephew of one of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-ghaziabad-s-illegal-factory-kills-8-probe-ordered/story-JqMenqZiy1ukUY3fXL3YEN.html
06-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey’s aide held; search on for informers in police||Police in Uttar Pradesh arrested an aide of criminal Vikas Dubey and intensified search for suspected informers in the force who could have tipped him off about a raid that eventually led to the killing of eight personnel by his gang, officials said on Sunday.Daya Shankar Agnihotri, suspected to be part of the gang that laid a trap for the police team raiding Kanpur Dehat’s Bikru village and attacked them on Thursday night, was arrested after a gunfight in Kalyanpur area near Kanpur city.Agnihotri, who has three criminal cases including two cases of attempted murder against him, suffered a bullet wound in his right leg. He carried a reward of Rs 25,000, and was allegedly Dubey’s domestic help. Agnihotri said in a video statement that a caller from a police station informed the 48-year-old Dubey, who faces 60 criminal cases, about the raid. HT has seen the video.Officials suspect it could be the police station in Chaubeypur, about 14km from Bikru. It is the place where an attempt to murder case was registered against Dubey by a villager on Wednesday. The team that went to raid Dubey’s village past Thursday midnight left from Chaubeypur.Agnihotri said at least 25 people were waiting with Dubey for the police team, which walked straight into their trap and was ambushed in a 15-minute onslaught, according to the official.Dubey’s gang fired at them indiscriminately, killing a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors and four constables in an ambush that the police later said was a “well-planned conspiracy”.Hours later, security personnel launched a massive search for the criminals who escaped in the dark, and gunned down two suspected gang members about 3km from the village.In a first information report (FIR) filed on Friday night, the police named a total of 22 people, including Dubey and Agnihotri, and 10 unidentified people.INSIDER LINK?On Saturday, Chaubeypur station officer (SO) Vinay Tiwari was questioned for nine hours over his role in the raid. He was later suspended and shifted to Lucknow. Officials did not specify the nature of allegations against him.Officials believe that Dubey, an influential gangster whose criminal records date back to 1993, has supporters in the police force and that they helped him and his gang enjoy a free run despite cases of murder, attempted murder and abduction against them.Mohit Agarwal, inspector general of police, Kanpur range, said at least three policemen were suspected to be in touch with Dubey and an investigation was underway. “Services of police personnel in league with him will be terminated and they will face criminal trial,” he said.DUBEY’S WHEREABOUTSThe police are yet to trace Dubey, who has been missing since the ambush. Director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy has sounded an alert in all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday night, a reward of Rs 1 lakh was announced for his arrest. Fifty teams and over 3,000 police personnel across the state have been deployed for the mission.Police officials associated with the investigation, who did not want to be named, said an abandoned SUV parked on the roadside in Auraiya, 60km from Bikru, was recovered on Sunday. Bloodstains were found on the car window. “There are multiple shortcuts and interior roads from Auraiya that lead to the Madhya Pradesh border,” a senior police official in Kanpur said. There is a possibility that Dubey moved further to other states after entering Madhya Pradesh, he added.DGP Awasthi said in Lucknow several inputs were being received that hinted Dubey entered Madhya Pradesh or Nepal. But nothing substantial has emerged, he said.He confirmed that police recovered an abandoned SUV in Auraiya registered in the name of one Amit Dubey, a close aide of the gangster. Local authorities were trying to verify if Dubey and his aides were travelling in the vehicle and left it on the roadside.ARMS FOUNDA day after the police demolished the palatial house of Dubey in Bikru village, two kilograms of explosives, six country-made pistols, 25 live rounds and sharpnels in a bunker there, according to officials. Police said Dubey built a bunker inside his house for stocking items in case of a siege. Police pulled down the house following inputs that criminals had hidden firearms on the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubey-s-aide-held-search-on-for-informers-in-police/story-BCERiyO9imlRRBEXuryc0N.html
06-07-2020||India||Govt plans measures to create more jobs in post Covid-19 scenario||Promoting herbal and medical gardens in tribal areas, providing street vendors access to credit and using the infrastructure of the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) are among a slew of measures that the Centre is examining to generate employment in the post-Covid scenario.Realising the challenges posed by the migration of lakhs of workers to their home states, the Modi government had been quick to appoint a group of ministers, headed by social justice and empowerment minister Thaawaar Chand Gehlot, to ensure that new means of livelihood are generated and the skill training is accelerated.The group has zeroed in on a gamut of measures to ensure a plethora of employment opportunities to meet the current scenario.Also read: Govt tweaks MGNREGS for benefit of unskilled workersAccording to a person familiar with the development, one of the focus areas of the group is to come up with strategies for promoting rural manufacturing, including handicrafts, terracotta, brass and khadi industries, etc.A key aspect that the group is examining is the possibility of promoting herbal and medicinal gardens especially in the tribal areas to benefit the local population. Tribal affairs minister, Arjun Munda, is a also a member of the group.Another aspect the government is exploring is improving the prospects of street vendors, by providing them credit at accessible rates. “This is one of the ideas being explored. The city of Indore in Madhya Pradesh has done some work for the welfare of the street vendors. The group has examined the possibility of adopting ideas and the learning from these experiences to improve the situation of street vendors,” said the person cited above.Another aspect that the government is looking at is using the infrastructure of skill development ministry’s ITIs to impart skilling to workers to prepare them for job opportunities in the pandemic-affected world.The skill development ministry, led by Mahendra Nath Pandey, is already holding consultations with various sector skill councils to improve the employability of the country’s workforce. The Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, is also chipping in by conducting a study on skill gaps, according to the person cited above.Also read: Railways urges states to send back labourers for construction work of projectsSeveral other measures, including a National Employment Policy, a National Electronic Employment Exchange and building of a skill based database, are also in the pipeline.“There will be brainstorming and presentations on all these aspects in the coming days. And many of these measures will soon be launched as the government is increasingly focusing on giving a boost to employment and livelihood,” said a government official, when asked about the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-measures-to-create-more-jobs/story-zsfzdn6OLLVhMgqQZ14pXL.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala imposes safety rules for one year||The Kerala government tightened measures on Sunday to check the spread of Covid-19 cases by making wearing of facemask and observance of social distancing mandatory for one year. The government backed the measures, saying people had begun to take safety rules casually after relaxations. However, traders in the state said the tightening of norms may prove to be counterproductive for businesses.Fine for those not wearing a mask has been increased to Rs 10,000 or to a two-year jail term. These measures will be in force for one year unless notified otherwise, said a statement from the government.“We don’t want to lower our guard at the critical juncture. After norms are eased, some people are behaving like pre-Covid days; we want to check this. As long as the virus is in our backyard, we have to follow three basic norms, social distancing, masks and hand hygiene,” state health minister K K Shailaja said.The government amended the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Ordinance 2020 on Saturday to give it more teeth. Earlier, the fine for not wearing a mask was Rs 2,000. The amendment has also made social distancing mandatory for at least one year and restricted the number of participants for wedding parties to less than 50. For all social gatherings, protests and rallies, a written sanction of authorities will be needed, said the statement. Spitting in public places has been made an offence punishable with a fine or jail term. In shops and other business establishments, the amendment limits the presence of people to a maximum of 20, depending on the size of the trading area. Even at work places, masks are mandatory and wearing them casually will also invite a fine. Business establishments have been asked to avoid air-conditioning and closed enclosures and told to maintain office temperature in the range of 25 and 27 degree Celsius.While Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter, which wanted stricter norms, welcomed the move, traders and businessmen were guarded in their reaction.“Containment measures are welcome but at the same time the government will have to ensure proper atmosphere for traders. Even at worst-hit areas in Tamil Nadu and Mumbai these norms are not extended to one year,” said MP Prashanth, a trader in Chalai market in Thiruvananthapuram.The decision came in the backdrop of a steady rise in coronavirus disease cases in the state. On Sunday, Kerala reported 225 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 5,429. One person succumbed to the infection, taking the toll up to 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-imposes-safety-rules-for-one-year/story-ZaQ0sbAjhdULCj76iL3zgP.html
06-07-2020||India||India tests 10 million samples for Covid-19, experts say more required||India has tested 10 million samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past five-and-a-half months, with at least 200,000 samples being tested between January 22 and July 5 on average daily in the 11,00 laboratories that were identified, upgraded or established across the country at a breakneck speed to ramp up testing and prevent the spread of infections. Covid-19 testing labs in the country approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are capable of performing about 350,000 tests a day currently, an increase from about 10,000 tests per day in early February. ICMR has been reiterating how developing an intelligent testing strategy helped India stay ahead of the Sars-CoV2 virus that causes Covid-19.From 13 labs in the first week of February to 123 labs on March 24, India now has 1,100 testing labs in all states, and the numbers are only growing as ICMR continues to expand the testing laboratory network. Of the approved laboratories, 786 labs are in the government sector and 314 are private testing facilities.Also read| Covid-19: Delhi govt orders hospitals to test all ‘high-risk’ individualsICMR has also collaborated with other science and research agencies such as the department of science and technology, department of biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation and the Department of Atomic Energy for use of their testing labs and developing research solutions.Amitabh Kant, CEO of the government policy think tank Niti Aayog, emphasized the need for aggressive testing.“…We can succeed against #Covid-19 only with 3T strategy of testing, tracing and treating. This is the moment to act, and to act fast,” Kant tweeted. Kant chairs the empowered group number 6 on coordinating with private sector, NGOs, and International Organisations for Covid-19-related response.Experts also say that testing is crucial to determine the disease burden.“Unless you test you cannot know the actual disease prevalence. Targeted approach is about being able to know the disease burden as exactly as possible, and we now have the expertise and technology at our disposal to break things down to the lowest level. Looking for syndromic cases or guessing cases on the basis of clinical assessment doesn’t make sense in today’s day and age when science has advanced significantly. We have the resources and it is a good idea to make use of them,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology, ICMR. The national testing strategy is being constantly revised in line with the current trend of the outbreak.Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is the gold standard testing method for the Sars- CoV-2 diagnosis and is in place in all the identified laboratories for diagnosing the disease, says ICMR. To ramp up testing, ICMR has also been exploring other testing mechanisms for diagnosis along with RT-PCR testing.“Testing remains a cornerstone in our fight against Covid-19 and therefore ramping up testing is essentially critical to track, trace and treat all cases of Covid-19,” said the director general of ICMR, Dr Blaram Bhargava, in one of its letters to the Union health secretary, Preeti Sudan, last month.Also read: Karnataka sees 1,925 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru accounts for 60% of patients“Since the gold standard RT-PCR test has essential requirements in terms of biosafety and biosecurity as well as specialized equipment, ICMR had been exploring alternate, quick and reliable options for diagnosis of Covid-19.”On June 15, ICMR validated first point of care rapid antigen test for Covid-19 diagnosis that states can deploy on the field in containment zones, hotspots and hospitals, and get results in a maximum 30 minutes as opposed to five hours in a conventional RT-PCR test.This is the first such rapid test in the world that can be used for diagnosis as positive cases need not be confirmed through an RT-PCR test.An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines a present infection.Apart from antigen testing, ICMR also included antibody-based (blood) tests for sero-surveillance.“However, antibody tests are not suitable to diagnose live Covid-19 infections,” advises the ICMR.The ICMR advisory says to start rapid antibody based blood tests for Covid-19 as a strategy for areas reporting clusters (containment zones) and in large migration gatherings and in, evacuees centres.ICMR has developed guidelines ranging from the preparation of a network of government and private laboratories to ensure efficient validation and evaluation of new diagnostic kits.ICMR is also considering other scale-up interventions such as moving to a 24x7 working model at existing labs, coordinating with states to increase staff for various functions including data-entry, re-deploying automated and manual RT-PCR machines already in the country to aid Covid-19 testing, and optimising in-lab processes such as RNA extraction to reduce the turnaround time between sample receipt and testing.Experts say India would need to test more as not even 1% of the country’s total population has currently been tested.“It is important to test more because you cannot devise strategies for the remaining 99% of the population by looking at statistics coming from just 1% of the country’s population,” says Dr T Jacob John, former virology head at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-10mn-samples-experts-say-more-required/story-33hpi4QEmahyUj7TxNDfgO.html
06-07-2020||India||40 websites with Sikhs For Justice links banned by Centre||The Centre on Sunday blocked 40 websites linked to the banned Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) group which were being used to propagate anti-India sentiment across the world and for trying to recruit young Sikhs to join militant ranks, people familiar with the development said. The ministry of electronics and information technology took down the websites on a recommendation from the ministry of home affairs after it was found that SFJ, primarily operating from the United States, was aggressively using them to push its anti-India agenda, the people said on condition of anonymity. SFJ was banned by the government in July 2019 while its leader, Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, was declared an “individual terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on Wednesday. Both MHA and the IT ministry refused to disclose details of websites that have been blocked. One of the key websites associated widely with the group – www.referendum2020.org - through which it sought support from Sikh youth for the formation of a separate Khalistan state, could not be accessed as it has been blocked by the Department of Telecommunications. According to a gazette notification issued last year when SFJ was banned, “The outfit is involved in anti-national and subversive activities in Punjab and elsewhere, intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.” “SFJ is in close touch with the militant outfits and activists, and is supporting violent form of extremism and militancy in Punjab and elsewhere to carve out a sovereign Khalistan out of territory of Union of India; SFJ is encouraging and aiding the activities for secession of a part of the Indian territory from the Union of India and supporting separatist groups fighting for this purpose in India and elsewhere by indulging in activities and articulations intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India,” the central government order said The declaration banning the group was upheld by the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal headed by Delhi high court chief justice DN Patel. In its judgment, issued on January 6 this year, the tribunal said, “The notification dated July 10, 2019 issued by the Union of India under the Act declaring Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) to be an unlawful association is hereby confirmed. The reference is answered in the affirmative.”It was in the judgment that the website, www.referendum2020.org, “which is replete with pro-Khalistani posts and anti-India insinuations” was mentioned.Agencies are trying to get an Interpol red notice issued against Pannun. Indian officials have claimed that Pannun was getting support from Pakistan for his anti-India activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-websites-with-sfj-links-banned/story-DT68GdAV8nc1Q52s8cLI3I.html
06-07-2020||India||India may change hydroxychloroquine policy after WHO halts trials||India could be taking a relook at the use of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treatment of Covid-19 after the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Saturday announced that it had discontinued HCQ clinical trials because it did not reduce mortality in hospitalized patients, based on the results of interim trials.India uses HCQ as a prominent drug not just for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, but also as a prophylaxis (for prevention) medicine for use among fron tline workers involved in managing Covid-19 patients or close contacts of a laboratory positive case.“Covid-19 is a new disease and it is an extremely dynamic situation that we are dealing with, and newer data is constantly being generated. What we knew of the virus’ behaviour say a couple of months ago has undergone a sea change now, and same is applicable for the drugs and other treatment modalities being given to the patients,” said one of the members of the National Task Force constituted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to tackle the pandemic. The person requested anonymity The evidence generated from across the globe is being constantly scrutinized by experts here and guidelines and protocols are being revised accordingly. The same is true for HCQ or any other drug given to Covid-19 patients. The experts will be reviewing the guidelines and protocols and if they feel a need for a revision, they will change them, the member added.The recommended dosage for HCQ is 400mg twice a day for one day, followed by 200mg twice a day for four days; and for treatment it was being given along with antibiotic azithromycin, as part of the Union health ministry protocol on Covid-19 management. In its review of the protocol, the health ministry had dropped the antibiotic from the regimen. “When you start a drug for a condition based on some evidence then there is a need for even stronger evidence to withdraw that drug. Science works on evidence,” Dr RR Gangakhedkar, ICMR’s former epidemiology head said about the HCQ controversy earlier.A section of doctors has been saying that more evidence was required to keep the drug a part of the treatment protocol for Covid-19 management.“I would say I have not been as confident about this medicine now as I was earlier,” says Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of the critical care department at Medanta Hospital.Based on its Solidarity Trial’s International Steering Committee recommendations, WHO also discontinued the trial’s Lopinavir and Ritonavir arms for the same reason. Both these drugs are antivirals meant for HIV/AIDS treatment, and had shown promise initially in treating Covid-19. India dropped these medicines from its list of drugs used to treat Covid-positive cases in April.“These were initially being given under the emergency use authorization but later ICMR had withdrawn these drugs from the regimen as the results weren’t really great,” said an official of the Union health ministry, requesting anonymity. ICMR has also collaborated with WHO in the public health emergency Solidarity Trial – an international randomised trial of additional treatments for Covid-19 in hospitalised patients, and will be stopping these arms of the trial.“It is a WHO trial and the rules are governed by them. Since they have suspended these arms of the trial, it will obviously be suspended at trial sites in India also,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-review-hcq-use-for-covid/story-3VI5swOS69bk8eCzc6o1DM.html
06-07-2020||India||Railways in talks with states to get infra workers back||Indian Railways is in talks with states to get back labourers for construction work on its biggest infrastructure projects—the dedicated freight corridors. The project implementation agency, the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), which had been left with about 50% of its workforce after the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was enforced on March 25, has begun the process of getting back nearly 20,000 labourers, officials said.DFCCIL has sought help from state governments including those of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand to arrange workers for the Rs 81,000 crore project, scheduled to be completed by 2021, officials aware of the development said. DFCCIIL has begun booking special trains in bulk and deploying buses to get the labourers back.“ We had nearly 40,000 labourers working for us before the lockdown. After the first lockdown was announced, a bulk of migrants went back in the first 15 days. Once the Shramik Special trains began plying, nearly 50% of our workforce {around 25,000 labourers} had gone back. We have major agencies including L&T, Tata, GMR group etc who requested us to get the labour back. We have written to the UP government, we are also talking to the governments of Bihar and Jharkhand for the same as a majority of the workers comes from the eastern states,” said Anurag Sachan, managing director, DFCCIL.Also read: No job cuts but profiles of employees may change, says RailwaysRailways until now has transported more than 6.28 million migrants on board 4,594 Shramik Special trains that began plying from May 1 to ferry stranded migrants to their home states.“So far around 8,000 labourers have returned and we are arranging transportation for more to return. Several of the special trains that are plying were returning nearly empty, we managed to make bookings in bulk for the labourers. States like UP and Bihar have also made of the migrants and their skills and we are in touch with them. At present we are still at 50% of our total workforce,” Sachan added.These workers are needed for technical jobs like electrification, mast casting, track works, operating high-end machines and others which cannot be done by local labour. Around 11,000 workers of the total workforce were skilled labour, officials said.The ministry of railways is implementing two dedicated freight corridors, namely the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor from Ludhiana to Dankuni (1,856 km.) and Western Dedicated Freight Corridor from Dadri to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (1m504 km.). These corridors are targeted to be completed in phases by December 2021. DFCCIL had completed a total of 500 kilometres till January this year.Also read| Can’t convert coaches into ICUs for Covid patients: Railways to Bombay HCThe railway ministry last month said the trend of migrants returning by special trains from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal --states with a high migrant worker population – showed signs of economic activity picking up.Special trains returning from high migrant population states have shown over 100% occupancy from June 26 till June 30, according to railway ministry data, indicating that many of them may be migrants who had gone back to their home states on Shramik Specials during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-urges-states-to-send-back-labourers/story-DRbFkOwwxwrtMpV0L91Z9K.html
06-07-2020||India||Coronavirus vaccine trial beginning of pandemic’s end: Govt||The announcement of indigenous vaccine candidates COVAXIN by Bharat Biotech and ZyCov-D Vaccine by Zydus Cadila against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will mark the beginning of the end of the pandemic, the Union ministry of science and technology said on Sunday.“…Now the nod given by the Drug Controller General of India CDSCO (The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) for the conduct of the human trial for the vaccines, marks the beginning of the end,” read parts of a feature published in the India Science Wire, a science and technology news portal under the ministry.Indian institutions have also engaged in research and development on vaccines in India, including the India Council of Medical Research-run National Institute of Virology in Pune, and Hyderabad based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, which works under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. The virus strain isolated for Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN was isolated in NIV and transferred to the company on May 9.The Zydus vaccine candidate that received the drug controller’s nod for conducting phase 1-2 human trials, was developed indigenously at the company’s Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. The company plans to start the human clinical trials in July 2020.The ministry’s press release had initially mentioned that it would take anywhere between 15 and 18 months before a licence is issued for the vaccines, and that “none of these vaccines is unlikely to be ready for mass use before 2021.”The ministry, however, later retracted the portions that mentioned a timeline for the vaccine.Even though the science ministry officially did not issue a statement on the retraction, an official in the press information bureau of the government of India said on condition of anonymity that it had happened advertently; and that the purpose was to explain how vaccines work and the whole feature {published in the India Science Wire} was about that. There was no time frame and that’s why it had been modified. Along with the two Indian vaccines, COVAXIN and ZyCov-D, the world over, 11 out of 140 vaccine candidates have entered human trials.One of the leading candidates is AZD1222, developed by the Jenner Institute of University of Oxford and licenced to AstraZeneca, a British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company based in Cambridge, England.The MRNA-1273 vaccine developed by Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Washington and taken up for production by the US-based Moderna pharmaceutical is just a step behind.Both these firms have already inked an agreement with Indian manufacturers for production of the Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-trial-beginning-of-pandemic-s-end-govt/story-3rZmHzqLUkWs4EMY6uIwxI.html
06-07-2020||India||Govt tweaks MGNREGS for benefit of unskilled workers||With millions of unskilled migrant workers in the cities having returned to rural India in the aftermath of the lockdown imposed for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Narendra Modi government has tweaked the flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for the benefit of the workers.The government notified on July 2 that unskilled workers can now participate in the construction of community sanitary complexes under its flagship Swachh Bharat scheme—a priority welfare measure for the government.The phrase “Unskilled wage component for construction of Community Sanitary Complexes in convergence with Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen)” has been added to schedule 1 of the MGNREGS where it talks about “Rural sanitation related works, such as, individual household latrines, School toilet units, Anganwadi toilets either independently or in convergence with schemes of other Government Departments to achieve “open defecation free‟ status, and solid and liquid waste management.The arrangement, officials said, would in getting more hands for Swachh Bharat-related construction and for the unskilled workers, opens a dedicated area of work. MGNREGS promises 100 days of manual work a year to at least one member of every rural householdThe government recently announced a targeted programme comprising 25 types of existing work to offer jobs to migrant labourers who have returned home in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Out of these 25, construction of community sanitation complexes was mentioned at the top of the presentation made at a press conference.Public works worth Rs 50,000 crore would be offered to create jobs for migrant workers through this programme.The skill mapping done in 116 districts across six states for the rozgar (employment)programme has revealed the high share of unskilled workers from the construction sector who came back to rural India during the pandemic. While construction workers comprised nearly 60% of all migrant daily-wagers, about 40% were unskilled.Officials pointed out that last year too, the MGNREGS laws had been tweaked when the government renewed its emphasis on rain water harvesting. In November 2019, schedule 1 was amended to allow “rooftop rain water harvesting structures in Government or Panchayat buildings.”MGNREGS was cleared by Parliament in 2005 and subsequently, many changes have been made to make the programme more attractive to the poor beneficiaries. An official pointed out, “the changes are only made in the schedule or an appendix of the main law. So, it doesn’t require the Parliament’s sanction.”The union government is heavily banking on the MGNREGS to provide relief to India’s vast rural sector. It has pumped in an additional Rs 40,000 crore to beef up the MGNREGS annual budget to Rs 1.05 lakh crore--the highest ever allocation to the rural jobs scheme. The government also plans to create 300 crore persondays of work under MGNREGS this financial year.“MGNREGS is anyway demand-driven and works of swachh bharat were already included. creating job opportunities for unskilled workers is good but the main question is where is the money? the government has hiked MGNREGS budget by Rs 40,000 crore but the budget won’t be sufficient for the entire year given the very high demand for work,” said Himanshu, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tweaks-mgnregs-for-benefit-of-unskilled-workers/story-gupzSnNBYnkwUIscQ2md2M.html
06-07-2020||India||Italian marines’ case verdict may not hit India’s fishing rights||The ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (tribunal) at the Hague in the Italian marines case will not affect India’s rights in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) for fishing, exploration of gas and so on, former additional solicitor general (ASG) PS Narasimha, who headed India’s legal team during the initial stages of the case before the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, said.The EEZ is a sea zone prescribed under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and extends upto 200 nautical miles (370 kilometers) from the coastline of the country. UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of marine natural resources. As per Article 56 of UNCLOS, every country has sovereign rights within the EEZ including the right to exploit natural resources, living or non-living.The shooting of Indian fishermen in 2012 happened within the Indian EEZ. Despite that, the arbitral tribunal came to the conclusion that Italy had not violated India’s sovereign rights.But the tribunal’s observations should be seen in the context of the specific incident of Enrica Lexie, an Italian oil tanker, wherein it held that a vessel can take action to protect itself from what it assumed was an attack by pirates, Narasimha said in an interview with Hindustan Times.“The Tribunal’s ruling does not impact India’s rights in the EEZ for fishing, exploration of gas, fishing in any manner whatsoever. The Tribunal’s observations (on Italy not having violated India’s sovereign rights) are limited to the extent of stating that a vessel has a right to protect itself from potential piracy attacks including in the EEZ of another state. These observations are only a reflection of the rights vested in a country’s vessel to protect itself in certain circumstances and not in derogation of the coastal state’s rights in the EEZ”, he said.Narasimha made it clear that the finding of the Tribunal need not be categorized as Italy not having violated India’s sovereign rights at all. The Tribunal, he said, recorded in clear terms that India has the freedom of navigation in the high seas and that Italy had acted in breach of India’s freedom of navigation.“The tribunal has only held that in the specific incident of the Italian vessel, which was otherwise traversing peacefully through the EEZ, the action taken by Enrica Lexie due to its supposedly bonafide assumption of a potential piracy event, may not have been in violation of India’s sovereign rights in the EEZ. The Tribunal’s ruling only proceeds to examine whether a vessel is entitled to take defensive steps to defend itself in the event of an attack in the EEZ of another country. To this particular question, it has answered in the affirmative”, he said.Narasimha also pointed out that the tribunal rejected Italy’s claim that India is expected to make reparations for its actions of arrest and investigation of the marines.“On India’s counter- claim of violation of Articles 56 by Italy, the Tribunal has held that no foreign flagged vessel can proceed to act against Indian sovereign interests and rights in the EEZ in any manner”, he added.While the tribunal held that Italy interfered with India’s right to navigation when Enrica Lexie fired at the India fishing boat St. Antony, it also held that India should stop exercising criminal jurisdiction over the marines because the marines enjoyed state immunity since they were acting in their official capacity. Are these two findings contradictory?Narasimha said that while there might be problems with regard to tribunal’s finding on marines enjoying state immunity, it is not contradictory to the finding on violation of India’s right to navigation. “Though the issue of territoriality has been held in India’s favour the issue of immunity is not contradictory but a different issue entirely”, he said.The Tribunal, he said, correctly observed that the act of shooting by the Marines which caused St. Antony to change direction and head back to shore was in violation of India’s freedom of navigation.But despite specifically holding that India has jurisdiction over the incident, the tribunal also observed that whether or not India can subsequently try the Marines would also depend on the outcome of the question of immunity. The question of immunity was then answered in favour of Italian marines based on which India was asked to stop the criminal proceedings against the Marines.“The Tribunal’s finding that immunity was applicable to the Marines in these facts and that they were “State officials of the Italian Republic” and “acting in their official capacity as officers of the Italian Navy is questionable. This approach is rather dangerous for the serious implications they entail in how countries are expected to act in similar situations in the future”, Narasimha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italian-marines-case-verdict-may-not-hit-india-s-fishing-rights/story-NiRzJr5zj0hfChXuzpqFZI.html
06-07-2020||India||India, Afghanistan ink 5 agreements to develop educational infra in Afghan provinces||India and Afghanistan on Sunday signed five agreements for developing educational infrastructure in four Afghan provinces, with the move seen as a reiteration of New Delhi’s support to Kabul at a time when the war-torn country’s peace process is confronting challenges.The five memorandums of understanding (MoUs) were signed under the high impact community development projects (HICDP) programme being implemented by India to further strengthen the bilateral development partnership, said a statement from the Indian embassy in Kabul.Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme over a period of five years. These projects are part of India’s commitment to assisting Afghanistan emerge as a “peaceful, united, prosperous and pluralistic nation”, the statement said.The projects to be taken up under the five MoUs include the construction of classrooms, a higher education building and a road within the campus of Albironi University. The projects are spread across the four provinces of Nooristan, Badakhshan, Farah and Kapisa.Since 2005, the Indian government has committed $200 million to support more than 550 high impact community development projects across Afghanistan. Of these, more than 400 projects have already been completed while the rest are in various stages of implementation. These are usually smaller grassroots projects that involve a lower financial outlay, but have a direct impact on local populations.The ceremony in Kabul for the signing of the MoUs was presided over by the Afghan minister of economy, Mustafa Mastoor. Tripartite agreements were signed between the Indian government, the Afghan ministry of economy and the implementing ministries, such as the ministry of education.Two MoUs were signed by Indian ambassador Vinay Kumar and ministers Mustafa Mastoor and Abdul Tawab Balakarzai, while three were signed by Kumar and ministers Mastoor and Rangina Hamidi.“The government of India remains committed to take forward the India-Afghanistan Development Partnership based on the national priorities of the government and people” of Afghanistan, the statement said.Despite an agreement signed by the US and the Taliban in February, Afghanistan has witnessed a surge in terrorist violence even as it grapples with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The intra-Afghan dialogue, a key component of the peace process, is yet to get underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-afghanistan-ink-5-agreements/story-fxUVUiz5aEDiTeRMlBQagJ.html
06-07-2020||India||China’s new boundary dispute with Bhutan targets India’s Arunachal Pradesh||The Chinese government’s decision for the first time to publicly put on record that it has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector is a calibrated manner of launching a diplomatic attack on Thimphu’s ally India on a new front.The key could be the proximity of Bhutan’s “eastern sector” to Arunachal Pradesh – which China claims in its entirety as part of “south Tibet” : It could be the primary reason for Beijing to talk about differing boundary perceptions with Bhutan now.First at a multilateral environment forum in June, where India was present, and then through a statement to HT, the Chinese foreign ministry has said it has a border dispute with Bhutan in the eastern sector, surprising many who are following developments in the region.Also read: China says it has border dispute with Bhutan tooBesides multiplying pressure on New Delhi during the ongoing, and most serious border tension with India in decades, it is also a ploy by China to simultaneously internationalise an issue it has seldom done before – the boundary problem with its tiny neighbour.Though China might not have said it publicly, it’s not surprising if Beijing was opposed to the India-Bhutan boundary delimitation agreement, which was signed in 2006 -- more so because of Bhutan’s borders with Arunachal Pradesh.The Chinese foreign ministry, in a statement issued to Hindustan Times last week, said the China-Bhutan boundary has never been delimited and there “have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sections for a long time”. The statement in Mandarin further said “a third party should not point fingers” in the China-Bhutan border issue – an apparent reference to India.Referring to Chinese foreign ministry’s statement saying the disputes in the three areas have been there “for a long time”, Constantino Xavier, fellow in foreign policy studies at the think-tank Brookings India, said the timing chosen by Beijing to raise the issue – amid the ongoing Sino-India border tension -- was important.“Even while this Chinese claim may not be new, the timing and the multilateral setting of Beijing’s statement reflect intent to put pressure on Bhutan and India, seeking to create a wedge between both countries,” Xavier said.“You got to see the Chinese claims in continuation to their strategy of territorial claims elsewhere,” a New Delhi-based Asia expert said on condition of anonymity.Also read: Chinese PLA’s rear defences in Ladakh’s Galwan valley face an icy challengeChina’s state-controlled media and Chinese academics consistently blame India for Beijing-Thimphu not having diplomatic ties.“As far as I know, the China-Bhutan boundary issue was almost resolved 20 years ago. The two sides have a common understanding on how to sign the final agreement. But for Bhutan, it is difficult because of the India factor. That is the same reason why China and Bhutan have not signed the agreement,” Lin Minwang, assistant dean at the Institute of International Studies at Shanghai’s Fudan University, said.Will publicising the problem now help China?“But using Bhutan to target India may turn out to be counterproductive for China: it will lose political capital in Bhutan and is actually facilitating closer diplomatic coordination between Thimphu and Delhi.”In 2018 July, vice foreign minister Kong Xuanyou led a rare high-level visit from China to Bhutan; he was accompanied by Luo Zhaohui, the then Chinese envoy to India.The Chinese foreign ministry statement released at the end of his visit said: “China highly values its traditional friendly relations with Bhutan, and will as always respect Bhutan’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, respect the political system and development path chosen by Bhutan based on its own national conditions, and respect the independent foreign policy of peace upheld by Bhutan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-bhutan-move-aimed-at-india/story-JS0A3gx4FQVlwSrZ4NPfgI.html
06-07-2020||India||With army in mind, Pakistan chooses China over United States||Ever since the world started pointing a finger at Beijing for the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Pakistan has gone out of its way to express solidarity with China. Even to the extent of refusing to let its 1,000-odd students stranded in Wuhan, the original epicentre of the outbreak, return to Islamabad in February. It is no secret that Beijing had been soliciting support from all its friends, or clients, as some analysts describe the relationship between China and Pakistan. Islamabad, indebted to China for more than one reason, had gone a step further. China was being panned by countries across the world, particularly the United States, over what was widely perceived to be gross negligence on the part of China that led to the rapid spread of the disease that has infected 11 million people across the world and killed nearly 530,000.In the cacophony that followed as countries took sides, Pakistan was understandably the loudest voice in support of China despite some uneasiness in the foreign policy circles of Islamabad.Before the world was able to visualise the impact of the pandemic, Pakistan was in a comfortable position on the foreign policy front, particularly the China-US matrix. It was effectively leveraging its influence over the Taliban to extract concessions from the US in the global terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force. Washington was soft pedalling on Pakistan’s failure to comply with the FATF Action Plan and had allowed it extra time at the Paris Plenary in February. The reprieve, by any standards, was a fair indicator of the Pakistan foreign office’s successful handling of a tricky situation.Much of this effort by Pakistani diplomats to navigate the sensitivities in Washington appeared to come undone as the Pakistani establishment rushed to comply with signals from Beijing that it wanted Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to continue to back it. The worldly-wise officials at the foreign office and, some at the Prime Minister’s Office, were the first ones to spot the change in Washington’s approach. The officials, including the US-educated special advisor on national security Moeed Yusuf and British-educated Zulfi Bukhari, special assistant to the PM for overseas Pakistanis and HRD, realised the impossibility of balancing relations with Washington and Beijing in the face of the establishment’s inflexible and decades-old mindset characterised by suspiciousness of the West.The Pakistan military’s tunnel vision and stranglehold over key foreign policy aspects have prevented the country from benefiting from the available expertise at home and evolving a pragmatic and non-confrontational foreign policy. At a time when world opinion is sharply against Beijing, Pakistan has chosen to be the devil’s advocate.Like when foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi put out a statement on his phone conversation with Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, the foreign ministry had to make a pointed reference to underline Pakistan’s commitment to the “One-China policy” and express support to China on its “core interests including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang”.In Pakistan, the army has been in a pivotal position irrespective of the regime in power. It also, maybe, doesn’t have anything to lose if Pakistan is again clubbed with the likes of North Korea. In fact, it has been argued by its critics that the army’s clout over politics and civilian life tends to proportionately increase with Pakistan’s marginalisation, as does the access to material riches for its leadership.The army was the biggest beneficiary of the billions that the United States poured into Pakistan in the name of support for the war on terror.When that well seemed to be drying up, it found a willing donor in Beijing for which the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor became a flagship project for its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative. It could also lead Pakistan into a debt trap.Thousands of Pakistanis paid with their lives for the establishment’s short-sighted strategy of arming and nurturing terrorists and turning terror into an instrument of foreign policy.What woes the new strategy of trying to milk China and the CPEC will bring to the Pakistanis, only time will tell. The more erudite officials of the foreign office can visualise the implications for Pakistan, such as the heightened possibility of graduating to the FATF blacklist if it does not deliver on its action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-army-in-mind-pak-chooses-china-over-us/story-FORHrwRxchUJ8OCVMINfZJ.html
06-07-2020||India||60 days after violent Pangong Tso clash, LAC remains tense||Exactly two months after a violent face-off near Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh brought the latest round of border tensions with China to the fore, the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains tense and unpredictable with the standoff showing no signs of easing even five days after top military commanders agreed to work on an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing conflict “on priority,” people familiar with the developments said on Sunday.“Neither has anything changed on the ground nor is it expected to anytime soon. There has been no disengagement of troops at the friction points or de-escalation of conflict in the region,” one of the persons cited above said on condition of anonymity.Also read: China’s Bhutan move aimed at IndiaThe two months saw hostilities grow between the two armies, aggressive posturing by both sides, multiple rounds of military and diplomatic-level negotiations yielding no breakthrough and tensions spreading to other sectors such as Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.  The disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops at face-off sites and the de-escalation of the conflict may make slow progress because of deep distrust and the continuing Chinese build-up that questions the People’s Liberation Army (PLA’s) intent, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 3.Also read: India eyes acquisition of Predator drones from USIt is becoming increasingly clear that both armies are likely to hold their positions in the region till the onset of winter (September), said a second person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-days-after-violent-pangong-tso-clash-lac-remains-tense/story-bNnxjt4GiJUD7T7hgseXpI.html
06-07-2020||India||India eyes acquisition of Predator-B drones from US||In the wake of multiple prolonged stand-offs with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh, India has conveyed to the US its renewed interest in the medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) armed Predator-B drone, which not only collects intelligence through surveillance and reconnaissance but also locates and destroys the target with missiles or laser-guided bombs.While India is operating Israeli Heron unarmed drones in eastern Ladakh, the acquisition of an armed drone has acquired urgency with China not only using Wing Loong II armed drone but also in the process of supplying two systems (one system has two drones and a ground station) to Pakistan, ostensibly to protect the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and the PLA Navy’s new base at Gwadar in the highly restive Balochistan province. Pakistan is also tying up with China to jointly produce 48 armed drones for use by the Pakistan Air Force. The GJ-2, military version of Wing Loong II, is said to be armed with 12 air-to-surface missiles and is currently being used in the Libyan civil war with limited success.Also read: China’s Bhutan move aimed at IndiaAlthough the US has offered to sell 30 Sea Guardian (unarmed naval variant, or UAV, of the Predator-B made by General Atomics) for over $4 billion, national security planners feel that due to the prohibitive cost of the UAV it would be better to have an all-in-one drone rather than separate ones for surveillance and targeting. Even though the Indian Navy is playing a lead role in negotiations with the US, the Indian Army is all in favour of the Predator-B. Also called the MQ-9 Reaper, the armed drone is battle-proven in the Iraq, Afghanistan and Syrian theatres with the capability of carrying four Hell-Fire missiles and two 500 pounds of laser-guided bombs.While the US is willing to support India’s high-tech weapon requirements, it is wary of supplying the Predator-B drone for fear of leakage of the technology to Russia, New Delhi’s other hardware supplier. As it is, Washington is unhappy with India purchasing the S-400 missile system from Russia as it fears that the surface-to-air missile system may acquire signatures of US aerial platforms with India and convey them to Moscow. China has already acquired the S-400 system from Russia and currently deployed it across Arunachal Pradesh.Also read: In China vs US, Pakistan has taken a side. It serves the armyEven though Indian private sector companies based in Noida, on the outskirts of New Delhi, are now in the process of developing MALE drones for India, the capacity to acquire armed drones is some distance away. A number of experiments done in Ladakh have not been entirely successful with the drone being lost in high-velocity winds on the Tibetan plateau. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has plans to produce the MALE Rustom drone prototype by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eyes-acquisition-of-predator-drones-from-us/story-nVOOMnUWNh7KokbqE9uVYM.html
06-07-2020||India||Amid India-China face-off, Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday spotlights uneasy ties||As soldiers of India and China stay locked in a bitter stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, another aspect of the uneasy relationship between the two countries will be under a spotlight on Monday when India, and the world celebrates exiled Tibetan supreme spiritual leader His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday.On Twitter, the Dalai Lama has announced plans for a special online screening of a new film about the American physicist David Bohm, who the spiritual leader describes as “one of my science gurus”. On Sunday, the Dalai Lama gave what he described as a general teaching on mind training to mark his 85th birthday celebrations being held in Taiwan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called to wish him on his birthday last year. The Dalai Lama had been travelling and was on his way back home when the call came. Home Minister Amit Shah couldn’t call in 2019 but his wife and son had stepped in for him, and wished the Tibetan spiritual leader on his behalf.India had given refuge to the Dalai Lama when he, as a 23-year-old, crossed into Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang in April 1959 to escape the Chinese that had invaded Tibet nine years earlier and had brutally suppressed the uprising against Beijing’s rule. India settled the Dalai Lama and the thousands of Tibetans who followed him in the Himalayan town of Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh where he has been living in exile ever since. There are over 80,000 Tibetans living in exile in India; 150,000 more around the world particularly in US and Europe.But China hasn’t let him, or the Tibetan people be. Beijing has called the Dalai Lama who delivers a message of humanity, harmony and peace with his infectious smile names, even a terrorist, and attempted to dismantle Tibetan Buddhism. It arrested a young boy Gedhun Choekyi Nyima in Tibet, just three days after he was proclaimed as the 11th Panchen Lama, the second highest Lama of Tibetan Buddhism, on 14 May 1995. He has never been seen since. Instead, Beijing selected its own six-year old Gyaltsen Norbu as the 11th Panchen Lama six month later and enthroned him at Shigatse monastery.China is determined to replay this tactic for the next Dalai Lama too to further divide the world of Tibetan Buddhism, where religious leaders of all the four major schools have sought refuge sometime or other in India.On his part, the Dalai Lama told Hindustan Times in a 2018 interview that he had made it clear far back in 1969 that the Tibetan people should decide if the institution of the Dalai Lama should continue. “My thinking is more liberal than Chinese thinking which is more orthodox,” he told HT.The Chinese have already initiated the process to identify the reincarnation of the 14th Dalai Lama, declaring that it was not the Dalai Lama’s decision to cease the reincarnation just as it was not his decision to become the temporal and spiritual head of Tibet.That means if the Tibetan people decide to continue with the institution of the Dalai Lama, there could be two Dalai Lamas. Just as there are two Panchen Lamas and two claimants to the title of the 17th Karmapa, the head of wealthy Karma Kagyu school.There has been no indication yet that the Dalai Lama could change his stance on this. But he has spoken, in a reflection of the values of Tibetan Buddhism, that there was nothing to prevent a woman from being chosen as the next Dalai Lama. She should be attractive, he said last year in a lighter vein but apologised when some pointed out that it amounted to objectifying women.It was in context of his democratic values that in 2011, the Dalai Lama relinquished his political and administrative powers over the Tibetan exile movement. “Tibetans need a leader, elected freely by the Tibetan people, to whom I can devolve power,” he had declared.He didn’t give up the opportunity to take a hard, but polite swipe at Beijing though. “Modern times call for a democratically elected political leadership so I have, sort of retired and we have achieved, at least within our refugee community, an elected political leadership”.Also Read: In 2012, Dalai Lama spoke of Chinese plot to murder himHe continued: “The Chinese won’t allow (this in Tibet) as their own leader is not elected through free elections”.To be sure, the Dalai Lama hasn’t directly commented on the stand-off at the border triggered by China’s misplaced aggression through the occupied territory of Tibet. But he did deliver his message to Beijing when he underlined that the concept of warfare is an outdated one.“In the past, the feudal system, king, queen, sometimes even religious leaders who are thinking and concerned about their own power. So then very strong concept of ‘we’ and ‘they’, then conflict, killing. So I feel, warfare, killing is related with feudal system. So that is gone. Now democratic world,” he said.A section within the ruling BJP’s mentor RSS wants the government to send out a strong message to China by conferring India’s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna to the Dalai Lama. The Nobel Peace Prize winner is despised by China’s communist party and vilified as a “wolf in monk’s clothing”. There have also been suggestions on social media that the government rename Shantipath, the road running through the national capital’s diplomatic enclave to Dalai Lama Marg (road), that would force the Chinese embassy to put the Dalai Lama’s name on its official address. But then Tezin Gytso is all about compassion, not confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-india-china-face-off-dalai-lama-s-85th-birthday-spotlights-uneasy-ties-with-beijing/story-piImrv7W23rYKSXaSAGsUK.html
06-07-2020||India||Covid-19 safety guidelines mandatory for a year in Kerala; Rs10K fine for not wearing masks||In a major step to curb the spike in the coronavirus infections, Kerala has made it mandatory for people to follow Covid-19 safety guidelines for a year. The state government has amended the state Epidemic Disease Ordinance which will be effective till July 2021. The guidelines have been issued under ‘Kerala Epidemic Disease Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) Additional Regulations, 2020’.Kerala was the first state in the country to report Covid-19 cases. It has 5,204 coronavirus infections including 2,131 active cases and 25 deaths, as per the Union health ministry dashboard at 8 AM on Sunday morning. Here are the new guildelines: 1) Wearing of mask/ face cover:  All persons shall cover their mouth and nose with the mask / face covers in all public places, work places, all kinds of vehicles and during transport. 2) Social Distancing: All persons shall maintain social distance of six feet at public places and functions.3)Fine : Rs 10,000 will be fined for not wearing masks in public places.4) Marriage Function: A maximum of 50 people will be allowed for marriage celebrations in Kerala. All people at the function must use sanitiser, wear face masks, and keep a social distance of six feet. 5) Funeral Functions: For the funeral of non-Covid-19 patients, up to 20 people will be permitted.6) Social Gathering: For any social gathering, permission from local authority will be required.7) Prohibition of spitting in public places: Spitting in public places will be strictly prohibited.8) Registration of those visiting Kerala: Those who are coming to Kerala from other states need to register themselves via Kerala government’s Jagratha e-platform. However, a pass is not required for inter-state travel.9) Shops and commercial establishments: Up to 20 people will be allowed in any shop across the state to maintain social-distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-makes-following-covid-19-guidelines-mandatory-for-a-year/story-Jd0qeqO7KsargqPeUKPvTO.html
06-07-2020||India||Pratham Aarti done at Amarnath cave shrine, yatra to start on July 23||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, GC Murmu performed ‘Pratham Aarti’ or the first prayers at the holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir on Sunday morning.He was accompanied by his principal secretary and chief executive officer of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) Bipul Pathak, additional CEO AK Soni, division commissioner Kashmir Pandurang K Pole and other senior officials.“The LG along with senior officials reached the cave shrine early Sunday morning and performed Pratham Aarti,” said an official of the SASB.Prasar Bharati, India’s official broadcaster, showed the aarti live. It will do so daily till August 3 at 3 am and 7 pm.Speaking to the official broadcaster after paying obeisance at the cave shrine along with his family members, Murmu said that he felt the divinity after performing ‘Pratham Aarti’.“We prayed for peace, development and progress of the entire nation and its people,” he added.A Special Poja will be held at holy Amarnath Cave for the early end of Covid19 pandemic, said Mahant Dipinder Giri after performing bhumi poojan of Chadi Mubarak at Pahalgam in South Kashmir on Sunday.The chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir BVR Subrahmanyam had said on Saturday that this year’s Amarnath Yatra would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner, so that the SOPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered to.J-K Chief Secy says SOPs for Amarnath Yatra to be strictly enforced amid pandemic“Given the constraints, a maximum of 500 yatris will be allowed per day by road from Jammu. Therefore, arrangements will have to be limited to this number,” he had said while chairing a meeting of the sub-committee constituted by the Supreme Court.The curtailed yatra (pilgrimage) is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 this year from the shorter Baltal route.On June 5, the top officials of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) performed ‘Pratham Pooja’ in the state’s winter capital Jammu on the occasion of ‘Jayestha Purnima’ signifying commencement of the annual pilgrimage.The ‘Pratham Pooja’ at SASB’s Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Ashram was conducted by principal secretary to J&K Lieutenant Governor and CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, Bipul Pathak, ACEO AK Soni.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesLast year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 that gave Jammu and Kashmir its special status. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45-km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 16-km Baltal route to the holy shrine every year.One of the holiest pilgrimages in Hinduism, the Amarnath Yatra attracts pilgrims from India as well as across the world. There have been terror attacks on the route of the yatra in the past. The last attack took place in 2017 on a bus from Gujarat in Anantnag district that left seven pilgrims dead.Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir high court has sought to know about the arrangements and various safety precautions in place for Amarnath Yatra in view of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratham-aarti-done-at-amarnath-cave-shrine-yatra-to-start-on-july-23/story-4MiV5monui04TEaAAjFLbM.html
