08-07-2020||India||Covid-19 growth rate has gone up due to cases from border districts: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 growth rate in the state had increased in the last one week with more and more positive cases especially from border districts.Even as the CM mentioned the increased growth rate of Covid-19, home minister Narottam Mishra said the state would see a complete lockdown on Sundays. However, detailed guidelines would be issued by the CM on Thursday; he told the media in Bhopal on Wednesday evening.According to the state government’s official release, while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state Chouhan said, “Earlier, the Covid-19 growth rate in the state was 1.72% which increased to 2.01%. Wearing of masks and physical distancing must be strictly ensured in all districts. A public advisory should be issued in all border districts. Necessary restrictions should be imposed once a week in all districts.”As per the release, in districts like Barwani, Morena and other bordering districts the viral infection was on the rise due to the spread of the disease in other states across the border. “In this connection, the chief minister directed chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri to prepare a mechanism in this regard and issue a public advisory,” the release read.In the meeting additional chief secretary (ACS), health department Mohd Suleman informed the CM that the 15-day ‘Kill Corona Campaign’ launched from July 1 had given good results so far in the state. Earlier, the testing capacity in the state was 6,000 tests per day, which touched 12,104 due to the campaign.“Samples taken under the Kill Corona Campaign have a positivity rate of 2.2%, which is a good sign,” he said.The senior IAS officer said, “The situation in Indore is constantly improving as the positivity rate of the disease has steadily decreased. Earlier this rate was up to 11%, which has now come down to 2.12%. There are currently 875 active cases in Indore and 3,871 patients have recovered and returned home. The death rate in Indore has reduced to less than 1%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-growth-rate-has-gone-up-due-to-cases-from-border-districts-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-srYktWQz1NVifbBsHCVxsL.html
08-07-2020||India||Panic buying returns in Kolkata as city braces for fresh lockdown in 25 zones||Panic buying returned to Kolkata on Wednesday, a day after the Mamata Banerjee-administration announced imposition of total lockdown in containment zones from Thursday evening.On Wednesday, West Bengal registered 986 new Covid-19 cases – the highest single- day spike till date, taking the total number of cases to 24,823. The total death toll stood at 827 with 23 people dying due to the infection on Wednesday.Kolkata has around 25 containment zones where the lockdown will be imposed and the adjoining districts of Howrah and North 24 Parganas have 56 and 95 such zones each. Kolkata registered a spike of 366 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total number of cases in the city to 8,046 till date. ALSO READ | CM Mamata scraps list of South 24 Parganas containment zones, wants it redoneSince Wednesday morning people started scurrying to local shops and markets to purchase daily essential items. “I don’t want to take the risk given the experience we had when lockdown was first imposed. What if the supply runs out? I purchased rice, atta, a few kilos of potato, sugar and cooking oil among other items. They will not rot,” said Susmita Biswas, a housewife at Anandapur in east Kolkata.Out of the 25 containment zones in Kolkata, only five were in the slum areas while housing complexes, mixed residential areas and multiple premises comprised the rest. Local shopkeepers said that the residents almost stripped the shelves and bought whatever they could to store in their houses. Queues could be seen outside super markets during the day.“Usually I get around 50 customers every day. But on Wednesday I received double and by evening several items such as noodles and biscuits had almost vanished,” said Ratan Pramanik, a shop keeper in Sinthee, in north Kolkata.On Wednesday, Banerjee announced that the lockdown would be enforced for seven days after which the situation would be analyzed. If the situation improves, areas which register a decline in Covid-19 cases would be removed from the containment zone list.The chief minister was, however, visibly peeved with the containment zone list of South 24 Parganas, another adjoining district of Kolkata. The chief minister said the zones had been marked indiscriminately and scrapped the list, asking officials to review it. An order issued by the state home secretary on Tuesday said that all government and private offices will remain closed, there would be a complete ban on non-essential activities, congregations would be strictly prohibited, no transport would be allowed and markets would be shut down in these containment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-buying-returns-in-kolkata-as-city-braces-for-fresh-lockdown-in-25-zones/story-K8huwmiQCEiL39wND3dOAJ.html
08-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally reaches 2,23,724 with second highest spike of 6,603 cases||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count reached 2,23,724 after 6,603 new cases were reported on Wednesday even as hotels and lodges resumed business. Wednesday’s number of new Covid-19 cases is the second highest single-day spike recorded so far that has pushed the number of active cases to 91,065, according to the state health department.Out of the news cases, 1,347 were from Mumbai that took its tally to 87,856. The number of active cases in Mumbai is 23,543. On Tuesday, the city recorded 785 cases, the lowest in the last 56 days. Maharashtra recorded the highest single day spike on Saturday with 7,074 cases. The highest death toll in a day was also reported on Saturday with 295 casualties. Maharashtra crossed the two lakh mark in 17 weeks since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 9. There were 198 casualties on Wednesday taking the death toll in the state to 9,448, the health department said. Sixty-two of the deaths were in Mumbai where the death toll has gone up to 5,064.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.After the high of 7,074 cases on Saturday, the state reported relatively lower numbers of new cases in the last three days. On July 5, July 6 and July 7, it reported 6,555, 5,368 and 5,134 cases respectively. However, the number of fresh cases is still high.Health experts said that decline in new cases will have significance only if it sustains for 10-14 days. “Though, it is a good sign, but three day period actually has no significance. In case of such a pandemic, we will have to monitor the trend for over a period of seven to ten days and if it continues to reduce for 14 days then we will be in a position to say that it is a very good sign,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state.In the last eight days (since July 1), the state recorded 48,965 as against 302 cases in March, 10,196 cases in April, 57,157 cases in May and 1,02,172 cases in June. On an average, Maharashtra is adding 6,120 new cases of Covid-19 every day.The state has recently decided to form a task force of expert doctors in all the districts, to control the situation.With 9,448 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded 4.22%. It is the second highest in the country after Gujarat where CFR is 5.26% with 1977 deaths (37,550 cases) till Tuesday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has the highest number of deaths across states in the country.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that they are focusing on reducing CFR and for this they have decided to increase daily number of tests in the state. “We have decided to conduct more testing so that more people can be traced and CFR as well as positive rate against total testing can be reduced and be brought under 10%,” Tope said.Currently, the positive rate against total tests is 18.77% as 2,23,724 tests were found positive out of total 11,91,549 sample tested so far.He said that the state is doing more test than the target of 140 per day against per million of population in each district set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Currently, 47,072 people have been kept in institutional quarantine and 6,38,762 people have been put under home quarantine across the state. The health minister said the existing institutional quarantine facilities in metro cities need to be augmented considering aggressive tracing slum areas. On Monday, the state government issued a notification allowing hotels, lodges and guest houses to operate from Wednesday, but at 33% of their capacity. It has also issued guidelines for strict compliance with measures to contain the spread of coronavirus.Dine-in restaurants, however, will remain to be shut and operate only for takeaways as the government has not taken any decision yet. Restaurants at hotels and guest houses will be available only for the resident guests, although the government has pressed for room services and takeaways. Swimming pools, gymnasiums, playing areas, gaming arcades and gatherings of more than 15 people at these hotels will not be allowed, the notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stated.On Tuesday, the state government also extended the timings of shops and markets by two hours across the state. The earlier order issued on June 29 had restricted shops to remain open till 5pm from 9 am to avoid crowding at market places in cities and rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-2-23-724-with-second-highest-spike-of-6-603-cases/story-b3gglxRjEzU0Mdyt4mKfmJ.html
08-07-2020||India||Ensure legal rights to Kulbhushan Jadhav, govt should move ICJ: Congress||The Congress Wednesday urged the government to step up international pressure on Pakistan and move the International Court of Justice to enable Indian death-row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav to file a review petition against his death sentence. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said one cannot expect anything from Pakistan. “We have to put our faith in the Indian government. It must go flat out to ensure legal rights are granted to Kulbhushan Jadhav,” he said.“They (Government of India) should move heaven and earth, they should make applications in the ICJ, the matter has not ended. They should create an adverse public opinion globally that how can a man who is defenceless not be allowed to exercise these rights,” he added.Singhvi hoped that the government will take steps in the next few weeks rather than waiting for Pakistan to make amends. He was asked about Pakistani media reports that Jadhav refused to file an appeal in the Islamabad High Court against his death sentence.India on Wednesday called as “farce” Pakistan’s claim that Kulbhushan Jadhav, on a death row in an alleged espionage case, has refused to file an appeal against his sentence. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said Jadhav has clearly been coerced to refuse to file a review in his case, and termed it as a “brazen attempt” to scuttle even the inadequate remedy available to him.“Pakistan’s claim that Jadhav, who is incarcerated in Pakistan’s custody, has refused to initiate review petition is a continuation of the farce that has been in play for the last four years,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-legal-rights-to-kulbhushan-jadhav-govt-should-move-icj-congress/story-a2Q9Q9O4iTpQMrruZbhUVL.html
08-07-2020||India||DLF brings down small portion of Noida mall’s roof||Realty major DLF on Wednesday said it has brought down a small portion of the roof of its shopping mall in Noida that got damaged due to thunderstorm and adverse weather conditions last month. The clarification came after a video went viral on social media that showed a part of the roof of ‘DLF Mall of India’ collapsing. DLF said the reopening of the 2 million sq ft mall was not linked to this repair work. The mall will be opened soon after ensuring that all the SOPs (standard operating procedures) are followed to ensure social distancing because of the coronavirus pandemic. “We had commenced planned enhancement works in a part of The Mall of India, Noida, when the lockdown was suddenly implemented. During this time, a small portion, admeasuring about 650 square metres only, or just under 3 per cent of total roof area was in the process of being prepared for these enhancement works,” DLF spokesperson said in a statement. The work, however, could not get started due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “The freak thunderstorm and extreme weather conditions that hit the city of Noida in June adversely impacted this portion of the roof in its vulnerable state,” the spokesperson said. The company decided “to bring down that entire portion of the roof admeasuring about 650 sq metres and rebuild it completely to the originally intended enhanced standards”, the spokesperson said. The reopening of The DLF Mall of India was not and is not linked to these enhancement works in any manner, the company said. The opening of the mall is directly related to carrying out of all coronavirus-related works in order to ensure safe experience for customers, it added. “We are hopeful of completing these activities soon and shall look forward to announcing the opening date in the near future. The enhancement works shall go on parallelly in a safe and planned manner,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dlf-brings-down-small-portion-of-noida-mall-s-roof/story-MvOq7zLchXBy5OeGVhcNhP.html
08-07-2020||India||It’s a farce: MEA on Pak claim that Kulbhushan Jadhav refused to file review petition||India on Wednesday said Pakistan’s claim that Indian death-row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav refused to file a review petition against his sentence is a continuation of the “farce” that has been in play for the last four years and that Islamabad is only seeking to create an “illusion of remedy” in the case. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said Jadhav has “clearly been coerced” to refuse to file a review petition, and termed Pakistan’s claim a “brazen attempt” to scuttle even the inadequate remedy available to him.He said India will do its utmost to protect Jadhav and ensure his safe return to India, asserting that it would consider “all appropriate options”.Earlier, Pakistan said Jadhav refused to file an appeal in the Islamabad High Court against his conviction by a military court despite being offered the option.Jadhav, a retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence.In July last year, the Hague-based ICJ ruled that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay.The MEA spokesperson said Pakistan is attempting to create a “mirage” of compliance with the ICJ judgment, adding the country has refused to hand over any relevant document, including the FIR (first information report), evidence and the court order in the case to India. “Pakistan’s claim that Jadhav, who is incarcerated in Pakistan’s custody, has refused to initiate review petition is a continuation of the farce that has been in play for the last four years,” Srivastava said, responding to media queries on the issue. “Jadhav has been sentenced to execution through a farcical trial. He remains under custody of Pakistan’s military. He has clearly been coerced to refuse to file a review in his case,” the MEA spokesperson said. He said India sought “unimpeded access” to Jadhav to discuss the remedies available to him under an ordinance, adding Pakistan is only seeking to create an “illusion of remedy”.“In a brazen attempt to scuttle even the inadequate remedy under the ordinance, Pakistan has obviously coerced Jadhav to forego his rights to seek an implementation of the judgment of the International Court of Justice,” he said.On May 20, Pakistan passed an ordinance to allow for the high court to review the sentence awarded by their military courts. “The ICJ has already held that Pakistan is in egregious violation of international law. Government will do its utmost to protect Jadhav and ensure his safe return to India. To that end, it would consider all appropriate options,” Srivastava said. He said India has repeatedly asked to allow a lawyer from outside Pakistan to appear for Jadhav in any review and reconsideration proceedings, but Pakistan denied it. “Since 2017, when Military Court carried out a farcical trial, Pakistan has refused to hand over any relevant document, including FIR, evidence, court order, etc in the case to India. Clearly, Pakistan is attempting to create a mirage of compliance with the ICJ judgment,” the MEA spokesperson said.He said Pakistan has maintained that its laws allowed for effective review and reconsideration.“Now, after almost a year, they have made a U-turn and issued an ordinance to ostensibly provide for some sort of review. We have already expressed our serious concerns at the content of the ordinance and how it violates the ICJ judgment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-a-farce-mea-on-pak-claim-that-kulbhushan-jadhav-refused-to-file-review-petition/story-6Mv3CrMLz6J7dRI8EIGDVN.html
08-07-2020||India||Kashmir BJP leader Shiekh Waseem Bari killed along with his father and brother in terror attack, manhunt launched||Militants on Wednesday killed former district president of BJP Bandipore, Shiekh Waseem Bari along with his father and brother in the main town of Bandipore.Police said that militants attacked Shiekh Waseem Bari at his shop at Muslimabad Bandipore in the evening. In the attack, Bari’s father Bashir Ahmad and younger brother Umar were also injured. All three were taken to district hospital where they were declared brought dead. The attack took place close to the police station where Bari had a house and a shop.Soon after the attack, police and army launched a search operation in the area to track down the terrorists.Inspector general of police Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that Bari was at their shop along with his father and brother, when some unidentified terrorists shot them resulting in critical injuries to all of them. “All three later succumbed to their injuries,” Kumar said.Kumar said the family had ten security personnel but unfortunately, none of them were present at the time of the incident since they were sitting on the first floor of Bari’s house, which is adjacent to the shop. He said, “The PSOs are being arrested.”Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah condemned the killing of the BJP leader.“Sorry to hear about the murderous terror attack on the BJP functionaries and their father in Bandipore earlier this evening. I condemn the attack. My condolences to their families in this time of grief. Sadly the violent targeting of mainstream political workers continues unabated,” tweeted Omar soon after the attack.Bari, 28, was the known face of BJP in Bandipore district and had contested 2014 assembly election as an independent candidate. He is the senior most BJP leader killed in Kashmir since revocation of article 370 by the centre last August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-bjp-leader-shiekh-waseem-bari-killed-along-with-his-father-and-brother-in-terror-attack-manhunt-launched/story-WVwcw5buyW9HoqcLfBnewI.html
08-07-2020||India||UK envoy who named daughter ‘India’ presents credentials to Prez Kovind||The United Kingdom’s new high commissioner to India, Philip Barton, on Wednesday gave us a glimpse into how he prepared before presenting his credentials to President Ram Nath Kovind during a virtual ceremony.In a short video which he posted on his Twitter handle, Barton begins speaking with a ‘Namaste’ and goes on to explain that it is an exciting day for him as he takes up his new assignment. Introducing himself as the new British high commissioner designate to India, he goes on to describe the process of presenting his credentials to the head of state and what it literally translates into.Letters of credentials are the letters signed by the Queen of England – the head of state of the United Kingdom addressed to the President of India asking him and the state of India to give credence (comes from a French word) to what the new designate says while discharging his official duties. The letters also urge the President to believe that the diplomat speaks on behalf of the United Kingdom during his stay in the country.Barton gives us a peep at the original copies of the letter duly signed by Queen Elizabeth-II and addressed to President Kovind. The ceremony, which had to be carried out virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic, was nevertheless an important one for Indo-British relations. WATCH | Before presenting credentials to President Kovind , UK envoy records a video explainerEarlier today, I recorded this video to share a sneak peek into how I was getting ready to present my credentials to the President of India. pic.twitter.com/oJ9OSNLXSMBarton’s connections with India go back a long way. His new assignment is definitely not his first brush with the country. “We often speak of the ‘living bridge’ of people, ideas and institutions that tie the UK and India together. I, too, am a part of that bridge,” he says. He goes on to elaborate that his mother happened to be born in Shimla and Barton was posted in national capital Delhi in the 1990s. He met his wife, Amanda, when both of them lived and worked in the country. They named their daughter ‘India’ – “not knowing I would return one day as high commissioner”.Barton’s arrival in the country and the presentation of his credentials was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, which broke out earlier this year. He succeeded Dominic Asquith, who served as high commissioner from April 2016 to January this year.“The UK-India relationship is remarkable and we share an unparalleled breadth and depth of connection. There is a deep commitment across the British government, industry and civil society to develop that relationship even further,” Barton said in a statement.He identified several key areas – developing the trade and economic partnership following the Britain’s exit from the European Union, tackling global challenges of climate change and green recovery, acting together as a force for good in the world, and working closely to keep both countries safe and secure.Earlier, Barton also served as the UK’s high commissioner to Pakistan during 2014-16 and as acting chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee during 2016-17, acknowledged he had arrived in India at an “extraordinarily difficult time”.Barton joined the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 1986 and has previously served as the Director General (consular and security) in London and as deputy ambassador in Washington. Before arriving in New Delhi last month, he helped the UK government adapt its long-term planning to the Covid-19 pandemic.With Barton’s arrival, Jan Thompson, who served as acting high commissioner from February to June, has returned to her role as deputy high commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-high-commissioner-presents-credentials-to-president-gives-us-a-sneak-peek-as-he-preps/story-EJJeUAN1XAJot7JbibHmwO.html
08-07-2020||India||BJP leader, his father and brother shot dead in Kashmir, cops arrest his security guards||Sheikh Waseem Bari, a local BJP leader and two members of his family were shot dead by suspected terrorists in Kashmir’s Bandipore district late on Wednesday evening. Sheikh Waseem Bari was a former president of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Bandipora district, 60 km north of Srinagar.Sheikh Waseem Bari’s father Basheer Ahmad and brother Umar were also killed in the attack that took place at his shop in Bandipore, said police.Inspector general of police Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that Bari,his father and brother received critical injuries in the gunfire opened by terrorists at his shop. All three were rushed to the hospital but were declared brought dead, Kumar said.The incident took place despite Bari having ten personal security officers to guard him. None of them were present when the militants attacked, said Kumar. At the time of the incident, they were sitting on the first floor of Bari’s house, which is adjacent to the shop. All ten of his PSOs have been arrested, he added.A combined team of state police and army personnel have launched a man hunt to nab the terrorists. Bari’s death has been condoled by former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah, who expressed concern at the “continuing” attacks on mainstream politicians.“Sorry to hear about the murderous terror attack on the BJP functionaries and their father in Bandipore earlier this evening. I condemn the attack. My condolences to their families in this time of grief. Sadly the violent targeting of mainstream political workers continues unabated,” tweeted Omar soon after the attack.Bari was a young BJP leader, who was a well known figure in Bandipore district. The development comes a day after NIA arrested a local youth for providing logistical support to Jaish-e-Mohammed (Jem) terrorists who carried out Pulwama terror attack in February 2019 by ramming an explosive laden car into a CRPF convoy killing 40 troopers. Bilal Ahmed Kuchey, a resident of Kakpora of Pulwama district, was the seventh person to be arrested in connection with the case. He is supposed to have given shelter to the JeM terrorists and provided them with high end phones for communication with their handlers in Pakistan and also among themselves while planning the execution of the attack.One of the mobile phones he arranged was used by Pulwama bomber Adil Ahmed Dar for recording his last video, said NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-his-father-and-brother-shot-dead-in-kashmir-cops-arrest-his-security-guards/story-UsqR5iWYycDNLGmNGOBwiP.html
08-07-2020||India||‘Blessed to have Masterji choreographed her last song for us!’||Film director Rajesh Bhatt feels blessed that ace-choreographer Saroj Khan, who passed away on Friday, had done her last project for his next film. “Masterji choreographed a peppy item song for us that we shot on February 27-28, this year. We shot the song on Deepshikha Nagpal while she was present on the set,” said the filmmaker who hails from Dehradun.Rajesh also shared that Khan was not keeping well during the shoot. “Masterji was unwell yet she was so lively on sets and brought life to the song. She blessed us all and her presence did spread great enthusiasm amongst us,” he said over the phone.Giving details about his project he said, “I am directing this untitled film. The working title is ‘Production No 1’ and it has Ranjeet, Govind Namdev and Yashpal Sharma. We have shot some portions before the lockdown. Since then, the script has been re-worked and new actors which we are yet to announce. The film has been produced by Sanjay Kumar Singh.” They will be shooting the film in Rajasthan.During the lockdown, he prepared for another film ‘College Crush’ that has been written and scripted by Adesh K Arjun.The tentative casting is with us. We will be launching legendary actor Manoj Kumar’s grandson Vash Goswami and YouTube star-singer Parul Chauhan. The film will also have Hema Malini, Zeenat Aman, Asha Parekh, Raj Babbar and Annu Kapoor. All these great actors have already worked in films made by our producer’s Rana SP Singh and Sohail Amrohi.”UK-based music director Channi Singh of ‘Yalgaar’ and ‘Janasheen’ fame is composing for them. “We will be shooting from Diwali in Dehradun if all goes well. We expect Uttarakhand chief minister to give us the ‘mahurat’ shot for which we have got a nod as well.” Talking about his early days he said, “I was born and brought up in Dehradun. I have studied in DAV College. My first work in the film industry was ‘Daga’, a short film on Indira Gandhi’s assignation which I wrote along with screenplay and dialogue. I shifted to Mumbai in 1986 and started as an assistant director with actor Vidhya Sinha’s production, ‘Singhasan Battisi’. I assisted in projects like ‘Darar’, ‘Waris’, ‘Lava’, Honi Anhoni’ and ‘Lal Dupatta Malmal Kal’.”His first film as director was ‘Nazar’ followed by ‘Bazar’. “My directorial ‘Kaun Hai Jo Sapno Main Aya’ (2004) became the first film to get a subsidy from London. It was screened at the Cannes Film Festival and thereafter I was honoured with a doctorate from Halifax University, USA. I shot ‘Babul Pyare’ which was dubbed in five languages. Besides, I have done a lot of music videos, ad and short films,” said Rajesh who was in Lucknow in December, 2019 for an award function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/blessed-to-have-masterji-choreographed-her-last-song-for-us/story-glsOtUfCzxEOg9gDJumVkK.html
08-07-2020||India||Young BJP leader, his father and brother shot dead in Kashmir’s Bandipora||Sheikh Waseem Bari, a local BJP leader and two members of his family were shot dead by suspected terrorists in Kashmir’s Bandipora district late on Wednesday evening. Sheikh Waseem Bari was a former president of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Bandipora district, 60 km north of Srinagar.Sheikh Waseem Bari’s father Basheer Ahmad and brother Umar were also killed in the attack that took place at his shop in Bandipore, said police.Eight Personal Security Officers assigned to the BJP leader have been arrested.News agency PTI quoted Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Sing saying that terrorists opened fire at the young politician outside his shop near Bandipora police station. The attack took place at about 9 pm.The three were taken to Bandipora district hospital but did not survive.Senior police officials of the district have reached the spot, a police official said, adding further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-his-father-and-brother-shot-dead-in-kashmir-cops-arrest-his-8-security-guards/story-mxe87P9sN56jRe8a2M29QI.html
08-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Darjeeling bans tourists, complete lockdown in parts of Siliguri||With Covid-19 cases on the rise in north Bengal, the administration in Darjeeling district on Wednesday banned the entry of tourists to the hills till July 31.In the plains, a complete lockdown will be enforced in nine community wards in Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town and trade hub and Jalpaiguri district from Thursday evening. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) on Wednesday withdrew its earlier decision to allow hotels and tourist spots in Darjeeling and adjoining Kalimpong to operate from July 1. Some hotels have also received guests.Anit Thapa, chairman of board of administrators of GTA, said, “We have decided not to allow tourists in the GTA area from Thursday to July 31 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country.”Also read: CM Mamata scraps list of South 24 Parganas containment zones, wants it redoneMany people believe that the GTA’s decision was influenced by the fear among residents of Darjeeling that entry of tourists may spike Covid-19 cases.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts stood at 684 and 56 respectively on Tuesday. Many of the Covid-19 patients in the Darjeeling hills had travelled to Siliguri. Thapa said, “I appeal to everyone not to visit Siliguri unless they have very important work to attend. They should not take unnecessary risk. From now on strict vigil will be kept on vehicles going and coming from Siliguri.”The administration on Wednesday decided to impose complete lockdown in nine community wards in Siliguri and Jalpaiguri for seven days from 5 pm on Thursday. Twenty-nine people have died of Covid-19 in Siliguri.There has been a growing demand for complete lockdown in all wards where Covid-19 cases have been reported in comparatively higher numbers. “This should be decided by an expert committee which needs to be constituted by the administration,” said Animesh Bose, joint coordinator of Siliguri Fight Corona Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-darjeeling-bans-tourists-complete-lockdown-in-parts-of-siliguri/story-puqPqiwagd5fIhmkqmfjkO.html
08-07-2020||India||Heavy police presence at Noida film city to thwart gangster Vikas Dubey’s surrender before news channels||Uttar Pradesh police is conducting an intense checking drive at Noida film city in the national capital region, where most of the country’s national television news channels are based, in anticipation that Kanpur-based dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey may attempt to surrender before TV cameras to ensure he is not killed in an encounter with the state police force that has been on his hot pursuit since early Friday morning, when he and his accomplices killed eight policemen in an ambush near his house in Kanpur.The Uttar Pradesh police have since announced a big reward on Dubey’s head—Rs 5 lakh—and deployed 40 teams along with a special task force to nab him at the earliest. A couple of his accomplices have been shot down while a few others have been arrested over the last few days. Vikas himself is said to have given the police a slip in the nearby district of Faridabad, where he was hiding with some associates. Ankur, Shravan and Kartikey alias Prabhat were arrested in a joint operation by Uttar Pradesh STF and a local crime branch team. The arrests were made by the team after a brief exchange of fire while raiding a house around Tuesday midnight in Faridabad’s Kheli Pul area, where the gangster is reported to have stayed for a while, said Haryana police.Later, CCTV footage showed a man resembling Dubey near a Faridabad hotel. He did not check in when a staff member insisted on an identity card with a clear photograph.In another operation on Wednesday, a team of UP special task force picked up the wanted gangsters’ brother-in-law Gyanendra Nigam and his son from Madhya Pradesh’s Shahdol district. Nigam claims to have snapped ties with Dubey 15-years ago after he entered the world of crime, however, a police official said that he used to look after accounts and properties of Vikas Dubey.”Hunt for gangster Vikas Dubey intensifies: All the latest updatesTalking to local media persons before being taken to Kanpur by the UP STF, Nigam said he had no connection with his sister Richa and brother-in-law Vikas.In other related operations, a close aide of Dubey named Amar Dubey was shot dead by the police in UP’s Hamirpur after he failed to cross over to Madhya Pradesh. Another of Dubey’s gang members, Shyamu Bajpai was shot in the leg and then arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-police-presence-at-noida-film-city-to-thwart-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-surrender-before-news-channels/story-q5XlClml1bcWZUJsQmYEuL.html
08-07-2020||India||Pak denying Kulbhushan Jadhav ‘inadequate remedy’, says MEA. Read full statement here||India on Wednesday dubbed Pakistan’s claim that Kulbhushan Jadhav, on a death row in an alleged espionage case, has refused to file an appeal against his sentence as ‘farce’. In a statement issued by ministry of external affairs on Wednesday evening, India has stated that Jadhav has clearly been coerced to refuse to file a review in his case, and termed it as a “brazen attempt” to scuttle even the inadequate remedy available to him.Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of “espionage and terrorism” in April 2017 following which India had moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ) seeking a stay on his death sentence.Also read: Pakistan coerced Kulbushan Jadhav to refuse case review, says IndiaHere is the full statement issued by MEA on the issue:“We have been pursuing through diplomatic channels full and effective implementation of the ICJ judgment in the case of Shri Kulbushan Jadhav. The media statement made by Pakistan today in the case seeks to mask its continuing reticence to implement ICJ judgment in letter and spirit.Pakistan’s claim that Shri Jadhav, who is incarcerated in Pakistan’s custody, has refused to initiate review petition is a continuation of the farce that has been in play for the last four years. Shri Jadhav has been sentenced to execution through a farcical trial. He remains under custody of Pakistan’s military. He has clearly been coerced to refuse to file a review in his case. India sought unimpeded access to Shri Jadhav to discuss his remedies under the Ordinance. In a brazen attempt to scuttle even the inadequate remedy under the Ordinance, Pakistan has obviously coerced Shri Jadhav to forego his rights to seek an implementation of the judgment of the ICJ.Pakistan has on 20 May 2020 passed an Ordinance to allow for the High Court to review the sentence awarded by their military court. They have all along maintained that their laws allowed for effective review and reconsideration while we have protested it all along. Now, after almost a year, they have made a u-turn and issued an Ordinance to ostensibly provide for some sort of review. We have already expressed our serious concerns at the content of the Ordinance and how it violates the ICJ judgment. Pakistan is only seeking to create an illusion of remedy.Despite our repeated requests, Pakistan continues to deny India free and unimpeded access to Shri Jadhav. India has repeatedly asked to allow a lawyer from outside Pakistan to appear for Shri Jadhav in any review and reconsideration proceedings. Pakistan has denied it. Since 2017, when Military Court carried out a farcical trial, Pakistan has refused to hand over any relevant document, including FIR, evidence, court order, etc in the case to India. Clearly, Pakistan is attempting to create a mirage of compliance with the ICJ judgment.ICJ has already held that Pakistan is in egregious violation of international law. Government will do its utmost to protect Shri Jadhav and ensure his safe return to India. To that end, it would consider all appropriate options.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-denying-kulbhushan-jadhav-inadequate-remedy-says-mea-read-full-statement-here/story-SgJchKgJzVU5vOdCjxtIPN.html
08-07-2020||India||RSS backed campaign thanks Chhattisgarh’s Congress government for cow dung procurement||The ‘Gau Gram Swavlamban Abhiyan Chhattisgarh’, an RSS backed campaign, has welcomed the decision of the ruling Congress government in Chhattisgarh to procure cow dung from cattle owners and farmers under state’s Gaudhan Nyay Yojna and has demanded that the government also procures cow urine and convert it into bio-fertilizer.On Tuesday, the convener of the campaign, Bhuneshwar Sahu, along with other officer bearers, met chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and submitted a memorandum welcoming the step to procure cow-dung.The leaders of the campaign demanded that cow urine is procured from cattle owners and cow shelters (Kotha) are constructed in every household. Besides, they also asked the government to set up an organic market for purchasing cow-based organic farm produce at a reasonable price.The memorandum stated that in November 2019, more than 26,000 framers of the state had demanded that the government purchased cow dung and urine and also encouraged the production of organic fertilizers.“The CM has accepted the demand to purchase cow dung and we are thanking him for this programme,” the memorandum stated, adding that the CM has now been asked to fulfill the other demand for the purchase of Gaumutra through cooperative societies.55-year-old man held for allegedly raping cow in Bhopal: Police“Some RSS workers have started a campaign ‘Gau Gram Swavlamban Abhiyan’ and they have made me the patron of the campaign. The office bearers of the campaign thanked the government for cow-dung procurement…If anyone is doing good things RSS will support it,” said Bisraram Yadav, Prant Sanchalak of RSS.The Chhattisgarh government decided last week to procure cow-dung at Rs 1.5 per kilogram from July 20 onwards under the Gaudhan Nyay Yojana scheme.The cow dung will be collected door-to door by Gauthan Samiti and fortnightly payments will be made to cattle owners and farmers.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn June 25, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel launched ‘Gaudhan Nyay Yojana’ claiming that the tradition of open grazing in Chhattisgarh leads to loss of crops and the stray cattle cause road accidents in the city, leading to loss of life and property. The government noted that cows are abandoned once they stop giving milk and hence to make cow rearing a profitable business, it was decided to procure cow dung from farmers and cattle owners.The government also directed the urban administration department to make arrangements to prevent stray animals from roaming in the cities. The department will be responsible for purchasing cow dung and production of vermicompost.Baghel had said at the launch that the purpose of the scheme was to promote cattle rearing in the state and to support cattle owners, mostly farmers.“The government tried to strengthen the rural economy of the state through the ‘Narva, Garuva, Ghuruwa, Badi’ scheme in which we have developed cowsheds in 2,200 villages of the state. In the next two-three months, about 5,000 more cowsheds will be developed in the state. This scheme is an incremental step forward,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-backed-campaign-thanks-chhattisgarh-s-congress-government-for-cow-dung-procurement/story-06rqHfW0Y3tURc6NdUSGnM.html
08-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China’s pullback in Ladakh’s Pangong Finger Area to test disengagement and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China’s pullback in Ladakh’s Pangong Finger Area to test disengagement With disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies making measurable progress in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, the focus of reducing tensions in eastern Ladakh has shifted to the sensitive Finger Area near Pangong Tso, where the Indian Army has observed a marginal thinning of troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur over the last 24 hours, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.Read more. Pak denying India free and unimpeded access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, says MEAThe ministry of external affairs on Wednesday said India has been seeking complete implementation of ICJ judgment in the Kulbhushan Jadhav matter and that Pakistan is seeking to mask its continuing reticence to implement ICJ judgment in letter and spirit.Read more. Incredibly aggressive action, says Mike Pompeo on China’s moves in LadakhChina’s “incredibly aggressive action” along the border with India should not be seen in isolation but in a larger context where Xi Jinping’s Chinese communist party is engaging in an increasing revisionist effort with its neighbours, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday. Read more. Harvard, MIT sue Trump admin over foreign student visa ruleHarvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology filed a lawsuit Wednesday challenging the proposed new rules for international students as the Trump administration sought to soften the impact of its controversial order arguing, one, it was only a temporary measure and, two, it was meant to force these institutions to reopen fully.Read more. India could have 2.87 lakh Covid-19 cases per day by 2021 winter if no cure found: MIT studyIn the absence of an effective vaccine and improved health infrastructure across states, India could record about 2.87 lakh projected cases of coronavirus per day by the end of winter 2021, according to a study by scientists and researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).Read more. Honey Boy review: Shia LaBeouf delivers the best performance of his careerWritten as a therapy exercise by actor Shia LaBeouf, as a part of his rehabilitation program, Honey Boy is an autobiographical tale that has the queasy qualities of a Catholic confession. There is a palpable discomfort in watching the story unfold, particularly the abusive relationship between Otis and his father, played in the best performance of his career by LaBeouf himself.Read more. People try guessing which zebra is standing in front in this picture. What do you think?While following a dazzle of Zebras in Maasai Mara, wildlife photographer Sarosh Lodhi was aiming to click some beautiful pictures of the animals. However, what he ended up with can easily be described as a once-in-a-lifetime click. He captured two zebras standing in front of each other while looking at the camera. It’s, however, the illusion that the standing position of the animals create which turns it from a nice wildlife picture to an amazing one.Read more. Watch: Donate your mobile campaign in Raipur helps students amid lockdownRaipur Smart City Limited has launched the ‘donate your mobile’ campaign to help students during the pandemic. People are being encouraged to donate mobile phones to students who can use it to access online education. This comes at a time when schools are shut due to the coronavirus pandemic. Students who received the mobile phones said that this would prove extremely helpful to them. Watch the full video for all the details.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-s-pullback-in-ladakh-s-pangong-finger-area-to-test-disengagement-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QZ8DNTsoo5TJc9OAVwdxHL.html
08-07-2020||India||Indian, Chinese militaries to carry out verification of disengagement process in eastern Ladakh||Indian and Chinese armies are expected to carry out a joint verification to assess the implementation of the disengagement process once the dismantling of temporary infrastructure and withdrawal of troops by China are completed in the friction points in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. They said the two militaries are set to hold extensive talks on finalising modalities for restoring normalcy and bringing back peace and tranquillity in the region after the verification of the disengagement exercise is completed. The mutual disengagement of troops from the standoff points has been undertaken as a measure to ease the situation in the region and the larger focus would be to ensure the total restoration of status quo ante in all areas of the region, they said. As per the mutual understanding, neither side will carry out any patrolling in the friction points till modalities for restoration of peace and tranquillity are thrashed out. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held “a frank and in-depth exchange of views” on Sunday to de-escalate tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Chinese military began pulling back of troops from a number of friction points from Monday morning. The Chinese military has already withdrawn troops from Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, while the pull back is likely to be over in Gogra on Thursday. Military sources said Indian Army will continue to maintain its aggressive posturing along the Line of Actual Control till the Chinese side cuts down on its significant build up in its rear bases along the LAC, the de-facto border between India and China. Both sides have brought in thousands of additional troops and weaponry including tanks and artillery guns to their rear bases as part of a mega build up following the face-off that began on May 5. “There is a trust factor now. We will not lower our guard at all,” said a senior military official on the condition of anonymity. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in the bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clash. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of any end to the standoff till Sunday evening. Sources said the breakthrough was achieved at the Doval-Wang meeting. On June 30, the Indian and Chinese armies held the third round of Lt General-level talks during which both sides agreed on an “expeditious, phased and step wise” de-escalation as a “priority” to end the standoff. In the talks on June 22, the two sides arrived at a “mutual consensus” to “disengage” from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise visit to Ladakh during which he said the era of expansionism is over and that the history is proof that “expansionists” have either lost or perished, in comments which were seen as a clear message to China that India is not going to back off and would deal with the situation with a firm hand. Tensions had escalated in eastern Ladakh around two months back after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-militaries-to-carry-out-verification-of-disengagement-process-in-eastern-ladakh/story-qDecV9U1AWybvlOy89HqaN.html
08-07-2020||India||After biggest spike of 749 Covid-19 cases in Bihar, lockdown imposed from July 10||After a relaxation of more than a month, restrictions will once again be imposed in the state capital of Patna from July 10 for a week after the state reported 749 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. In all, Patna has a total of 1,351 Covid-19 cases till date.Patna district magistrate, Kumar Ravi, issued an order on Wednesday in this regard under “The Bihar Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020” after the crisis management group of the state government authorized district officials to impose restrictions after assessing the local situation. According to the order, the state capital will be under lockdown from July 10 till July 16.The order effectively means that all offices of the Central government, its autonomous/subordinates offices and public offices (with the exception of defence, central armed police forces, treasury, public utilities, disaster management, power generation, etc.) will remain closed during the period.In addition to this, offices of the state government/union territory governments, their autonomous bodies, corporations, etc., (with exceptions of police, home guards, disaster administration, treasury, electricity, sanitation) as well as commercial and private establishments will also remain shut.All places of worship will remain closed during the period and no religious congregation will be allowed.However, for the convenience of people, different shops including ration shops (under PDS) dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and vegetables, fish will remain open between 6 am and 10 am and 4 pm to 7 pm.In order to minimize the movement of people, the authorities will encourage and facilitate home delivery to restrict the movement of individuals outside their homes.The order exempts banks, insurance offices and ATMS, telecommunications, delivery of all kinds of goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce, petrol pumps, LPG, and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, capital and debt market services, electronic and print media from lockdown.Also exempted are cold storages, ware housing services, private security services, and industrial establishments hospitality services, etc.The DM’s order said that the step was initiated following an alarming surge in Covid-19 positive cases in the district of Patna in the last three weeks wherein the positivity rate has also been considerably high.Elsewhere in Bihar, the West Champaran administration imposed lockdown from July 9 from 7 am till 5 pm but allowed shops to function from 11 am till 5.30 pm.Similarly, lockdown has been enforced by the Bhagalpur administration in the urban areas besides Sultanganj, Kahalgaon and Naugachhia. The administration said that the lockdown would be enforced from 6 am on Thursday (July 9) till midnight on Monday (July 13). In Bettiah, the lockdown will continue till further orders.Incidentally, Patna has so far reported 1,351 Covid-19 positive cases and the death of 12 people. So far 641 people have recovered from the virus. Bhagalpur has reported 693 cases of which 472 people have recovered. The district reported 50 new cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-biggest-spike-of-749-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-lockdown-imposed-from-july-10/story-4P36Qog7VFRxxMTGJF7UTN.html
08-07-2020||India||China’s pullback in Ladakh’s Pangong Finger Area to test disengagement||With disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies making measurable progress in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, the focus of reducing tensions in eastern Ladakh has shifted to the sensitive Finger Area near Pangong Tso, where the Indian Army has observed a marginal thinning of troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur over the last 24 hours, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.Some Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) elements have retreated from Finger 4 but it can’t by any stretch be seen as disengagement, said one of the officials cited above. The Finger Area refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking Pangong lake.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8 km apart.“The Finger Area will now be at the centre of the step-wise disengagement process, which is underway at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra. Temporary buffer zones between rival troops have been created there. The Finger Area will be the hardest part of disengagement,” said a second official.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger Eight, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger Four where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps over the last two months.The army has begun a rigorous verification process to monitor the withdrawal of the PLA from Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, where 4 km buffer zones between troops have come up, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday.While the PLA has withdrawn up to 2 km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley) and PP-15 (Hot Springs) over the last three days, a similar retreat is expected to be completed at PP-17 (Gogra) within a 24-hour time frame (Thursday), said a third official. The Indian Army is pulling back proportionately in these areas. This is based on an understanding on June 30 by top Indian and Chinese commanders on a phased de-escalation of the ongoing border conflict.Military experts said the Finger Area will test the disengagement process.“Disengagement appears to be making reasonable progress in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra. The Finger Area will now be the focal point of the disengagement process and will be a true test of China’s commitment and sincerity to resolve the situation,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the complex plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides. It also entails the phased withdrawal of weapons and equipment to a mutually agreed distance, and finally the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April).The army is keeping a close watch on the ongoing pull back by the PLA. The creation of buffer zones will temporarily restrict the patrolling activities of both armies in the region. While some experts saw this as a necessary step, others cautioned that the temporary curtailing of patrolling rights should not become a long-term feature undermining Indian presence and control, as reported by HT on Wednesday.Disengagement during a 2014 border standoff at Chumar in Ladakh involved a temporary ban on Indian and Chinese soldiers patrolling disputed areas.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.The military buildup in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The disengagement process, a precursor to any kind of de-escalation of the border conflict, started under the terms mutually agreed to at the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region. This understanding, in turn, was the result of earlier efforts not paying dividends.It also followed a two-hour video conference between India’s National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi, according to official statements by both countries on Monday.A limited military disengagement in the same friction areas — Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra — was initiated last month after the commanders reached an understanding on reducing tensions during their first meeting on June 6. But the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15 dashed disengagement hopes. The clash left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead.The corps commander-ranked officers then met on June 22 when they hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points. However, it neither enabled any disengagement on the ground nor led to the thinning of the military build-up, leading to their third meeting on June 30.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region. The first part of this process is underway at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pullback-in-ladakh-s-pangong-finger-areas-to-test-disengagement/story-oRUELqABgocgUMbLkbPWFM.html
08-07-2020||India||Pakistan coerced Kulbushan Jadhav to refuse case review, says India||India has rubbished Pakistan’s claim that Kulbhushan Jadhav who is imprisoned in that country has refused to initiate review petition and called it a farce.In a statement on Wednesday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also accused Pakistan of coercing Jadhav, a former navy officer who was sentenced to death, to refuse to file a review in his case.“Pakistan’s claim that Jadhav, who is incarcerated in Pakistan’s custody, has refused to initiate review petition is a continuation of the farce that has been in play for the last four years. Jadhav has been sentenced to execution through a farcical trial. He remains under custody of Pakistan’s military. He has clearly been coerced to refuse to file a review in his case,” the MEA said.It also underlined that New Delhi wants unimpeded access to Jadhav to discuss his remedies“India sought unimpeded access to Jadhav to discuss his remedies under the Ordinance. In a brazen attempt to scuttle even the inadequate remedy under the Ordinance, Pakistan has obviously coerced Jadhav to forego his rights to seek an implementation of the judgment of the ICJ (International Court of Justice).”In May 2017, New Delhi petitioned the ICJ, which stayed Jadhav’s execution. In its ruling in July 2019, the ICJ said its stay of the death sentence should continue. Pakistan claims Jadhav is an Indian spy.The MEA said Pakistan statement on Wednesday seeks to mask its continuing reticence to implement ICJ judgment.“We have been pursuing through diplomatic channels full and effective implementation of the ICJ judgment in the case of Kulbushan Jadhav. The media statement made by Pakistan today in the case seeks to mask its continuing reticence to implement ICJ judgment in letter and spirit.”The MEA said Pakistan passed an Ordinance in May this year to allow for the High Court to review the sentence awarded by their military court.“They have all along maintained that their laws allowed for effective review and reconsideration while we have protested it all along. Now, after almost a year, they have made a u-turn and issued an Ordinance to ostensibly provide for some sort of review. We have already expressed our serious concerns at the content of the Ordinance and how it violates the ICJ judgment. Pakistan is only seeking to create an illusion of remedy,” it said.The MEA said despite India’s repeated requests, Pakistan continues to deny free and unimpeded access to Jadhav.“India has repeatedly asked to allow a lawyer from outside Pakistan to appear for Jadhav in any review and reconsideration proceedings. Pakistan has denied it. Since 2017, when the Military Court carried out a farcical trial, Pakistan has refused to hand over any relevant document, including FIR, evidence, court order, etc in the case to India. Clearly, Pakistan is attempting to create a mirage of compliance with the ICJ judgment,” the statement said.It said India will exercise all options to secure Jadhav’s release.“ICJ has already held that Pakistan is in egregious violation of international law. Government will do its utmost to protect Jadhav and ensure his safe return to India. To that end, it would consider all appropriate options.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kulbhushan-jadhav-india-seeks-full-implementation-of-icj-judgment-says-mea/story-AjNhogB6GBrj8p1UaQSZ6H.html
08-07-2020||India||Nepal objects to road-repair work near border in Bihar’s Sitamarhi, leaves officials surprised||The Nepal authorities have raised the border issue with Bihar again. This time, they have forced the state road construction department (RCD) to stall repair and strengthening of the northernmost stretch of Sitamarhi-Bhittamore Road near the border in Sursand block of Sitmarhi district, officials said on Wednesday.A senior officer of the department, who was not willing to be named, said that the work has been stopped a few days ago after Nepal officials objected to the widening of road in its 1.10km stretch, close to the border, which is about 125 km north from the state capital, Patna. He said the matter has been referred to the state home department for resolution.The RCD official said the objection from Nepal came as a ‘shock and surprise’ as there was a clearly demarcated border between the two countries at the spot and check posts of both the countries had been working on either side of the no-man’s land for decades.“We were carrying out repair and strengthening down south of the international pillars and beyond the no-man’s land. The state government never faced any objection for any construction work earlier,” said the official, who rushed to the spot immediately after Nepal officials objected to the work, claiming that the area fell under territorial command as per survey records.Rajnath Singh reviews ongoing infra projects along border regionsConfirming the development, additional chief secretary, home, Amir Subhani said the state government was closely watching the developments on the border with Nepal. “We are trying to find out the solution at the earliest. We are in touch with the Central government also,” said Subhani.This is the second instance of Nepali authorities raising their objections to construction work being done by the Bihar government near the border.A fortnight ago, Nepal government officials had stalled the fortification work on an embankment of Lal Bakeya river in Dhaka block of East Champaran district in the Indian territory near the no-man’s land. They are now threatening to pull down a part of the embankment.Subhani said the border issue with Nepal relating to East Champaran was yet to be resolved.Sharad Pawar recalls visits by Nehru, Chavan to border post-1962 warThe Sitamarhi-Bhittamore road is important for religious reasons as it connects Janakpur, which houses a 200-year-old Janki Temple with Sithamarhi—considered to be the birth place of Goddess Sita.Earlier in June, Nepal Armed Police had shot dead a Bihari youth and injured three others following an altercation.PM Oli doesn’t budge an inch in Nepal standoff, party stares at a possible splitThe relationship between India and Nepal has come under strain after Nepal’s Parliament approved a new political map, claiming its territorial command over key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura of Uttarakhand in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-objects-to-road-repair-work-near-border-in-bihar-s-sitamarhi-leaves-officials-surprised/story-s8KUdbMawvMw3eCMO52tjM.html
08-07-2020||India||‘It is 10% here’: Bengal CM on corruption complaints over Amphan relief||Stung by the opposition complaints of nepotism and corruption over distribution of money in Amphan relief, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the issue was being blown out of proportion, alleging that the rate of corruption in other states was at 90 percent. The chief minister gave no statistic or proof for the charge made against other states. “In other states, the rate of corruption is at 90 per cent. It is 10 per cent here. Our administration is taking strict action,” Banerjee said at Wednesday’s press conference at Nabanna, the state secretariat.It is alleged that the compensation of Rs 20,000 went to numerous people who suffered no loss during the Cyclone. It is also alleged that multiple members from the same families got Rs 20,000 each. CM Banerjee has asked district administrations to review the payments and take back the money. As a cautionary measure, some bank accounts are also being frozen. “The opposition is blowing it [issue] up and staging agitation every day. The irregularities took place only in a small fraction of places. Good work was done in the rest of the areas. Corruption is rampant in other parties. When the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was in power every panchayat in Bengal was involved in corruption,” Banerjee said. According to official estimates, 28.6 lakh houses were damaged by the Cyclone and the state suffered a loss of Rs 28,560 crore. The chief minister announced an initial relief fund of Rs 6,250 crore. Part of this money is being given to villagers to repair homes. On June 2, Banerjee said the government had transferred funds to the bank accounts of nearly five lakh people.The CPI(M) reacted sharply, saying corruption has been institutionalised by the TMC.“The government is submerged in corruption. We saw looting in the name of distribution of free ration during the lockdown. The same goes for compensation for repairing houses. Banerjee is in no position to talk about fighting corruption. If the CPI(M) was so corrupt then how come the inquiry commissions she ordered after coming to power couldn’t find anything,” said Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) legislator from Jadavpur and leader of the Left parties in the Assembly.The BJP was quick to jump into the fray and accused the chief minister of lying over the issue. “Relief for Amphan-affected people was looted in Bengal. Free ration sent by the Centre never reached the people. The chief minister is lying,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha.The BJP has turned the alleged relief corruption into a raging issue prior to the 2021 assembly polls. The party’s state president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday launched a website where people who have been deprived can lodge complaints. Countering it, the TMC accused the BJP of indulging in the same nepotism in several parts in North 24 Parganas district.The TMC on Sunday issued show-cause notice to more than 200 panchayat-level workers and leaders in the Nandigram area of East Midnapore district and suspended 25 of them. More than 50 of these people have returned the compensation. Similar actions are being taken by the party in other districts but the opposition has called it an eyewash.“If the chief minister is so brave why isn’t she filing FIRs against those involved in this corruption. Let police complaints be lodged against our party workers too if they are involved,” said the BJP state president.Ghosh alleged that the suspensions are an eyewash and the people will be taken back into the party fold after some time.The CPI (M) questioned why the state government was not acting against those involved in corruption.“Why is the party and not the administration taking action? This is public money,” said CPI(M) politburo member Md Salim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-10-here-bengal-cm-on-corruption-complaints-over-amphan-relief/story-g3TzKN7Htngnx6zM8Vnp5M.html
08-07-2020||India||Covid-19 victim cremated by another’s family as 2 bodies swapped at AIIMS||Moments before the body of 35-year-old Anjum was to be buried, Sharif Khan decided to have one last look at his sister who succumbed to the novel coronavirus. However, he received a rude shock when the corpse lying in a body bag beside the freshly dug grave turned out to be someone else’s.Khan later found out that his deceased sister was cremated by the family of Kusumlata, another Covid-19 victim whose body had been accidentally swapped with Anjum’s by staff at the AIIMS here where both women had been admitted and subsequently died.A doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said there has been a lapse on the part of the staff as they did not carry out the proper process of establishing the identity before handing over the bodies to the families. “On the basis of the initial report, administrative action has been taken against two staff members from the mortuary. One has been terminated while another was suspended. Further, a committee has been set up for carrying out a detailed probe into the incident,” a senior doctor at AIIMS said.Khan said his sister, a resident of Bareilly, was suffering from jaundice and he brought her to the AIIMS on July 4. Anjum was admitted at the emergency ward of the hospital and within two hours, the doctors declared her Covid-19 positive. They admitted her to the Covid-19 ward at the Trauma Centre, he said. Anjum’s husband had died seven months ago. She is survived by her three children. “Late on Monday night, I received a call that my sister had died. The next day, at around 8 am, we reached the hospital and asked the doctors if we could take the body back to Bareilly, but they refused. They gave us four PPE kits and asked to go to ITO graveyard to book a place,” Khan said. Accordingly, the body was taken to the cemetery at ITO, a dedicated graveyard for burying those who die due to Covid-19. Before the body was lowered in the grave, he opened the body bag to see his sister’s face one last time. “When I saw the face, I realised it was not my sister. It was one Kusumlata from Ghaziabad. Her name was mentioned on the body,” he said. The AIIMS staff was also present during the burial. When Khan told them that the body was not his sister’s, the hospital staff left with Kusumlata’s body and said they would be back. “We kept waiting at the graveyard till 4 p.m., but nobody turned up. We called them several times, but they kept giving us excuses. Finally, we reached the Trauma Centre and called police,” Khan said. “The doctors informed us that the family members of Kusumlata had cremated my sister’s body at the Punjabi Bagh crematorium,” he said, adding that he had called his niece and nephew from Bareilly so that they could see their mother’s face one last time. Khan said he has lodged a complaint at Safdarjung Enclave police station regarding the incident.A senior police officer said, “We have received the complaint and are looking into the matter.” Despite repeated attempts, Kusumlata’s family could not be reached. A senior doctor at the AIIMS said the hospital has ordered an enquiry into the matter. One staff member has been terminated from service while another has been suspended. “Both the bodies along with two other bodies were transported together for cremation and burial. There has been a lapse on the part of the staff as they did not carry out the proper process of establishing the identity before handing over the bodies,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-victim-cremated-by-another-s-family-as-2-bodies-swapped-at-aiims/story-2GL05Vzj2I8DIAeGCkICkL.html
08-07-2020||India||Will get to the bottom of gold smuggling racket, says junior foreign minister||The gold smuggling racket busted in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday has ranged the Kerala government against the Centre with Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan on Wednesday describing the incident as a serious lapse and that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan cannot wash his hands off easily.“He says he has no idea what his secretary did. How can he lob the ball into the Centre’s court saying airports come under the Union Government? Our investigation is on and we will bring out the truth,” said the minister in Delhi. “The Centre has definite information that it was not a one- off incident.”The Customs department had seized 30 kg gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Swapna Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, who is now alleged to be a key player in the racket had gone underground after the seizure. Later the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was close to Suresh and declared that he was ready for any probe into the smuggling“Our investigation is on. We will also bring to light those who helped smugglers. We will get into the bottom of the racket. The main accused was given a plum posting when she was mired in another cheating case. Often she was treated more than a high-ranking diplomat and after her role came to light now the CM says he has no idea how she got the job,” said Muraleedharan.The junior minister in the MEA who also hails from Kerala has often clashed with chief minister Vijayan over a range of issues, most recently over the evacuation of expatriates from west Asian countries. When asked about a CBI probe, Muraleedharan said the request will have to come from either the state government or the court. He said the consignment came to the airport on Friday and it was opened on Sunday in the presence of consulate officials. He said it was wrong to call it a diplomatic baggage because it came in the name of a person, not an official consignment. He also said customs has sought the MEA permission to quiz some officials of the consulate and the government will decide after talking to competent authority in the UAE.Vijayan who has also come under fire from the opposition wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday seeking a coordinated investigation by central agencies into the case because of its serious implication of undermining the country’s economy.“It is requested that an effective and coordinated investigation into this incident by all central agencies concerned is the need of the hour. The scope of the probe should cover all aspects from the source to the end utilization ,” teh letter said.Meanwhile, amid a clamour by the opposition for Vijayan’s resignation, Kerala’s industry minister E P Jayarajan hurriedly called a press briefing and said there was a move to discredit the popularity of the CM and the state’s ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“Kerala is on top of the world. Opposition parties are worried over the popularity of the state government. That is why they are raking up issues to target the government,” said Jayarajan. He said the CM has made it clear the state was ready for any probe. He said such incidents will not affect the all-out war against the virus and people will see through the designs of opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-get-to-the-bottom-of-gold-smuggling-racket-says-junior-foreign-minister/story-XrVN7yUii9iBiskJf0LSNP.html
08-07-2020||India||PM Modi to deliver inaugural address at India Global Week 2020 on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver on Thursday the inaugural address at the India Global Week 2020, a virtual conference being organised in the UK, which will also feature a “never-seen-before” performance on the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat campaign, the Prime Minister’s Office said.Themed ‘Be The Revival: India and a Better New World’, the event will have 5,000 global participants from 30 nations and it will be addressed by 250 global speakers in 75 sessions.“Will be addressing the India Global Week, organised by @IndiaIncorp at 1:30 pm tomorrow. This forum brings together global thought leaders and captains of industry, who will discuss aspects relating to opportunities in India as well as the global economic revival post-COVID,” PM Modi tweeted.Those participating in the event include External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Commerce and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, and spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, the PMO statement said.The UK’s Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Home Secretary Priti Patel, and US Ambassador to India Ken Juster are some of the other participants to the event, it said.The event will also feature a “never-seen-before performance” on ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ by Madhu Nataraj and a special 100th birth anniversary concert in tribute to sitar maestro Ravi Shankar by three of his most eminent students.The three-day summit is being held on a virtual platform given restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A report from London on Tuesday stated that the organisers expect an estimated 250 senior business and strategic expert speakers to attract 5,000 audience worldwide over the course of the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-inaugural-address-at-india-global-week-2020-on-thursday/story-CwNGwcpSsHc55Et5maD3nI.html
08-07-2020||India||Kerala adds 301 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest surge since outbreak began||With 301 fresh coronavirus patients, the Covid-19 curve peaked in Kerala on Wednesday and the situation turned serious in some areas of state capital Thiruvananthapuram and port city Kochi. In the coastal hamlet of Poonthura on the outskirts of the capital, 119 people were found positive after 600 people were tested for the disease. After the situation turned really grim, police commandos were deployed in the area to ensure a complete lockdown. Though the latest incident gave ample indication of community spread, health officials put up a brave front saying the situation was under control. With 301 new cases, the Covid-19 tally went up to 6,195—out of this 2,605 are under treatment and 3,561 patients have recovered. The state has reported 29 deaths so far. Out of the 301 new cases, 99 are expatriates, 95 came from other states and 90 people contracted the virus from primary contacts, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office.After a big spurt in cases, the government had imposed a triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram to avert possible community spread. The situation turned serious in the state capital after the source of infection in many cases could not be traced. In the first week of May, the state was on the verge of flattening the coronavirus curve but positive cases increased after the return of expatriates and those stranded in other states. Despite criticism that it lags behind other states in tests, Kerala has got the least mortality and among the highest recovery rates in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-301-fresh-covid-19-cases-highest-surge-since-outbreak-began/story-AXBaeqOfNGFRXQgR8aPyHM.html
08-07-2020||India||Here’s why high recovery rate is key to India’s Covid containment strategy despite big daily spikes||The Union government on Wednesday highlighted that India’s rate of recovery of Covid-19 patients continues to increase amid a recent trend of record rise in daily cases of fresh coronavirus infections. The recovery rate on Wednesday has touched 61.53% with a total of 4,56,830 patients having been cured of the disease leaving 2,64,944 active cases under medical supervision.22,752 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported over the last 24 hours on Wednesday, taking the national virus caseload to 7,42,417, including 20,642 casualties recorded so far due to the disease. 482 of these coronavirus patients had died over the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry data released earlier today.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Tuesday pointed out that the success of government’s containment strategy was evidenced in the low mortality per million and low number of infections per million.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIndia’s mortality rate is 15 per million of its population compared to 405 deaths per million for the US, 315 per million for Brazil, 73 per million for Russia and 332 per million for Peru, among the five worst affected countries by coronavirus according to current data published on Worldometers.com.The health minister had credited country’s relative success on these parameters to “pro-active, pre-emptive and graded” approach, which he said had helped in slowing the growth of the disease and left a significant number of unoccupied beds in the Covid health infrastructure.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The government further elaborated on the strategy on Wednesday and said the territories in India with high case load were turning their focus on early identification and effective clinical management of positive cases to ensure that recovery/million is more than active cases/million.“This shows that while the total number of positive cases might be high, the recoveries are fast catching up, thereby keeping the active cases low. This has also ensured that Covid healthcare facilities are not under pressure and are not stretched. India has 315.8 recovered cases per million while the active cases per million in the country are at a low level of 186.3,” a government statement said on Wednesday.The government added that substantial increase in testing with the deployment of RT-PCR tests, Rapid Antigen Tests have helped in early identification of the cases along with deployment of several mobile apps to keep track of high risk population and the involvement of the community and health volunteers on the ground enabling effective surveillance.According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,04,73,771 samples have been tested up to July 7 with 2,62,679 samples being tested on Tuesday. In measures taken to further reduce Covid mortality, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, India’s premier medical hospital, has started a tele-consultation guidance facility for State doctors on clinical management of coronavirus patients.The initiative by the ministry of health has roped in specialist doctors from AIIMS to provide expert guidance and knowledge support to doctors manning ICUs in State hospitals through tele/video consultation.In the first session of this routine exercise to be conducted twice every week on Tuesdays and Fridays, ten hospitals have been selected, including nine from Mumbai (Maharashtra) and one from Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-s-why-high-recovery-rate-is-key-to-india-s-covid-containment-strategy-despite-big-daily-spikes/story-2dmNgA52v5WvBaugjKzJON.html
08-07-2020||India||Bombay HC warns action against negligent officials for shirking responsibility during pandemic||Mumbai: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has taken the negligent and errant government officials to task for shirking their duties amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and warned of initiating criminal proceedings against them in a bid to cleanse the administrative system. It also cautioned private hospital authorities and directed them to make adequate beds available for Covid-19 patients amid an imminent spike in the viral outbreak in Aurangabad.The court made the observation while hearing a suo motu (on its own motion) public interest litigation (PIL) on Tuesday.The court took a strong exception and cited that its July 3 order is being flouted by public servants, who are callous in discharging their duties amid the pandemic.A two-member division bench, comprising Justices TV Nalawade and SD Kulkarni, while hearing the report of advocate Rajendra Deshmukh, a senior counsel appointed as the amicus curiae, was informed that despite the court’s order in the June 3 hearing, many public servants are still playing truant for their Covid-19 duties.Earlier, the court had demanded the details of the action taken against errant officials by the Aurangabad administration. Public prosecutor DR Kale submitted the action taken report before the court on Tuesday.The PIL was filed after concerns were raised about the spike of Covid-19 positive cases and a lack of coordination between various authorities in the Aurangabad region.Kale submitted before the court that Aurangabad civic areas would enforce nine-day lockdown restrictions from Friday (July 10) and all necessary steps would be taken to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.The court observed that though show-cause notices were sent to private hospitals, their replies are still awaited.It warned that Covid-19 positive cases would spike during the lockdown restrictions because of aggressive contact tracing and more hospital beds would be required to treat the fresh cases.The court directed the Aurangabad administration to take criminal action against those private hospitals that are not complying with its orders to make beds available for Covid-19 patients.It also cautioned errant public servants and warned of criminal proceedings against those, who remain recalcitrant, in a bid to clean up the administrative machinery. The court will hear the PIL next on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-criminal-action-against-govt-officials-shirking-covid-19-duty-hc/story-YXlNfZDwiDm1m505YbF9fN.html
08-07-2020||India||UP STF picks up gangster Vikas Dubey’s brother-in-law and nephew from MP||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s brother-in-law Gyanendra Nigam (46), and his son were picked by special task force (STF) of Uttar Pradesh police with assistance from Madhya Pradesh cops from Shahdol, 592 kilometres east of Bhopal on Wednesday, police said.Dubey, who is the main accused in murder of eight policemen in Kanpur last week has been on the run and has evaded arrest so far despite a massive manhunt.Shahdol, superintendent of police, Satyendra Shukla said, “A resident of Kanpur Gyanendra Nigam was co-accused with Vikas Dubey in murder cases of BJP leader Santosh Shukla and Vikas’s cousin Dinesh Dubey in Uttar Pradesh. Later, Nigam was acquitted in both the cases.”“After acquittal, Nigam shifted to Budhar in Shahdol 15 years ago and started business of selling cattle feed and coal,” said Shukla.Another police officer who did not want to be named said, “Gyanendra Nigam used to look after accounts and properties of Vikash Dubey.”Talking to local media persons before being taken to Kanpur by the UP STF Nigam said he had no connection with his sister Richa and brother-in-law Vikas.Nigam claimed that he had parted way with Vikas Dubey after the latter entered the world of crime. “I snapped all ties with him 15 years ago. I don’t know why UP STF has picked my son and myself,” said Nigam. After the incident in UP in which 8 policemen were killed, Madhya Pradesh police has been put on alert. Checking has been intensified in MP-UP border areas in Vindhya and Chambal regions, said Chanchal Shekhar, Inspector General of Police, Rewa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-stf-picks-up-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-brother-in-law-and-nephew-from-mp/story-5cronytEt0ukJcFVIU93YI.html
08-07-2020||India||‘Insidious hate’: Congress cites motive behind probe in Gandhi family linked trusts||The Congress has hit out at the Centre claiming the part and its leadership will “not be intimidated” by the “cowardly acts” and a blind “witch-hunt by a panicked” Modi government while responding to Centre’s decision to set up an inter-ministerial panel to probe funding of three entities linked to the Gandhi family, including the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation. The party statement was an echo of Rahul Gandhi’s tweet, posted around the same time. “Mr Modi believes the world is like him. He thinks every one has a price or can be intimidated. He will never understand that those who fight for the truth have no price and cannot be intimidated,” the tweet read.Though Gandhi didn’t mention it, the timing of his tweet, which came within hours of the announcement of the probe, indicated he might be referring to the same development.The government had earlier in the day constituted a team to coordinate a probe into the alleged violation of various laws including the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) by three trusts associated with the Nehru-Gandhi family -- the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust.Home Ministry sets up panel to coordinate probe into 3 Gandhi family trustsThe RGF had come in sharp focus in the past few days owing to allegations by the ruling party that the foundation had received funds from the Chinese embassy in what it claimed could possibly be a quid-pro-quo for the Congress taking care of Beijing’s interests including in trade with India.The BJP had also claimed that the RGF, which is chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, had received public funds from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) during the UPA-1’s regime, between 2004 and 2009, apart from several other state owned entities.The Congress party reacted to the probe through a counter attack on the Central government alleging its decision was driven by an “insidious hate” of the Congress leadership and a need to distract from the alleged failures on the front of India’s security, territorial integrity, the handling of Covid 19 crisis and the economy.“The wild and insidious hatred of the BJP of Congress leadership unfolds every day in an embarrassing and uglier fashion. Facing a barrage of questions on (i) blatant compromise of India’s security interests and territorial integrity, (ii) a shocking mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis which continues to devour lives and livelihood on a daily basis and (iii) unable to arrest the economic recession wreaking havoc on the life of every Indian citizen; a desperate Modi-Shah Government has fallen back on a devious hounding of those exposing its ineptitude by ordering a wholly vicious and vengeful investigation of the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust, “ said an official statement signed by AICC spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala.Earlier, senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi had accused the Centre of being biased against some institutions while protecting others associated with the BJP, like the RSS. The statement released by Surjewala said that the entities to be probed had always stood out for their humanitarian work and distinguished services. “The humanitarian work and distinguished service provided by these charitable organisations has always stood out and will withstand any vengeful and roving enquiry. Every day, a new conspiracy is crafted by the delusional BJP leadership so as to spread disinformation, distraction and diversion to bury the apparent incompetence and complete failure of the Modi Government,” the statement said. The probe under the PMLA is likely to deal with aspects related to money laundering while the investigation under the FCRA will likely look at acceptance and utilisation of foreign contributions.Congress also reiterated its allegations that the BJP leadership had deep-rooted connections with the Communist Party of China and that Chinese firms had made large donations to the PM CARES fund, set up recently to accept donations to fight unforeseen crises like the Coronavirus pandemic.“Will the Modi Government hold an enquiry into the donations worth hundreds of crores received from Chinese entities into the PM-Cares fund?” the Congress asked.The party also wanted to know if the Narendra Modi led government was willing to probe funding of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the Vivekananda Foundation, The India Foundation and the Overseas Friends of BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insidious-hate-congress-cites-motive-behind-probe-in-gandhi-family-linked-trusts/story-KpR0XBr2sfpTkjaK6KOkyK.html
08-07-2020||India||Andhra launches mobile Covid-19 sample collection centres, Aadhaar must||As part of stepping up testing for Covid-19 in the wake of fast spreading of the virus, the Andhra Pradesh government has introduced mobile sample collection centres to collect the samples of people suffering from symptoms of the disease.State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Arja Sreekanth said the state medical and health department has acquired 20 mobile sample collection centres, which would be increased by another 50 shortly to meet the growing demand for testing as the situation gets grimmer with the rising number of Covid-19 cases.He said each mobile centre would have 10 counters, so that samples of 10 persons could be collected at a time. Those undergoing tests would have to furnish all their particulars, including mobile numbers, Aadhar numbers, addresses and their present health conditions.“The sample collection will be done within 10 minutes and sent to the laboratories for testing. The test results would be sent to the people on their respective mobiles in the shortest possible time,” Sreekanth said.Once the details of the person who gives his sample are uploaded in the system, they would be forwarded to the local Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), a health department worker, who would not only keep a surveillance on the movement of the person but also monitor his health status from time to time.The mobile sample collection vans would be sent to various places like bus stands, railway stations, airports and inter-state borders so that samples from people coming from other states and countries would be collected.“This will also help the authorities do contact tracing and prevent community spread of the virus,” the nodal officer said.What is more, these mobile vans would be sent to all the containment zones to collect samples from people in the area.“They don’t have to go to the laboratories for testing, since the sample collection is done within their colony,” he said.Once the test results were declared, the health department authorities would monitor the people who test positive.“Depending on the intensity of the disease and the co-morbid conditions, the authorities would decide on whether such patients should be sent to the hospital or the government quarantine centres or allow them to be home quarantined. If they want to be self-quarantined, the local ANM would regularly monitor their health status,” Sreekanth said.Andhra Pradesh was among the top three states in the country in conducting the highest number of tests per million population.As of Wednesday, the state has tested 10,77,733 samples, at the rate of 20,182 tests per million population.In all, the state reported 22,259 positive cases for Covid-19 with a positivity rate of 2.07 per cent and 263 deaths with a mortality rate of 1.19 per cent. The national average for testing is 7551 per million, while the average positivity rate is 7.09 per cent and mortality rate is 2.78 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-launches-mobile-covid-19-sample-collection-centres-aadhaar-must/story-mIkKbJyqrySRsOKROO6RFN.html
08-07-2020||India||CM Mamata scraps list of South 24 Parganas containment zones, wants it redone||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed dissatisfaction with the South 24 Parganas district administration for marking containment zones in the district, according to the new guidelines the state had announced. The chief minister said the zones had been marked indiscriminately and scrapped the list. Lockdown will be announced in these containment zones from 5 pm on Thursday.South 24 Parganas is located right next to Kolkata and many parts of the district are considered almost a part of the capital city. “What is this? They seem to have added one community ward after another without doing any survey. Who has done this? This will not do. Prepare a fresh list,” Banerjee said at a press conference at Nabanna, the state secretariat. The press conference was aired live on several television channels and Facebook.Though Banerjee is known for pulling up officials in public, this is the first time she expressed her dissatisfaction with a Covid-19 related decision taken by the police and bureaucrats. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha who was present at the news briefing was asked by Banerjee to redraw the list. “I did not say anything about containment zones in Kolkata. But in South 24 Parganas it seems they did nothing but copy the addresses from the voters’ list. You go through the list right now. I want it changed immediately,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-scraps-list-of-south-24-parganas-containment-zones-wants-it-redone/story-2IGx1v5Od05lCaeHEx3HlM.html
08-07-2020||India||Stalker kills woman’s 8-year-old child, dumps body in well; arrested||An eight-year-old boy was abducted and killed in Bhopal’s Bhind district by a man who used to stalk his mother, said police.The accused Man Singh Baghel, 31, a resident of Lahar of Bhind district was arrested by police on Tuesday.Lahar, Sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), DS Bais said, “Baghel committed the crime when the boy’s mother, a resident of Lahar, scolded the man for making sexual advances.”Bais said, “Sumit Dohre, 8, went missing on Sunday when he was returning from his father’s shop. Sumit’s mother told police that she had a doubt on Man Singh, who lives in her neighbourhood in Lahar. When police arrested Man Singh, he confessed to have committed the crime.”“Man Singh said he proposed to Sumit’s mother last week but she not only refused but also insulted him. To take revenge on the woman, Man Singh abducted Sumit and strangulated him to death. Man Singh threw the body in a well,” said Bais.The police were later able to recover the child’s body from the well.The accused was produced before the court on Wednesday and sent to police custody on remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalker-kills-woman-s-8-year-old-child-dumps-body-in-well-arrested/story-kngu6DWYetOUKNt4Fwb6jL.html
08-07-2020||India||Fake babas giving bad name to genuine spiritual leaders: Supreme Court||Fake babas and their illegal activities are giving a bad name to genuine spiritual leaders, the Supreme Court (SC) observed on Wednesday while directing the Central government to suggest measures to tackle these bogus personalities, who are fooling their gullible disciples and the public at large.An SC bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde, was hearing a plea seeking action against various ashrams run by fake spiritual gurus, who have allegedly confined inmates, particularly women, in unhygienic living conditions, amid fears of the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“There is a lot of money involved and criminal activities are happening. See what can be done? This kind of practice gives a bad name to everyone,” CJI Bobde told solicitor-general (S-G), Tushar Mehta, the Central government’s second senior-most law officer.The petitioner, Dumpala Ramreddy, was asked by the apex court to provide S-G Mehta with a copy of the petition in a bid to help him suggest solutions to deal with the growing menace.Reddy had approached the top court in April, alleging that his daughter is confined to Adhyatmika Vidyalaya Ashram at Rohini in Delhi founded by Veerendra Dev Dixit, who is currently on the run after being accused of rape.Reddy submitted that both the Central and state governments were not taking any action against fake babas and were allowing such illegal ashrams to mushroom and on most occasions from unauthorised premises.“Considering the urgent prevailing situation due to spreading of Covid-19 in the country, particularly in places where social distancing is not maintained … the petitioner prays for the intervention of this court for the rescue of the women/persons in the ashrams,” the plea stated.The petitioner also sought guidelines to be laid down to govern establishments and the functioning of such ashrams and to close down those run by history sheeters.He also cited a list released by the apex body of sages, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, declaring 17 babas, including Dixit, Asaram Bapu, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, and Radhe Maa as fake spiritual personalities and cautioning the public against them.Reddy contended that 17 such ashrams are still operational and thousands of gullible disciples are staying in them.“If this man (Reddy) says Akhada has declared that there are 17 ashrams that are fake, it raises serious questions,” the bench remarked.Reddy sought the evacuation of inmates from the ashrams at the earliest because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.“The authorities are not verifying the facilities available in the ashrams and they are in poor condition. They do not have basic amenities and the living conditions are unhygienic,” the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-babas-giving-bad-name-to-genuine-spiritual-leaders-sc/story-mwW9BhdcnWsu6OvJbKGrmN.html
08-07-2020||India||SC committee asks Assam to submit report on illegal construction in Kaziranga animal corridor||A Supreme Court-constituted central empowered committee (CEC) has directed the chief wildlife warden of Assam to submit a report on alleged illegal construction in an animal corridor close to the Kaziranga National Park (KNP) and the tiger reserve in violation of the apex court’s order.The letter issued on Tuesday by Amarnatha Shetty, the member-secretary of CEC, to MK Yadava, chief wildlife warden, Assam, was in response to a complaint filed in June by environmental activist Rohit Choudhury against the construction in Kanchanjuri animal corridor of KNP, which is renowned for one-horned rhinos.“It is requested that a factual report on the complaint made, specifically on the alleged violation of the SC order dated April 12, 2019, may please be sent to the CEC at the earliest,” Shetty’s letter read.In its order, the SC had banned all mining-related activities along the KNP area and a catchment area of rivers/streams/rivulets originating in the tribal-dominated Karbi Anglong hills and flowing into the national park and the tiger reserve.“No new construction shall be permitted on private lands, which form part of the nine identified animal corridors,” the SC order had stipulated.The complaint by Choudhury alleged “blatant violations” of the apex court’s ruling in connivance with the Assam government, resulting in contempt of court and orders should be issued to demolish the construction and connectivity of the animal corridor restored at the earliest.“A powerful and influential person is involved in undertaking the construction of a huge building with an approach road within the critical Kanchanjuri animal corridor, one of the nine identified corridors of KNP and tiger reserve,” the complaint read.“These nine corridors are a lifeline for the wildlife of Kaziranga, particularly the long-ranging species such as Indian Elephant, tiger among other forms of wildlife,” it added.Choudhury alleged that since the ongoing construction can be easily seen from the national highway running close to KNP, the illegal activity is going on in connivance with the area’s forest, civil and police administrations.The complainant mentioned that though the matter was brought to the notice of the state’s chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna in June, no action was taken to stop the illegal construction.“If the destruction of notified animal corridors continues in this manner then it is a matter of time that all the corridors will be destroyed and blocked and Kaziranga tiger reserve and its wildlife will be completely isolated from Karbi Anglong hills, which are a lifeline to the beleaguered animals during the annual floods,” it said.Choudhury urged the CEC to intervene and recommend contempt of court proceedings against all violators of the SC ruling, including government officials.Yadava and other forest department officials didn’t respond to the CEC’s move, despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-committee-asks-assam-to-submit-report-on-illegal-construction-in-kaziranga-animal-corridor/story-C2cy3YizQRDgRgm8PYyq7N.html
08-07-2020||India||2 cops arrested in Kanpur as hunt for UP’s most wanted man gathers steam||Police in Kanpur arrested Station Officer of Chaubeypur police station Vinay Tiwari and sub inspector K K Sharma on Wednesday for their alleged nexus with gangster Vikas Dubey who is accused of masterminding the massacre of eight policemen last week.Both Tiwari and Sharma had already been suspended shortly after the incident as the Uttar Pradesh police launched a massive manhunt for Dubey.Tiwari and Sharma allegedly tipped off Dubey about the midnight raid by the police on Friday that turned into a tragedy.Kanpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dinesh Kumar P said both the officers were charged under Section 120 B of the IPC for conspiring to kill the policemenLate Tuesday night, Dinesh Kumar P had removed the entire staff of Chaubeypur police station comprising 68 police personnel and sent them to the police lines.The UP police have raised the bounty on Dubey’s head to Rs 5 lakh.On Wednesday, police shot dead Amar Dubey, a close aide of the gangster in Hamirpur and arrested another gang member Shyamu Bajpai in Chaubeypur after he was injured in an encounter.Three persons close to the gangster were also arrested from Haryana’s Faridabad in a joint operation by the Special Task Force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh police and the local crime branch team.Dubey was in Faridabad and had tried to take a room in a hotel, whose CCTV footage went viral, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cops-arrested-in-kanpur-as-hunt-for-up-s-most-wanted-man-gathers-steam/story-1gy8WHIBv02YgzTnGpnWDK.html
08-07-2020||India||Tweet claiming Cinema roof at Noida’s DLF mall collapsed, are false: Cops||Uttar Pradesh police has denied claims doing the rounds on social media that a portion of Noida’s famous DLF Mall, situated in city’s shopping hub of sector 18, had collapsed leading to a decision by the administration to shutdown the mall for the next 6 months, according to a news report carried by aajtak.intoday.in.The news website said the police had instead claimed that there was some renovation work going on at the mall as it prepared to reopen after easing of lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe website claims that Noida police has attributed mall authorities to say that the renovation is being done to meet the requirements of social distancing norms made mandatory for reopening of public places like shopping malls.The police have claimed that a video attached with the tweet, showing dust rising from the DLF Mall, was an old one.It is expected that the mall management may soon release a statement on the issue to clear the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tweet-claiming-cinema-roof-at-noida-s-dlf-mall-collapsed-are-false-cops/story-4QB2CDAjVGpwTNCUsKxFxM.html
08-07-2020||India||Probe ordered after video of Guwahati police officials partying during curfew surfaces||Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna has ordered an inquiry into an alleged violation of the prevailing 14-day lockdown norms, which have been enforced in the populous Kamrup Metro district from July 28 to July 12 because of a sudden spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, as some police officials in Guwahati can be seen partying in a video during curfew hours between 7 pm and 7 am on a boat on the Brahmaputra river.Guwahati, Assam’s and the north-east region’s biggest and most-populous city, falls under the Kamrup Metro district.In a letter addressed to MP Gupta, commissioner of police, Guwahati, Krishna cited a newspaper report on the video, which had depicted some police officers allegedly partying on a boat on the Brahmaputra on Monday flouting night curfew restrictions.Terming the report as “very damaging” Krishna said, “This reflects very poorly on the policemen and displays a total disregard to orders under the Disaster Management Act, 2005”.“You are directed to enquire into the matter, submit a report and initiate disciplinary proceedings with intimation to the undersigned,” the letter to Gupta read.Krishna asked the Guwahati top cop to ensure that police personnel under his command are directed to scrupulously follow government orders and “not display action, which is detrimental to the rule of law”.It was alleged in the news report that several officers, including women officials and some family members of police officials, attended the party where alcoholic beverages were served on a boat.A curfew has also been imposed in Assam between 7 pm and 7 am along with the ongoing 14-day lockdown restrictions in Kamrup Metro district. “We have started an inquiry into the alleged incident and the report should come within the next couple of days. If anyone is found violating lockdown guidelines, strict action will be taken as per rules,” Gupta said.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s office issued a statement on Wednesday that said the police officers, who took part in the revelry on Monday night, have been transferred from their present posts to other locations.More details are awaited.Around 4,500 Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in the Kamrup Metro district over the last fortnight, which is nearly one-third of the total 13,336 cases in the state until Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-video-of-guwahati-police-officials-partying-during-curfew-surfaces/story-iI7rIQ90gm0ThH8AUZx4PP.html
08-07-2020||India||India could have 2.87 lakh Covid-19 cases per day by 2021 winter if no cure found: MIT study||In the absence of an effective vaccine and improved health infrastructure across states, India could record about 2.87 lakh projected cases of coronavirus per day by the end of winter 2021, according to a study by scientists and researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).MIT professors Hazhir Rahmandad and John Sterman, and PhD candidate Tse Yang Lim, indicated that the top ten countries by projected daily infection rates at the end of winter 2021 are India with 2.87 lakh infections per day, followed by the United States, South Africa, Iran, Indonesia, the UK, Nigeria, Turkey, France, and Germany.The study used data from about 84 countries spanning an estimated 4.75 billion people. With the help of the global data, the researchers developed a dynamic epidemiological model for projected coronavirus infections.ALSO READ | Scientists develop ‘catch and kill’ air filter, claim it can kill coronavirusAdding a note of caution, the researchers said that the projections for the spread of the disease are very sensitive to assumed testing of samples, behavioural, and policy responses, and they should be interpreted as indicators of potential risk and not a precise forecast of future cases in several countries.Aggressive testing by nations and reductions in contacts in response to risk perception will significantly reduce future Covid-19 cases while laxer response, negligence and normalisation of risks can lead to outbreaks which could overwhelm existing health infrastructure of countries..By making additional assumptions on future testing and responses, the researchers said the model can inform future trajectories of the disease.“We have explored a few projections out to spring 2021 that exclude vaccine and treatment availability,” the MIT researchers said.Projections under three scenarios were taken into account as part of the study: 1. Using the current country-specific testing rates and response functions moving forward.2. If enhanced testing -- of 0.1 per cent a day -- is adopted on July 1.3. If sensitivity of contact rate to perceived risk is set to 8, leaving testing at current levels.The first two scenarios project a very large burden of new coronavirus cases by the latter half of 2020, with hundreds of millions of cases concentrated in a few countries estimated to have insufficient responses given the high risks, primarily India, but also Bangladesh, Pakistan, and the United States.The United States currently leads the world with the highest concentration of Covid-19 cases and a record number of deaths. India, however, is not too far behind, occupying the third spot, preceded only by Brazil. Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, India on Tuesday said the total number of coronavirus infections and fatalities per million population in the country are among the lowest in the world.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally again jumps by over 22,000 cases, close to 7.5 lakh“Our model simulates the progression and spread of Covid-19, including how people interact, how many get sick, how many get tested, how many are hospitalized, how many die -- and how people change their behaviour in response to the risk they perceive,” Rahmandad, one of the researchers said.“We then use a wide range of data to estimate the parameters of the model -- say, what fraction of infections are asymptomatic, and how contagious the virus is -- to give the best match to the real world data,” they said.On the flip side, the magnitude of the Covid-19 pandemic is widely underreported, the researchers have warned.They estimated that Covid-19 cases and deaths as of June 18 are, respectively, 11.8 and 1.48 times higher than official reports across the 84 nations considered for the study.The authors also cautioned that despite the increasing numbers no country is remotely close to establishing herd immunity to combat the virus.“Actual coronavirus cases are far greater than official reports suggest, the majority of people remain susceptible. Waiting for herd immunity is not a viable path out of the current pandemic,” Rahmandad said. On Wednesday, India reported a spike of 22,752 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s coronavirus tally to 7,42,417, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-see-2-87-lakh-covid-19-cases-per-day-by-winter-of-2021-mit-study/story-2AMY2H1kSOragvPqJNiueK.html
08-07-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s assets worth Rs 329 cr seized by ED under fugitive law||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it has confiscated assets worth Rs 329.66 crore of diamond merchant Nirav Modi under the fugitive economic offenders law. The businessman and his uncle Mehul Choksi among others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges in connection with an over USD 2 billion alleged bank fraud at a PNB branch in Mumbai. “The confiscated properties are in the form of four flats at the iconic building Samudra Mahal in Worli Mumbai, a sea-side farm house and land in Alibaug, a wind mill in Jaisalmer, a flat in London and residential flats in UAE, shares and bank deposits,” the central probe agency said in a statement. A special court in Mumbai had on June 8 authorised the ED to confiscate the assets. Nirav Modi was declared a fugitive economic offenders by the same court on December 5 last year.  “The ED has attached the properties worth Rs. 329.66 crore under the FEO Act, 2018 which now stands confiscated to central government,” it said. The agency till now has attached assets worth Rs 2,348 crore of Nirav Modi under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Nirav Modi (49) is currently lodged in a UK jail after being arrested in London in March, 2019 and is currently fighting extradition to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-assets-worth-rs-329-cr-seized-by-ed-under-fugitive-law/story-I8Zv57qPyi05jIgTaicdHM.html
08-07-2020||India||Telangana CM not seen for 10 days, plea in high court about his health||The “absence” of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in Hyderabad for the last 10 days as the Covid-19 situation gets grimmer in the state has triggered a political row.While the Telangana Congress leaders wondered whether the chief minister had fallen sick, an independent political activist Ch Naveen Kumar alias Teen Mar Mallanna filed a writ petition in the state high court on Wednesday seeking a direction to the government to disclose the whereabouts of KCR.Mallanna, who is also popular for anchoring a political show in a Telugu television channel, brought to the notice of the high court that the chief minister had not been seen in public for the last 10 days and there had been no official communication from the authorities concerned about his whereabouts and also his health conditions.The last occasion where the chief minister had appeared in public was the birth centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao on June 28. In that event, there was a gathering of more than 100 people and the chief minister had participated in the programme without a mask, which made people worry about his health condition in the present Covid-19 pandemic, Mallanna said.He reminded that even at the previous event of Haritha Haram (the tree plantation programme) on June 25 in which more than 100 people took part, KCR had participated without wearing a face mask.“This has caused a lot of concern, as the number of Covid-19 cases has been increasing exponentially. Adding to this, the news reports that more than 30 persons at Pragati Bhavan (KCR’s official bungalow) have contracted the virus, have aggravated our concern,” he said.Stating that as a citizen of the state he was worried about the health condition of KCR, Mallanna said the state administration had miserably failed to provide information to the people about the health status and the whereabouts of the chief minister. He appealed to the high court to issue an appropriate writ or direction to the government to disclose the details about the chief minister.Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Wednesday tweeted that the state government should issue a health bulletin to allay the apprehensions of the people about the chief minister.Reddy said there was an administrative crisis as the head of the state himself was missing in action amid a raging pandemic. “The chief minister has been confined to his farmhouse for the last 10 days and there are apprehensions about his health in the wake of growing intensity of Covid-19. It is a crime to keep his health condition a secret,” he said.The PCC working president said there was none to take care of the state in the absence of the chief minister. “If KCR is not in a position to administer the state, he should entrust his responsibilities to any other leader – it could be his son K T Rama Rao or senior ministers T Harish Rao or Eatala Rajender,” he suggested.Reddy demanded that Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan should intervene in the administration and review its functioning.The ruling TRS leaders have not yet responded to the Congress leader’s demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-not-seen-for-10-days-plea-in-high-court-about-his-health/story-ghqidlMDBM6zDW0LrSlY3H.html
08-07-2020||India||Odisha records highest single-day surge of Covid deaths||Odisha on Wednesday recorded the maximum number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related deaths on a single day at 6, while the state capital, Bhubaneswar, reported the highest single-day spike at 46 cases.The coastal Ganjam district, the epicentre of the viral outbreak in the state because of its high migrant population, who have largely returned from Surat following the easing of lockdown restrictions, has sealed its border with adjoining Khurda and Nayagarh districts and a 24-hour travel restriction has been enforced by the district authorities. Ganjam reported three deaths, and one each was recorded from Kendrapara, Khurda and Rayagada districts, as the overall toll rose to 48 in the state.In Ganjam district, which has reported over 2,800 Covid-19 positive cases so far, a man (56), a senior citizen (64), and a woman (50) died of the viral outbreak. Both the senior citizen and the women had a comorbid condition such as diabetes.In Rayagada district, a Covid-19 patient (50) suffering from the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), died. While in Kendrapara district, a diabetic Covid-19 patient (55) has died.In Bhubaneswar, a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive patient, who had tested Covid-19, however, succumbed to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), doctors said.So far, 13 such deaths – Covid-19 positive patients succumbing to comorbid conditions -- have been reported in Odisha.Of the 48 deaths recorded in the state, a 27-year-old youth from Ganjam district is the youngest to date. He worked as a science teacher, but volunteered as a frontline worker battling the pandemic at a quarantine centre in the district’s Kabisuryanagar block.He showed Covid-19 symptoms and was admitted to a Covid-19 care centre at Aska before he was shifted to SUM Hospital in Bhubaneswar, where he died on July 3, even before his test result was made available.However, the hospital authorities did not hand over his body to his family members since they suspected him of being infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.His parents couldn’t bear the tragic death of their son and died by suicide at his native village.While an 80-year-old man, who was suffering from COPD, is the oldest person in Odisha to die of Covid-19 so far.Most of the Covid-19 victims in the state are in the age group between 35 and 73 years.Dr. Rashmi Ranjan Satpathy, joint director of public health, non-communicable diseases (NCDs), Odisha, at least 1.4 million people in the state are at risk because of their comorbid conditions.“So far about 60 lakh people above the age of 30 have been screened for NCDs such as diabetes, hypertension and cancer of whom 10-15% of them have been found to be suffering from these diseases. Odisha’s 1.4 million population is in the high-risk category,” he said.In July, Odisha has been reporting a spike in both Covid-19 positive cases and deaths.Of the total 10,624 cases recorded so far, 31% of them have been reported in July alone.Similarly, of the 48 deaths, 45% have been recorded in July. Bhubaneswar, which recorded its single-day highest spike of 46 Covid-19 positive cases, has sealed its two Regional Transport Offices (RTO), an information technology (IT) major’s business process outsourcing (BPO) unit, a godown of a courier company and two branches of a private bank.Saptagiri Ulaka, the Congress member of Parliament (MP) from Koraput, said the bid to ban on the Ganjam-Khurda inter-district movement for 24 hours on Wednesday is a thoughtless knee-jerk reaction. “If the situation demands, the state government should declare complete shutdown of Odisha rather than changing rules every now and then, which is aggravating people’s problems,” the MP tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-highest-single-day-surge-of-covid-deaths/story-mqr3CCN81hx6xIFWYMPa7L.html
08-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Hospital mix-up causes family to cremate ‘kin’ twice||A family from Kopri in Thane city, who had cremated a stranger due to a goof-up by a Covid-19 hospital, will now again have to perform the last rites of their kin who died of the infection late on Tuesday night.The matter came to light when the family of a 72- year-old patient filed a complaint with the police stating that the man had gone missing from Global Hub Covid Hospital, where he was shifted for treatment on June 29.Investigations revealed that the body of the septuagenarian, who had disappeared from the hospital on July 5, was allegedly handed over to the family of another Covid-19 patient who was very much alive at the time, an official said.“A probe by a civic team set up on Tuesday found that the kin of this family in Kopri is alive and under treatment at a COVID facility. The hospital has said the goof-up was a result of case papers of the two patients getting mixed up,” the official said.In a statement, the family from Kopri said the hospital on July 3 had informed them that their 67-year-old relative had succumbed to the infection and the body was handed over to them in a sealed bag as per Covid-19 protocol, following which the last rites were performed.The family of the sexagenarian were shocked when they got a call from the newly inaugurated 1,000-bed hospital on Monday stating that their loved one was alive and was being treated in the ICU, the statement read.Their joy, however, was short-lived when their kin also died of the infection late on Tuesday night, a senior civic official said.Meanwhile, chief of the BJP’s Thane city unit and MLC Niranjan Davkhare came down heavily on the TMC administration for the lapses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hospital-mix-up-causes-family-to-cremate-kin-twice/story-EvgOvqZ298lwcS4jPILhqI.html
08-07-2020||India||IPS officer Basant Rath suspended after run-ins with J&K police chief||Jammu and Kashmir police officer Basant Rath was suspended by the Union home ministry on Wednesday. A formal order said the government intended to take action against the 2000 batch Indian Police Service officer for what was described as “repeated instances of gross misconduct and misbehaviour”.Rath has been ordered to stay put in Jammu and not leave the station without permission of Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh.The order did not outline the charges against Basant Rath.Rath has had differences with Dilbag Singh that had led him to file a police complaint against him last month, expressing apprehensions for his “safety and reputation”. He had marked a copy of the complaint to the police chief.Rath has also been known to take swipes at the police chief without naming him in his tweets.The Inspector General of Police-ranked officer was shunted to the nondescript home guards and civil defence department from the traffic in November 2018 after a spat on Twitter with Junaid Mattu, who had just been elected Srinagar Mayor. Mattu has since then been edged out of the mayor’s post. He lost the confidence vote last month.In the nine-odd months that he oversaw the traffic department, Basant Rath and his unorthodox style did have its fair share of critics and admirers. The police brass, for one, didn’t take too well to his working in the field in civvies, and instances where he and his team were accused of hurling abuses and manhandling commuters .Basant Rath, however, has his set of admirers in Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere, particularly after he started shipping out text books and study material for young Kashmiris in remote parts of the state so that they could study for competitive examinations even if they didn’t have the resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-basant-rath-suspended-after-run-ins-with-j-k-police-chief/story-ICqyzjb3rD9LwwZ67EXHJL.html
08-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre approves extending free foodgrain scheme for poor till November and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre approves extending free foodgrain scheme for poor till NovemberThe Centre will spend an amount of RS 1.49 lakh crore on free foodgrain and pulses for eight months to beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said Wednesday. Read more‘Urge US to stop interfering’: Now, China slaps visa restrictions on Washington officials over TibetChina on Wednesday said it will impose visa restrictions on US citizens for what it called “egregious” behaviour over Tibet soon after Washington announced that it had imposed restrictions on Chinese officials for violating human rights in the frontier province. Read moreKulbhushan Jadhav refused to seek review of his death sentence, says PakistanKulbhushan Jadhav is on death row in Pakistan over charges of espionage. India has rejected this and maintained that Jadhav was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from Iran. Read moreSourav Ganguly names five players he would pick from current Indian side in his Test teamThe Test side under Ganguly beat Australia in both home and away games, as stalwarts of Indian cricket continued to make their country proud. In 2018-19, Virat Kohli-led India went a step further as his team went on to win the Test series in Australia, becoming the first Asian nation to do so. Read moreIrrfan Khan’s son Babil: ‘My father gave his life trying to elevate acting, was defeated at box office by hunks with six pack abs’Irrfan Khan’s son Babil shared two rare pictures of the late actor along with a note about how the audience of Bollywood films refuses to evolve and how his father was constantly defeated in the box office race. Read moreChingari will soon receive Series A funding, co-founder Sumit Ghosh confirmsChingari is also working on a new update which will bring a slew of new features and interface. The company is also working to ramp up its content creators programme. Read moreElephant Ambo lures friend Karisa into a sparring session, video is adorableThe video is all about how Ambo lures Karisa into sparring session with him. If the video makes you go “aww”, repeatedly, don’t worry you’re not alone. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-approves-extending-free-foodgrain-scheme-for-poor-till-november-and-all-the-latest-news/story-A2K8tGvPHoItOpNSq3XplN.html
08-07-2020||India||Man arrested for Facebook post allegedly in favour of gangster Vikas Dubey||A youth was arrested from a village in Chandauli district on Tuesday evening for allegedly posting comments in favour of Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted criminal Vikas Dubey and indecent comment against chief minister Yogi Adityanath in his Facebook post, police said. The person also posted objectionable comments against the police personnel who were killed in Kanpur raid. A senior police officer said that accused Prashant Pandey, in his early twenties, completed his graduation from Sakaldiha Post Graduate College. When superintendent of police, Chandauli, Hemant Kutiyal came to know about it, he immediately instructed Station officer Vandana Singh to take action against Prashant Pandey. Station officer Sakaldiha, Inspector Vandana Singh arrested Prashant on Tuesday evening. A case was registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC. He is currently in jail. The SP said that Prashant belongs to Bajaura village in the district. Further investigation is underway.Meanwhile, a CCTV footage from Faridabad showed gangster Dubey, who is on the run and has a bounty of Rs 5 lakh on his head, trying to take a room in a hotel.“Three persons close to Vikas Dubey were arrested from Faridabad. They were identified as Ankur, Shravan and Kartikey alias Prabhat,” a senior official told PTI. Eight policemen were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they went to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-facebook-post-allegedly-in-favour-of-gangster-vikas-dubey/story-KSCh4AozRRyzpGcTOeMotM.html
08-07-2020||India||‘RGF has nothing to add or fear’: Congress responds to probe, alleges Centre protecting holy cows||The Congress party has alleged that the Centre’s decision to set up an inter-ministerial panel to coordinate a probe into three foundations linked to the Gandhi family was biased and that the government treated several entities such as the Vivekananda Foundation and the RSS as ‘holy cows’. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi added that the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation-- one of the three foundations to be probed for alleged financial misconduct—had “nothing to add” or “fear”.The Congress’ response on Wednesday afternoon was preceded in the day by the Union home ministry’s decision to set up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations into allegations of illegality against Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust. All three entities have been accused of violating money laundering act, Income Tax Act and foreign contribution act.“The Rajiv Gandhi Foundation has nothing to add, nothing to fear because you have all the ‘yantra and tantra’ at your disposal and you can ask every question in every inquiry and we are here to answer as law abiding persons,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said on Wednesday.Home Ministry sets up panel to coordinate probe into 3 Gandhi family trustsCongress president Sonia Gandhi is the chairperson of RGF, which is also co-managed by former Prime Minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, his sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and senior party leader P Chidambaram—all trustees of RGF.Sonia Gandhi is also the chairperson of Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust while overseeing the work of Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust.RGF was recently in the line of fire by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while it traded barbs with the Congress on the issue of recent Chinese incursions in the Ladakh sector and face off with Indian Army that led to deaths of 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of casualties in the Chinese army.BJP president JP Nadda had alleged that the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) had donated money to the RGF in the past and accused Congress of diverting public money into a “family-run” foundation. He had also alleged that several state owned firms had donated money to RGF during the UPA rule between 2005-2006 and 2007-2008.The Congress had then questioned funding of several organizations it claimed were either linked to the BJP or patronized by the party. Singhvi reiterated that allegation on Wednesday while claiming that there were two laws in the country; one for the opposition and the other for those associated with the ruling party.“But you (the government) need to be exposed fully because you don’t even ask these questions of many holy cows. You are harassing each opposition segment individual and institutional. But your blue-eyed sanctified holy cows Vivekananda Foundation, India Foundation, Friends of BJP and the RSS don’t get to be asked such questions. Whose favourite blue eyed boys and girls are these? Whose special arc of protection they have? Please dare to ask them also and share those with the country,” Singhvi asked.The inquiry into the three funds mentioned above will be led by the special director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and will also include officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rgf-has-nothing-to-add-or-fear-congress-responds-to-probe-alleges-centre-protecting-holy-cows/story-kWPvTkXwWKlwYhcHZZY5nJ.html
08-07-2020||India||India may see 2.87 lakh Covid-19 cases a day by winter 2021: MIT study||India may record about 2.87 lakh projected cases of the novel coronavirus per day by the end of winter 2021 in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine or drug interventions, according to a modelling study by the researchers from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).Using data for 84 countries with reliable testing data -- spanning 4.75 billion people -- the researchers developed a dynamic epidemiological model. in a preprint paper, MIT professors Hazhir Rahmandad and John Sterman, and PhD candidate Tse Yang Lim, noted that the top ten countries by projected daily infection rates at the end of winter 2021 are India with 2.87 lakh infections per day, followed by the US, South Africa, Iran, Indonesia, the UK, Nigeria, Turkey, France, and Germany. However, they noted that the projections are highly sensitive to assumed testing, behavioural, and policy responses, and as such they should be interpreted as indicators of potential risk and not precise predictions of future cases. The researchers added that more rigorous testing and reductions in contacts in response to risk perception will significantly reduce future cases while laxer response and normalisation of risks can lead to overwhelming breakouts. By making additional assumptions on future testing and responses, the researchers said the model can inform future trajectories. “We explore a few projections out to spring 2021 that exclude vaccine and treatment availability,” said the researchers. The researchers considered projections under three scenarios: 1. Using the current country-specific testing rates and response functions moving forward, 2. If enhanced testing -- of 0.1 per cent a day -- is adopted on July 1, and 3. If sensitivity of contact rate to perceived risk is set to 8, leaving testing at current levels. The first two scenarios project a very large burden of new cases in the fall 2020, with hundreds of millions of cases concentrated in a few countries estimated to have insufficient responses given perceived risks, primarily India, but also Bangladesh, Pakistan, and the US. “Our model simulates the progression and spread of Covid-19, including how people interact, how many get sick, how many get tested, how many are hospitalized, how many die -- and how people change their behaviour in response to the risk they perceive,” Rahmandad said. “We then use a wide range of data to estimate the parameters of the model -- say, what fraction of infections are asymptomatic, and how contagious the virus is -- to give the best match to the real world data,” they said. The model revealed several important insights. Most fundamentally, the magnitude of the epidemic is widely underreported, the researchers said. They estimate that cases and deaths through June 18 are, respectively, 11.8 and 1.48 times higher than official reports across the 84 nations considered. Despite these elevated numbers, the authors note that no country is remotely close to establishing herd immunity, they said. “While actual cases are far greater than official reports suggest, the majority of people remain susceptible. Waiting for herd immunity is not a viable path out of the current pandemic,” Rahmandad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-see-2-87-lakh-covid-19-cases-a-day-by-winter-2021-mit-study/story-65pQSrzCWmcJA3V4svlmpN.html
08-07-2020||India||Rs 1.49 lakh crore for free food grain for 81 crore poor among key cabinet decisions||The central government on Wednesday approved continuance of key welfare schemes launched earlier to safeguard the vulnerable sections from the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic outbreak. It includes a five month extension to the free food grain programme for 81 crore people and three month extension to free LPG gas cylinders for 7 crore 40 lakh beneficiaries of Ujjwala Yojana.Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that in view of the need for continuous support to the poor and needy, the central Cabinet had approved extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, ensuring additional allocation of foodgrain for further five months from July to November 2020.Javadekar said that about 74.3 crore beneficiaries were covered in April, 74.75 crore in May and about 64.72 crore in June under the scheme that was launched to help the poorest segments of the society after the cessations of all economic activities during the lockdown clamped nationally to contain the spread of the disease in March this year.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn effect, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana has been stretched to eight months in total from April to November 2020. A total of 81 crore people are entitled under the scheme to receive 5 kg of food grain per person and one kg of lintels and 1 kg of gram per family every month.“Two crore 3 lakh tonne of food grain will be given to 81 crore people. One kg of gram per family per month will amount to 9 lakh 70 thousand tonnes. The total cost of this scheme is 1 lakh 49 thousand crore,” Javadekar said.He added that this was the first time since independence that free ration was being provided for eight continuous months to 81 crore people through a programme unique to the entire world.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He added that this scheme has been hugely popular for helping poor across sections including migrant workers without ration cards.Cabinet also approved the extension of time limit for Ujjwala beneficiaries to avail the benefits of three free LPG cylinders by another three months with effect from 1st July 2020.“In another important decision taken by the government to help the beneficiaries of Ujjwala Yojana, the 7 crore 40 lakh beneficiaries can avail of their unused LPG cylinders from the quota of allotted three free cylinders till the month of September now,” Javadekar saidHe said this will lead to an additional expenditure of 13,500 crore for the central government.In the third big measure, he announced Cabinet’s approval to extend by three months the government’s contribution of 24% employees’ provident fund (EPF) for small companies from June to August 2020.Under this scheme the government has paid the 24% EPF amount on the behalf of the employees and the employers of small firms that have less than 100 workers with 90% of its workforce earning less than 15,000 rupees a month.The extension of this scheme from June to August 2020 under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan will result in an additional expenditure of Rs 4,860 crore and benefit over 72 lakh employees, Prakash Javadekar said.The government has also cleared a scheme under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana to provide cheap accommodation to migrant labourers on rent in 107 cities. Javadekar said that one lakh eight thousand such one bed room flats are ready to be rented out to migrant workers.He added that on an average, a thousand flats are currently available in each city and an additional 1 lakh 15 thousand flats will be made in the first phase along with dormitories to accommodate additional 1 lakh 33 thousand people. This scheme is continuous and will continue to be expanded and will help around 3.5 lakh migrants in the first phase, he claimed.In another significant decision, Javadekar said that three government owned insurance companies will receive investment of Rs 12,450 crore by the government in a plan to recapitalize the companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1-49-lakh-crore-for-free-food-grain-for-81-crore-poor-among-key-cabinet-decisions/story-YmevWeXweP4i7psR1Kcj4K.html
08-07-2020||India||‘Mr Modi thinks..’: Rahul Gandhi responds to probe against 3 Gandhi family trusts||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday responded sharply to the government’s decision to probe three Gandhi family-linked trusts, asserting that he and the party could not be intimidated, echoing the Congress’ first reaction that the party was prepared to answer every question that the government might have. The Congress had also asked why the government wasn’t probing organisations linked to the BJP and its leaders.Rahul Gandhi picked up from where his party had left it. Without referring to the government decision announced a few hours earlier, the Congress leader tweeted: “Mr Modi believes the world is like him. He thinks every one has a price or can be intimidated. He will never understand that those who fight for the truth have no price and cannot be intimidated.”Mr Modi believes the world is like him. He thinks every one has a price or can be intimidated. He will never understand that those who fight for the truth have no price and cannot be intimidated.The tweet by Gandhi comes shortly after Congress called Centre’s decision to set up an inter-ministerial panel to coordinate a probe into three foundations linked to the Gandhi family biased. The Union home ministry on Wednesday announced decision to set up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations into allegations of illegality against Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust. All three entities have been accused of violating money laundering act, Income Tax Act and foreign contribution act.While special director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) will head the committee, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will also be part of the committee, a home ministry spokesperson said. The allegations against RGF were levelled by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda last month amid the ongoing war of words with the Opposition over the Ladakh face-off.The BJP chief had said that the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) donated money to RGF. He said “one family’s hunger for wealth” hurt the nation, and also accused the Congress of committing a “brazen fraud” by diverting public money into a “family-run foundation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mr-modi-thinks-rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-says-those-who-fight-for-truth-have-no-price/story-W8kRCfoFotBRgGkogiqwHI.html
08-07-2020||India||After Covid-19 scare in accounts section, salary delayed for staff at Visva Bharati||Professors and employees of Visva Bharati in Shantiniketan – the only central university in West Bengal – have not yet received their salaries for the month of June, allegedly due to a Covid-19 scare.The university authorities issued a notice on July 7, saying that salaries would be released after the central administrative building reopens. The building was shut down for sanitization towards the end of June.“I am directed to inform you that as soon as the central administrative building is sanitized, normal activities including the release of salary shall immediately be undertaken,” said the notice signed by Asha Mukherjee, acting registrar of Visva Bharati.The university issued the notice only after Sudipta Bhattacharyya; president of the Visva Bharati University Faculty Association lodged a RTI on July 5 over the delay in salary for the month of June.Two heads of two separate departments, however, said that the administrative building had to be shut down in June-end after two employees in the accounts department were detected with fever.“I don’t know whether they tested positive for Covid-19 but the building was shut down around June 29 as a precautionary measure. We were told that it would open after a few days, around two weeks from June 29 and after proper santisation,” said one of the assistant professors, on conditions of anonymity.The university authorities, however, remained tightlipped on the letter issued on July 7. While acting registrar Asha Mukherjee said she was not authorized to speak to the media and only the spokesperson would speak, the spokesperson of Visva Bharati didn’t respond to multiple calls and messages throughout the day.Usually employees receive their salaries and pension by the end of every month. There are more than 3,500 people who receive salaries and pension including employees, faculties, security personnel and pensioners among others“But this time we haven’t received our salary. We have not been told either as to when we will receive it. We were just told that we will get our salaries after the central administrative building reopens after proper sanitization,” said another assistant professor.In February, the university authorities had issued a notice that salary could be delayed due to paucity of funds. Later, the union human resource development (HRD) ministry sought an explanation from the management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-19-scare-in-accounts-section-salary-delayed-for-staff-at-visva-bharati/story-IL9aXrAZMCoBVgRis9eI0L.html
08-07-2020||India||MP CM plays down delay in allocation of portfolios to new ministers||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday played down the delay in allocating portfolios to 28 ministers who were sworn in on July 2 and insisted that the government was functioning smoothly “I am the minister of every department and the government is functioning smoothly. The Cabinet is scheduled to meet tomorrow. Everything will be done,” Chouhan said on being asked about the delay in distribution of portfolios to newly-inducted ministers, according to ANI.The CM had carried out a major Cabinet expansion on July 2 when 28 ministers were sworn in. The expansion took place more than three months after Chouhan unseated the Congress government of Kamal Nath in March.The 28 ministers included 12 former Congress MLAs but all of them are still without portfolio. Most of the former Congress MLAs are loyalists of Scindia who joined the BJP on March 12. Of the 28 new ministers, 20 are of Cabinet rank and eight are ministers of state.The 12 former Congress MLAS who have been made ministers will have to be elected to the state assembly in the next six months to retain their position as ministers as per the constitutional provision.Chouhan, who had worked alone from March 23, inducted five ministers on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-plays-down-delay-in-allocation-of-portfolios-to-new-ministers/story-qqw6sL7IGxVKnyc4MJPZUM.html
08-07-2020||India||Centre approves extending free foodgrain scheme for poor till November||The Centre will spend an amount of RS 1.49 lakh crore on free foodgrain and pulses for eight months to beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said Wednesday.“In view of the need for continuous support to the poor and needy, The cabinet has approved the extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana – allocation of additional foodgrain for further five months from July to November 2020,” Javadekar said at a briefing after a cabinet meeting.“Rs 1.49 lakh cr will be spent on giving free foodgrain, pulses for eight months,” he said.On June 30, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the scheme for free food grain to more than 80 crore poor people will be extended until November amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The cabinet also approved extending employees provident fund (EPF) support for businesses and workers for three more months for 72 lakh employees.“The Cabinet approves extension of EPF contribution 24% (12% employees share and 12% employers share) for another three months from June to August 2020 under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana/Aatmanirbhar Bharat. With a total estimated expenditure of Rs 4,860 crore, this move will benefit over 72 lakh employees,” Javadekar said.In another major decision, the cabinet approved capital infusion of Rs 12,450 crore for three public sector general insurance companies – Oriental Insurance Company Ltd, National Insurance Company Ltd and United India Insurance Company Ltd.The cabinet also decided to allow 7.4 crore poor women to avail a quota of three free LPG cylinders till September. The scheme will cost the exchequer 13,500 crore.The cabinet also approved the development of Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (AHRCs) for urban migrants and poor as a sub-scheme under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban.The cabinet also extended the time limit for availing the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for Ujjwala beneficiaries by three months with effect from July 1 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-extending-free-foodgrain-scheme-for-poor-till-november/story-048vdbCx4RJ5mBoNNsvIjL.html
08-07-2020||India||Cabinet approves rental housing scheme for migrants, govt to spend Rs 600 crore||An affordable rental housing scheme for migrants who went back to their home states during the lockdown has been approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday, officials aware of the development said.The Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme under the ministry of housing and urban affairs will be a sub-scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) with an estimated expenditure of around Rs 600 crore. The scheme aims to cover nearly 3 lakh beneficiaries initially.“Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in massive reverse migration of workers and urban poor in the country who come from rural areas or small towns for seeking better employment opportunities in urban areas. Usually, these migrants live in slums, informal/unauthorized colonies or peri-urban areas to save rental charges. They spend a lot of time on roads by walking/ cycling to workplaces, risking their lives to cut on the expenses,” the official said.“A large part of workforce in manufacturing industries, service providers in hospitality, health, domestic/commercial establishments, and construction or other sectors, labourers, students etc who come from rural areas or small towns seeking better opportunities will be the target beneficiary under ARHCs,” the official added.The ARHC scheme will have a two-pronged approach; first, existing vacant government funded housing complexes will be converted into ARHCs through a concession agreement for 25 years.According to internal ministry data, there are 1.2 lakh such government houses available built under the erstwhile UPA- led scheme Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), NDA government led PMAY and housing schemes of the state governments. Of these Maharashtra has the maximum number of accommodations available at 35,000 and Delhi 30,000 houses.“Concessionaire will make the complexes livable by repair/retrofit and maintenance of rooms and filling up infrastructure gaps like water, sewer/ septage, sanitation, roads etc. States/UTs will select concessionaire through transparent bidding. Complexes will revert to Urban Local Bodies after 25 years to restart the next cycle earlier or to run on their own,” the official said.Secondly, special incentives like use permission, 50% additional Floor Area Ratio or Floor Space Index, concessional loan at priority sector lending rates, tax reliefs at par with affordable housing among others will be offered to private and public entities to develop ARHCs on their own available vacant land for 25 years.“ARHCs will create a new ecosystem in urban areas making housing available at affordable rent close to places of work and will cut down unnecessary travel, congestion and pollution,” the proposal for the scheme said, Hindustan Times has reviewed the note.“The investment under ARHCs is expected to create new job opportunities. Government funded vacant housing stock will be converted into ARHCs for economically productive use. The scheme would create a conducive environment for entities to develop AHRCs on their own vacant land which will enable new investment opportunities and promote entrepreneurship in rental housing sector,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-rental-housing-scheme-for-migrants-govt-to-spend-rs-600-crore/story-Waf7MhRD7Lq8t74oNmcC6J.html
08-07-2020||India||Father-daughter duo killed after being run over by train in Rajasthan||A 60-year-old man and his 18-year-old daughter died after being run over by a passenger train while they were crossing the tracks in Rajasthan’s Bundi district, police said on Wednesday.The incident occurred late on Tuesday night at the Garjani railway gate under Kapren police station, they said.Ghasilal Meena and his daughter Sugna Meena, residents of Jaroda village under Deikheda Police Station of Bundi district, were on a motorcycle, police said.They were crushed under the wheels of Mewar Express train at around 12.40 am, SHO of Kapren Police Station Budhiprakash Nama said.The loco pilot sent a memo on the accident following which police reached the spot at around 1 am and recovered the mutilated bodies which were handed over to the family members after a postmortem examination on Wednesday morning, Nama said.The Garjani railway gate remains closed for public and traffic from 7 pm to 7 am while a railway guard is on duty during the day time, the SHO said.As the incident occurred at night, the father-daughter duo must have managed to slip under the barrier, he said.A case of unnatural death under section 174 of the CrPC has been lodged for further investigation into the matter, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-daughter-duo-killed-after-being-run-over-by-train-in-rajasthan/story-8IMohaN5oyPruYUR5vfehP.html
08-07-2020||India||‘Preparations for Bihar assembly elections on time’: CEO||The Election Commission is preparing to hold assembly elections in Bihar on schedule amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “In 2015, the election was announced on September 9. So, we still have time. It is July only,” said Bihar chief electoral officer (CEO) HR Srinivasan.Bihar is the only state that will go to polls this year in the midst of the pandemic. The state will also witness an election for eight Bihar Legislative Council seats for graduates and teachers’ constituencies. So far, no decision has been taken on them. The seats had fallen vacant in May.The CEO categorically said that all preparations are going on to hold the polls this year as per the schedule. “It is the Election Commission that has to take a call,” he added.Also read: Time not right for polls in Bihar, says Tejashwi YadavHe said that last month a meeting was held with all various political parties of the state on the mode of campaigning during the election amid the pandemic situation as it demands social distancing.“Whatever suggestions came during the meeting with the political parties have been conveyed to the EC,” he added.Chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora had earlier said in an interview that all instructions and procedures regarding elections would be suitably modified to ensure smooth functioning during the pandemic and keeping the disaster management guidelines in mind.“There is no plan so far to defer Bihar elections,” he had said.The CEO had also said that the electronic voting machines (EVMs) and Voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPATs) had reached all the districts and the training of returning officers (ROs) would get underway from Thursday.“The state-level training of master trainers concludes Wednesday. We are doing everything as per the schedule,” he added.On whether any request had been received for delaying or postponing elections, Srinivasan said it had come from some individuals but not from any political party. “We have forwarded the suggestions received from individuals to the EC,” he added.Though the Assembly election in Bihar is due in October-November this year, main political parties have already got their outreach programmes going through video conferencing and other available technological tools to reach out to the masses.Regarding the elections for the eight seats of the Bihar Legislative Council, Srinivasan said the state government’s request regarding it had been forwarded to the EC.Sources in the EC, however, said that holding elections in the state would be a big test for more reasons than one amid the pandemic. “Election is, after all, a mass contact programme and in a state like Bihar - with high population density and illiteracy - maintaining social distancing and avoiding personal contact programmes would be a big challenge. Therefore, the number of booths might be significantly increased and other measures will be adopted to reduce the chances of contact at polling booths,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preparations-for-bihar-assembly-elections-on-time-ceo/story-UbuMh79XarDnjMNx7VO9WP.html
08-07-2020||India||Andhra records over 1000 new Covid-19 cases for 3rd day, count jumps to 22,259||Andhra Pradesh registered over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day, with 1,062 new patients taking the total tally to 22,259 on Wednesday, the state health department said in a statement.Twelve more patients succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, increasing the death toll to 264.On Tuesday too, 13 more patients had died taking the overall toll to 252.The latest medical bulletin said there are at least 10,894 active coronavirus cases in the state. In the last 24 hours, 1,332 have recovered from the infection and been discharged in Andhra Pradesh. The total number of recoveries in the state has risen to 11,101 till date.ALSO READ | Scientists develop ‘catch and kill’ air filter, claim it can kill coronavirusAmong the fresh cases detected on Wednesday, 9 patients are from other states and two are from other countries, while the rest are all from Andhra.Kurnool continued to report more Covid-19 deaths, with four added on Tuesday, taking the total count to 85 so far.Anantapuramu reported three fresh deaths, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam two each and Prakasam and West Godavari one each.The state also completed testing samples of a little over 10.50 lakh people till date, the bulletin said. India on Wednesday reported a spike of 22,752 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s coronavirus count to 7,42,417, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.Out of the total cases reported, 4,56,830 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals, while one patient has been migrated.Currently, there are 2,64,944 active cases in the country.A total of 482 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours due to the viral disease, taking India’s death toll to 20,642.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-records-over-1000-new-covid-19-cases-for-3rd-day-count-jumps-to-22-259/story-GkYhtUaXn1NqPIZpogjFMP.html
08-07-2020||India||Congress should learn from the Jan Sangh on how to be an Opposition: BJP general secy||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday slammed the Congress and its former president Rahul Gandhi, for doing “disservice” to the nation by asking questions “irresponsibly” on the border stand-off with China, instead of joining forces with the government.A day after the Congress demanded to know why status quo ante was not insisted upon and the lack of mention about the territorial sovereignty of eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in the Union Ministry of External Affairs’ (MEA) statement; the BJP hit back at its rival.The saffron party said that the Congress should learn from it how to be a responsible opposition.“The opposition is only an example of how irresponsible it (Congress) is. They should learn from Bhartiya Jan Sangh and the BJP, who during the successive wars that the country had fought in 1948, 1962, 1965, and 1971 and how we had behaved as opposition and not the enemy of the government. We, in no way, gave direct or indirect strength to enemy countries. Today, when the [Narendra] Modi has given the world a model in leadership, instead of participating, they are doing a disservice to the nation,” said Murlidhar Rao, general secretary, BJP.The BJP and the Congress have been sparring over the government’s response to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic as well as the stand-off with China along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.The Congress has been asking the government to be transparent on the territorial transgressions by China and the violent face-off between Indian and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops at Galwan Valley on June 15 that had left 20 Indian soldiers dead.The BJP has accused the Congress of lowering the morale of the soldiers by their comments.To a separate question on Gandhi’s comment about the state of the economy and how MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) are struggling in the aftermath of an economic slowdown, Rao said the government has been proactive in identifying the challenges and addressing those.On Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted: “Small & medium enterprises stand destroyed. Large companies are under severe stress. Banks are in distress. I had stated months ago that an economic tsunami was coming and was ridiculed by the BJP and the media for warning the country about the truth.”Retorting to Wayanad Member of Parliament’s (MP) tweet, Rao said, “The blind cannot be shown the light... During and after the Covid-19 crisis, the government has been doing its bit. Congress leaders, especially Rahul Gandhi, should look into their history, and learn what was their (party’s) role during a crisis. He (Gandhi) is trying to present himself as a wise man, but people have refused to accept him. If we accept his arguments, we will also be rejected. By accepting him as a leader, the Congress is decimated.”Rao said because of the pandemic, supply chains have been disrupted and this has led to problems in every sector. “The PM is motivating people to become the market for the manufacturing sector. He (Gandhi) cannot understand the science and subtlety (of it)”.He also denied that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) probe into the financial dealings of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) is politically motivated. “RGF is in the public domain. It has various aspects related to FCRA, 2010, (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act), income-tax audit, etc. The Modi government believes in transparency, we are committed to it. So it’s natural to initiate a probe into it. No foundations are private, and the investigations are in the public interest. If it was political, would we have waited six years?” he asked.The MHA had set up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations into allegations against the foundation and the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust of violating the legal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, the Income-Tax (I-T) Act, 1961, and the FCRA, 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-should-learn-from-the-jan-sangh-on-how-to-be-an-opposition-bjp-general-secy/story-SmEqwH5sDQvEavYkR0FmnO.html
08-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman, two daughters die in house collapse amid heavy rains||Three persons of a family, including a mother and her two minor daughters, were killed and another person was injured after their two-storey house collapsed due to incessant rains on Tuesday night in Dwarahat area of Uttarakhand’s Almora district, said officials. RK Pandey, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dwarahat, said, “A rescue team was sent to the spot soon after we received the information. We found that the family members were trapped under the debris of the collapsed house.”The SDM said: “The bodies of the mother and one of her daughters were recovered from under the rubble. Her other daughter and husband were rescued alive. Unfortunately, the girl died on the way to the hospital.”All four family persons were sleeping on the ground of their house, when it suddenly collapsed due to incessant rains on Tuesday night.The deceased were identified as Chandra Devi (50) and her two daughters Kamla (17), and Pinky (12).“The injured is Ramesh Ram, who was discharged from a local hospital after receiving first-aid. His son, Kishan Ram, was unhurt since he had gone to his neighbour’s house on Tuesday evening and got stuck there because of incessant rains,” the SDM said.“The state government has sanctioned an ex-gratia for the victims’ next of kin, which will soon be handed over to them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-two-daughters-die-in-house-collapse-amid-heavy-rains/story-SSK22BPHl2FxvU6X9mlMrL.html
08-07-2020||India||‘In films and OTT, actors get to fly’||Actor Manish Chaudhari enjoys cinema more than any entertainment medium. “Watching stars on 70 mm is how we all have grown up. ‘Bade parde pai nai dekha, toh kya dekha!’ is cliché that we have lived with. So, being a movie buff, I love Hindi films and became an actor to live cinema for real,” he said. With films like ‘Uri,’ ‘Batla House,’ ‘Rocket Singh: Salesman of the Year’ along with TV shows like ‘Powder’ and ‘Everest,’ Manish has been working across mediums but cinema remains his first love. “TV has reservations where as in films and OTT actors get to fly. A lot can be done with the stories on these two mediums whereas TV works on fix rules. Also, at the same time all three mediums have their set audience and reach. As an actor you have to be in full command on the character else our audience is too smart to understand that the actor lost the connect,” said Manish over the phone.Acting became passion for him when he went to study BA Honors in English at the Kirori Mal College, DU. Telling about his early days, he said, “My college in Delhi is the best place to be for any youngster as it gives clear vision of what you are and what you can become. While studying, I become part of College Theatre Society as I was also a member of Amateur Theatre Group in my school. Acting gave me an instant kick. I knew this is what I love doing and wanted to do if I got the right opportunities.” Manish left Delhi in 1995 and moved to Mumbai to pursue his dream of becoming an actor. In 2003, he debuted with film, ‘Rules: Pyaar Ka Superhit Formula.’ Talking about his journey of playing Jogi in his debut film to portraying Shekhawat in ‘Aarya’, he said, “It has been a rewarding journey and with each character I have lived cinema. My character was all alive in director Ram Madhavni’s head and this is what he made us believe too. We all were living our characters. Like, I was living Shekhawat all the time during the shoot —what he thinks, how he will react and that fear needs to come across whenever the character is on the screen. When I heard the story, I knew it was different yet it was in the league of what is happening around so that’s the reason why each character is so real.” Manish shot for one of his film in Lucknow of late, “The city is the land of yummy food and ghazals, I have shot many a times there. But when I shot for ‘Batla House’, I got a chance to experience the beauty of city closely and what a place it is, so rich in culture and archaeology that you are left all amazed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/in-films-and-ott-actors-get-to-fly/story-Sod6yzV2fUxGw34pNUEzRM.html
08-07-2020||India||New UK high commissioner Philip Barton presents credentials to president||Philip Barton, the UK’s new high commissioner to India, presented his credentials to President Ram Nath Kovind during a virtual ceremony on Wednesday.Barton’s arrival in India and the presentation of his credentials was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic. He succeeded Dominic Asquith, who served as high commissioner from April 2016 to January this year.“The UK-India relationship is remarkable and we share an unparalleled breadth and depth of connection. There is a deep commitment across the British government, industry and civil society to grow that relationship even further,” Barton said in a statement.He identified several focus areas – developing the trade and economic partnership following the UK’s exit from the European Union, tackling the global challenges of climate change and green recovery, acting together as a force for good in the world, and working closely to keep both countries safe and secure.Barton, who also served as the UK’s high commissioner to Pakistan during 2014-16 and as acting chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee during 2016-17, acknowledged he had arrived in India at an “extraordinarily difficult time”.“Coronavirus is without precedent in modern times, but it has also brought out the importance of the modern partnership between the UK and India: from our excellent collaboration in developing and manufacturing a vaccine for global distribution, to securing essential medical supplies for health workers, to our joint determination to ‘build back better’ from this crisis,” he said.Barton also pointed to his family’s roots in India. “We often speak of the ‘living bridge’ of people, ideas and institutions that tie the UK and India together. I, too, am part of that bridge. My mother was born in Shimla and I was posted here in Delhi in the 1990s. I met my wife, Amanda, when we both lived and worked here and we named our daughter ‘India’ – not knowing I would return one day as high commissioner,” he said.Barton joined the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 1986 and has previously served as the Director General (consular and security) in London and as deputy ambassador in Washington. Before arriving in New Delhi last month, he helped the UK government adapt its long-term planning to the Covid-19 pandemic.Jan Thompson, who served as acting high commissioner from February to June, has returned to her role as deputy high commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-uk-high-commissioner-philip-barton-presents-credentials-to-president/story-YNGyCUM0lR30sY6OsEt03O.html
08-07-2020||India||Jharkhand CM self isolates after coming in contact with minister who tested Covid positive||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has placed himself under home quarantine after coming in contact with a state minister who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Soren took to Twitter on Wednesday and announced the same, stating that state cabinet minister Mithilesh Thakur and party MLA Mathura Mahato have tested positive for coronavirus. “Both are currently being treating at a government hospital. As a precaution, I will also be in self-isolation for the next few days from today,” his tweet read.साथियों,कैबिनेट के मेरे साथी मंत्री श्री मिथिलेश ठाकुर जी एवं हमारे दल के विधायक आदरणीय श्री मथुरा महतो जी कोरोना संक्रमित पाये गए हैं।दोनो साथी अभी सरकारी अस्पताल में इलाजरत हैं। एहतियात के तौर पर आज से अगले कुछ दिनो के लिए मैं भी self- isolation में रहूँगा, पर 1/2The chief minister has also requested all officers and staff of his office to undergo home quarantine. “I will keep on performing important tasks,” the chief minister tweeted, urging people to avoid crowded places and wear a mask on stepping out. “If there is no mask, then cover your face with a cloth. Like every time, I would like to remind you to keep a distance between each other but keep your hearts connected,” the chief minister posted.The entry to CM Soren’s residence has been prohibited. The chief minister had come in contact with state minister Mithlesh Thakur who tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Thakur, who was inducted as the member in chief minister Hemant Soren’s cabinet from Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) quota, has been moved to a Covid-19 ward of Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). “Samples of the minister and his wife were tested on Truenat machine at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital. While he was found infected with the respiratory disease, his wife tested negative,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad.He added, “We have initiated contact-tracing exercise to identify people who came in his contact. We are also tracing out the source of infection for the minister.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-goes-into-home-quarantine-after-coming-in-contact-with-minister-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19/story-oFGIvGwQ0ldidUqjHJHf5O.html
08-07-2020||India||USAID, MNRE announce new partnership to expand clean energy development||The US Agency for International Development (USAID) and India’s ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE) have announced the launch of a new partnership to increase India- US collaboration for clean energy development.Under the partnership, the USAID-supported South Asia Group for Energy (SAGE), a US government consortium, will provide advanced technical knowledge on clean energy development from America’s national laboratories to India’s technical institutions and other public institutes.MNRE secretary Indu Shekhar Chaturvedi and the USAID deputy assistant administrator for Asia, Javier Piedra, launched the partnership on the margins of the US-India Strategic Energy Partnership meetings.To maximise the impact of the partnership, the SAGE consortium, in discussion with MNRE and its institutions such as the National Institute of Wind Energy and the National Institute of Biomass Energy, has identified key topics such as building world-class capabilities in cookstove testing to reduce the environmental and health impacts of traditional cookstove use, understanding the feasibility and impact of biomass and renewable energy hybrid systems, economic and environmental assessment of agriculture and bio-energy development, and advancing short- and long-term forecasting capabilities for wind and solar resources.Highlighting the significance of this new partnership to the India-US clean energy collaboration, Piedra said: “Through the SAGE initiative, our effort is to bring the best of US knowledge and expertise from three US department of energy labs to share with Indian national institutions.“SAGE will provide a formal platform for collaboration on clean energy development and will focus on increasing our engagement with the MNRE national institutions so that they act as a powerhouse of science, engineering and technology for India and the entire South Asia region.”Chaturvedi said this institutional arrangement will result in Indian and US institutions sharing important technical information, including on innovative technologies, to their mutual benefit. It will also contribute to strengthen the broader partnership between the two countries.SAGE will contribute towards achieving the goals of the US government’s Asia Enhancing Growth and Development through Energy (Asia EDGE) initiative, a primary pillar of the US administration’s Indo-Pacific vision in South Asia, and the US-India Strategic Energy Partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/usaid-mnre-announce-new-partnership-to-expand-clean-energy-development/story-iaCs3VMrG80nc7B0o17kHK.html
08-07-2020||India||Hunt for UP gangster Vikas Dubey intensified after he was spotted near Delhi||Three persons close to gangster Vikas Dubey, who was involved in the ambush of policemen in Kanpur, have been arrested from Haryana’s Faridabad in a joint operation by Uttar Pradesh STF and local crime branch team, a senior official said here on Wednesday. Dubey was in Faridabad and had tried to take a room in a hotel, whose CCTV footage went viral, the official said. “Three persons close to Vikas Dubey arrested from Faridabad. They were identified as Ankur, Shravan and Kartikey alias Prabhat,” a senior official told PTI. Eight policemen were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunt-for-up-gangster-vikas-dubey-intensified-after-he-was-spotted-near-delhi/story-ArLsz4IOQVA6basf20fvtL.html
08-07-2020||India||CBI files 2 cases in custodial deaths of father, son in Tamil Nadu||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday registered two cases in the deaths of a father-son duo who were allegedly tortured in a police station in Tamil Nadu’s Tuticorin for keeping their shop open in violation of lockdown timings. A CBI team constituted for the probe is being sent to location for investigation.Following chief minister K Palaniswami’s letter to home minister Amit Shah requesting a probe by the Central agency into the deaths of P Jeyaraj and J Bennicks, the Central government on Tuesday handed over the case to CBI for investigation.Five police personnel including an inspector have been arrested so far.P Jayaraj (59) and his son J Bennicks (31) were arrested on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the main market of Sathankulam town open during a curfew imposed during coronavirus lockdown.The father and son were allegedly tortured during the police custody after which they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22. While the son died on the same night, the father breathed his last on the morning of June 23.A policewoman is the only eyewitness in the case, and she told Judicial magistrate M S Barathidasan, who investigated the incident, that both Jayaraj and Bennicks were beaten through the night on June 19.“There were blood stains on the lathis and a table,” she said and asked the magistrate to obtain them immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-2-cases-in-custodial-deaths-of-father-son-in-tamil-nadu/story-G2BTSsPhk6F6oszSIOQBDI.html
08-07-2020||India||Mamata gives reason why no migrant worker left Bengal. It’s a dig at Centre||No migrant labour left West Bengal because the state government cares for its people, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said during an event on Wednesday. “Show me any state that gives 100% free ration for a year,” she said. The chief minister took a dig at the ruling party at the Centre and said that it didn’t come to any aid when its South Kolkata president and his mother tested positive for coronavirus recently. “The BJP office didn’t help even when he asked. I took the initiative and got them admitted to the hospital,” the chief minister said.  No migrant labour left West Bengal. Why? Because we care for people. Show me any state that gives 100% free ration for a year...BJP South Kolkata president & his mother were affected by COVID. BJP office didn’t help even when he asked. I took initiative & got them admitted: WB CM https://t.co/3nPYcoYgc9 pic.twitter.com/1bmfMZMnclBanerjee drew a comparison between Prime Minister’s flagship Ayushman Bharat scheme and state government-led Swasthya Sathi scheme. “In Ayushman Bharat, they (Centre) will give only 40 percent, and take the whole credit. Swasthya Sathi is giving 100 percent help to people,” she said. On Saturday, Banerjee tweeted saying the state government has implemented a robust economic strategy to tackle the Covid-19 crisis and the devastation caused by super cyclone Amphan. “Proof lies in West Bengal’s unemployment rate for the month of June 2020 which stands at 6.5%, far better than that of India at 11%, UP at 9.6% & Haryana at 33.6%, as per CMIE,” her tweet read. West Bengal is among the top ten states in the country affected by coronavirus. As of June 8, the state has reported a total of 23,837 coronavirus cases of which 15,790 patients have recovered. The number of Covid-19 fatalities i West Bengal stand at 804.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-gives-reason-why-no-migrant-worker-left-bengal-it-s-a-dig-at-centre/story-wb1Hpa9NCRCMt1jKQrIDdP.html
08-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bounty on Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey raised to Rs 5 lakh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bounty on criminal wanted in killing of 8 cops in UP raised to Rs 5 lakhThe bounty on notorious criminal Vikas Dubey, who has been missing since Friday after allegedly killing eight policemen in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, has been increased to Rs 5 lakh. Read morePM Oli doesn’t budge an inch in Nepal standoff, party stares at a possible splitA meeting of the Nepal Communist Party’s standing committee scheduled to meet on Wednesday was deferred at the last minute, dimming hopes that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his rival faction led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal might be able to reconcile their differences soon. Read moreTerrified driver finds snake in vehicle, incident shocks netizens. WatchThe stories of encounters with snakes shared on the Internet generally send a shiver down one’s spine. And this story of a man in Australia proves the case and it is nothing short of a nightmare. Read moreWhy didn’t Sachin Tendulkar prefer facing the first ball? These numbers provide insightSourav Ganguly on Monday shared an interesting nugget regarding his long-time opening partner Sachin Tendulkar, mentioning how the star batsman never wanted to take first strike. Read moreInstagram Reels rolls out to users in India after TikTok gets bannedInstagram has started testing its TikTok-like feature ‘Reels’ in India. Instagram Reels will officially start rolling out to users in India from 7:30 pm tonight. Read moreCovid-19: Karnataka, Telangana emerging as fresh hot spotsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, how Karnataka and Telangana are emerging as fresh hot spots, masks & sanitisers removed from essentials’ list, Brazil President Bolsonaro gets covid-19. Watch to know moreSorry but you shouldn’t ban dog meatAt the end of June I began noticing a slew of tweets about dog-eating on my Twitter timeline. The ones that made the most impact came from my friend Pritish Nandy, an animal lover and a vegetarian. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bounty-on-kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-raised-to-rs-5-lakh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-g05IVkUN7aFCObuqg8L8jO.html
08-07-2020||India||In latest attack on govt, Rahul Gandhi highlights NPAs, says was ridiculed||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said that large companies are under severe stress in India and banks are in distress. He targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for ridiculing him for warning about all this months ago.“Small & medium enterprises stand destroyed. Large companies are under severe stress. Banks are in distress. I stated months ago that an economic tsunami was coming and was ridiculed by BJP and the Media for warning the country about the truth,” Gandhi said on Twitter. Small & medium enterprises stand destroyed. Large companies are under severe stress. Banks are in distress. I stated months ago that an economic tsunami was coming and was ridiculed by BJP and the Media for warning the country about the truth. pic.twitter.com/t901bUlp9ZHe also attached a news report which claimed that the non-performing assets (NPAs) in the country will increase.The former Congress president had attacked the BJP on Tuesday too by accusing the government led by it of economic mismanagement. “India’s economic mismanagement is a tragedy that is going to destroy millions of families. It will no longer be accepted silently,” he had tweeted yesterday.He tagged a report with his tweet that claimed that India’s economic growth is likely to contract 4.5 per cent in 2020-21 due to Covid-19.Gandhi has been leading his party’s sharp criticism of the central government over a host of issues, including the June 15 standoff between the Indian and Chinese soldiers. He has criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement at all-party meeting and questioned the government’s stand on China.On Monday, BJP chief JP Nadda had attacked the Congress leader for “not attending a single meeting” of the Parliament’s standing committee on defence and accused him of trying to “demoralise” the nation.Nadda also said that the Congress leader does everything that a responsible opposition member should not do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-latest-attack-on-govt-rahul-gandhi-highlights-npas-says-was-ridiculed/story-mat8U5ECjTMowNCFu34weN.html
08-07-2020||India||Jharkhand minister tests positive for Covid-19, pandemic reaches corridors of power||The spread of Covid-19 has now entered the corridors of power in Jharkhand after a cabinet minister was found infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus on Tuesday late night.The minister, who was inducted as the member in chief minister Hemant Soren’s cabinet from Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) quota, has been moved to a Covid-19 ward of Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Another JMM lawmaker also tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday evening and is undergoing treatment in Dhanbad.With the discovery of two cases in lawmakers, the threat of pandemic looms large in the minds of many others including MLAs and senior state government officials who came in contact with these two lawmakers. Of late, the duo had, reportedly, also met chief minister Soren.Also read: Karnataka, Telangana could be country’s new Covid-19 hotspots“Samples of the minister and his wife were tested on Truenat machine at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital. While he was found infected with the respiratory disease, his wife tested negative,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad.He added, “We have initiated contact-tracing exercise to identify people who came in his contact. We are also tracing out the source of infection for the minister.”Sources said four days ago, the infected minister had thrown a house-warming party after he moved to his official residence in Ranchi. His close friends, relatives and others attended the function.The minister developed some health issues indicating symptoms of coronavirus infection on Monday morning. He and his wife gave samples for testing and the confirmatory report came on Tuesday late night. However, his wife tested negative for Covid-19, a minister’s close associate informed.In the last 24 hours, Jharkhand has reported 179 new cases of coronavirus taking the state tally to 3,056. As many as 2,104 patients have recovered and discharged so far. Jharkhand has currently 930 active cases and 22 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-pandemic-reaches-corridors-of-power/story-8viUe6tKr9umhYuLz3Kz2M.html
08-07-2020||India||PM Oli doesn’t budge an inch in Nepal standoff, party stares at a possible split||A meeting of the Nepal Communist Party’s standing committee scheduled to meet on Wednesday was deferred at the last minute, dimming hopes that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his rival faction led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal might be able to reconcile their differences soon. Pushpa Kamal Dahal, a former prime minister better known by his nom de guerre Prachanda, wants PM Oli to step down, insisting that his continuation is detrimental to Nepal’s interests.PM Oli and Prachanda, who are co-chairs of the communist party, met on Tuesday afternoon to find some meeting ground. PM Oli, who has dug in his heels, refused to give up either his party post or the PM office.The only forward movement at the end of the two-hour-long meeting was that the two leaders agreed to go ahead with the standing committee meeting on Wednesday. This was interpreted to imply that PM Oli was ready to face the 44-member standing committee, possibly with a resolution. Nearly 30 of them want him to go.People familiar with the developments, however, told Hindustan Times that PM Oli is determined to hold on to power and has warned that if he is pushed to the wall, he could split the Nepal Communist Party formed in 2018 by unifying Nepal’s two leftist parties, Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) and Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre).That is one eventuality China, which has backed PM Oli, wants to avoid. Over the last week or so, Chinese ambassador Hou Yanqi has held one-on-one meetings with NCP leaders Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhala Nath Khanal - two former prime ministers who are backing Prachanda - apart from President Bidhya Devi Bhandari to figure a way out to keep PM Oli in the saddle, and the party united.The meetings have sparked a huge row in Nepal seen as interference by China in its internal affairs. The Chinese embassy was upfront about its interest in the political standoff in Nepal. This week, the embassy confirmed envoy Hou Yanqi’s meetings with political leaders and said China wanted the Nepal Communist Party leaders to resolve their differences and stay united.The buzz in Nepal’s political circles is that Beijing might not be averse to letting PM Oli go if it does not end up splitting the country’s communist party.But the wily Oli, a Kathmandu watcher said, is determined to brazen it out. Oli, who started his second term as prime minister in February 2018, has managed to stay in power for over 850 days, a record of sorts in a country that has been politically unstable for years. The last prime minister to have had a longer tenure was 25 years ago; Girija Prasad Koirala of the Nepali Congress who was PM from May 1991 to November 1994.NCP leaders who back PM Oli despite the criticism about his governance record, said his rivals were making too much of the standing committee meetings. Any adverse resolution of the standing committee would have to be vetted by the 400-member central committee of the party. “But PM Oli (who is the co-chairman) would need to sign off on the resolution. If he doesn’t, it doesn’t really matter what the numbers in the standing committee are,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-oli-doesn-t-budge-an-inch-in-nepal-standoff-party-stares-at-a-possible-split/story-mtqLZqAci4a2I807PGmhaO.html
08-07-2020||India||Bounty on criminal wanted in killing of 8 cops in UP raised to Rs 5 lakh||The bounty on notorious criminal Vikas Dubey, who has been missing since Friday after allegedly killing eight policemen in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, has been increased to Rs 5 lakh. It is the fourth time the reward has been increased for giving information about Dubey in the past six days.At first, IG Kanpur Mohit Agarwal announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, which was gradually increased to Rs 1 lakh by ADG Kanpur Zone JN Singh on Sunday and Rs 2.5 lakh by UP DGP HC Awasthy on Tuesday. The UP home department further recommended increasing the reward to Rs 5 lakh.The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday killed an aide of Dubey in Hamirpur and arrested another following an encounter in Kanpur for their alleged role in last week’s Bikru ambush that led to killing of eight policemen, who had gone to arrest the gangster. “Amar Dubey, who carried a reward of Rs 25,000, was killed in an encounter in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district,” STF IG Amitabh Yash told PTI.In a separate encounter, hours after Amar Dubey was gunned down, Shyamu Bajpai, another associate of Vikas Dubey, was arrested in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur.According to sources, Amar Dubey was involved in the security of Vikas Dubey and travelled with him wherever he went while Bajpai too was close to the gangster.About the delay in the arrest of Vikas Dubey, the IG said, “He is a hardened criminal and was used to hiding so it is taking time but we will surely nab him. We have started getting success.” Vikas Dubey’s close relative Shama, neighbour Suresh Verma and domestic help Rekha and her husband Dayashankar Agnihotri, a key member of Dubey’s gang, were arrested by police.On Tuesday, all 68 personnel of the Chaubeypur Police Station were shunted to the reserve police lines amid doubts over their professional integrity. The announcement was made soon after police transferred Anand Deo, DIG STF, who till recently was the Senior Superintendent of Police in Kanpur. Deo was the Kanpur SSP in March when Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra purportedly wrote a damning letter, which surfaced on the social media after he was killed in the Bikru ambush.The unverified letter to the then Kanpur SSP alleged that Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari had watered down an FIR lodged against the gangster. It suggested that Tiwari and Dubey were close. However, police said there is no record of the purported letter, which is undated and carries no serial number. Deo also said that the signature on it does not match that of the slain officer. But police said they will still investigate the letter. Lucknow Range IG Lakshmi Singh is probing the matter.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bounty-on-criminal-wanted-in-killing-of-8-cops-in-up-raised-to-rs-5-lakh/story-QjPu3fKeErMutsVB9PYFTN.html
08-07-2020||India||Experts develop forensic kit to check illegal trading of pangolins||For the first time, scientists from the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) in Kolkata have developed a forensic kit based on DNA fingerprints that could help authorities track illegal trading of pangolins – the world’s most trafficked animal.The new kit named the ‘Pangolin Indexing System’ uses DNA markers to identify the unique individuals from the animals’ scales that are frequently seized by security agencies. Till date, authorities were only able to give a rough estimate of the animals killed based on the presumption that one Indian pangolin yields one kilogram and one Chinese pangolin yields half a kilogram of scales.“So, if 10 kilos of scales were seized, going by the presumption, authorities used to roughly estimate that 10 Indian pangolins might have been killed. But now, the new system would help us to identify each individual that was killed by poachers for their scales,” said Kailash Chandra, director, ZSI. This system will aid in genetic surveillance of the large seizures, he added.Also read: Rare pangolin rescued from smuggler, accused arrestedOut of the eight species of pangolins found across the globe, two – the Indian Pangolin and the Chinese Pangolin – are found in India. They are trafficked – mostly to China and other south-east Asian countries - for their meat and scales. Many times live ones are also smuggled even though they enjoy the highest level of protection under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 of India.“Till date, it was very difficult to identify an individual from the scales, the species and the region from where it came. But we have developed a DNA marker system which could identify each individual from a bag full of scales. In the follow-up, we are now developing a region-specific DNA database for pangolin covering the entire distribution range,” said Mukesh Thakur, who is a scientist and the coordinator of Centre for Forensic Sciences at ZSI who also led the research.The scientists now plan to work with the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Pangolin special group to draft a pangolin identification guide by which species of pangolins can be identified.This would allow security agencies, such as the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, forest and wildlife department, to get an estimate of the number of individuals killed, the species – Indian or Chinese - and their origin.The ZSI’s findings have been published in the International Journal of Legal Medicine, a peer-reviewed International journal brought out by Springer.“We are going through the research contents. It seems to be a very important study and a big jump forward in tackling pangolin trade in India. We have to find out the practicality and how it could be effectively utilized in the field,” said Tilotama Verma, additional director of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau.A study published by a wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC in 2018 estimated that close to 6,000 pangolins were seized from illegal trade, involving India, over the period 2009–2017. However, an estimated total of 5,772 animals is likely to be an under-estimate as an unknown fraction of illegal wildlife trade is detected.“We have been doing this for quite a long time for tigers because we have a huge countrywide repository. If we find tiger bones, we would be to tell how many tigers do they belong to and which part of the country the animal came from – central India, Terai or maybe the Western Ghats – because tigers from specific geographical locations have different markers,” said YV Jhala, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-develop-forensic-kit-to-check-illegal-trading-of-pangolins/story-gRmuCtENp7LfTv4WVDwbZL.html
08-07-2020||India||Gujarat HC to remain closed for 3 days after 7 persons test positive for Covid-19||Gujarat High Court will remain closed from Wednesday till July 10 for sanitisation of the entire premises after six staff members of the High Court registry and one constable from Vigilance Department were found Covid-19 positive.“It is resolved that the entire premises of the High Court be shut down for three days starting from Wednesday, July 8 to Friday, July 10,” read a circular.It further stated that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation will carry out a thorough and comprehensive exercise for cleaning and sanitising the entire premises of the High Court, Judicial Academy and Auditorium, including inside of the buildings such as chambers, offices, record rooms, washroom etc during this period.“The judicial functioning of the High Court will remain suspended during the above period,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hc-to-remain-closed-for-3-days-after-7-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-SxJzlZIUbxDXcoqrC38LGO.html
08-07-2020||India||India, US hold bilateral talks, look forward to 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue later this year||India and the US on Tuesday held virtual talks during which the two sides discussed bilateral cooperation on a full range of international issues and reaffirmed their commitment to work towards ensuring a “free, open, peaceful and prosperous” Indo-Pacific.Under secretary of state for political affairs David Hale and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla also discussed the ongoing threats to the rules-based international order, bilateral and multilateral diplomatic cooperation, maritime security, and the global response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Department said in a statement.During the virtual Foreign Office Consultations, the two officials discussed bilateral cooperation on a full range of international issues and developed concrete steps to strengthen the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership established by their leaders, the statement said.They agreed that the US-India health partnership, including cooperation on pharmaceutical and vaccine development, will continue to play a critical role in the world’s recovery from Covid-19.Hale and Shringla affirmed the US and Indian visions of “a free and open Indo-Pacific region, where all countries can prosper, and agreed to work with other Indo-Pacific partners to bring these visions to reality,” it said. China has been fast expanding military and economic influence in the Indo-Pacific region, triggering concern in various countries of the region and beyond. The two officials also agreed to consult closely on all challenges and endeavor to support each other’s objectives. They “look forward to US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue later this year and pledged to remain in close contact on regional and international issues of mutual concern,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-hold-bilateral-talks-look-forward-to-2-2-ministerial-dialogue-later-this-year/story-sZXgPlYJP8cpEcd09GhuWJ.html
08-07-2020||India||South Indian states battle surge in cases, account for nearly 27% of national total: Covid-19 state tally||India reported another sharp rise in Covid-19 cases by registering 22,752 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. With this, the national coronavirus tally has jumped to 742,417 with the death toll mounting to 20,642; as many as 456,830 patients have recovered from the disease across India. While Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally with over 2 lakh cases, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh are the top affected states. South Indian states like Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are witnessing a high rate of coronavirus cases. Kerala is the only South Indian state where the number of Covid-19 patients is considerably low. Together, all five south Indian states account for over 2 lakh - nearly 27 percent - of country’s total coronavirus cases. Also read: Karnataka, Telangana could be country’s new Covid-19 hotspotsAs per an HT analysis of data from the 20 worst-hit states in the country, Telangana, Karnataka, Gujarat, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha come into focus for the surge in Covid-19 cases. Among them, Telangana and Karnataka stand out.Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 217,121 on Wednesday. Over 118,558 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 9,250 have died.Tamil NaduWith 118,594 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,636 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 71,116.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 102,831 on Wednesday. As many as 74,217 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital while 3,165 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 37,550 on Wednesday. The state has seen 26,720 people recover from coronavirus while 1,977 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 29,968 while the number of recoveries has touched 19,627. The state’s death toll stands at 827.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 27,612 coronavirus cases. While 16,287 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 313 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 26,815 coronavirus cases till date while three 416 have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 11,098 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 23,837 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 15,790 recover from coronavirus while 804 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 21,404 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 472 while 16,575 patients have recovered.Andhra Pradesh The state has reported 21,197 Covid-19 patients till date. While 9,745 people have recovered from the virus across the state, the death toll stands at 252.Situation in other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 17,999. Over 15,000 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has crossed 12,000, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir nears 9,000. In Odisha, cases have crossed 10,000 while Assam has reported over 12,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 6,749, and the number of cases in Kerala is 5,894. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,200 cases.States with less than 3,000 casesNagaland, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Chandigarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya is the only state with less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-indian-states-battle-surge-in-cases-account-for-nearly-27-of-national-total-covid-19-state-tally/story-K2yYk2DoCRtuKtFoaJ9VrK.html
08-07-2020||India||Home Ministry sets up panel to coordinate probe into 3 Gandhi family trusts||The Union home ministry has set up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations into allegations against Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust of violating the legal provisions of money laundering act, Income Tax Act and foreign contribution act.Confirming it, a home ministry spokesperson said that Special Director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) will head the committee. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will also be part of the committee.While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and P Chidambaram are trustees of RGF, which was set up in June 1991. Sonia Gandhi is the chairperson of RGF and Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust. She has also been overseeing the work of Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust.The allegations against RGF were levelled by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda last month amid the ongoing war of words with the Opposition over the Ladakh face-off. In a series of tweets, Nadda said that the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) donated money to RGF. He said “one family’s hunger for wealth” hurt the nation, and also accused the Congress of committing a “brazen fraud” by diverting public money into a “family-run foundation”.Nadda also posted images of lists of donors to RGF for the years 2007-2008 and 2005-2006 to back his claim. The list included several state-owned companies, including the State Bank of India and GAIL, and ministries including the ministry of home affairs and the ministry of health.“PMNRF, meant to help people in distress, was donating money to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in UPA years. Who sat on the PMNRF board? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Who chairs RGF? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Totally reprehensible, disregarding ethics, processes and not bothering about transparency,” Nadda tweeted.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had alleged that RGF pushed for a free trade agreement between India and China, leading to a huge trade deficit skewed in favour of Beijing.In its response, the Congress said the BJP was engaging in diversionary tactics, questioned it on visits and exchanges between the BJP and the Communist Party of China (CPC) over the past decade, and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared a “strange bonhomie” with China even as the borders were insecure.PMNRF was set up in 1948 by India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, entirely with public contributions. It does not get any budgetary support. PMNRF resources are utilised primarily to give relief to families of those killed in natural calamities, and to victims of major accidents and riots, according to its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-sets-up-panel-to-coordinate-probe-into-3-gandhi-family-trusts/story-KpJkxlJqXIUUhLVwzvq2oN.html
08-07-2020||India||Ban on dog meat by Nagaland govt sparks debate||Following the Nagaland government’s order to ban the trading of dogs and also the sale of both ‘cooked and uncooked’ dog-meat, a debate has emerged as to whether the order passed by the state government is democratic or not.While regarded as a welcome move, battle-lines were also drawn as the state government’s decision also received criticism in equal measure, largely on the grounds of infringement on people’s dietary practices.While pet lovers welcomed the decision saying that the Nagas can survive without dog meat, others viewed it as “nonsensical” which would only drive the dog-meat trade underground like “the failed Nagaland Liquor Prohibition Act”.With dog meat being culture-specific for many Naga tribes, a Naga scholar who preferred to remain unnamed held the ban as a violation of one’s traditional rights.On the other hand, some felt that the decision has been taken in a hasty manner by the government without wider consultation.“There should have been a discussion by the state government because living in a democratic country like India, people should have had the opportunity to debate and discuss why there is a need to ban,” Gugu Haralu, a peace activist while speaking to ANI.“I am a pet lover and so I don’t take dog meat. However, the government should have wider consultation in a democratic way. But they hastily took the decision,” she added.Many people also raised concerns on social media saying, “Cruelty to animals is bad. There have to be ethical norms in place but outsiders policing and coercing the diet of native and indigenous people is problematic.”While banning of commercial imports is acceptable, a netizen viewed that the ban on the sale of dog meat is an exploitation of the indigenous dietary habit. “This is a sensitive issue. But as for me, I can’t just think of killing dogs which are like our family members for meat. It is too painful to think of it for me,” Yaimi Jagoi said.The Nagaland government took the decision on July 3 to decree bans the commercial import-trading of dogs and also the sale of both ‘cooked and uncooked’ dog-meat in a state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-dog-meat-by-nagaland-govt-sparks-debate/story-ehCro581dAN4vW9CX0wVkK.html
08-07-2020||India||Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide arrested following encounter||Shyamu Bajpai, another gang member of gangster Vikas Dubey, was arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Chaubeypur on Wednesday after Dubey’s close aide Amar Dubey was shot dead in Uttar Pradesh’s Hamirpur on Wednesday, the police said. According to the officials, Bajpai, who carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on him, was shot in the leg. Dubey is involved in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur and has been on the run since the incident last Thursday.“The aide Amar Dubey was co-accused in the Kanpur incident and was killed on Wednesday morning,” UP Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said.Hamirpur Superintendent of Police (SP), Shlok Kumar, said an automatic weapon and a bag was recovered from the encounter site. Also read: How Vikas Dubey’s close aide Amar was tracked and gunned down“The STF and local police were pursuing him as his location was around Maudaha, he was spotted during the checking and gunfight ensued. Dubey and injured were taken to the hospital where Dubey was declared dead,” Kumar stated. Meanwhile, Raju Khullar, brother of Vikas Dubey’s wife Richa, is being interrogated about Dubey’s whereabouts by UP STF in Shahdol district of Madhya Pradesh, said a senior police official at state police headquarters in Lucknow. He said Raju Khullar alias Raju Nigam is co-accused along with Vikas Dubey in the sensational murder of Kanpur’s senior politician Santosh Shukla.Dubey’s wife Richa and her two children were at their Lucknow residence at the time of shootout on Friday wee hours. They are also missing for the past six days. Their last location was tracked in east UP’s Chandauli district on Bihar border.Raju Khullar was a history-sheeter from Kanpur’s Kakadeo and was involved in narcotics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-aide-arrested-following-encounter/story-OW3ldAchCwui0O4LbJ3lDP.html
08-07-2020||India||PM Modi wishes speedy recovery for Brazil president Bolsonaro, down with Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday tweeted best wishes for Brazil president Jair Bolsonaro, who has tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.“My friend President @jairbolsonaro, my prayers and best wishes for your speedy recovery,” PM Modi said in his tweet. He has posted the same message in Portuguese, the official language of Brazil. My friend President @jairbolsonaro, my prayers and best wishes for your speedy recovery.Bolsonaro said he tested positive for the new coronavirus on Tuesday after months of downplaying its severity while deaths mounted rapidly inside the country.The Brazilian President said he is confident that he will swiftly recover from the new coronavirus thanks to treatment with hydroxychloroquine, the anti-malaria drug that has not been proven effective against Covid-19.Bolsonaro told reporters that he underwent a lung X-ray on Monday after experiencing fever, muscle aches and malaise. As of Tuesday, his fever had subsided, he said, and he attributed the improvement to hydroxychloroquine.In April, he had thanked PM Modi for easing restrictions on export of hydroxychloroquine. Bolsonaro compared the move to Lord Hanuman and Sanjeevani booti (herb) in the epic Ramayana.“Just as Lord Hanuman brought the holy medicine from the Himalayas to save the life of Lord Rama’s brother Laksmana, and Jesus healed those who were sick and restored the sight of Bartimeu, India and Brazil will overcome this global crisis,” President Bolronaro had said in a letter to Prime Minister Modi.India is the largest manufacturer and exporter of hydroxychloroquine in the world.Bolsonaro was in the country this January to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations.Brazil, the world’s sixth-biggest nation, with more than 210 million people, is one of the outbreak’s most lethal hot spots. More than 65,000 Brazilians have died from Covid-19, and over 1.5 million have been infected.Both numbers are the world’s second-highest totals, behind those of the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-speedy-recovery-for-brazil-president-bolsonaro-down-with-covid-19/story-OMOjT1PCBYCl3iDe0qF3EN.html
08-07-2020||India||Bengal serial ‘chain’ killer sentenced to death for raping, killing schoolgirl||A man, accused in a series of murders and sexual assaults on women, was sentenced to death by a court here for the rape and killing of a schoolgirl in West Bengal’s Purba Bardhaman district.Kamaruzzaman Sarkar, who gained notoriety as a serial ‘chain’ killer for strangling his victims with bicycle chains, was sentenced to be hanged to death by the additional district and sessions judge Tapan Kumar Mondal of Kalna court after being found guilty of the rape and murder of the girl.Sarkar, a small-time trader of discarded materials, is being tried in other courts for alleged sexual assault and murder of at least five other women and murderous attacks on at least three other women in Purba Bardhaman and neighbouring Hooghly districts.Following the order on Monday, Sarkar’s lawyer said that an appeal will be filed before the Calcutta High Court, challenging the conviction and sentence.The alleged serial killer who targeted women when they were alone at home, was arrested in the town of Kalna in Purba Bardhaman district in June last year.The 42-year-old, attired in trendy clothes, would allegedly enter homes during afternoon hours on the pretext of taking electricity meter readings and then pounce upon the women with a cycle chain and an iron rod, according to the prosecution.Some women had managed to escape attacks by the diminutive man, whose modus operandi was to strangulate them with a chain and then hit them on the head to ensure death.Though he would escape with some valuables from the houses of his victims, theft does not seem to be the motive.Murdering the women seemed to be his main target, according to district police sources.Police said that Sarkar, married with three children, had even allegedly inserted sharp materials into the genitals of some of his victims following their deaths.Following the murder of a middle-aged woman, the district police had circulated CCTV footage of a suspect wearing a red helmet and riding a red motorbike to all police stations, following which he was apprehended at a check-point.Sarkar is suspected to have killed a woman of Anukhal area on January 27 last year, police said.On April 4, 2019, two women were killed within a few hours of each other in the Memari police station area of Purba Bardhaman.Another woman of Memari was also killed in the same manner, the police said.Swarupa Bibi of Rongpara here was one of the lucky few to have escaped a similar attack. She was allegedly attacked from behind with a cycle chain, but she managed to shrug off the attacker and raise an alarm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-serial-chain-killer-sentenced-to-death-for-raping-killing-schoolgirl/story-eunpVa3QBMD4w9DLswzCpI.html
08-07-2020||India||Godman arrested for molesting woman in Jammu’s Rajouri||The police on Tuesday arrested a man, who claimed to be a godman and allegedly tried to sexually exploit a woman in Agrati village of Rajouri district in Jammu.Rajouri Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Chandan Kohli, said that the accused, who claimed to be a godman, belonged to Mendhar area of Poonch district.“He had come to Agrati village for treating a woman, who was allegedly under the influence of black magic,” he added.Also read: 60-year-old woman killed, another injured as Pak violates ceasefire in J-K’s PoonchThe arrested person belongs to Mendhar area of Poonch district and came to Agrati for treating a woman who was allegedly under the influence of black magic.The police have registered a case under relevant sections of law and the accused has been arrested.The accused has been identified as Mohammad Akbar, resident of Chatral village in Mendhar subdivision of Poonch district.“We have registered a case and further investigation is going on,” said Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godman-arrested-for-molesting-woman-in-jammu-s-rajouri/story-6Q740jFEfxA2oEKkDkIqKN.html
08-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally again jumps by over 22,000 cases, close to 7.5 lakh||India saw its Covid-19 tally jump by another 22,752 in the last 24 hours to reach 7,42,417. According to the Union health ministry data at 8 am, the number of active cases in the country are 2,64,994 and 4,56,830 patients have been cured or discharged.The total number of fatalities has now reached 20,642 after 482 people died in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed.The government, however, said on Tuesday that the total number of coronavirus infections and fatalities per million population in the country are among the lowest in the world.The health ministry said that India’s recovered cases per million population is more than active Covid-19 cases per million. It credited the states and Union Territories for early identification and effective management of the coronavirus cases.Among the worst-affected states, Delhi accounts for the highest 3497.1 recovered cases per million as against 1242.9 active cases per million, followed by Maharashtra having 869.5 recovered cases per million as against 661.6 active cases per million, according to health ministry. Tamil Nadu has 753.0 recovered cases per million as against 529.8 active cases per million, while the respective numbers for Haryana are 480.9 and 140.4.Telangana and Karnataka have contributed majorly to the alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, according to HT’s analysis of 20 worst-hit states in India. HT’s analysis focused on three parametres - high growth rate, high positivity rate, and at least one large urban centre which sees a significant concentration of cases - to identify regions that are exhibiting signs that they may become the next hotspots.Both the states have highest growth rate of cases and high positivity rates.With 25,733 Covid-19 cases as of Tuesday, Telangana has reported 1,219 new cases every day on average over the last two weeks. Karnataka, with 25,317 cases, has reported the fastest growth of cases in the country. In the last two weeks, it reported 1,137 new cases every day against 260 in the two weeks before that.The Centre, meanwhile, removed masks and sanitisers from the purview of the Essential Commodities Act on Tuesday, citing the absence of reports of shortages of such items from anywhere in the country.The items were brought under the purview of this law in March when demand for them outstripped supply, with an eye on capping prices.Since late March, companies have significantly increased production of sanitisers. The emergence of two- and three-ply cloth masks as adequate protection has also played a role in ensuing adequate supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-again-jumps-by-over-22-000-cases-close-to-7-5-lakh/story-gzVZ8n4dhjabySByRB0IYM.html
08-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest officials rescue spectacled cobra with rare genetic features||Uttarakhand forest department officials have rescued a spectacled cobra with a rare genetic disorder from Dehradun this week, officials said.The snake was rescued from a local resident’s scooter where it was hiding.Ravi Joshi, a member of the quick response team of the forest department which rescued the snake, said that they got a call regarding the rescue around 11:30 pm on Sunday night from a house in Dehradun.“When we went there to rescue, we did not realise initially that this could be a snake with some rare features. After rescuing it from the storage space of a scooter, where locals saw it hiding during the night walk, we started clicking pictures of the snake and to our surprise, we saw that it had two different colours bilaterally on its body. We then realised something is different about this snake and informed senior officials,” said Joshi.Also read: Uttarakhand govt to appoint over 700 doctors to boost health infrastructureWhen contacted, experts from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) said it was a spectacled cobra with a rare genetic disorder called partial leucism.Abhijit Das, scientist and herpetologist at Wildlife Institute of India said even though the snake is widely distributed in this region, it is rare to find a snake with such a genetic disorder.“The phenomenon that was recorded is called partial leucism, that is kind of an aberration or congenital defect. There are various kinds of colouration, like albinism, where the snake is completely white including the eyes, but in this case, it is partial leucism. Only half the body of the snake is leucistic,” said Das.He further informed that leucistic snakes have a body completely white in colour or there are patches of white and black.“Spectacled cobras usually found in Uttarakhand are jet black in colour, but in this case, there is a symmetry with half the body being black and white. This is a rare genetic deformity,” added Das.Spectacled cobras, part of the big four venomous snakes of the country, have a widespread distribution across the country except in north-eastern parts, informed experts.Moving towards the eastern landscapes of the country from the northern region, the colour of spectacled cobra changes from black to brown (found in Odisha, Southern India) to yellowish brown (in parts of West Bengal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-officials-rescue-spectacled-cobra-with-rare-genetic-features/story-eQi2XV97SdyFOlLkKE9HkO.html
08-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Working to raise health spending to 2.1% of GDP, says finance panel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Finance panel focus on raising health spending to 2.1% of GDPAs India battles the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, fifteenth finance commission chairman NK Singh on Tuesday said the commission was working towards a financing model to raise federal public-health spending to about 2.1% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) over the next five years. Read more4km buffers at three key points as troops pull back from Ladakh clash siteThe Indian Army has begun a rigourous verification process to monitor the withdrawal of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Read moreStrength training exercises for you to try at homeLet’s admit it that all of us have watched plenty of online workout tutorials and promised ourselves to kick-start a fitness regime while working from home (and then forgotten about it due to lack of motivation or equipment!). Read moreHappy birthday Neetu Kapoor: Her best pics from family album with Rishi, Ranbir, RiddhimaActor Neetu Kapoor turns 62 on Wednesday, weeks after the death of her husband, Rishi Kapoor. Neetu stood by his side like a rock, Rishi had said, as he underwent treatment for cancer over the last couple of years. Read moreEngland vs West Indies: First steps towards the new normalCricket’s back, and it comes to us in the form of an English summer, that age old mix of fickle weather and fine fast bowling. Except this is nothing like we have seen in a very long time. Read moreHT Salutes: UP man helping migrants labourers with food, work as they returnSanjay Singh, 45, helped migrant workers by providing them with food and work as they returned home on foot. Singh, who is the founder of a voluntary group called Parmarth Samaj Sewi Sansthan, helped in providing food and water to migrants at the Madhya Pradesh border. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Unpacked event confirmed for Aug 5: Note 20, Fold 2 and more set for launchSamsung has officially announced its Galaxy Unpacked event will be held on August 5. At its annual event, Samsung is expected to unveil Galaxy Note 20 smartphone series and next-generation foldable phone. Read moreMP CM Shivraj Chouhan takes dig at Kamal Nath’s temple visit ahead of bypollsMadhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took a dig at Congress leader Kamal Nath. Reacting to Kamal Nath’s temple visit ahead of by-polls in the state, Chouhan said, “To win polls, one needs people’s grace along with the grace of god.” Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-working-to-raise-health-spending-to-2-1-of-gdp-says-finance-panel-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YhWjP5v3FfSNFTzhuTDwPP.html
08-07-2020||India||Another Odisha MLA tests positive for Covid-19, state’s tally crosses 10,000-mark||A day after a BJP lawmaker contracted Covid-19 in Odisha, a first-time MLA of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) also tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday. The state also reported an all-time high 571 Covid-19 cases on a single day, taking the total numbers past 10,000.Officials said BJD MLA from Salepur, Prashant Nayak, has tested positive.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 situation in Bhubaneswar seems to be getting worse with Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) shutting down two branches of ICICI Bank in the city after 15 people working in those offices tested positive for Covid-19. “As a precautionary measure and larger public interest after detection of 15 positive cases ICICI Bank, Cuttack Road Branch & Sales Section of ICICI Bank, Bhubaneswar Main Branch, near Sriya Talkies has been closed by BMC,” tweeted BMC. As a precautionary measure & larger public interest after detection of 15 positive cases ICICI Bank, Cuttack Road Branch & Sales Section of ICICI Bank, Bhubaneswar Main Branch, near Sriya Talkies has been closed by BMC. pic.twitter.com/FWVj3g3FSwApart from the private bank’s branches, the BMC also sealed the Bhubaneswar Regional Transport Office (RTO)-I in the city after detection of four Covid-19 positive cases there. All the employees of the RTO will be quarantined.Earlier on Tuesday, the BMC had closed Tech Mahindra office in Bhubaneswar for violation of the standard operating procedure for Covid-19 management. The officials of the civic authority said that seven people working in the BPO section of the company had tested positive within a week. The BMC officials said the company didn’t follow the quarantine guidelines after detection of a positive case.In hard-hit Ganjam district, where 2,621 cases have been reported so far, official said all the urban areas will be shut down between July 9 and July 13. In Puri, restrictions have been imposed on the cremation of dead bodies in Swargadwara crematorium in the wake of rise in Covid-19 cases. Dead bodies from out of Puri district will not be allowed to be cremated at Swargadwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-odisha-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-s-tally-crosses-10-000-mark/story-ANsoVYiEEqbi2aSR3nt9dO.html
08-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand govt to appoint over 700 doctors to boost health infrastructure||With an aim to boost health infrastructure in the state, the Uttarakhand government will soon be appointing 763 doctors to fill vacant posts.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday instructed officials to start the appointment process of ordinary grade medical officers in the state.“State’s health system will be strengthened by the recruitment of 763 doctors. Health infrastructure has been greatly improved in the state. Now every district in the state has ICU facilities. The number of physicians has been doubled compared to earlier. Tele-radiology and telemedicine services were also introduced. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, 400 new doctors were recruited, 273 ICU beds installed and 165 ventilators procured,” said Rawat.Meanwhile, a 75-year-old male Covid-19 positive patient died in Dehradun district on Tuesday.The health bulletin mentioned, “One death of 75-year-old of a male is reported from Doon Medical College Dehradun. The deceased was referred from Max hospital Dehradun on June 24, as a case of fracture, neck & femur, CAD & COVID-19 positive. During treatment, he developed sepsis, bilateral pneumonia and expired.”On Tuesday, 69 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking its tally to 3,230. The cases were reported from districts like Almora (2), Champawat (2), Dehradun (18), Haridwar (7), Nainital (5), Pauri Garhwal (3), Pithoragarh (3), Tehri Garhwal (1), Udham Singh Nagar (25) and Uttarkashi (3).Of the 69 patients, 20 cases were of people who were found to be contacts of earlier Covid-19 positive patients and nine patients tested positive at a hospital’s OPD in US Nagar district.The others had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh, Srinagar and Kazakhstan.A total of 35 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday after recovering from the coronavirus disease. These patients belonged to districts like Almora (10), Bageshwar (2), Chamoli (1), Dehradun (5), Haridwar (7), Nainital (3), Pauri Garhwal (1), Udham Singh Nagar (3) and Uttarkashi (3).The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 53.17 days in the state, with a recovery rate of 81.15%. Uttarakhand has so far tested over 81,000 samples of which results of over 5,600 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-govt-to-appoint-over-700-doctors-to-boost-health-infrastructure/story-UplauI3ozRqUIV8H29DwfL.html
08-07-2020||India||How Vikas Dubey’s close aide Amar was tracked and gunned down||After frequent raids in search of Vikas Dubey and his aides, the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday morning gunned down one of his closest accomplices Amar Dubey on deserted stretch under Modaha police station limits of Hamirpur district, said UP Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar.Kumar said Amar Dubey was co-accused in sensational shootout in which eight policemen, including deputy SP Devendra Mishra, was shot dead when a police team raided Vikas Dubey’s house in Bikru village in Kanpur in the wee hours of Friday. He said Amar Dubey along with Vikas Dubey was on run after the shootout and the state police were making efforts to arrest him.Amar was hiding in Artara village.According to the police, Amar was the brother of Atul Dubey who was killed in the July 3 gun fight. He got married on June 29, just four days before the shootout in Bikru village in rural Kanpur. He was among the group of people who fired at the police team from the house of Vikas Dubey.Incidentally, the STF sleuths gunned down Amar only few hours after Vikas Dubey gave them a slip when they raided a hotel near Badarpur border in Haryana’s Faridabad on Tuesday night.A senior police official privy of the development said the CCTV footage suggested that a man resembling Vikas Dubey along with two men had stayed in the hotel and left few hours before the STF, with help of Faridabad crime branch, raided there.He said three suspects were later picked up from Faridabad whose identity cards were used to book the hotel room. He said the details extracted from the three suspects suggested that Vikas Dubey was one among the three men who stayed in hotel on forged identities. He said further raids were carried out at different locations in Faridabad and Delhi on the basis of information extracted from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-vikas-dubey-s-close-aide-amar-was-tracked-and-gunned-down/story-4bvHS0SmYBgBKKTu5xk1FJ.html
08-07-2020||India||Shutdown in Odisha’s Cuttack till July 10 midnight||Cuttack Municipal Corporation has announced a shutdown in entire Cuttack city till midnight of July 10.“It is hereby ordered to shutdown the entire Cuttack city (CMC area) till midnight of 10 July. Weekend shutdown restrictions will also apply to Cuttack city (CMC area) on July 11 and 12 as per previous order,” according to an order by the Cuttack Municipal Corporation.The five-day complete shutdown will be in place in all urban areas and five block headquarters of Ganjam from July 9-13, according to Ganjam Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange.During the shutdown period, essential services will continue.According to the Collector, screening and other measures will be undertaken in all NACs, Hinjilicut municipality, all block headquarters and Berhampur Municipality from 9-13 July due to rising cases.As per the data of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 9,526 coronavirus cases have been recorded in Odisha including 6,486 recovered and 38 deaths. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shutdown-in-odisha-s-cuttack-till-july-10-midnight/story-275HUiUndaypXXSLvX17hP.html
08-07-2020||India||Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s close aide Amar Dubey shot dead in police encounter||A close aide of the gangster Vikas Dubey was shot dead in Uttar Pradesh’s Hamirpur, police said. Dubey is involved in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur and has been on the run since the incident last Thursday.“The aide Amar Dubey was co-accused in the Kanpur incident and was killed on Wednesday morning,” UP Additional Director General of Police, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said. He further said that UP Special Task Force (STF) gunned him down in coordination with the local police unit in Hamirpur. There was a reward of Rs 25,000 on him, Kumar added.A police inspector and a constable of the STF were injured in the gun fight.Hamirpur Superintendent of Police (SP) Shlok Kumar said that an automatic weapon and a bag was recovered from Amar Dubey’s possession. “Forensic team is on their way to the encounter site, further investigation is underway,” he added.The Uttar Pradesh Police had said on Tuesday that 40 teams and the STF were hunting for dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey. The state police chief added that the force will not rest until Dubey is nabbed.Uttarakhand police headquarters alarmed its personnel in the state, especially in the border districts, to be on alert after the latest lead on whereabouts of Dubey. The dreaded criminal was allegedly seen in a car with his men in Bijnor on Monday night, a senior police officer requesting anonymity said.The sensational and barbaric execution of policemen in Bikru village in Kanpur rural is also in focus for exposing moles in the state police force who actively tipped off Dubey hours before the police raid and led their own colleagues into a deadly trap laid by the gangster.After the investigation, all the staff members of Kanpur’s Chaubeypur police station, comprising 68 police personnel, were transferred on Tuesday.Anant Deo Tewari, who had earlier worked as Kanpur SSP, was among them. Tewari was transferred from his present post of DIG STF after a controversial letter of slain Dy SP Devendra Mishra surfaced. In the letter, Mishra had sought action against SO of Chaubeypur police station, Kanpur, Vinay Tewari but Anant Deo Tewari had allegedly ignored the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-close-aide-amar-dubey-shot-dead-in-police-encounter/story-qUvP8ZkRDk5sYsAVrXNQ1L.html
08-07-2020||India||4km buffers at three key points as troops pull back from Ladakh clash site||The Indian Army has begun a rigourous verification process to monitor the withdrawal of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh even as a complicated disengagement plan moved forward in Hot Springs and Gogra, where the two armies are working to create a 4km buffer zone between troops within a 24-hour time frame, four officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday evening.The PLA has withdrawn up to 2km from Patrolling Point 15 (Hot Springs) and a similar retreat is expected to be completed at PP-17 (Gogra) by Wednesday evening, with the Indian Army pulling back proportionately. This is based on an understanding reached last week by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a phased de-escalation of the ongoing border conflict in the Ladakh theatre, said one of the officials cited above, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The two armies have already created a 4km buffer zone in Galwan Valley, the site of a deadly clash which left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead on June 15, said a second official.The creation of buffer zones will temporarily restrict the patrolling activities of both armies in the region. While some experts saw this as a necessary step, others cautioned that the temporary curtailing of patrolling rights should not become a long-term feature undermining Indian presence and control.Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday that the PLA had withdrawn up to 1.5 km from friction areas in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, and the Indian Army also pulled back proportionately. A minor thinning of PLA soldiers has been noticed at the sensitive Finger Area near Pangong Tso.Satellite images on Tuesday appeared to confirm the PLA pullback from Galwan Valley. “The images clearly indicate that the PLA has moved back in Galwan Valley. It’s a positive step but constant verification and strict vigil are a must,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. Bhatia reviewed the images for HT. The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the complex plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides. It also entails the phased withdrawal of weapons and equipment to a mutually agreed distance, and finally the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April).“The army is keeping a close watch on the ongoing pull back by the PLA. It’s extremely critical to verify and reverify every stage of the disengagement process to avoid surprises,” said the second official, who asked not to be identified.The verification process launched by the army involves unmanned aerial vehicles, other aerial means of surveillance and satellite imagery of the areas, said a third official.The Indian Air Force (IAF) is already projecting its capabilities of carrying out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in Ladakh, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters, and multi-mission choppers getting airborne for demanding night-time missions from a forward airbase in the area, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.On the creation of buffer zones, and the curtailment of patrolling, experts had a mixed response.“The zones of separation will eliminate the possibility of violent face-offs. It’s best to avoid any form of contact between rival troops. A moratorium on patrolling the areas by both sides till things stabilise should help,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).Disengagement during a 2014 border standoff at Chumar in Ladakh involved a temporary ban on Indian and Chinese soldiers patrolling disputed areas.Satisfactory progress of disengagement in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra could set the stage for reducing tensions in the Finger Area and also turn the focus on the Depsang plains where the PLA’s forward presence is hindering the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns, said Hooda.But others sounded a more cautionary note, emphasising that India must be able to — after the agreed period — exercise its patrolling rights again. A senior official said India must never lose track of China’s “salami slicing” tactics to slowly grab territory. “Salami slicing” refers to a string of small, clandestine operations meant to achieve a larger goal that would be difficult to accomplish in one go. He said, “We have to ensure that the buffer zones do not become a new status quo. These can only be a temporary measure to facilitate the disengagement process to restore status quo ante. The army will fully exercise patrolling rights in the area once that happens.”Before the PLA occupied vantage positions on Finger Four in early May, Indian Army soldiers would patrol right up to Finger Eight, which New Delhi considers to be its territory. The new Chinese positions have restricted the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are 8km apart.The army is also keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to Patrol Points 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13, a fourth official said.The military buildup in Indian and Chinese depth areas, however, hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The disengagement process, a precursor to any kind of de-escalation of the border conflict, has started under the terms mutually agreed to at the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region. This understanding, in turn, was the result of earlier efforts not paying dividends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4km-buffers-at-three-key-points-as-troops-pull-back/story-Wu5bKqvGGf6DkD9QJpsmgK.html
08-07-2020||India||SC extends deadline to give women permanent posting||The Centre on Tuesday received one month to implement the Supreme Court’s path-breaking decision to grant a permanent commission to women Army officers serving under the Short Service Commission (SSC). An order by the top court passed on February 17 had ended the gender disparity that stood in the way of women SSC officers being denied a permanent commission their male counterparts were entitled to. The Centre agreed to grant a permanent commission to women in 10 non-combat streams and was directed by the apex court to complete the process in three months.The deadline expired in May. The extension ordered by the court will be valid for a month starting on Tuesday. Citing the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, the Centre moved an application before the Supreme Court to extend the deadline expiring in May by six months. Senior advocate R Balasubramanian, appearing for the ministry of defence, told a bench comprising justices DY Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra that the government was is in an advanced stage of implementing the court’s order. The process couldn’t be completed because of the lockdown that caused all government offices to be close abruptly, the lawyer said.“On account of lack of staff, closure of hospitals, including Army hospital and non-availability of other requirements necessary to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court, it was very difficult to continue with the process of consideration of women officers for grant of permanent commission…..In view of the corona pandemic and the ensuing lockdown coupled with exigencies of service, the applicant has not been able to complete the same and requires more time to complete the entire process,” the Centre said in its petition.The women SSC officers were represented in the virtual court proceeding by their lawyers Meenakshi Lekhi and Meenakshi Arora. Opposing the application, the counsel argued that an attempt is being made by Centre to dilute the Supreme Court judgment to delay its implementation.The bench took note of the fact that the Centre had commenced efforts to implement the court order and could not foresee the lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Recording this submission in its order, the bench said, “We extend the time for compliance by one more month.” The court kept the matter pending in order to pursue implementation of its direction.Under the Supreme Court’s February order, women SSC officers who are serving and who had approached the court but retired during the pendency of proceedings were eligible for a permanent commission. It was in 2006 that the Army extended SSC to women recruits allowing them a short stint of 10 years, extendable up to 14 years, to work with the army’s non-combat streams. In 2010, the Delhi high court, ruling on a batch of petitions filed by women SSC officers, directed Centre to grant them a permanent commission. Challenging this order, the Centre approached the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-extends-deadline-to-give-women-permanent-posting/story-mudjiVt2P7zdg7zXVSgohK.html
08-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||International travellers are quarantined in a hotel. Security is tight; there are guards around. The guards smoke; they share a cigarette lighter. And a city and a state in Australia, a country that has done pretty well in managing the coronavirus disease, shut down again as cases spike, catching health officials by surprise.The city is, of course, Melbourne, and the state, Victoria, and this is a true story that’s playing out right now.By the third week of April, Australia seemed to have things under control. According to data on worldometers.info, the country saw 13 new Covid-19 cases on April 20. Like its neighbour New Zealand, it seemed to have crushed the pandemic. It stayed that way for almost two months, enough time for people to start believing that it was over. On June 5, Australia registered just five new cases of the disease.Then the numbers started rising again. On July 3, the country saw 254 new cases. On July 6, it saw 137. And most of the cases were from Victoria (on July 3, for instance, the state accounted for 191 of the 254 new cases). In contrast to Indian policymakers who remain averse to the term “community transmission” despite the thousands of new cases every day in some states, Victoria has suggested that there could well be community transmission in what can only be termed a second wave — not just in the state, but in the country. Australia had kicked Covid-19, till, one day, it hadn’t. In this case, it is suspected that the cigarette lighter was responsible for the flare-up of infections, but this is what makes the coronavirus disease so dangerous. It is almost as if it were alive (the jury is still out on that one when it comes to viruses, actually) and thinking, lulling people and countries into a false sense of security, and then striking. The fact that it is highly infective means that a strike immediately results in a cluster, like it has in Melbourne. And that’s in a city that saw off the first wave.India never did.For those of us in India, the words said by Anthony Fauci, NIAID director and the man shaping the US’s health policy response to the pandemic, in a widely aired interview with National Institutes of Health director Francis Collins on Monday, are apt, although they were in reference to the resurgence of cases in the US: “We are still knee-deep in the first wave.”Fauci went on to explain how the US almost doubled the number of daily new cases in a week-and-a-half by opening up again too fast. Last week, Fauci told senators that the US could see 100,000 new cases a day if it did not clamp down on flare-ups and fresh outbreaks. The US saw around 47,000 new cases on July 6.India had 22,310 new Covid-19 cases on July 6. The number of cases has continued to rise — the five-day average has not shown a dip so far — with new infection hot spots emerging to offset improvements shown by older hot spots. If the US is any indication — it is larger than India in geographical area and is therefore a good benchmark on how the disease will travel — this is how the pandemic will play out in India. For instance, Telangana, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka are all states we should be worrying about right now (see page 5).Here again, India could learn from the US example when it comes to the response. The New York Times reports that there is a “new testing crisis” in states and cities that have seen a spike in cases. “Testing in the United States has not kept pace with other countries....,” NYT said on July 7. This, in a country that has tested 11.5% of its population. India has tested less than 1%. But experts are of the view that India can raise testing manifold (see page 4).This column suggested a target of 50 million tests by August 15. That’s achievable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-s59jXD8nTXg5eZSDGEKHVK.html
08-07-2020||India||Ventilator supplier rebuts allegations of poor quality||Two days after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that sub-standard ventilators were being procured from a private supplier under the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund distributed to hospitals, the company rebutted the allegation on Tuesday, saying it was an attempt to sabotage indigenous efforts in the battle against Covid-19.Professor Diwakar Vaish, the owner of AgVa Healthcare, which has manufactured the ventilators, told news agency ANI, “We have not made the ventilator overnight. We have been in the market for three years. We have developed this step by step. This ventilator has all parameters that a normal ventilator has...Our ventilators are five to ten times cheaper than normal ventilators. A normal ventilator costs ₹10-20 lakh. Our ventilator is just ₹1.5 lakh. In this, international vendor nexus is very strong.”“Just like when Indian military equipment was indigenised, there was a lot of negative reviews. The same thing is happening here. What a ₹10 lakh ventilator does, ours is doing for ₹1.5 lakh. Will international associations, international vendors accept this? That is why they are trying to sabotage,” he added.Gandhi, in a tweet on July 5, accused the Narendra Modi government of “putting Indian lives at risk” and “ensuring that public money is used to buy sub-standard products”. “PMCares opacity is: 1. Putting Indian lives at risk. 2. Ensuring public money is used to buy sub-standard products,” he had tweeted based on a news article that alleged AgVa ventilators “fudged” software in their product and hide poor performance.Vaish said, “Rahul Gandhi is not a doctor. He is an intelligent man. He should have done due diligence before making such allegations. He should have consulted doctors. I am ready to give a detailed demonstration in the hospital on any patient.”He said that doctors need to be given a demonstration of the ventilators following which the devices could be used properly. He also said that if third party installations were faulty and were done without keeping AgVa in the loop, it could result in faulty readings, which he suspected was the case in some hospitals.The central government ordered 10,000 of the firm’s Covid-19 model ventilators from AgVa Healthcare as part of India’s response to the pandemic.The company used to make about 50-100 ventilators a month, but with support from Maruti Suzuki India, Invest India, the national investment facilitation agency, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited and Bharat Electronics Limited, it now has a production capacity of between 5,000 and 10,000 ventilators.The Union health ministry said in a statement that the Make in India ventilators supplied to states and union territories by the ministry of health and family welfare were meant for intensive care units. Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of JJ Hospital, said ventilators manufactured by Delhi-based AgVa healthcare, are still lying unused at the hospital. “We have no role to play as those machines were donated by a local politician. When we observed that the machines weren’t functioning properly, we informed them to take it away,” he said. The hospital has decided not to accept any ventilator from the manufacturer without testing. “The company wants to exchange and provide better machines but we will not accept it without testing on patients,” he added. “The machines that were provided to us had the mode for non invasive ventilation. We did not face any problems, except for in a few machines — maybe 10 — that had some defects and were sent back to the manufacturer,” said a doctor from Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, on condition of anonymity. The hospital on Monday had increased its ventilator beds using several of the ventilators provided by the central government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ventilator-supplier-rebuts-allegations-of-poor-quality/story-cnqqswnEwflcsLQAvIRuDL.html
08-07-2020||India||Foreign pupils a big revenue source for US economy||The US government’s latest order on foreign students in the country — if their colleges are offering only online courses, they can no longer stay in the US — will adversely affect many Indian students. According to the 2019 Open Doors Report on the International Education Exchange, there were over one million international students in the US in the academic year 2018-19. India has the second largest share in number of international students in the US after China. Chinese and Indian students account for more than half of international students in the US. The number of Indian students in the US crossed 200,000 for the first time in 2018-19. This number was less than a 100,000 in 2012-13, the earliest period for which data is available at the Institute of International Education’s (IIE) website, which publishes the Open Doors reports. (See Chart 1) According to data from the US government, the number of active students from India in the US was 194,556 in January 2020.While India is an important source of international students in the US, the profile of Indian students is different from the rest of the international students in the US. More than 80% of Indian students are enrolled in graduate programmes or Optional Practical Training, which allows student visa holders to work for a year. Only 12 % of Indian students were enrolled in under graduate programmes in the US. This share is at least 45% for students from countries excluding India. (See Chart 2) International students, including those from India, are a major source of revenue for the US economy. According to NAFSA: Association of International Educators, a Washington based non-profit working on international students and exchange, international students brought $ 41 billion in revenue and supported around 460000 jobs across various sectors in the US.A survey of educational institutions by IIE in November 2019 had found that issues related to the visa application process or delays and denials of visa were the top reason for drops in new enrolment in the fall of 2019. The survey also found that academic institutions in the US were concerned about slowing growth of students from Asia, especially China and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-pupils-a-big-revenue-source/story-6QrsW9RyS8CydSG96Yge1O.html
08-07-2020||India||Court takes note of new charge sheet against Jamaat||A Delhi court on Tuesday took cognizance of the charge sheet filed against 956 foreign nationals, who attended the congregation at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin area, and defied the orders of the government and police, set in place to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. The court while taking cognizance of the police’s charge sheet said that there is prima facie sufficient material on record to proceed against the accused persons. While taking cognizance of the charge sheet, chief metropolitan magistrate Gurmohina Kaur said that the accused, all foreign nationals, can be prosecuted under various charges including violations of the Foreigners Act, 1946, Epidemic Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-takes-note-of-new-charge-sheet-against-jamaat/story-qekRP6vZEE5nxOhq3tkvhO.html
08-07-2020||India||SC grants interim bail to Unitech promoter Chandra||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim bail for a period of 30 days to Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra, who has been in Delhi’s Tihar jail since August 2017 after he was arrested on charges of cheating and duping homebuyers.A bench of headed by justice DY Chandrachud allowed Chandra’s plea on the ground that both his parents have been infected with Covid-19 and hospitalised.“We are of the view that a case for the grant of interim bail has been made out on humanitarian grounds since both the parents of the applicant have tested positive for Covid-19 and having regard to their advanced age. We direct that Sanjay Chandra shall be released on interim bail for a period of thirty days from the date of his actual release”, the bench which also comprised justice MR Shah ordered.Chandra’s father is in ICU of MAX hospital while his mother, who is a gynecologist, is also hospitalised. Chandra had sought interim bail citing the health condition of his parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-interim-bail-to-unitech-promoter-chandra/story-EHsSRiPSqB3u7N3V0kJ7mL.html
08-07-2020||India||Tripura govt to bring all incoming passengers under Covid-19 tests soon||The Tripura government has decided to test everyone entering the state for Covid-19 using Rapid Antigen Tests from July 13, a state minister said on Tuesday.The state was earlier conducting Covid-19 tests on one in every five incoming passengers.As against the requirement of 40,000 Rapid Antigen Detection kits, the state has received 15,000 such kits so far, the minister said.“We have decided in our cabinet meeting today ( Tuesday) that we will conduct Covid-19 tests with a new kit Antigen Detection Kit. We have plans to conduct the tests on all the incoming passengers on the spot and within one or two hours, their reports will be announced. If anyone is found positive, he or she will be taken to the hospital and if negative, will be sent to home quarantine,” law minister Ratan Lal Nath said at the Civil Secretariat on Tuesday evening. “The testing process with this new kit will start lately by Monday as we will provide training to people to conduct the tests. We don’t have any crisis of kits. After that, we will start collecting samples from the families living in the containment zones from next week, “ the minister said. He added that the government is trying the state to remain limited within Stage I and Stage II.The state has a total 1,693 Covid-19 cases out of which 430 are active cases. A total of 1,248 patients have recovered and 74, 207 samples have been tested, according to the health department’s latest record. The state has 28 containment zones including 13 in Gomati District, seven in Sepahijala District, four in South District and two each in Dhalai and West district each. A total of 1548 families are staying in these containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-to-bring-all-incoming-passengers-under-covid-19-tests-soon/story-MVlaKtiGtqPgNYHpNXEdUN.html
08-07-2020||India||JeM operative held in Pulwama attack case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday said it has arrested a Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) operative for allegedly harbouring and providing logistical support to the perpetrators of the February 2019 attack that left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel dead in Jammu & Kashmir’s Pulwama and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.In a statement, NIA said Bilal Ahmed Kuchey, the accused, allegedly harboured the perpetrators at his residence and provided them with high-end mobile phones to communicate with their Pakistan-based handlers and to record Adil Ahmed Dar’s video before he rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF vehicle. JeM released the video after the attack to claim responsibility for it. The attack prompted India to carry out an airstrike on a JeM camp in Pakistan’s Balakot. Kuchey, a resident of Pulwama’s Hajibal, is the seventh person to be arrested for the attack.In the statement, NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang called Kuchey a terror associate. “The main perpetrators in the case stayed in his house and he further introduced them to other OGWs [overground workers] who provided safe houses during their stay and planning of the attack.” Narang added the perpetrators used the high-end phones for giving final touches to the planning and execution of the attack besides communicating with Pakistan-based JeM leadership as well as among themselves. NIA last week arrested Mohammad Iqbal Rather for allegedly facilitating Muhammad Umar Farooq’s movement. Farooq, a key conspirator in the Pulwama case, infiltrated into Jammu & Kashmir in April 2018 and was killed in an encounter on March 29, 2019.The others arrested in the case in February and March include Shakir Bashir Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, Insha Jan, her father, Tariq Ahmad Shah.Pakistani terrorist – Mohammad Umar Farooq (killed in encounter on March 29, 2019 along with IED expert Kamran) were given the responsibility to execute the attack while JeM’s area commander Mudassir Khan (killed on March 11, 2019) supervised the overall planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jem-operative-held-in-pulwama-attack-case/story-GHTBxPm4UxJGuVzDO0WarI.html
08-07-2020||India||First woman moves Supreme Court over triple talaq law||A Kerala lawyer has moved the Supreme Court against a law that criminalises the practice of granting instant divorce becoming the first Muslim woman to do so since Parliament passed the legislation in 2019. Noorbeena Rasheed on July 6 challenged the Protection of Rights on Marriage Act, which provides for a three-year punishment for talaq-e-biddat, a practise also referred to as Triple Talaq, which is practised among a small section of Muslims in the country. “The protection of women cannot be achieved by incarceration of husbands,” her petition stated.Issuing a notice to the Centre, a bench of three justices led by N V Ramana on Monday admitted Rasheed’s petition, which will be heard with nine similar pleas challenging the law’s validity. The other petitioners include organisations like Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Muslim Advocates Association, and two individuals. The petitions have called the law disproportionate as well as excessive and stringent and sought that the court hold it unconstitutional. A date for hearing these petitions has not been listed as yet. The law was passed in July 2019 after intense debates in both the lower and upper houses of the Parliament, with opposition parties stating that the law targeted the Muslim community even as the centre asserted that the law would help achieve gender justice for Muslim women. Rasheed’s petition questions provisions of the law including one which allows relatives of the women to file complaints. The petition stated that this provision could potentially destroy marital relationships in case of false complaint. “This provision is highly detrimental not only to the wife but also to the marital relationship.”Her petition also sought clarification from the Centre on the assessment that underlies incarcerating Muslim men for divorcing women. “Welfare-oriented legislation would promote amicable resolution of matrimonial disputes rather than criminalise marital discord, particularly criminalisation of only one community…the intent behind the Act is not abolition of triple talaq [instant divorce] but punishment of Muslim husbands,” her petition said.Rasheed’s lawyer, Zulfikar Ali, said they want to highlight how the law will be detrimental to the interests of Muslim women, which it seeks to protect.” He added Rasheed is also the national general secretary of the Indian Union Women’s League, which he described as the country’s largest Muslim women organisation affiliated to the Kerala-based Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). IUML has three members in Parliament’s lower House, or Lok Sabha.In August 2017, a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court had declared the practice of talaq-e-biddat (a heretical form of divorce based on a husband pronouncing divorce thrice in quick succession) as unconstitutional. The practice is banned in most Muslim countries including Pakistan.The verdict came on a petition of five Muslim women, including lead petitioner Shayara Bano, who were abandoned after their husbands pronounced instant divorce.The Centre initially issued an ordinance after the verdict to criminalise the practice of triple talaq for the want of majority in Parliament’s upper house, or Rajya Sabha, before bringing the law.The law makes the practice a cognisable offence. An offence of such a nature allows the police to carry out arrests without a warrant. Serious crimes such as theft, rape, and murder are also cognisable offences.In its petition, Jamiat-Ulama-I-Hind has said there are graver offences like rioting and bribery under the Indian Penal Code for which there is a lesser punishment than instant divorce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-woman-moves-sc-over-triple-talaq-law/story-GDNz12PC0SSXEXNrNZWm0O.html
08-07-2020||India||ED files fraud case against GVK group||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday filed a money laundering case against GVK Group, its chairman, G V K Reddy, his son, G V Sanjay Reddy, and others for alleged irregularities worth over Rs 800 crore in the Mumbai airport development, officials familiar with the matter said. The group also runs the airport.ED’s probe into the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) First Information Report (FIR) registered on June 27. The FIR named 13 people including the Reddys, the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), and companies that were given contracts at the airport. CBI searched the group’s premises in Mumbai and Hyderabad last week.The officials said ED, which has powers to attach properties during investigations, will examine the accounts of the companies and their transfer of funds to ascertain the alleged money laundering.A GVK spokesperson said they have not received any notice from ED and did not offer further comments.In a statement last week, MIAL said it was surprised to note CBI has registered a case against the company. “MIAL would have provided every assistance had the agency sought explanation or any document even if a preliminary enquiry had been initiated. MIAL is a transparent and responsible corporate entity which is committed to cooperate with the agency in its investigation to arrive at the truth.”MIAL is a joint public-private partnership venture between the Airports Authority of India (AAI), GVK Group, and foreign entities (LIKE). The GVK Group has a 50.5% stake in MIAL, and AAI 26%.AAI entered into operation, management, and development agreement (OMDA) in April 2006 for the airport’s modernisation, up gradation, operation and maintenance as part of the joint venture. MIAL was to share 38.7% of its revenue as an annual fee with AAI as per the agreement. “The essence of agreement was to create a world class facility and at the same time protecting the interests of government of India, promoters and passengers,” said the FIR. “Despite there being a clear cut understanding in the OMDA, the promoters of GVK group in MIAL, in connivance with their executives and the unknown officials of AAI resorted to siphoning of funds fraudulently adopting various modus operandi.”MIAL allegedly got into fake work contracts during 2017-18 with at least nine companies on the pretext of real estate development. It allegedly transferred funds to them. These projects have never been executed on the ground and the transactions were only on paper. Using this modus operandi, Rs 310 crore have been fraudulently siphoned off and caused losses to AAI. The GVK Group also allegedly from 2012 onwards used Rs 395 crore MIAL surplus to finance its other companies.CBI has alleged the group’s promoters also allegedly embezzled funds by inflating MIAL expenditure. The FIR alleges the group connived with the (Reddy?) family members, relatives, and employees they assigned premium retail areas of the airport at exorbitantly low rates and thereby reduced MIAL’s revenue from rentals and sales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-fraud-case-against-gvk-group/story-sgqdIq1dwkdtfguBJdcDpO.html
08-07-2020||India||Fear of uncertain future haunts Indian students||Tens of thousands of Indian students in the United States found their future in jeopardy on Tuesday after the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency said it will not allow student visas holders to remain in the country if their school goes fully online for the fall. Many of these students said they planned their careers around their US education and the new rules will either kill future career prospects or force them to attend classes in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. To stay in the US, foreign students must transfer to another school with in-person instruction.“While the specifics of the directive are yet to come, it is clear that this will uproot students financially and socially from where they are and make people extra cautious about trusting the US as a preferred higher-education destination,” said Sudhanshu Kaushik, executive director at the North American Association of Indian Students (NAAIS), which has over 4,500 student members.Kaushik, who already paid his deposits for an MBA in a US-based university this year, is now uncertain about whether he can continue in the country himself.Several institutes are offering a combination of online and in-person classes that can help foreign students stay back. But attending physical classes in the country with 1.4 million coronavirus infections poses a difficult choice between health and future prospects. “Even if the universities opt for hybrid classes, my daughter will have to put her health at risk to attend them,” says Bijayalaxmi Nanda, a Delhi college teacher whose daughter is a final-year postgraduate student at New York University.Saksham Arora, a second-year undergraduate student at Dartmouth College who is currently in Delhi on a break, has the same worry. And so does his mother Vibha, a school teacher. “If my son goes back, his health will be at risk,” she said. “Students will have to live in hostels and use mess facilities which are more likely to expose them to the virus.”A 28-year-old student from Mumbai enrolled at the Parsons School of Design in New York said she made her choice as soon as she heard the options. “I would rather take this risk and attend classes than leave the country,” she says. “I’m just hoping the institute offers offline classes and makes that possible.”NO EXIT PLANWith no clarity yet on how most institutes plan to proceed, students said anxiety about their careers overshadowed their pandemic worries. Aside for fending for themselves in shuttered foreign cities, many said they were unable to visit home and family; others worried about shrinking job prospects.“The Covid-19 crisis came out of nowhere and we don’t have a fallback option,” says Shilpi Agarwal, whose son completed his undergraduate course in May and is currently waiting for postgraduate admissions in Indiana. “There will be a financial loss for us if he doesn’t get to do his Masters or is forced into a gap year. Every parent has different concerns and for us, we don’t want our son to be forced to give up a year.”Educationists said students and their families should work closely with universities to formulate a plan.“Many universities are against this new policy. We are, of course, hoping that with their involvement and the petitions they are signing, amendments will be made,” says Alisha Mashruwala Daswani, CEO and co-founder of OnCourse Vantage, an education consultancy.In one scenario, colleges could quickly go back to the drawing board and devise plans that implement enough in-person programming to keep international students in a status that complies with the new regulations, says Kimberly Wright Dixit, CEO and co-founder of the education consultancy Red Pen. “In another scenario, colleges will not be able to accommodate the international students, which would create tremendous pressures on them to plan their future and return home in the middle of a pandemic.” FLASH FORWARDThe American education system gets much of its famed vibrancy from the diversity of its ranks of students and faculty. It has routinely wooed students from around the world on the basis of that diversity. Billions of dollars in revenue and tens of thousands of jobs depend on that vibrancy.Students said if forced out of the country, they will lose key elements of the American education promise — a chance to network, and a chance to work, in that country. With confusion over work visas for students, residency rules, etc, prospective students had already begun looking away from the US,” says Daswani. “Many began looking to Canada, the UK, Europe. Our advice to students applying now is to try to diversify and keep all options open instead of looking at just one country.”Vibha Kagzi, founder and CEO of the study-abroad consultancy ReachIvy, calls Monday’s announcement myopic and impulsive.“The US is one of the world’s most popular study destinations. They attract the smartest students from across the globe. This could have been handled more sensitively,” she says. “For students, our advice is, retain your admissions, return home if you must, but get your degree. Stay the course as best you can.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-uncertain-future-haunts-indian-students/story-2CnjvQL9UItuVbtUhdbGuL.html
08-07-2020||India||SC for virtual hearing in Maratha reservation case||The Supreme Court indicated on Tuesday that it was open to holding daily hearings over video in a case relating to the Maharashtra law for Maratha community quotas, refusing calls by lawyers to begin some in-court since the virtual medium is inadequate for the elaborate legal discussions that need to be made in a matter that involves interpretation of the Constitution. In-court hearings have been suspended since the Covid-19 outbreak began to grow, moving to videoconferencing where lawyers connect with judges over an application called VIDYO. The process has been fraught with technical complications such as dropped links as well as posed difficulties among lawyers and judges being able to discuss matters among themselves.On Tuesday, the petitioners challenging a Maharashtra law introducing quota for Maratha community people in education and jobs, as well as the state government told the court that the case required physical hearings because of the elaborate nature of arguments. “The case involves 15 petitions, the judgment of the Bombay High Court which is under challenge runs into 500 pages. The state has filed a counter affidavit which is over 1500 pages. There are several books, reports and documents that need to be referred which is possible only in a physical court setting,” said senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing the petitioners. To this, the bench, led by justice LN Rao, said: “Expecting an immediate hearing in the case and that too, judges assembling physically in the current situation (of Covid-19) might not be possible.” The court fixed the matter for July 15 and asked the petitioners and state government to submit a short note of their submissions. Based on this, the Court is likely to consider passing interim orders on whether the Act requires to be stayed till there is a final decision on its validity.The matter relates to a Maharashtra law that introduced 12 per cent reservation for Maratha community in education and 13 per cent quota in appointment to public service jobs in the state. The law in question – Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act 2018 -- was introduced with the purpose of extending reservation benefits to the Maratha community. This law originally provided 16 per cent reservation to Marathas in state admissions and jobs. This law was challenged before the Bombay High Court which upheld the validity of the law but reduced it to 12 per cent in admissions and 13 per cent in jobs. Accordingly, the state government amended the law.The petitions have challenged the law on the ground that it breaches the 50 per cent reservation threshold prescribed in the landmark Indra Sawhney judgment of 1992. But the state argued that its law is based on a scientific study conducted by the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission which found extraordinary conditions prevailing among Maratha families which required special provisions for their upliftment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-for-virtual-hearing-in-maratha-reservation-case/story-p2abzR6H4LsLsg8nr7CP3H.html
08-07-2020||India||I&B proposes to bring OTT content under its purview||The Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Ministry has proposed bringing under its purview the contents being streamed on several over-the-top (OTT) platforms, said a top ministry official on Tuesday.At present, OTT platforms that are digitally streamed falls under the domain of the Ministry of Information and Technology (IT). “OTT being a digital platform will fall under the purview of the Ministry of IT but now we are proposing a decision that the content should fall within the purview of I&B ministry,” said Amit Khare, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Secretary. “There is a need for convergence of various ministries (in this regard), particularly in the ways changes are happening, (it) is extremely necessary,” he said..Khare said that regulatory regimes in India have been developed as per the platforms and the country has no regulations as of now for the emerging media like OTT players.Out of “five different media -- print, radio, TV, films and OTT -- four of them have certain kinds of regulatory practices and one is unregulated”, he said, adding that currently a film released on OTT is not covered under the Central Board of Film Certification as it not exhibited as a film there.He also stressed on the need to have a level-playing field but added that this does not mean that all would be brought under a “very heavy regulatory structure”. Recently during the lockdown, several OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, ATLBalaji have witnessed a huge jump in their subscription.As movie halls are also closed due to lockdown, several production houses have released their movie directly on OTT, bypassing theatrical releases.The I&B ministry has in the past favoured self-regulation mechanisms. The ministry could consider a similar mechanism for OTT platforms, a person familiar with the developments said.While talking about the convergence, he said telecom and media & entertainment should be on equal footing in terms of adjusted gross revenue (AGR).”What happens to AGR in telecom has to be applicable in the M&E sector. We cannot have two different rates of AGR for the telecom sector and M&E sector for DTH providers. So there is a need for convergence,” the secretary said according to PTI. The focus of the government in the last few years has been on “less regulation but more effective regulation”. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-b-proposes-to-bring-ott-content-under-its-purview/story-UShh80GogBHQBhHBsH435L.html
08-07-2020||India||India’s 1st private jet terminal to open in Delhi this month||India’s first general aviation terminal for private jets is set to become operational in New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, according to officials familiar with the matter. The facility promises faster turnaround of business jets and chartered planes, shielding them from the clutter of general passenger terminals, where they now compete for taxiing slots with commercial flights.Delhi International Airport Limited, which operates Indira Gandhi International Airport, said it is working towards the commissioning of the terminal soon to support the movement of passengers flying on chartered flights from the airport. “It is the first such independent facility at any Indian airport to handle general aviation passengers. While the new terminal will be commissioned as an interim facility it will be equipped with state-of-the-art features and facilities including world class passenger lounges, retail, food and beverage [outlets] etc.,” DIAL said in a statement in response to queries from HT.An official from the airport said the terminal may be operational as early as by the end of July. It is meant to be replaced by a larger facility in the future.“The terminal has been designed in such a manner that it will have parking space for a maximum 65 jets of all sizes...The terminal also has the capacity to handle a maximum of 150 business jet movements a day. The average movement capacity of the terminal is 75 jets per day. This makes it a general aviation terminal with the highest capacity in entire south Asia,” said a second Delhi airport official who requested anonymity.The terminal has been built at a cost of Rs.150 crore over one-and-a-half years by Bird ExecuJet Airport Services Private Limited, a joint venture between Bird Group and ExecuJet Aviation Group, an international business aviation company based at Zurich Airport in Switzerland.A spokesperson for the company said construction work commenced on January 1, 2019. “In between, we faced a Supreme Court ban on construction activities owing to pollution in Delhi for three months. Then lockdown [for the coronavirus disease pandemic] also hampered our work. However, we have been able to complete the project by June 2020,” it said.The terminal will also be able to handle Boeing 767 business jets and any Boeing 777 with a VIP configuration, the second official cited above said. Before the national lockdown was first imposed in March to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, around 1,300 scheduled flights operated from Delhi airport every day and an additional 40-50 small non-scheduled chartered or private planes also landed at and take off from the airport daily. While private aircraft will still have to compete for take-off and landing slots with commercial flights, a Delhi airport official said that the new terminal will cut time , “because runway 29/11 -- the largest in Delhi -- is closer to the new terminal, and this will make taxiing time of these private aircraft significantly shorter”. He added that the shorter distance between the terminal building and flight boarding point will also make the process of boarding quicker and less cumbersome.Several VIPs prefer to travel in private jets and all their aircraft movements take place from Terminal 1, which has been operating beyond its capacity and is currently undergoing expansion, the airport official cited above said.Kanika Tekriwal, CEO and founder, JetSetGo Aviation, one of the firms that offers private jet services at Delhi airport, said the charges for hiring a private jet vary, depending upon size of aircraft and length of trip. “They start at Rs 80,000 per hour for an eight seater turbo-prop and go all the way to Rs 5-6 lakh per hour for a 16-seater jet. Added to which there are airport and other landing charges,” she said.Kapil Kaul, CEO and director of CAPA South Asia, an aviation advisory and research firm, said he expects an international standard general aviation terminal in Delhi to help increase corporate jet penetration in India.“However, given the challenging economic conditions post-Covid, we may see a serious short-term impact till the recovery is visible. The demand for corporate jets since last few years has remained almost stagnant,” Kaul said.During the lockdown, the number of daily non-scheduled flights remained between 8-10 flights a day -- mostly medical emergencies; at present, it is around 20-30 movements a day, and of these at least 40% are for medical emergencies, a third official at the airport said.The general aviation terminal has not been without its share of legal tangles.This February, Mark Martin, chief executive officer of Dubai-based aviation firm Martin Consulting, which was executing the general aviation terminal project until February 2019, when the contract was terminated, filed a police complaint for criminal as well as civil proceedings against officials of DIAL and Bird ExecuJet alleging “theft and unlawful use of Martin Consulting’s work and intellectual property”.Martin Consulting had been engaged by Bird ExecuJet in 2017 to develop the design and prepare a study on the general aviation project, Martin said. The following year, after the location of the project changed, it was appointed to carry out demolition of existing structures on the site and design and construct the facility, he said. Bird ExecuJet disputed the version, saying Martin Consulting had been engaged by it as a project management consultant to prepare a study on the general aviation project. And its contract was terminated because it was unable to deliver on its contractual obligations, the company said.Deputy commissioner of police (Delhi airport) Rajeev Ranjan said a probe was started on the complaint by Martin, but had to be stopped because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is again being taken up,” Ranjan said.When contacted, Martin said “changes made by GMR Group-led DIAL on the original drawings and design by Martin Consulting are in violation of copyright laws. Changes made by them on the original drawings and design by Martin Consulting also emerge as a safety violation keeping landside access to the terminal in view. We have also notified the ministry of civil aviation on the matter along with the Airports Authority of India.”In response, Bird ExecuJet said it had replied to a legal notice sent by Martin, clearly stating that under the terms of the contract with Martin Consulting, all deliverables were work for hire and all intellectual property rights for the work belonged to Bird ExecuJet.“Bird ExecuJet is the rightful owner of all such work under the terms of the contract and copyright laws. Under the contract, payment was to be made to Mark Martin upon production of documents. Failure to substantiate the expenses with documentary proof has led to non-payment of the dues he claims from us,” said the company in a statement.Martin has filed two cases. While in the first case, the National Company Law Tribunal has not issued any notice to BirdExecuJet, in the second case, a local court has granted no stay in favour of Martin Consulting, Bird ExecuJet said.Police have also not registered any first information report against Bird ExecuJet.In its response to queries from HT, a DIAL spokesperson said: “DIAL has no contractual relationship with Martin Consulting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-1st-pvt-jet-terminal-to-open-in-delhi-this-month/story-iikJ0WNm3ouGfpqQNkC2CN.html
08-07-2020||India||Masks, sanitisers out of essentials’ list||The Centre has removed masks and sanitisers from the purview of the Essential Commodities Act, citing the absence of reports of shortages of such items from anywhere in the country. The items were brought under the purview of this law in March when demand for them outstripped supply, with an eye on capping prices. Masks and sanitisers remain the first line of defence to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.“There are no adverse reports with respect to price or availability to continue (to treat) face masks and hand sanitisers as essential commodities,” a Union consumer affairs ministry order said last week.Since late March companies have significantly increased production of sanitisers and several have also entered these businesses. The emergence of two- and three-play cloth masks as adequate protection (as opposed to the N95 masks that people thought were the only protection in March) has also played a role in ensuing adequate supply.Officials allayed fears that the move may lead to a spike in prices citing their adequate supply. “Usually retail prices go up when there is more demand than supply. A few months ago, there was a shortage of these items, which is why they were brought under the Act... Now there is indigenous manufacturing also of these items. We are comfortably placed, and experts reviewing the matter did not find the need to continue the restrictions,” said an official in the pharmaceuticals department , who asked not to be named.Officials said the supply of personal protection equipment, including masks, and hand sanitisers, has now been streamlined at hospitals too.“There was a shortage a few months ago but now these are readily available, and even the prices have come down,” said a person associated with Max Healthcare, which runs a chain of hospitals.The production and supply of masks and hand sanitisers were regulated as per the law and various states put price caps on them. Hoarding of any item declared as an essential commodity is an offence under the Act and can lead to imprisonment of up to seven years.A second official in the pharmaceuticals department said a frequent review of these items in all states and Union Territories showed that supply is enough to meet demand. “Therefore, no shortage is anticipated. The government will continue to monitor the prices of these commodities under regular channels.”The Directorate General of Foreign Trade on March 20 banned exports of masks, textile raw material used for making them, and ventilators in view of the pandemic. The order denotifying masks and sanitisers as essential items will have no bearing on the export ban, the second official said. That means they can’t be exported.On June 29, the restricted export of PPE kits was allowed by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. A monthly quota of five million PPE for Covid-19 units has been fixed, for issuance of export licences.Abhishek Aggrawal, an analyst with commodities trading firm Comtrade, said that if supply is equal to or more than demand, then there is no legal justification for treating any item as essential. “The original notification declaring these items as essential was till June-end.”“Even after four months of the pandemic, we are still not getting adequate number of sanitisers in our hospitals and clinics. With this new rule, the essential materials will once again be sold at a higher price, which will add to to the ongoing the crisis and patient bills. Unless these items are easily available in chemist stores at reasonable rates, its removal from the list of essential items is not the right step,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultants, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-sanitisers-out-of-essentials-list/story-e7fnY0y9MvGf35mGASnArL.html
08-07-2020||India||Finance panel focus on raising health spending to 2.1% of GDP||As India battles the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, fifteenth finance commission chairman NK Singh on Tuesday said the commission was working towards a financing model to raise federal public-health spending to about 2.1% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP)  over the next five years.The NK Singh-led finance commission for the first time will devote an entire chapter on public health financing when it submits its final report, which is under preparation , he said.On Tuesday, Singh led a brainstorming session on the country’s health sector and the current Covid-19 pandemic with officials from the World Bank, the Niti Aayog, health economists and sectoral experts.India’s overall health spending has consistently lagged global averages, leading to poor health outcomes. The total expenditure on health by the Centre and states for 2019-20 was Rs 2.6 lakh crore, or just 1.29% of GDP, according to official data. This includes salaries, gross budgetary support and transfers to states under programmes such as the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme. Of the total expenditure, the Centre’s share is 25%.By comparision, the UK spends 9.6% of its GDP on health, according to the OECD.“The public sector has an inescapable obligation towards health. The private sector alone cannot fulfil it. Of course, there will be public-private partnerships. Over the next five years, the Centre alone should be able to spend at least 2.1% of GDP on health. Let’s see,” Singh said.Singh said the current and next fiscal years would see some strain in resources due to the pandemic.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has already indicated raising the Centre’s spending on health, Singh said, adding: “Health has witnessed historic neglect and the Planning Commission did no good, although there was some repairing.”The Constitution, through Article 280 to 281, provides for a unique mechanism in finance commissions for division of taxes and revenues vertically — between the Centre and states, and horizontally— among all states, based on their levels of development, prosperity and regional needs.Singh said the new public health financing model for the country would include financial incentives and grants to states for a “couple of sectoral items”. “Let’s say, if a state provides for X as public health infrastructure, then it will qualify for Y incentive.” Health facilities have to be demand-driven, he said.These “items” could include infrastructure such as “infectious disease facility in every district etc”, Singh said.The Singh-led finance commission has already submitted its first report to the government for the 2020-21 period. It then got an extension till October 30 to submit its final report covering financial years 2021-22 to 2025-26 (April-March).Singh, a former politician and bureaucrat, said the Covid-19 pandemic had “strengthened” the country’s public health capacity, referring to India’s Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package approved by the Cabinet on April 22 for Rs 15,000 crores. Singh has already tasked a high-level group under All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria to make a set of recommendations, which would be part of the commission’s views on overhauling the health sector. Tuesday’s discussions saw participation of all members of the commission, the World Bank’s country director Junaid Ahmad, Guleria of AIIMS, VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog and Indu Bhushan, the CEO of Ayushman Bharat...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-panel-focus-on-raising-health-spending/story-sMKIz8QM0Y5Yr0hL1BuGsJ.html
08-07-2020||India||Walk-ins may be key step as India looks to step up testing||The civic agency in Mumbai allowed on Tuesday people to get tested for Covid-19 without needing a doctor’s prescription, making it the first city in the country to allow walk-in tests – a step experts say is crucial to adequately scale up a process that alone could hold the key to beating back the outbreak. India has till now carried out a little over 10 million tests but will need to ramp up this process significantly by setting a bar as high as 50 million tests by August 15, which would give authorities a far more adequate insight into how the virus may have spread in a population of over 1.3 billion people so that each of the infected can then be traced and isolated. According to experts in public health, industry and regulations, the country has the capacity to carry out a million tests a day but will need administrative will from across the states. “We are not testing enough. We (India) have enough tests – we can make two million tests per week just in Mylabs and now there are multiple other companies making testing kits in India, but we’re just not testing more,” said Adar Poonawalla, CEO and owner of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume.Mylabs is India’s first local manufacturer of the gold standard RT-PCR tests for Covid-19, and Serum Institute has helped it increase its capacity. India, which has the third highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world after US and Brazil, has done 7,661 tests per million people, which is less than 0.8% of its population. In comparison, the US has tested 11% of its population, Russia 16%, and the UK, 15%, according to data compiled by Worldometers.Recent headway in efforts to ramp up testing have come from tools such as the rapid antigen kits (one of those used is the Standard Q from a South Korean company) and equipment-makers are pushing for more innovation to make testing devices that are easier to operate.One such device was launched on Tuesday by Pune-based Mylabs, which unveiled India’s first fully-automated bench-top system designed to automate the process of testing using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method.“This machine can perform 400 tests a day with a single person operating it, which will help address any potential demand-supply gaps of highly skilled technicians for testing, thus saving us manpower and time and helping the country open up by testing faster, more efficiently and on a large scale,” said Poonawalla. On-demand testingAs much as equipment and resources, India needs to allow walk-in tests, say experts. “The number of tests being done is not at all adequate. Given India’s population, we must do one million tests a day to diagnose and isolate the infected and it can be done only by making testing available on demand. Since rapid scale-up may not be possible using RT-PCR tests, antigen testing should be deployed at scale at point-of-care to increase community testing till the positivity rate falls below at least 2-3%,” said JVR Prasada Rao, former health secretary and a former UN special envoy for HIV/AIDS.Poonawalla echoed the suggestion: “The government has to allow testing for asymptomatic people also because that is the only way we’ll know how many cases there are. People may ask, ‘Will it create panic?’, but there is no panic in knowing cases. We have to worry about deaths and treat the sick early so that they don’t die. To do that, you need to isolate and treat people who tested positive.”China, which has 83,565 Covid-19 cases and a population comparable to India, has done 62,814 tests per million of its population , covering roughly 6% of its population. Its main strategy to stop infection has been focused mass testing and isolation in hard-hit cities and provinces, including Beijing, Mudanjiang city in Heilongjiang province, and Wuhan city in Hubei province.“Testing is the only way to diagnose an infected person and stop further transmission. I am alarmed at the mishandling of the pandemic. Where are the labs to test and give results within an acceptable time frame? I am told test samples are piled up in labs in Andhra Pradesh and delays are huge. If results come after five days, the infection has already spread, so a lot must go into the strategy besides numbers. They have messed it up in a big, big way,” said K Sujatha Rao, former health secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare.“An antigen test is helpful in diagnosing the infection, like the ELISA test for HIV, which can be sent for confirmation trough RT-PCR. So having a point-of-care test like the antigen test can help scale up, which is what is being done in some states now,” said Rao.Flattened peak Increased testing leads to an initial spike in cases, followed by a plateau and then a steady fall as the sick get isolated and their close contacts are quarantined. “Low testing leads to high positivity rate, which is an indicator for need to ramp up testing. Since the pandemic is spreading in multiple waves in India, the focus areas should be on increasing testing in hot spots and merging hot spots, such as Andhra and Karnataka. Infections are fortunately limited in India, so ramping up testing in affected areas to test everyone and their contacts will make a difference, as it has in Delhi, were the peak has plateaued considerably,” said CK Mishra, former secretary with the ministries of health and environment. With increased testing, positivity in Delhi fell from a weekly average peak of 30.4% in mid June to a weekly average of 10.4% on Tuesday. “Testing alone is not enough, the contacts must also be traced and quarantined to stop transmission,” added Mishra. That’s the second T and the I of the classic Test, Trace, Isolate, Treat approach. “The plateauing in Delhi indicates adequate testing and containment, and this will sustain for a while before the numbers gradually hopefully begin to fall in early to mid-August, provided there are no slip-ups,” said Randeep Guleria, director, All India of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi on Tuesday.  Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, which together account for 60% cases in India, have per million testing numbers of 9,295, 18,185 and 33,178 respectively. Maharashtra has done the least tests, and has the highest positivity rate of 22%. Telangana, with second lowest testing after Bihar, has positivity rate of 27.6%, which is three times the average national positivity rate of 9.43%.Standardising numbersIndia now has 1,115 labs equipped and approved for testing for Covid-19, which include 793 in the government sector and 322 in the private sector. That apart, states have begun using antigen-based tests that give results at point of care within 30 minutes. But, increasing testing is not just about approving labs and kits, say experts.“It’s also about ensuring quality of test kits, logistics in terms of supply to states, standardization of the testing protocols, and setting a minimum range that ought to be done. For example, you can’t have arbitrariness, where Telangana has tested 3,284 per million while Delhi has done 33,000 per million. There is no clarity or uniformity of approach,” said Rao.Flattening the curve by testing even asymptomatic people can accelerate opening up with the new-normal safeguards like masks and social distancing. “How can governments, companies and economies open up if companies are not allowed to test its staff so that they feel and know they are in a safe environment? That can happen only with more testing,” said Poonawalla.“We we must test more and should not worry about having more cases. Epidemiologists predict up to 50% of the world’s population will have Covid over the next few years, but that’s nothing to worry about because a very, very, very small percentage of that will have critical illness,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/walk-ins-may-be-key-step-as-india-looks-to-step-up-testing/story-Ry8mD2mmmhaf5Enn58khFP.html
08-07-2020||India||Concerns over drugs: DCGI warns against overpricing, shortage||After receiving several complaints of drug shortages, India’s drugs controller on Tuesday directed state authorities to ensure there is no black marketing or over-pricing of the antiviral drug remdesivir that it has allowed under emergency use authorization for severely ill patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The drugs controller acted on a complaint by Local Circles, an independent community engagement and social media platform, which pointed to the problem of dugs shortage because of alleged black-marketing.In a letter to state drug controllers, Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani said: “… this office has received a letter from M/s Local Circles, through ministry of health, raising concerns regarding black marketing and over pricing of the drug Remdesivir by certain unscrupulous persons.”He added: “ In view of the above, you are requested to instruct your enforcement officials to keep strict vigil on the matter to prevent black-marketing and sale of the drug Remdesivir injection above maximum retail price.”The state drugs authorities have been asked to take strict action against people who are found to be fleecing patients, and to stop its sale immediately if anyone is found to be selling it above the maximum retail price.Over the past few days, people and hospitals have been finding it hard to procure the drug. “In our hospital we are well-stocked because we had procured it in bulk initially. However, the drug is in short supply in market and many hospitals have also approached us recently to buy some doses from us. The medicine is not sold in our Out Patient Department pharmacy but is given directly to admitted patients,” said a person in a prominent private hospital in Delhi, who did not wish to be named.On Monday, Sachin Taparia, chairman and CEO, Local Circles, wrote to the authorities, saying, “… over the last 72 hours, many posts and comments were received from citizens across India… about the black marketing of the drug Remdesivir.”The complaint said a vial that costs about Rs.5,500 was being sold for anywhere between ₹15,000 and 60,000. “…various medical shops have been telling buyers that the medicine is in short supply but can be made available if they are ready to pay a premium…,” he complained. On June 1, the central drugs controller had permitted US pharma company Gilead Sciences Inc., which has the patent for it, to import and market remdesivir in India under emergency use authorization. The emergency authorisation allows products to be used for treatment without full data on their safety and efficacy, which has to be still submitted as trials continue. Written informed consent needs to be taken from those to be given the medicine.The drugs controller has granted permission for manufacturing and sale of the drug to three Indian companies-- Cipla Limited, Hetero Drugs Limited, and Mylan Laboratories Limited so far.On June 14, the health ministry added the drug as part of investigational therapies given to severely ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-over-drugs-dcgi-warns-against-overpricing-shortage/story-if8P1qIH3dYXB9iw8p23pJ.html
08-07-2020||India||Villages in Odisha hit by superspreaders||As the total number of Covid-19 cases crossed 10,000 in Odisha on Tuesday with sample positivity rate going past 10, the role of super-spreaders has the state government concerned.On Tuesday, Sundargarh district reported 51 cases, of which 49 were infected by a 66-year-old auto driver who had returned from Jharkhand last month. Officials said the man with acute respiratory illness had arrived on June 16 and stayed at the Rourkela Steel Plant. Though he was supposed to be in home quarantine, he had met several people before he passed away on June 3.However, they did not share details as to how a man, who should have been in home quarantine, ended up being a super spreader that turned Rourkela into a Covid hot spot and containment area by July 9.In Bargarh, a 76-year-old retired teacher who was a money lender turned his village Katapali into a hot spot. He died of Covid-19 on June 18, but he had infected 105 persons by then. A diabetic, he was undergoing treatment at a private hospital when he tested positive on June 16.“He infected his wife, son and granddaughter. Others in the village might also have contracted the virus from him...The administration has appealed to the villagers of Katapali not to venture out of their houses and follow the guidelines,” said Bargarh district collector Jyotiranjan Pradhan.Like Katapali, in the southern district of Rayagada, a three-member family of migrant workers that returned from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu last month ended up infecting at least 90 people. The family -- a man, his wife and their daughter - had returned to their village Bijaypur and had stayed in institutional-quarantine for 14 days. During their home quarantine for seven days, the family allegedly did not adhere to prescribed norms and came in contact with several people in the village. “Rayagada did not have any Covid cases for a long time, and then iit had 90,” said Rayagada district collector Pramod Kumar Behera.In Hatisalapada village of Baolangir, at least 39 positive cases have been detected so far after a couple of migrant workers flouted home quarantine guidelines. “As they went around meeting people, the infection spread. We were forced to announce the area as a containment zone,” said Bolangir district collector Arindam Dakua.Similarly, in western Odisha district of Jharsuguda district, a super-spreader family returning from Gurugram ended up infecting 17 persons through birthday and wedding parties and turned the Brajarajnagar OMP area into a hot spot, said district collector Saroj Samal.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said Odisha would follow a decentralised Covid-management strategy based on the suggestions received from district collectors, SPs and others. “At present, different departments, district administrators and senior officials of the government have been entrusted with specific responsibilities towards the management of Covid-19 in the state. We will take random feedback on special parameters from those admitted in Covid Care Centres and Covid hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villages-in-odisha-hit-by-superspreaders/story-CzUQoo2nLGrEGEkjXIMBFM.html
08-07-2020||India||MPs demand online House panel meeting||Days before a parliamentary panel is due to discuss India’s preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and similar outbreaks likely in the future, lawmakers have renewed demands for meeting online without being physically present.Science and technology committee chairman Jairam Ramesh, who will head the discussions, has written to Rajya Sabha chairman N. Venkaiah Naidu seeking his approval for panel members to meet online.“Many members of the committee have expressed their inability to attend this meeting because of travel restrictions, quarantine and other constrains. I am doubtful if we can muster up a quorum,” Ramesh wrote and reminded him on Twitter, “Where there is will, there is skill!”Parliament authorities have spent long hours to work out how to conduct such meetings online, but to no avail, as depositions and discussions are wrapped in layers of secrecy. Lawmakers say that just approval from Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla is required for respective panels under the two Houses to take the process online amid the pandemic.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP Dayanidhi Maran too wrote to Anand Sharma, chairman of the panel on home affairs, making a similar request.“With different states having different guidelines and travel advisories, quarantine regulations, standard operating procedures on entry/return, it becomes very complicated for members to attend the committee meetings,” he wrote to Sharma.He expressed concern that to Delhi would mean “exposing myself to the Covid virus” and how it would severely affect his parliamentary duties in his constituency.His party colleague Tiruchi Siva has written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri, asking him to ensure that airlines keep the middle seats empty to avoid contact between passengers. Airports are maintaining “and implementing with seriousness and sincerity all hygienic precautions like thermal scanning, sanitizing and maintaining social distance of passengers till boarding,” yet “many flights are flying with full capacity leaving not enough required space between adjacent passengers,” he wrote.He expressed concern that during air travel to Delhi from Chennai, which takes up to three hours, an asymptomatic passenger may be on the flight, leaving open the chance for “the spread of the virus easily and faster” onboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-demand-online-house-panel-meeting/story-m56I3n6UXkkpuXBKsLyYdN.html
08-07-2020||India||Karnataka, Telangana could be country’s new Covid-19 hotspots||Telangana and Karnataka seem set to become the next hotspots in the country, with the highest growth rate of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and high positivity rates, according to HT’s analysis. Three factors — high growth rate of cases, high positivity rate, and at least one large urban centre which sees a significant concentration of cases — are common to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, the clear hotspots in the country so far, accounting for nearly 60% of all Covid-19 cases. HT analysed data from the 20 worst-hit states in the country on these three parameters to identify regions that are exhibiting signs that they may become the next Covid-19 hotspots.A handful of states come into focus — Telangana, Karnataka, Gujarat, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Among them, Telangana and Karnataka stand out.TELANGANAWith 25,733 Covid-19 cases as of Tuesday, Telangana is the sixth worst-hit state in the country after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.Over the past two weeks, the state has seen one of the fastest growing outbreaks in the country. Telangana reported 1,219 new cases every day on average over the last two weeks. In the two weeks before that, this number was just 352. This increase in new cases is reflected in the state’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a twofold rise, of 9.5 days — the second worst in the country after Karnataka (Chart 1). In fact, cases in the state are growing twice the rate they are across India (doubling rate of 20.4 days). The state also fares the worst in the country in terms of the percentage of tests coming back positive with a positivity rate of 27.6%. This is nearly three times the national average in the same period — 9.8%. All positivity rates cited here are trailing averages for the week.The positivity rate is particularly significant keeping in mind that the state has the second-worst testing rate in the country. It has tested only 3,284 samples for every million residents against the national average of 7,661. Only Bihar, with 2,210 tests per million, has fared worse (Chart 2).With 20,535 Covid-19 cases and 1,419 deaths, Hyderabad has been the clear epicentre of the outbreak in the state (Chart 3A). The city is responsible for four out of every five cases reported across Telangana. Nearly 70% of all cases in Hyderabad have been reported in just the last two weeks, a statistic that highlights the abrupt rise in cases. KARNATAKAKarnataka has reported the fastest growth of cases in the country right now, and with 25,317 confirmed cases as of Tuesday, it is as the seventh worst-hit state in the country in terms of total cases. The state has a doubling rate of 8.5 days — the worst among the states analysed (Chart 1). Cases in the state have seen a massive spike particularly over the past 10 days. In the last two weeks, Karnataka reported 1,137 new cases every day as opposed to just 260 in the two weeks before that.While Telangana has the highest positivity rate in the country, it is followed by Maharashtra (22%), Tamil Nadu (12%), Delhi (11%) and Gujarat (9.7). Karnataka is on the fifth spot with a positivity rate of 9.4%. With 10,978 tests conducted for every million residents, the state has fared much better than the national average of 7,661 tests per million (Chart 2).But with 10,561 total Covid-19 cases till Tuesday, Bengaluru remains responsible for two out of every five cases in Karnataka (Chart 3B). It is by far the biggest epicentre in the state with Kalburgi on the second spot with one-tenth the caseload of Bengaluru — 1,699 cases.OTHER KEY FINDINGSCases in Assam and Andhra Pradesh are growing significantly faster than the national average. To be sure, the two states have performed relatively well in terms of testing. Andhra Pradesh has conducted 19,798 tests per million while Assam has, 13,741, both significantly above the national average. The two states also have a low positivity rate — Andhra Pradesh has a rate of 4.3% and Assam 6.5%.Though the doubling rate in Gujarat (fourth highest cases in the country) is more than 35 days, the high positivity rate in the state (9.7%) remains a cause of concern. This is particularly important if we take into account the relatively low number (7,100 tests a day over the past week, compared to 33,000 in Tamil Nadu, 27,000 in Maharashtra and 20,000 in Delhi in the same time period) of daily tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-t-gana-could-be-country-s-new-hot-spots/story-4jfH1xpKMBuZXCh3RhUHyL.html
08-07-2020||India||Rahul slams Centre over LAC stand-off||New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday sought to corner the government over the India-China de-escalation in Ladakh, asking why status quo ante was not insisted upon and why territorial sovereignty of the Galwan Valley does not find mention in the foreign ministry’s statement.“National interest is paramount. Government of India’s duty is to protect it. Then, why has Status Quo Ante not been insisted on? Why is China allowed to justify the murder of 20 unarmed jawans in our territory? Why is there no mention of the territorial sovereignty of Galwan valley?” he asked in tweet.Gandhi has been critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government on the India-China border standoff, and his twitter attack escalated after 20 Indian soldiers died in clashes with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on June 15.While the Congress has been asking the government to be transparent on transgressions by China, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has accused the opposition party of politicising the issue and demoralising the armed forces.Gandhi’s tweet came a day after India and China started disengagement process in the Galwan Valley.He shared the statements put out by the Indian and Chinese foreign ministries after the talks between China’s foreign minister Wang Yi and National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval.Gandhi highlighted how the Chinese foreign ministry in its statement made a mention of the Galwan Valley, but the Indian side did not do so.Doval and Wang, who are special representatives for boundary talks between the two countries, held a telephonic conversation on Sunday during which they agreed on an expeditious withdrawal of troops. The two also said that a complete disengagement at the earliest was necessary for full restoration of peace in border areas and both sides should not allow differences to become disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-slams-centre-over-lac-stand-off/story-m58hLxVIuytK5ILzYLedBI.html
08-07-2020||India||Namami Gange phase-2 to begin in 2022, bidding process to start in 3 months||The bidding process for projects under the second phase of the Namami Gange mission will start in the next three months, Director General of the National Mission for Clean Ganga Rajiv Mishra said on Tuesday. The funding for the second phase was approved by the World Bank last week, and it will kickstart after the phase-1 ends on December 31, 2021, a statement by the NMCG said. For the next phase, an agreement for the USD 400-million (Rs 3,023.10 crores) loan was signed on Tuesday by Sameer Kumar Khare, the additional secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs, on behalf of the Government of India, and Qaiser Khan, World Bank acting country director, India.This comprises a loan of USD 381 million and a proposed guarantee of up to USD 19 million, the statement said.The Second National Ganga River Basin Project has now been given the go-ahead for an amount of USD 400 million for taking up projects on the tributaries of Ganga with a view to address pollution abatement in the entire Ganga basin, a statement by the National Mission for Clean Ganga said.The loan provides USD 150 million (Rs 1,134 crores) for three new Hybrid Annuity Projects in Agra, Meerut and Saharanpur over the tributaries of Ganga (Yamuna and Kali).“The bidding process will start in the next three months,” Mishra said. USD 160 million (Rs 1,209 crores) has been provided for ongoing DBOT (Design, Build, Operate & Transfer) projects in Buxar, Munger, Begusarai and Hybrid Annuity Mode (HAM) projects of Digha, Kankarbagh in Patna (Bihar), and Howrah, Bally and Baranagar in West Bengal to be funded from the next phase.Under Ganga -- II, 482 MLD (Million Litres per Day) STP capacity shall be created. In addition, 378 MLD STP capacity and 911 Km of sewage network approved under Ganga – I will also be funded.The balance, USD 71 million will be for various activities pertaining to Institutional Development (USD 20 million), improving Investments Resilience to COVID-19 like emergency situations (USD 5 million), Performance Based Incentive for Urban Local Bodies (USD 30 million) and Programme Communication and Management (USD 16 million).The National Ganga River Basin Project (NGRBP) is an important component of Namami Gange. A World Bank funded National Ganga River Basin Project (Ganga –I) for an amount of USD 600 million is currently ongoing and is approved up to December 31, 2021 for funding infrastructure projects of Pollution abatement in the river Ganga.With a funding of Rs 4,535 Crores, Ganga-I helped build sewage infrastructure in 20 towns along the main stem of the Ganga. Sewage Treatment Plants with a capacity of 793 MLD have been created, along with 3,589 Km of sewage network. Several crucial projects have been completed in Rishikesh, Muni Ki Reti, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Narora, Anupshahar, Patna, Sahibganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/namami-gange-phase-2-to-begin-in-2022-bidding-process-to-start-in-3-months/story-lGpmPdmuA6XDtCuHBdYkbN.html
08-07-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews ongoing infra projects along border regions||New Delhi: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday carried out an extensive review of India’s ongoing infrastructure projects in border areas, including the Ladakh sector, where military tensions between India and China have surged during the last two months.“The state of forward connectivity was reviewed and the consistent need of boosting the ongoing projects and to expedite the construction of strategic roads, bridges and tunnels in the border areas was discussed,” the defence ministry said in a statement.Some of these strategic roads and bridges, being constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), are coming up along the country’s border with China and are scattered across Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.India is working on two key roads near the China border in eastern Ladakh to provide connectivity to an important forward area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN), as reported by Hindustan Times on June 9.The first is the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road that provides connectivity to the country’s northern-most outpost, Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO). The second road being built from Sasoma to Saser La could eventually provide an alternative route to DBO near the Karakoram pass.The ministry said that swift snow clearance works by BRO “ensured rapid and early movement of troops and logistics to forward areas.” It executed such works on 149 roads (a total length of 3,965 kilometres) in Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.“The BRO has worked incessantly even during the restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 without affecting the progress of various projects. Despite unprecedented snowfall breaking a 60-year record, all strategic passes and roads were cleared this year for traffic about one month before their average yearly opening dates,” the statement said. The BRO has executed 30% more works in the financial year 2019-20 as compared to 2018-19, it added, highlighting how India’s focus on border projects continues to grow.Trials have also been carried out successfully for indigenously produced modular bridges in collaboration with Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Make in India’ initiative. “This will revolutionize the bridge-laying capabilities in forward areas,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-reviews-ongoing-infra-projects-along-border-regionsheadline/story-02Z0SUqXy4zS1OlCLHyekL.html
08-07-2020||India||LAC stand-off figures in India-US talks||The India-China border standoff figured in the India-US foreign office consultations on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said, with the two sides agreeing to work closely on all challenges and to support each other’s objectives.The US decision not to allow foreign students to remain in the country if all their classes are moved online because of the Covid-19 crisis, which is expected to affect tens of thousands of Indians, also figured in the virtual meeting and the American side said it would try to mitigate the impact, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The two sides reaffirmed their commitment to work for a free and open Indo-Pacific, and agreed to strengthen their health partnership, including work on pharmaceuticals and vaccine development against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.The statements issued by both sides after the virtual foreign office consultations between foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and US under secretary of state for political affairs David Hale made no mention of the border standoff or China, though the people cited above pointed to several references in the readouts that were an apparent reference to Beijing’s role in the region.The Indian readout said Shringla and Hale exchanged views on a “number of regional and global issues of shared interest”, while the US statement said they “agreed to consult closely on all challenges and endeavour to support each other’s objectives”.The US statement added the discussions “included ongoing threats to the rules-based international order” and that the two sides will remain in “close contact on regional and international issues of mutual concern”.The consultations were held against the backdrop of India and China agreeing on some de-escalation and disengagement measures at key friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control over the weekend. The steps were aimed at easing tensions created by the two-month standoff and a violent clash on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and caused unspecified Chinese casualties.The US is one of the global partners that India has briefed about the standoff and American officials have spoken of the threat posed by China and its provocations and disturbing behaviour.On Monday, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said in an interview that the US is “not going to stand by and let China...take the reins in terms of being the most powerful, dominant force, whether it’s in that region or over here”.Meadows added, “Our military might stands strong and will continue to stand strong, whether it’s in relationship to a conflict between India and China or anywhere else.”During Tuesday’s consultations, the Indian side raised the decision by US immigration authorities not to allow non-immigrant students on F-1 and M-1 visas attending schools operating entirely online to remain in the country.One of the people cited above said, “The US side took note [of the issue] and said they will keep the best interests of students in mind and will try and mitigate the impact. Detailed implementation guidelines for the measure are yet to come out.”A growing number of US universities are shifting their classes online because of the pandemic and tens of thousands of Indian students face the possibility of losing their valid immigration status. India is second only to China as a source of foreign students in the US and some 200,000 Indian students are currently enrolled in American educational institutions.The two sides “reaffirmed their commitment to work towards ensuring a free, open, inclusive, peaceful and prosperous Indo-Pacific” and also agreed to deepen cooperation in the United Nations, especially during India’s membership of the Security Council for 2021-22, the Indian readout said.The US statement said Hale and Shringla “affirmed the US and Indian visions of a free and open Indo-Pacific” and agreed to work with other partners in the region to “bring these visions to reality”.The two sides discussed ways to enhance mutually beneficial trade and people-to-people ties, including through visa facilitation for students and professionals. They also discussed cooperation on a range of international issues and developed concrete steps to strengthen the bilateral comprehensive global strategic partnership, the US readout said without giving details.Both sides further agreed to move forward the bilateral agenda through a range of mechanisms such as the 2+2 ministerial dialogue that India will host this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-stand-off-figures-in-india-us-talks/story-UMcStKp0gQZVIBIPCDSD1J.html
08-07-2020||India||Only way to stand up to Beijing is to impose costs: US||The United States has taken note of the de-escalation efforts at the India-China border, but remains leery of China’s “aggressive behavior” against minorities at home, neighbours in the region and in cyberspace generally, it said, adding that “imposing costs” on Beijing was the only way to stop it.There has been a calibrated sharpening of US remarks on the India-China conflict, with the White House setting the tone last week when the spokesperson said President Donald Trump believed that China’s “aggressive stance” on the border with India fit a pattern of “Chinese aggression” around the world.The US state department took much the same line on Monday shortly after news broke of the Chinese moving troops back from Patrolling Point 14, site of deadly clashes last month in which 20 Indian and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops were killed on June 15.A state department spokesperson told Hindustan Times the United States supported a peaceful resolution of the situation, as stated many times before, but, as secretary of state Mike Pompeo has said on many occasions, “what is so disturbing is the emergence of a clear pattern of Beijing acting increasingly aggressively, both domestically and abroad”.From the Taiwan Strait to Xinjiang, from the South China Sea to the Himalayas, from cyberspace to international organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the spokesperson said “we are dealing with a Chinese Communist Party (CCP) that seeks to repress its own people and bully its neighbors”.The official added: “The only way to stop these provocations is by standing up to Beijing and imposing costs on its bad behavior.”It was not immediately clear if the “standing up to Beijing” and “costs” were a reference to the Indian ban on 59 mainly Chinese mobile phone apps that secretary Pompeo welcomed last week. Backing the ban, he had said these apps could sometimes “serve as appendages of the CCP’s surveillance state”“India’s Clean App approach will boost India’s sovereignty,” he had added.The spokesperson did not explain the “costs”, but in recent days, the United States has announced the end of export of controlled defence equipment to Hong Kong over the new Chinese national security law that western powers have said is violative of China’s international commitments. And Trump has signed into law a bill that sought to impose sanctions on Chinese officials responsible for the repression of Uighur minorities.The president and allies in Congress have also talked about holding China accountable for the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by billing it for the damages caused to the US economy.Josh Hawley, a Republican senator from Missouri state, moved a resolution in March that sought to hold China “accountable” for the pandemic and “design a mechanism for delivering compensation from the Government of the People’s Republic of China to all affected nations for the harm caused by its decision to hide the emergence and spread of COVID–19 during the initial weeks of the outbreak”.Missouri has already filed a lawsuit against China for damages.Support for India in its recent border confrontation with China has been growing. In a TV interview recently, a Republican senator who is a close ally of President Trump denounced China’s aggression on the border with India to illustrate the growing threat the Asian giant poses to the United States and its allies and partners around the world. “The Chinese Communist Party is certainly using the pandemic to try to assert claims and take very aggressive action against almost all of its neighbors,” Tom Cotton had said, adding, “high up in the Himalayas, China has essentially invaded India, an ally of ours. And they have killed 20 Indian soldiers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-way-to-stand-up-to-beijing-is-to-impose-costs-us/story-y1Fcpb37mRSetmKfgZNukI.html
08-07-2020||India||Indian patrol rights in focus amid LAC disengagement||As a part of the disengagement process, agreed upon by both the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), a 4km buffer zone is being created at key friction points in eastern Ladakh, according to officials involved in the decision-making process. For a period of three to four weeks, there will be no patrolling by either of the armies in these buffer zones, said one of the officials.Experts have said this halt in Indian patrolling — a result of Chinese transgressions and now extended temporarily within the framework of the understanding — in areas where it used to patrol before the Chinese build-up and incursion, is meant to avoid a face-off between soldiers and smoothen the process of both disengagement and de-escalation.But it has also given rise to concerns about whether India will be able to return to patrolling up to points it used to early April; whether a “new status quo” is getting institutionalised, and whether this will impact India’s territorial claims.Strategic analyst Brahma Chellaney said that mutual troop withdrawal from areas India normally patrolled, as well as the setting up of buffer zones, creates a “new status quo, even if a temporary one”.“However, since this new status quo suits China, it could seek to enforce it indefinitely until a settlement is reached, thus depriving India of its patrolling rights. This is a risk,” he said.Till the current tensions started in early May, the Indian Army patrolled right up to its definition of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) — marked either by geographical features or so-called Patrolling Points (in the absence of natural features) scattered across the contested border. Chinese soldiers, too, patrolled up to China’s perception of where its territory lies. This resulted in transgressions by the armies into what both sides consider their area. But this did not involve areas that have traditionally not been disputed, including Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra as there was a somewhat common perception of the LAC. Former Northern Army commander, Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), said, “There has been no dispute about the alignment of the LAC in the three sectors.” This got reflected in patrolling patterns. For instance, in Pangong-Tso, before the PLA occupied vantage positions on Finger Four in early May, Indian Army soldiers would patrol right up to Finger Eight, which New Delhi considers to be its territory, said multiple serving and retired army officers who know the region. Fingers Four and Eight are 8km apart.But what changed between April-May and now is that the new Chinese positions have restricted the scope of Indian patrols in these areas. The Chinese build-up in the Depsang sector, too, has brought Indian patrolling activity under pressure there.The buffer zones now being created as part of the disengagement process will restrict the scope of the Indian Army patrolling up to PP-14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) temporarily. The ongoing disengagement effort between rival troops is expected to be replicated in Pangang Tso, where the withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Finger Area -- a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range that overlooks the lake -- is a top concern for the Indian Army. The PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts (confirmed by satellite imagery) between Fingers Four and Eight, and getting it to pull down those structures and move back to its original positions at Finger Eight will be the toughest part of the disengagement process, officials said.A minor thinning of PLA soldiers was noticed at Finger 4 on Monday but the army doesn’t count it as any form of withdrawal. Hooda said the focus would shift to the Finger Area after step-wise disengagement in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra.Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar, director of the Society for Policy Studies, too expressed concerns about the current framework. The new patrolling protocols and the creation of buffer zones is a “new and slippery formulation”, he said. “Since 1993, India and China were operating within the track of an LAC — with each side having their own version — and a claim line up to which patrolling was carried out periodically. In creating a buffer zone and agreeing to no patrolling, the possibility of new pockets of no-man’s land increases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-patrol-rights-in-focus-amid-lac-disengagement/story-GQeZLLM5dW1NvGCY5bLNWK.html
08-07-2020||India||‘5.03 lakh stranded Indians brought back through Vande Bharat Mission’||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that 5,03,990 lakh Indians stranded in 137 countries have been brought back to the country through Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) in less than two months. Tamil Nadu is the fourth state that received a large number of its residents through the mission, it said. “Kerala received the largest number of stranded Indians (94,085), followed by Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, Additional Solicitor General of India R Sankaranarayanan said. The largest number of stranded Indians returned by VBM flights are from UAE (57,305), followed by Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia and USA. From Nepal 91,193 people returned through land border check posts, he added. In the fourth phase of the mission 218 more flights are scheduled to India from various countries, of which more than 25 will be landing in Tamil Nadu, he said. Sankaranarayanan made the submissions in response to the PIL moved by DMK, alleging that the Tamil Nadu government was refusing clearance to such mission flights in the state. When the plea came up for hearing,senior counsel P Wilson submitted that earlier the problem was of the state government refusing clearance. Now since the state has made it clear that it has no objection to such flights, the Centre has to find a solution to bring back 25,939 residents of the state, who are still stuck in various countries, he said. “We will require at least 146 more flights for the 25,939 to return to India,” Wilson said. Moreover, such stranded persons who need financial assistance must be provided such help from the funds available in the Indian Community Welfare Funds, which has so far not been provided, he said. To this Sankaranarayanan said less number of flights to Tamil Nadu does not mean that residents of the state are not retuning. Such flights do not necessarily land in Tamil Nadu. They are landing in different states and are then travelling back to the state, he said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha directed the centre to get instructions as to the plan for return of 25,939 residents of the state and inform the court by July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-03-lakh-stranded-indians-brought-back-through-vande-bharat-mission/story-VMMecpOrb600m8dUj5ghBI.html
08-07-2020||India||Sharad Pawar recalls visits by Nehru, Chavan to border post-1962 war||NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Tuesday that he was not surprised that Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Ladakh, and reminded that Jawaharlal Nehru visited the region after the 1962 war and so did then defence minister Yashwantrao Chavan.Speaking to reporters here, Pawar recalled that when he was the defence minister in 1993, he had gone to China and a treaty was signed, under which soldiers from both the sides were to be pulled back. “No-weapon treaty was also signed. During the all- party meeting with the PM, I had said the (present) issue needs to be solved through diplomatic channels and we need to create international pressure on China,” he said.“I read in newspapers that following dialogue through diplomatic channels, soldiers from both sides were pulled back. If it is so, then it is good,” Pawar added.To a question about Modi’s visit to Ladakh after the clashes between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan valley, Pawar said that in 1962, China defeated India in war. “But (then prime minister) Nehru had gone there. Even Yashwantrao Chavan, who was defence minister, too had gone to the China border and boosted the morale of the forces.“When there is a conflict situation between two nations and forces are involved, the country’s leadership has to ensure that the morale of the forces is boosted. I am not surprised that he (Modi) went there,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-recalls-visits-by-nehru-chavan-to-border-post-1962-war/story-XxQZJrjbLj4ShtF9svh9iM.html
08-07-2020||India||CBSE cuts syllabus to cover academic losses||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday announced that it has rationalised by almost a third, the syllabuses of classes 9 to 12 , to make up for the academic loss that happened due to the Covid-enforced shutdown. The Union human resource development (HRD) ministry asked the board to revise the curriculum.HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ Tuesday made the announcement on Twitter saying. “Looking at the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country and the world, CBSE was advised to revise the curriculum and reduce the course load for the students of classes 9 to 12. Considering the importance of learning achievement, it has been decided to rationalise syllabus up to 30% by retaining the core concepts.”Another board, the Council for the Indian Schools Certificate Examination revised its syllabus for the same classes last week, but only marginally. Pokhriyal said that the ministry received 1,500 suggestions from educationists on the reduction of syllabus for students for the academic session 2020-21. “The changes made in the syllabi have been finalised by the respective Course Committees with the approval of the Curriculum Committee and Governing Body of the Board,” the HRD ministry said in a statement. Schools across the country have been physically shut since March in view of the lockdown enforced to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and classes have moved online. According to the guidelines issued on easing on the lockdown by the ministry of home affairs, schools will continue to remain closed physically till July 31, although it is very likely that this will be extended. In a statement issued on Tuesday, CBSE’s Director (Academics) Joseph Emmanuel said, “The Heads of Schools and teachers may ensure that the topics that have been reduced are also explained to the students to the extent required to connect different topics.”Both principals and teachers said that it is a relief for them to have a revised curriculum from the CBSE. Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road, said, “Finally, the schools have something concrete to focus on. The schools were waiting for the revised syllabus from the CBSE. However, it will take some time to analyse and see what has been kept and what has been removed from the curriculum.”Ashima Aggarwal, a chemistry teacher at Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said: “Syllabus reduction in class 11 and 12 is appropriate and as per the requirement. All important topics which are required for building the basics of chemistry are still present in the syllabus. The topics reduced are not asked frequently in the competitive exams.”Tania Joshi, principal of Indian School, said that the reduction in curriculum was necessary. “It’s really a relief for the children specially for those in board classes. There was a lot of apprehension among students and parents about the curriculum.”Tanvir Aeijaz, an associate professor of Political Science at Delhi University’s Ramjas College, said that the CBSE could have compressed some important topics like citizenship, federalism and secularism instead of deleting them completely. “Removing topics does not do any good to the knowledge of students.They could have compressed the topics and at least introduced them in the syllabus. There is a connection between school education and higher education. Deletion of topics denies students their right to pick their future choice and limits their knowledge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-cuts-syllabus-to-cover-academic-losses/story-Ao5JUpxkMoKockimsSshcO.html
