10-07-2020||India||Earthmover dumps 3 bodies in Nellore, investigation on||The Nellore district administration on Friday ordered a probe into the incident of the local municipal staff allegedly carrying the bodies of three Covid-19 victims in an earth mover and then dumping them into a grave, at a spot adjacent to Penna river.A video, shot late in the evening by a person crossing the highway adjacent to the river, showed some people in personal protective equipment (PPE) taking out three bodies from an ambulance and dumping them in the earth mover.In another video, the earthmover could be seen carrying the bodies to a pit a few metres away and dumping all of them into it.As the videos went viral on social media and were played on local television channel, the chief minister’s office ordered the Nellore district administration to conduct an inquiry.“A detailed inquiry has been ordered into the burial of the dead bodies of Covid-19 patients in Penna river. Nellore revenue divisional officer Hussian Saheb has been appointed as special officer and will conduct the inquiry,” an official statement from the CMO said.Hussain Saheb, who is also a sub-divisional magistrate, said he would submit his inquiry report to the district collector.The opposition Telugu Desam Party reacted to the inhuman treatment of the bodies by municipal staff.“Pained to see bodies of #Covid_19 patients in Nellore being disrespectfully thrown into a single pit using an Earthmover. This is happening time & again. @ysjagan Govt must offer an apology to the grieving families who wished for a respectful departure for their loved ones,” TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted.This is the third such incident in Andhra Pradesh in the recent past. On July 6, municipal authorities in Tirupati had also used an earth mover to lift the body of a Covid-19 victim from the ambulance and then dumped it into a grave.On June 26, the municipal staff in Palasa town in Srikakulam district used an earth mover to carry the body of a Covid-19 victim from his house for last rites, after the victim’s relatives refused to perform the last rites. On chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions, the district authorities suspended six municipal employees over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthmover-dumps-3-bodies-in-nellore-investigation-on/story-Ui8NfV9dXcWMqFvWrAxLLO.html
10-07-2020||India||SC declines parents’ plea for moratorium on school fees||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to hear a petition by parents from eight states demanding a moratorium on payment of school fees till lifting of lockdown and lamented the fact that such matters have to reach court for redress without being addressed at the executive level.Asking the parents to approach their respective high courts, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “We find it very odd that we have to hear such matters. This must be tackled by the executive.”The bench rued that the courts were getting drawn into many things that rested within the executive domain. It cited the example of migrant workers, Covid testing fees and now, the issue of charging school fees. “At the moment we do not know what to do. In such matters, even though problems may vary from state to state, parties approach this court and get disappointed when we refuse to issue notice.”For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe petitioners, represented by advocate Mayank Kshirsagar, informed the court that at present there was no uniformity with regard to payment of fees with seven high courts of the country taking a different take on the matter.The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna said, “These are sad situations. We don’t want to reject your petition on merits but why don’t you approach your jurisdictional high courts. Situation can vary from state to state and even district to district.”The petition by a group of ten parents from Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, and Uttarakhand also demanded facilities to be provided for socially and economically backward students to cope up with the online classes till the lockdown was in force.Covid-19 lockdown won’t impact three-month cheque validity, rules Supreme CourtThey even sought a moratorium on payment of fees either from April to June or till such time the schools reopen. Most petitioners claimed that they faced tremendous financial and emotional hardships and will be forced to withdraw their children if forced to deposit fees.The parents further exposed the ineffectiveness of conducting online classes as most families do not have either computers or internet. It quoted the National Sample Survey (NSS) data of 2017-18, according to which, only 4.4 percent rural households and 23 percent urban households have access to computers. Interestingly, the internet penetration is restricted to 14.9 percent in the rural sector and 42 percent in the urban sector, the NSS data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-parents-plea-for-moratorium-on-school-fees/story-POhfEcNaFcWlRzAGH5NHlI.html
10-07-2020||India||Brazen disregard for safety norms marks the 1st day of lockdown in West Bengal||Rampant violation of social distancing norms was witnessed and wearing of masks almost took a back seat in large parts of Kolkata and its adjoining districts, even as the police tried to enforce restrictions in at least 25 containment zones on the first day of the week-long lockdown in West Bengal.Covid-19 cases in the state jumped by more than 12,000 in the last three weeks to reach 24,833 on July 9, forcing the Mamata Banerjee government to impose lockdown in more than 230 containment zones across the state. Kolkata has 25 such zones. The cases have climbed further to 27,109 as on Friday. On the first day of the lockdown, which started around 5 pm on Thursday, the city police put up barricades and guard rails to restrict the entry and exit of people in the containment zones. Policemen and volunteers were deployed to man the barricades. Shops were also closed while sanitization was being done simultaneously in the containment zones. “We have stopped quite a few people from going out and coming in through the barricades. In case someone needs anything they are being asked to contact the police helpline. Announcements were made on microphones requesting people to stay indoors. Those who came out without masks were sent back home,” said a senior police official.ASHA workers protest in Bengaluru over inadequate salary, lack of PPE kitsKolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma was also seen visiting some of the containment zones to take stock of the situation.“Such a lockdown is welcome as the disease is spreading. But the police and administration can’t do anything if the citizens do not follow the norms. They need to be more responsible,” said Kakoli Sen, a resident of Chakraberia Road in south Kolkata which has been declared a containment zone.The scenario was just the opposite outside the containment zones in the city and in large parts of the state on Friday. Many people hit the streets with face masks in their pockets or dangling near their neck. Markets were crowded with shops and shoppers hardly maintaining any social distancing norms. Political protests and rallies for various reasons were also organised without following any norms. Also Read: Vandalised statue of a tribal icon triggers BJP-TMC tug of war ahead of Bengal pollsAt Salkia in Howrah, it was business as usual in the local market. People could be seen violating social distancing norms and many were not wearing masks.“I went out to buy some chillies and coriander. It was not necessary though. I just wanted to go out,” said 54-year-old Shyamal Deb, a resident of Jeliapara Lane at Salkia in Howrah.A top official in the state government said the lockdown was enforced strictly in all containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brazen-disregard-for-safety-norms-marks-the-1st-day-of-lockdown-in-west-bengal/story-BlwNTY89AkeTziA5GOtaLM.html
10-07-2020||India||Record 755 new Covid-19 cases push Odisha’s tally near 12k, state to add 2,000 beds||Odisha recorded its highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases as 755 new cases were reported on Friday, taking the total infections to 11, 956 cases.The record surge pushed the daily growth rate to 6.74 percent and sample positivity rate to 11.69 per cent, both higher than national rate, straining the government’s available resources to fight the pandemic. Of the 755 cases, Ganjam district alone contributed 42 per cent of the total load.On the bright side, Friday also saw the biggest ever recoveries in a single day as 565 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 death toll in Odisha rose to 56 after four more people succumbed to coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours. All four deaths were reported from Ganjam district. In addition, two more Covid patients died due to other health issues.With cases rising significantly, the state government has now decided to set up six more Covid Hospitals in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and add over 2,000 beds. The state has over 5,500 beds in Covid hospitals and another 21,000 beds at Covid care centres for patients with mild symptoms.The state will also ramp up rapid antigen tests to 2,000 tests per day in a fortnight. Director of Institute of Life Sciences Dr Ajay Parida said Odisha will conduct 6,000 RT-PCR tests a day to detect COVID. He said 30,000 antigen test kits have arrived in the state and orders for one lakh more kits will be placed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-755-new-covid-19-cases-push-odisha-s-tally-near-12k-state-to-add-2-000-beds/story-UI1wjHzB3XWNVEXyHgqvAM.html
10-07-2020||India||Another gold haul in Kerala, 3.50 kg seized from Kozhikkode airport||As the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took up the probe in Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case with the opposition stepping up its protests seeking chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation, the customs intelligence on Friday made another major seizure of the precious metal.Customs said 3.50 kg of gold were seized from three passengers at Kozhikkode international airport, who had arrived in chartered flights from West Asian countries. The market value of the seized gold is more than Rs 1.60 crore, it said, adding this was the 14th major seizure made at Kozhikkode airport since January this year.National Investigation Agency files case against 4 in Kerala gold smuggling scandal“This shows the brazen act of the smuggling syndicates. They are threatening our system. In most cases they are using poor people who lost their jobs by promising them good returns. It is sad that some of these people are quite unaware of dangers attached to such acts,” said a senior officer who did not want to be identified.Last Sunday, the Customs had seized 30 kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Swapna Suresh, who was working as the IT and space consultant with the state IT ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, CM Pinarayi Vijayan had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was reportedly close to Suresh. The Union Government had later handed over the case to the NIA.Watch: Kerala gold smuggling case updates: NIA registers FIR; protests against VijayanAccording to the India Gold Council data, the country imported 831 tonne of gold in 2019, but customs officials and jewellers says that more than half of this quantity floods the market through illegal ways. At least 550 kg of gold was seized from the state last year. After gold prices skyrocketed, there is a big spike in smuggling also.Imported metal attracts 10 per cent import duty and 3 per cent GST. Jewellers say one kg of smuggled gold fetches a profit between Rs 8 and 10 lakh. Often smuggling syndicates think that frisking norms would be at a minimum during the covid days and tickets won’t be checked in case of chartered flights and therefore take poor returnees for a ride, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-gold-haul-in-kerala-3-50-kg-seized-from-kozhikkode-airport/story-l55XsH4AFotyHOkKlnYyEJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Record 7,862 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours take Maharashtra near 2.4 lakh mark||Maharashtra on Friday reported its highest single-day spike of 7,862 new cases taking the overall tally of Covid-19 patients in the state to 2,38,461, according to data released by the health department. The state also recorded 226 cases of deaths due to the deadly infection, taking the death toll in the state to 9,893, a touch shy of the 10,000 mark.5,366 patients were declared to have been recovered in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 1,32,625, leaving 95,943 active cases in the state at present.Mumbai recorded 1,337 new coronavirus cases taking the total past the 90,000 mark in the maximum city. At 90,461 cases, Mumbai has contributed the most number of infections to the state tally. India’s financial capital also recorded 73 new casualties in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths attributed to the disease to 5,205.The sharpest rise seen so far in daily cases recorded in Maharashtra came on a day the state government took some tough decisions including announcing a 10-day long lockdown in areas of Pune district beginning July 13 to stem the rise of infections.Pune lockdown in two phases, here are the five important things to knowIn a similar precautionary measure, the lockdown was extended in Thane district till July 19 from July 12, when the 10-day lockdown clamped on July 2 was supposed to end.The government also announced the decision to buy antiviral drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in bulk to meet the shortfall.Minister Anil Deshmukh said the government will take strict action against black marketeers of the drugs used in treating coronavirus patients.Maharashtra’s prisons witness surge in Covid-19 casesIn another significant decision, the administration decided to impose curfew in Nanded district from next week to check the rise of infections. 34 persons tested positive for the virus on Friday morning in the district, taking the total number of cases in the jurisdiction to 558.The curfew will start on the midnight of July 12 and continue till the midnight of July 20, said an official release. Medical facilities and government offices will continue to operate normally during the curfew while essential services such as ration shops, vegetable vendors, milk shops and cooking gas vendors will be allowed to operate during prescribed hours, the official statement quoted by PTI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-7-862-covid-cases-in-24-hours-take-maharashtra-near-2-4-lakh-mark/story-U3x2AT5WI8tQzEag1CXxbL.html
10-07-2020||India||2 Odisha cancer care hospitals shut over Covid exposure, patients in limbo||The Covid pandemic has disrupted the spectrum of cancer care in Odisha as the out patient department of the state’s only government-owned cancer care hospital at Cuttack remains shut for over a week following detection of 100-odd Covid cases there over last week.Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (AHRCC) at Cuttack is eastern India’s biggest cancer hospital where at least 300-350 cancer patients come for treatment, surgery and palliative care everyday. As the only tertiary cancer hospital of Odisha, it is the lifeline for patients who can’t travel to Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai or access the relatively expensive private hospitals in Bhubaneswar. Adding to the troubles, is the shutting down of OPD of AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, which is the second government health institution with an advanced cancer care facility in Odisha after AHRCC.But with more than 100 patients and staff of the regional cancer centre getting infected by coronavirus over the week after a Covid-19 patient’s admission to the hospital, the administration first sealed the emergency ward a week ago and finally stopped the OPD services leaving hundreds of cancer patients in the lurch. The AIIMS shut down its OPD from today after 96 patients, doctors and other paramedical staff were found Covid positive in less than a fortnight dealing a blow to thousands of cancer patients.“As it is they are in the biggest risk category due to low immunity. Now due to lockdown and shutdown of cancer hospitals they are forced to delay their treatment. They are caught between the devil and the deep sea. Everyone knows cancer treatment is highly expensive and slight delay in treatment can worsen things. Since the lockdown started, we have been getting frantic calls from family members of cancer patients across the state to help them financially as well as for treatment,” said Bhubaneswar-based cancer survivor Swagatika Acharya, who runs an NGO called AwAAKen for cancer patients in Odisha.While the pandemic and the subsequent shutdown of hospitals have been distressing for cancer patients all over the state, it has been more distressing for people of Bargarh district, considered as cancer capital of Odisha. Last month, Subash Chouhan, senior BJD leader from Bargarh, passed away in Bhubaneswar after battling with cancer.Basant Sahu, a 72-year-old mouth cancer patient of Bargarh district was planning to visit the cancer centre next week when he heard about the shutdown of the hospital. Sahu, who was earlier diagnosed with stomach cancer eight years ago, had just about managed to recover when the doctors at the cancer centre diagnosed him with mouth cancer. “For me travelling to Mumbai is out of question as I can’t afford the travel cost. I was planning to come to the cancer hospital at Cuttack when I heard about closure of its OPD service. This is a big setback for poor patients like me,” said Sahu.Like Sahu, Md Atik, a 46-year-old mouth cancer patient of Bargarh district, was diagnosed with cancer in his oral cavity in 2018. A BPL cardholder, Atik did not treat his cancer for almost one and half year till it worsened, impairing his speech. With help of friends like Aswini Darjee, Atik was planning to go for consultation early this week when the hospital was shut down. “It’s becoming painful for me. I thought I would somehow travel to Cuttack and consult the doctors at the cancer centre. I don’t know if I can bear the pain till the hospital opens,” said Atik.Like him, 44-year-old Puspanjali Behera was planning to visit AHRCC for consultation. It has been a case of double blow for Behera who lost her husband to blood cancer and then was diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago. “During lockdown, I was planning to go to Tata Memorial hospital at Mumbai when I was told that they are not allowing outside patients due to pandemic. My next option was AHRCC. But now that too is shut,” said Behera.There have been others like a 45-year-old oral cancer patient from Balasore district, who could not get palliative treatment at the cancer centre of Cuttack due to its closure. “The man is in 4th stage and his chances of survival are very grim. He can’t wait for the hospital to open. As the AHRCC was shut, we could somehow manage to get him consulted at the AIIMS Bhubaneswar after much persuasion. There are several patients who are on the verge of death due to shutting down of AHRCC,” said Acharya.Odisha on an average sees around 50,000 cases a year, a large portion of whom come to AHRCC and AIIMS Bhubaneswar. A few others get treated at private hospitals. “But treatment of cancer at private hospitals is costly. The importance of a government hospital is felt more at the time of pandemic,” said Aswini Kumar Darjee, who has started a group called Fighters Group of Cancer Survivors.Soumya Surath Panda, an oncologist working in a city hospital, said pandemic has made it difficult for doctors like him. “It has been an overwhelming situation. Despite the best precautions, doctors are at as much risk as the patients. Besides, we have to be doubly careful as all cancer patients have low immunity particularly those undergoing chemotherapy,” said Panda.Meanwhile, officials at the AHRCC said they are trying to sanitise the building before opening it for patients. “The old building had been cleaned and sanitized. We are fumigating the OT fumigation. We plan to start Radiotherapy from July 14,” said director of AHRCC, Lalatendu Sarangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-odisha-cancer-hospitals-shut-over-covid-exposure-patients-feel-the-pinch/story-G5RUx5c3zCxRGdt4184TBM.html
10-07-2020||India||All inmates at Goa’s central jail to be tested for Covid-19 after jailor found positive||The Goa health authorities will test all inmates at the central jail in Colvale after a jailor was found Covid-19 positive, Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said. The screening will be held as a measure of precaution even as initial contacts of the jailor were found to be negative for the infection. “On the first day we received information that one of the jailors had tested positive, we took 42 samples of the jailors and other staff plus two or three inmates who were in contact with him. All of them returned negative,” Mohanan added. “Then we decided that every single inmate of Colvale jail will be checked and as a result of which we took 161 samples, all of them are also returned negative and today as we speak 221 samples have been collected and tomorrow and day after they are going to collect more samples. Each and every inmate of Colvale jail will be checked for Covid-19,” Mohanan added.A similar scene unfolded at the Head Office of the Goa Education Department, where a staff member tested Covid-19 positive forcing the office to shut down. “Our health team has gone there and taken samples from people who have been working in the same section as this person who was found positive. Those people working in the same section have all been told not to come back to office even on Monday. They have been asked to stay at home and quarantine,” Mohanan added. Goa recorded 100 cases on Friday making it the third day in a row when the state has recorded cases in three digits. The new cases have taken the number of active cases to 895 and total coronavirus cases to 2,251. No fresh deaths have been reported keeping Goa’s total deaths at nine. Of the nearly 900 active patients, 112 are symptomatic and have been admitted to the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Three people have also agreed to donate their plasma once the state’s system for plasma therapy is up and running, the health secretary said. Goa’s positivity rate which was once far below the national average is inching towards the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-inmates-at-goa-s-central-jail-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-after-jailor-found-positive/story-tpNghJbgzst8WAiTcE8vAI.html
10-07-2020||India||China-India joint venture only foreign bidder for Vande Bharat train sets||A Chinese company in a joint venture with an Indian firm is the only foreign bidder for the global tender floated for manufacturing 44 rakes (train sets) of Vande Bharat trains.China-based CRRC Yongji Electric Co. Ltd. and Gurugram-based Pioneer Fil-med Private Limited formed a joint venture in 2015. Their joint venture is called CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited.The railways’ Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, had floated a tender for manufacturing 44 rakes of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains on July 10.“We have got bids from six players for the train set tender,” Vinod Kumar Yadav, chairman, Railway Board, said on Friday.The other five bidders include: state-owned Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Bharat Industries, Sangrur, Electrowaves Electronics (P) Ltd, MEDHA Servo Drives Private Limited, Powernetics Equipment India Private Limited, according to the railway ministry.This comes at a time when India and China are carrying out disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent face-off with the Chinese troops on June 15. Just recently, India also banned 59 China-linked apps, including the wildly popular TokTok.The railways has also scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company, Hindustan Times reported on July 1. The government company has decided to issue a fresh tender after the controversy.The ambitious ‘Make in India’ project involves manufacturing of 44 train sets of 16 coaches each of Vande Bharat Trains.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of the Vande Bharat train on New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train set between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3 last year.The Railway ministry last week also began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.On whether Chinese firms will be allowed to bid for the private trains, Yadav had last week said, “As far as the question on Chinese companies arises, there are guidelines under the Make in India Policy by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and we will follow them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-india-company-s-joint-venture-bid-for-making-vande-bharat-train-sets/story-Q6HA3CSUKW10YqtsjBe5rL.html
10-07-2020||India||UP records 1,347 new Covid cases before 55-hour long lockdown kicks in, GB Nagar records 87 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh on Friday recorded 1,347 new Covid19 positive cases taking the total number of positive infections registered in the state since the outbreak to 21,787, including 660 persons who were declared to have recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours and 27 deaths, reported in the same period. The total number of active cases in the state stands at 11,024 and deaths at 889, according to a release by the state health department.Three of the four districts—Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Kanpur City and Meerut-- with the highest number of active cases in the state are in the national capital region (NCR).For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWhile Ghaziabad has 1,341 active cases currently, Gautam Budha Nagar has 1,008 and Meerut has 442 active Covid patients as on Friday, according to the data released by the state government. Kanpur city, with 497 active cases, is the only other prominent disease hotspot in the state.In view of the government’s decision to go for a short 55-hour long lockdown in the state beginning 10 pm on Friday night, security checks were intensified leading to arrest of six people and fines slapped on owners of 1,760 vehicles across Noida and Greater Noida on Friday. So far more than 8,300 people have been held in Gautam Buddh Nagar for allegedly defying the restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 between March 23, when the lockdown came in force in UP, and July 5, according to police data.The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials.Also Read: 55-hour Uttar Pradesh lockdown begins today: What remains open, what will closeGautam Buddh Nagar is Uttar Pradesh’s worst-affected district. It recorded 87 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its infection tally to 3,260, according to the official data.In Mathura, all temples including Bhagwat Bhavan, based at Sri Krishna Janmasthan, will remain closed for devotees on Saturday and Sunday, officials said. The decision was taken in view of the 55-hour lockdown imposed by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-1-347-new-covid-cases-before-55-hour-long-lockdown-kicks-in-gb-nagar-records-87-fresh-cases/story-E3r5gfivbW8x1LA7EedklL.html
10-07-2020||India||In Goa, a battle to save sanctuaries and homes from railway, highway expansion||A train running past the gurgling Dudhsagar waterfall as it roars down from 320 metres of steep Western Ghats’ ridges is one of the most enchanting and breathtaking sites to behold in tourist-friendly coastal Goa.But, that iconic railway track is at the centre of a raging controversy and battlelines have been drawn between environmentalists, local villagers, and the South Western rail authorities over the latter’s bid to expand it into a double-track owing to saturated traffic movement. Earlier this week, hundreds of local residents braved a torrential downpour, accompanying inclement weather and the fear of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), to attend a public gathering at Cansaulim, a sleepy Goan hamlet.The locals gathered there because the South Western Railway authorities were scheduled to conduct an on-the-spot assessment survey, but retreated because of the vociferous public mood.“The track expansion plan will add to our daily woes manifold. Six coal-laden goods train pass every day and cover our houses with dust. Senior citizens shudder at the daily travails. God forbid, if the track expansion comes through, we’ll have hell to pay,” said Paccelli Pereira, who lives close to the railway tracks. “The track expansion project needs to be scrapped at the earliest. We won’t part with our land to a few industrialists, who want to trample us in a bid to accumulate more wealth for them,” he said.Pereira said old houses, churches, and chapels would have to be demolished for the proposed track expansion. Pereira lives along a stretch where South Western Railway and Konkan Railway tracks run parallel to each other. Now, there is fear that the expanded South Western Railway track would spell a death knell to Cansaulim and adjoining villages. In 2010, the Union Ministry of Railways had sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in neighbouring Karnataka and Goa.The first phase between Hospet and Tinaighat involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau and has already been completed. It’s the second phase between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama that involves crossing the steep slopes, raging rivers and the dense forests of the Western Ghats and the thickly populated parts of coastal Goa, which is in the eye of an infrastructure development vs. environment protection storm.Commissioned in 1882 following the Anglo-Portuguese treaty in 1878, the 83-kilometre (km)-long railway line called the West of India Portuguese Guaranteed Railway was built by British engineers in 1888 to connect Goa’s Mormugao Port with the country’s hinterland in a bid to make the Arabian Sea port more profitable and, in turn, make Goa a trade hub.The railway project is one of three projects that will slice through the ecologically-fragile Dandeli-Anshi Tiger Reserve in Karnataka and the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, Goa’s oldest protected area since 1967.Earlier, the project was approved during the 57th meeting of the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change (MoEFCC) on April 20.The meeting was held via video-conference amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.The railway line is the biggest of the three projects, which include the expansion of National Highway (NH) 4-A and new power transmission line, and is likely to lead to loss of an estimated 113.857 hectares (ha) of forest cover from the protected area in the sanctuary and felling of 18,451 trees. The second project -- the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway (NH-4A) -- that was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost another 31.015 ha of forest cover and the felling of 12,097 trees.A 400 kilo-volt (KV) power transmission line, whose 3.5 km will pass through the protected forest, is the third project that is likely to cause an adverse ecological impact in the region. It seeks to augment the power supply between Goa and Karnataka.These ministerial clearances have been challenged before the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) on grounds that the approval was given in haste and not enough thought was given to protect the region’s rich biodiversity.Though the railway authorities have submitted an undertaking and have made provisions for eight underpasses for the crossing of wild animals in consultation with the state forest department, these concessions have failed to impress the environmentalists. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who heads the Goa State Wildlife Board (SBWL) that recommended the projects last December, said they were “only granted a NOC (no objection certificate)” by the Board “looking at the development of the state”.“It is a project by the earlier government. All measures like underpasses (for wildlife), wherever required have been taken,” Sawant said.A clearance from the SBWL is one of the many permissions that a project within wildlife sanctuaries requires.The projects have been opposed by environmentalists and civil society groups, as the approvals are being seen to largely facilitate the transport of imported coal for steel plants in North Karnataka for which Goa is the closest port. Three separate representations have been sent to the Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar, urging him to reconsider the clearances because of the environmental concerns and also the move could damage Goa’s immense hinterland tourism potential. “At present, the steel plants in north Karnataka are handling 12 million tonnes per annum, but plans are afoot to ramp it up to 50 million tonnes. Imagine what will happen to Goa, if these steel plant owners are allowed to go ahead. But, we will oppose the move tooth and nail,” said Antonio D’Silva, a local protester. “They are using the lockdown to approve these projects that have no benefit for the public. Only big corporate entities stand to gain,” he added.Thousands of Goans would join the movement, if these projects are allowed to go ahead, the protesters warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-goa-a-battle-to-save-sanctuaries-and-homes-from-railway-highway-expansion/story-xjXliMYjekrPT6135eqOgN.html
10-07-2020||India||With 3,680 new Covid-19 patients, Tamil Nadu’s count soars to over 1.3 lakh||Tamil Nadu on Friday detected 3,680 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of coronavirus patients in the state to 1,30,261, health department data indicated.With 64 deaths, the death toll has climbed to 1,829 in the southern state, which is currently the second worst-hit state in the country after Maharashtra with a large number of coronavirus positive patients.The state also registered a significant jump in recoveries on Friday which crossed the number of those infected as 4,163 people were cured and discharged from various medical facilities. A total of 82,324 patients have recovered so far from the viral infection in Tamil Nadu.At present, there are 46,105 active coronavirus cases in the state, according to health department data.A total of 37,309 samples were tested on Friday at the 101 testing facilities now operating in the state, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 15,29,092. Chennai, despite being tagged a coronavirus hotspot, has started seeing a downward trend in the number of fresh cases with 1,205 new patients reported on Friday.Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday held a teleconference with Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar over the Covid-19 situation in the state.“Had a detailed telecon with Tamil Nadu Health Minister Vijayabaskar on Covid-19 situation. Total positive cases stand around 1,26,581, including 46,655 active cases and 1,765 deaths. Chennai still a hotspot, although the situation has improved. Mortality rate low at 1.39 per cent,” Dr Harsh Vardhan tweeted soon after his conference call. With the highest single-day spike of 26,506 Covid-19 cases and 475 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 cases in India has touched 7,93,802 on Friday, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Out of the total number of cases in the country, 2,76,682 are active, 4,95,516 have been cured and discharged and 21,604 have succumbed to the infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-680-new-covid-19-patients-tamil-nadu-s-count-soars-to-over-1-3-lakh/story-RxoGOGCcofF6DRRMhBp9GI.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: In a first, Trump to wear a mask; US Covid tally crosses 3.1 million mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In a first, Trump to wear a mask; US Covid tally crosses 3.1 million markPresident Donald Trump is going to wear a mask, which has been declared the most effective tool in the battle against Covid-19 by experts around the world, when he visits a military hospital on Saturday. He has been pointedly averse to it for himself while allowing experts the last word for others.Read more. National Investigation Agency files case against 4 in Kerala gold smuggling scandalThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a First Information Report against four accused in the case of gold smuggling via diplomatic channels. The FIRs were filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).Read more. Kerala extends lockdown in Thiruvanthapuram by a week as community spread-threat loomsKerala has extended the lockdown in capital Thiruvananthapuram by a week on Friday, coinciding with a record increase of 416 new Covid 19 cases in the state, taking the tally to 6,950 cases including 3,099 active cases. The state’s previous high of single-day spike was recorded yesterday with 339 new Covid infections.Read more. Why Vikas Dubey killing marks a watershed in history of encountersMuch of the commentary surrounding the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey conflates two separate issues. The first is the whole business of encounters, in which policemen kill suspects in custody and then pretend that they were shot while being apprehended or while escaping.Read more. With a fortune of $68 bn, Mukesh Ambani now richer than Warren BuffetMukesh Ambani has had a rollercoaster 2020, cutting a string of deals for his digital business, undergoing wild swings in his wealth and having his brother’s finances laid bare for the world to see.Read more. Pune Police Commissioner tweets PSA on the importance of social distancing. WatchOver the past few months, you may have seen several PSAs on how to keep yourself safe during the ongoing pandemic. Here’s another one that’s been shared on the Twitter handle of Pune’s Commissioner of Police Dr Venkatesham. The clip, since being shared, has been receiving several reactions from tweeple who’re calling it a creative way to share a message.Read more. Spotify, Tinder and other iOS apps are crashing and Facebook might be responsibleAcross the world today, a number of popular apps including the likes of Spotify, Tinder, Pintrest, etc have been crashing on iOS through the day. Early reports suggest that this could be happening due to a Facebook bug.Read more. All Work and Play: Barbados to allow year-long stay for remote workers as travel resumesIf you had the opportunity to work overlooking some of the best tropical views in the world, would you turn it down or be packing your bags as you rush out the door? Fortunately, this is not a hypothetical question any longer. The Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley announced that her government is considering letting travellers stay and work on the Island of Barbados for an entire year as more and more travel restrictions are being removed.Read more. Pooja Bhatt hits back at Sona Mohapatra, says she produced first film at the age of 25 with her ‘own resources’Actor-filmmaker Pooja Bhatt responded to singer Sona Mohapatra’s claims of a ‘systemic problem’ in the film industry, in which musicians are exploited. Sona had called for artists to have a ‘stake in their music’s success’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-in-a-first-trump-to-wear-a-mask-us-covid-tally-crosses-3-1-million-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O2cVBT3EzZEyLE5I9uB0fK.html
10-07-2020||India||Sharp rise in Covid-19 deaths in Assam; 21 fatalities reported in last 4 days||Assam is witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-related deaths after reporting a sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight.From the first death on April 10 till July 7, the state had recorded 14 Covid-related deaths. But in the past four days, 21 deaths have taken place, taking the total tally of fatalities to 35.On Friday itself, eight deaths were reported from Guwahati. Seven of the deaths took place at Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) while one person died at the Covid care centre opened at Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G).Through a series of tweets, state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed that the 53-year-old patient who expired at IIT-G was asymptomatic and had no co-morbidities. Death was due to a sudden drop in oxygen level.“As of Thursday, 28 of the total 30 patients admitted in intensive care unit (ICU) beds at GMCH were in critical condition. We expect more such cases to arrive,” Sarma had told journalists on Thursday.A health official said on condition of anonymity that the rise in the number of deaths could be attributed to an increase in Covid-19 cases across the state and more specifically in Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro district.Till Friday afternoon, a total of 14,600 Covid-19 positive cases had been recorded in the state. Since June 24, Guwahati and rest of Kamrup Metro district alone have added 5,257 cases to that tally.The Kamrup Metro district has been under 14 day total lockdown since June 28 in an attempt to control the rapid rise in cases.Over a dozen districts have imposed restrictions on to and fro movement to Kamrup Metro to restrict community spread of the disease in their areas. Two other districts, Dima Hasao and Jorhat, have also imposed total lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-rise-in-covid-19-deaths-in-assam-18-fatalities-reported-in-last-4-days/story-xNmEF5y1G2JAACyB45xNQL.html
10-07-2020||India||Kerala extends lockdown in Thiruvanthapuram by a week as community spread-threat looms||Kerala has extended the lockdown in capital Thiruvananthapuram by a week on Friday, coinciding with a record increase of 416 new Covid 19 cases in the state, taking the tally to 6,950 cases including 3,099 active cases. The state’s previous high of single-day spike was recorded yesterday with 339 new Covid infections. The decision was announced by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who added that triple lockdown will be imposed in containment zones in the capital to cut down the risk of community spread of the disease, reported ANI.On Thursday, Vijayan had expressed fears that some areas in the state were on the verge of a community spread—considered a dangerous stage of rapid transmissions of the disease-- after a big surge in locally- transmitted cases were noticed.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe had cited WHO parameters to claim that super spreading of the disease had occurred in some places in the state, including at a fishing hamlet of Poonthura on the outskirts of the state capital.He had cited the above example to state that the state couldn’t afford to lower guard as it would then result in community spread, which could possibly lead to an explosion in the number of positive cases.He also tried to justify the decision to enforce triple lockdown in the state capital due to the worsening situation. The triple lockdown was imposed in the state capital for a week beginning Monday following a spike in coronavirus disease cases in the district.Earlier, the state’s tourism minister had claimed that the capital was “sitting on an active volcano” while referring to the rising number of local transmissions that were hard to trace.Also Read: Kerala HC defers bail plea of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to TuesdayDuring the triple lockdown, only necessary services are allowed and public transportation has been discontinued to discourage mingling and mixing of population.Six new places were designated as hotspots on Thursday and two others were taken out of that categorization by the state government. There are presently 181 hotspots in Kerala.The state government has also decided to conduct more antigen tests in the district to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-extends-lockdown-in-thiruvanthapuram-by-a-week-as-community-spread-threat-looms/story-o9bg0OETQdZmKuSy1a2tBL.html
10-07-2020||India||National Investigation Agency files case against 4 in Kerala gold smuggling scandal||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a First Information Report against four accused in the case of gold smuggling via diplomatic channels. The FIRs were filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).It is the first time the premier agency, which handles national security, terror and security-based cases, is investigating a gold smuggling case. In the FIR, Sarith Kumar, who is in the custody of the customs, is first accused; Swapna Suresh is second; elusive UAE-based smuggling kingpin Fazil Pareed is third; and Suresh’s friend Sandeep Nair is the fourth accused. With NIA invoking the UAPA, Suresh and Sandeep are likely to surrender in a couple of days and the agency may start extradition proceedings to get Pareed.The NIA said the accused were part of a well-entrenched smuggling racket and the first accused and Suresh were actively involved in arranging the diplomatic papers for the delivery of the consignment.It also said a good portion of money generated through smuggling was used to fund some anti-national activities.The Ministry of External Affairs has also made a request to the UAE embassy in Delhi for a meeting with some employees at the consular office in Thiruvananthapuram to get more details.On Sunday, the Customs Department had seized 30 kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar, who was reported to be close to Suresh.The Union Home Ministry had handed over the probe to the NIA on Thursday.The issue took on political colour after the Opposition Congress and BJP claimed that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan knew about his principal secretary Sivasankar’s alleged link with the second accused Suresh.The Maharashtra -based varsity, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University, from where Suresh reportedly obtained her BCom degree made it clear that the varsity did not have such a course. Later, the controller of the examination Dr Vivek S Sathe sent a mail to a news channel saying it was a fake certificate. She was given a job at Air India-SATS and the Kerala IT department based on this degree. Two days back, her estranged brother also claimed she did not even clear her class 10 examination.Meanwhile protests by opposition parties seeking the resignation of the chief minister Pinarayi turned violent at several places in the state.In Kozhikode, many people were injured after police resorted to baton charge on agitating Youth League workers. In Kochi too, Yuva Morcha protests turned violent. In Kannur, police lobbed teargas shells to control Youth Congress workers who held a rally outside Vijayan’s ancestral house.“It is a big racket. Reports have emerged that they smuggled many such consignments. The CM can’t keep silent saying he was not aware of the appointment of Swapna Suresh. He has to take moral responsibility and resign,” said state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.State health minister KK Shaialaja said at several places protesters ignored social distancing and they were not wearing masks also.“We are in the midst of the worst pandemic. Hope protesters realise this,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-investigation-agency-files-case-against-4-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-scandal/story-oMqOIl9NTS7CWNMz0XqIFI.html
10-07-2020||India||Nellore municipal staff use earthmover for mass burial of Covid-19 victims, govt orders probe||The Nellore district administration on Friday ordered a probe into the incident of local municipal staff resorting to mass burial of three bodies of Covid-19 victims by carrying them in an earthmover and dumping them in a grave, at a place adjacent to Penna river.A video, apparently shot at night by a person passing by on the highway adjacent to the river, showing some people wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) taking out three bodies from an ambulance one after the other and dumping them in the front portion of the earthmover has gone viral.In another video, the earthmover was seen carrying the bodies to a grave a few metres away and dumping all of them into the pit which was already dug.As the videos went viral on social media and were played up on local television channels, the chief minister’s office ordered the Nellore district administration to conduct an inquiry.“A detailed probe has been ordered into the burial of the dead bodies of Covid-19 patients near Penna river. Nellore revenue divisional officer Hussian Saheb has been appointed as special officer and will conduct the enquiry,” an official statement from the CMO said.Hussain Saheb, who is also a sub-divisional magistrate, said he would submit a report to the district collector after conducting an inquiry into the incident.The opposition Telugu Desam Party found fault with the Nellore municipal authorities for their inhuman treatment of the bodies of Covid-19 patients. “Pained to see bodies of Covid-19 patients in Nellore being disrespectfully thrown into a single pit using an earthmover. This is happening time & again. @ysjagan Govt must offer an apology to the grieving families who wished for a respectful departure for their loved ones,” TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted.This is the third such incident in Andhra Pradesh in the recent past. On July 6, municipal authorities in Tirupati also used an earthmover to lift the body of a Covid-19 victim from an ambulance and dump it into a grave.Tirupati municipal commissioner P S Girisha admitted that the municipal staff should not have done that but said they had no option but to use the excavator to lift the body which was weighing about 175 kg only after taking the consent of the family members.On June 26, the municipal staff in Palasa town in Srikakulam district also used an earthmover to carry the body of a Covid-19 victim from his house to the graveyard for cremation, after the victim’s relatives refused to perform last rites. Following instructions from chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, the district authorities suspended six municipal employees for using an earthmover to carry the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nellore-municipal-staff-use-earthmover-for-mass-burial-of-covid-19-victims-govt-orders-probe/story-l1hKxIvwBjVToGz9et27hJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Mumbai Police blocked 1,816 objectionable content related to Covid-19 on social media: State to HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL), which had complained that Mumbai Police had violated the Constitutionally-guaranteed right to freedom of expression of the Mumbaikars by invoking Section 144 (unlawful assembly armed with a lethal weapon) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and prohibited the use of social media platforms to disseminate information during the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced since mid-March to contain the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the city.Maharashtra government submitted an affidavit and informed the HC that the prohibitory orders had ended on June 8 amid the easing of lockdown restrictions and its Mission Begin Again campaign to open up commercial activities in a bid to revive the economy that has been roiled by the pandemic.It also cited that 1,816 objectionable content was blocked between April 10 and June 8 to curb misinformation and swirling rumours pertaining to the spread of the viral outbreak in Mumbai.A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices AA Sayed and NR Borkar, while hearing the PIL filed by four persons, including a journalist, musician, occupational therapist and information technology (IT) professional, through advocates Aditi Saxena and Afreen Khan, was informed that Mumbai Police had violated the rights of the citizens guaranteed under the Indian Constitution.In a bid to curb misinformation and swirling rumours pertaining to the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, Mumbai Police had invoked Section 144 of the IPC on April 10 and restricted dissemination of information through various messaging and social media platforms. Later, another order was issued on May 23 that extended the prohibition till June 8. On June 1, the petitioners moved HC and pleaded for setting aside the Mumbai Police’s order.On June 5, the court directed the state authorities to file an affidavit in response to the plea.On Friday, Maharashtra advocate-general (A-G) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and government pleader Poornima Kantharia submitted the state government’s affidavit and said that the Mumbai Police had kept under surveillance various social media platforms April 10 to curb the spread of misinformation and swirling rumours pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic.Kumbhakoni submitted that information spread through these platforms was creating apprehension and panic among the public and as a result, it was necessary to impose the prohibitory order during the lockdown restrictions.Kumbhakoni read out a select portion of the affidavit filed by Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operations), which said, “It has been observed that there is widespread dissemination of fake news, incorrect information, misinformation and other such objectionable content in the form of messages, videos (both edited and self-created), images or memes (both edited and self-created), audio clips and other such forms of communication or internet messaging and various social media platforms.”“Such type of content was found to have caused panic, confusion among the general public, inciting mistrust towards government functionaries and their actions taken to control the Covid-19 pandemic and also to have created animosity towards various communities,” it added.Kumbhakoni prayed before the court that in light of the affidavit and the fact that prohibitory orders ended on 8, the plea is infructuous and should be dismissed.The court saw merit in the Maharashtra A-G’s argument and disposed of the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-blocked-1-816-objectionable-content-related-to-covid-19-on-social-media-state-to-hc/story-u60WIidNRe0TwN23kQLdbK.html
10-07-2020||India||Pune lockdown in two phases, here are the five important things to know||Maharashtra government has decided to clamp a 10-day-long lockdown in areas under Pune district beginning Monday, July 13, with a stated aim to stem the spread of rising Covid-19 infections in the city that has recorded a big surge in positive cases including the highest single day spike of over 1,800 cases, recorded on Thursday. The tally of coronavirus infections in the district is reported to have reached 34,399, while the death toll has risen to 978. The decision to enforce the lockdown was taken in a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar.Here are the five important things to know about the lockdown in Pune1. Lockdown is being imposed in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and some other rural areas of the district from July 13 to July 23 to force social distancing and prevent the spread of the infection. Ajit Pawar said that people should look at England’s example where lifting of restrictions had recently resulted in people’s assembly at public places with little respect for safety norms in place to prevent the spread of the virus.2. Complete lockdown will be observed in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of rural Pune from 13th July to 23rd July. 22 villages have been identified in rural parts of the Pune district for the implementation of lockdown rules. Containment zones will be added not only in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area, but also in these villages that have been identified as Covid hotspots.Covid 19 latest: 10-day lockdown in Pune clamped on the back of highest single-day spike3. The lockdown will be implemented in two phases. In the first phase, from 13-18 July, only medical shops, dairies and hospitals will be allowed to remain open in the city. Newspapers will also be allowed to be delivered, said Shekhar Gaikwad, commissioner, Pune Municipal Commission. The first phase of lockdown will be stricter.4. Administration has advised people to purchase essentials within the next two days because only essential services will remain open after that. Emergency services have been excluded from the lockdown. Only shops related to essential services like dairy and medical stores and hospitals will remain open, said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.5. A detailed order about the lockdown will be issued soon by the district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-lockdown-in-two-phases-here-are-the-five-important-things-to-know/story-45nTPVouPbyEm9u5vWqexO.html
10-07-2020||India||Why Vikas Dubey encounter is reminiscent of gunning down of accused in Hyderabad vet’s rape and murder case||The killing of gangster Vikas Dubey and some of his henchmen in a series of alleged encounters in Uttar Pradesh is reminiscent of a similar incident here in which four people, accused of rape and murder of a veterinary doctor, had met a similar fate in December 2019.In the Cyberabad incident, all the four accused were killed at one go in an exchange of fire.Police in both the cases claimed that the suspects “snatched” their weapons and opened fire at them forcing them to retaliatory action “in self-defence.” Dubey was shot dead Friday by police, who claim he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on the outskirts of Kanpur.He was the sixth man to die in a police encounter after the ambush he allegedly masterminded in Kanpur’s Bikru village past midnight on July 2, killing eight policemen who had come to arrest him.Earlier, five members of Dubey gang were killed in separate encounters.Surprisingly in both the Kanpur and Cyberabad encounters, the accused were not handcuffed while they were being taken in vehicles before the alleged retaliatory firing took place resulting in their deaths.The snatched weapons were in “unlocked” position and the slain accused were not handcuffed when the firing took place, the Cyberabad Police Commissioner VC Sajjanar had earlier said when asked whether they were handcuffed. According to Cyberabad police on the night of November 27, 2019, the four accused kidnapped the woman veterinarian and killed her after sexually assaulting her, and then shifted the body in a lorry to Chattanpalli near here where it was burnt under a culvert. They were arrested on November 29.They were killed in police firing on December 6, 2019 at Chattanpalli when they were taken to the scene of crime near the culvert, under which the charred remains of the 25-year-old veterinarian were found on November 28, to recover her phone, wrist-watch and others pertaining to the case.The Cyberabad police had claimed that its personnel resorted to “retaliatory” firing after two of the accused opened fire after snatching their weapons besides attacking them with stones and sticks, resulting in injuries to two policemen.The Telangana government had set up a Special Investigation Team to probe the killings.In December last year, the Supreme Court appointed a three-member inquiry commission headed by former apex court judge V S Sirpurkar to probe the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-vikas-dubey-encounter-is-reminiscent-of-gunning-down-of-accused-in-hyderabad-vet-s-rape-and-murder-case/story-svZLKZhSm4tmsfdvHQzxVK.html
10-07-2020||India||With 120 projects, over 5k jobs, India now second biggest investor in UK||India has emerged as the second highest investor in the United Kingdom, with 120 new projects and creating 5,429 jobs in 2019-20, the Department for International Trade said on Friday, reflecting continuing confidence among Indian companies in a UK-base in the post-Brexit scenario.Official figures show the UK attracted 1,852 new inward investment projects in 2019-20, representing a 4% increase on the previous year. The United States continues to be the biggest source of foreign direct investment in the UK.India is now the UK’s second largest source of investment followed by Germany, France and China and Hong Kong, the department said. It is estimated that there are nearly 900 Indian companies operating from a base in the United Kingdom.India was at number 3 in the list of foreign investors 2018-19 with 106 new projects; Germany was number 2 with 109 new projects.International trade secretary Liz Truss said: “These figures further demonstrate the resilience of the UK economy and the work of the government to continue to build and attract inward investment into the UK”.India is one of the key markets the Boris Johnson government hopes to reach a free trade agreement after the current Brexit transition period ends on December 31. Talks on such a pact are expected to begin in early 2021.“Developing key sectors such as advanced manufacturing, life sciences and renewable energy will help us to rebound post-pandemic and build on our attractive business environment across the UK for investors around the globe”, Truss added.Prime Minister Johnson, who promised to deliver a “truly special UK-India relationship” during the December 2019 election, said: “When I was with Prime Minister Modi I stressed that the UK and India are two modern democracies who should work closely together to promote trade and prosperity, improve global security and tackle the challenges our countries face.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-120-projects-over-5k-jobs-india-now-second-biggest-investor-in-uk/story-Bh6ZMpbhkQdVCpilC79MmN.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Will ensure disengagement of troops at LAC’: India, China reiterate stand||India and China on Friday once again reiterated that they will work to ensure “complete disengagement of the troops” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh region, where 15 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in a violent face off with the Chinese army. The comments were made at the 16th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs.The two sides maintained that “peace and tranquillity in the border areas” was essential for overall development of the bilateral relations.On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry had told HT that its troops had begun to disengage from the Galwan Valley, a day after New Delhi and Beijing simultaneously announced their decision to deescalate the two-month long tense situation in the area.In all, the two sides have had three meetings between military corps commanders on June 6, 22 and 30 and two meetings of the WMCC on June 5 and 24.At todays’ meeting, the Indian delegation was led by Joint Secretary (East Asia) from the Ministry of External Affairs, while the Director General of the Boundary & Oceanic Department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs led the Chinese delegation.The two sides drew on the agreement reached between two foreign ministers on June 17 as well as the agreement arrived at between the two Special Representatives on July 5. The two countries reviewed the progress made in ongoing disengagement along the LAC in Ladakh and agreed that it was “necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understandings” reached between them.It was decided to keep the communication lines at the diplomatic and military level open between the two sides. They also agreed to hold another meeting, but stopped short of giving a date and time. In another related development, Chinese envoy to India Sun Weidong underlined the need for India and China to be partners rather than rivals. He further emphasised that the two countries should pursue win-win cooperation instead of a zero-sum game. He called on the need to build trust rather than suspicion and made a push for bilateral ties to move forward rather than backward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-disengagement-of-troops-at-lac-india-china-reiterate-stand/story-omvw9m5gMIfzAMR8HjxVdP.html
10-07-2020||India||Vehicle carrying gangster Vikas Dubey overturned while saving herd of cattle, claims police as criticism mounts||The special task force of Uttar Pradesh Police has released a detailed account of the circumstances leading up to Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter on Friday morning in response to allegations that it was staged to eliminate a criminal who could have possibly revealed uncomfortable details of an alleged police-criminal-politician nexus in the state.The press statement says that an attempt by the “tired” driver of the vehicle, carrying Dubey, to save a herd of cows and buffaloes that suddenly came running across, led to its overturning. The statement adds that several policemen sitting inside the vehicle were temporarily knocked unconscious due to the impact, giving Dubey the opportunity to snatch inspector Ramakant Pachauri’s service revolver and jump out of the vehicle before attempting to escape.“Accused Vikas Dubey was being brought back in a government vehicle by the Lucknow team of STF Uttar Pradesh, led by deputy police superintendent Shri Tej Bahadur Singh. During the journey, when the vehicle reached the national highway near Kanhaiya Lal Hospital in Kanpur district’s Sachendi police station limits, a herd of cows and buffaloes came running in front of the vehicle. The driver, who was tired due to the long journey (from Ujjain to Kanpur), steered the vehicle attempting to save the cattle, resulting in its overturning,” the statement in Hindi says.Kin of killed cops find solace in Vikas Dubey’s death while debate rages over gangster’s encounterThe statement is an attempt to address disbelief expressed by several politicians and experts over UP police’s account of events this morning that led to Dubey getting shot dead. Experts and politicians alleged it to be an act of cover up to protect the high and mighty who may have enjoyed links with the dreaded gangster with more than 60 criminal cases against his name.“It isn’t the car that had overturned; the government saved itself from overturning by preventing the secrets coming out,” said Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party leader, who was one among the many voices questioning the authenticity of the police account.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also suggested a cover up.“His silence is better than several answers as it keeps the honour of several questions,” Rahul Gandhi had said. Priyanka wanted to know if those who helped Dubey will even be exposed.The STF press note attempts to set the record straight by providing details of the incident. The note says the police officials tried to get close to a fleeing Dubey so that he could be nabbed alive, but since Dubey continued to fire at the police with an intention to kill, the cops were left with little option but to shoot him down.Videos tangle matters further in UP gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter puzzle“Deputy superintendent of Police, STF, Tej Bahadur Singh instructed officers regarding treatment of policemen injured in the accident and then proceeded to chase Vikas Dubey, who started firing at the police party with the pistol he had snatched from the police inspector. He was firing at the police party with an intention to kill.It adds that “with the aim to grab the accused alive, the policemen including the deputy superintendent got very close to Vikas Yadav, who unleashed a barrage of fire on the cops at the last moment. Left with no other options, the police team had to open fire in self-defense and in pursuance of their duty. Accused Vikas Dubey fell down after receiving bullet injuries fired by cops in retaliation. He was immediately provided with first aid and taken to a government hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicle-carrying-gangster-vikas-dubey-overturned-while-saving-herd-of-cattle-claims-police-as-criticism-mounts/story-MHdDKn8V4qmpfMTXgyV4ZM.html
10-07-2020||India||Tireless awareness campaign and a film help contain Covid-19 in Darjeeling hills||Barely 30 km away from Siliguri, the biggest town in the planes of Darjeeling district where a spike in Covid-19 cases led to partial lockdown from Thursday, people at Tindharia, a cluster of hamlets in the hills, have set an example. A group of volunteers from the hamlets have succeeded in creating awareness against social stigma faced by patients and common misconceptions about coronavirus.While the number of Covid-19 cases in Darjeeling district stood at 736 till Thursday and the death toll reached 33 in Siliguri, only one case was reported at Tindharia.The door-to-door campaign started two months ago. The volunteers, who gathered under the banner, Surveillance Team Tindharia, created not only social awareness but also made a 40-minute film on the subject.Made in Nepali language, Aafnopan tells people that patients as well as members of their families need mental support and should take precautionary measures. Since the volunteers wrote the script, played their parts and even did the editing, the project had cost virtually nothing. Santosh Lama, one of the volunteers, said, “Initially it was difficult convincing villagers, many of whom are ignorant about the virus, that stigmatizing patients and their families is the wrong approach. They need love and care.”“After the Covid-19 pandemic started, many migrant workers who returned home were forced to stay in the forests. But those who are returning now stay in home quarantine,” said Benoy Chettri, another volunteer.“The campaign worked. The villagers started taking food to people living in quarantine. They also started participating in our street-corner meetings,” said Karma Moktan, coordinator of the team.This inspired the team to make Aafnopan. The project was completed in a week.“Aafnopan is a success story. It shows how social collaboration, discipline and awareness can fight ignorance and Covid-19,” said Animesh Bose, joint coordinator of the Siliguri Fight Corona Committee, a body formed by volunteers in Siliguri.In the hills, many surveillance committees have been working tirelessly to ensure that those coming from outside are put in mandatory quarantine but the picture has been quite different in Siliguri.“Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce and Industries, an organisation of 19 big and small business organizations, has demanded a blanket lockdown in greater Siliguri, which includes the town and some parts of adjoining Jalpaiguri district. Nothing else can contain the pandemic, “said Surajit Paul, convenor of the chamber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tireless-awareness-campaign-and-a-film-help-contain-covid-19-in-darjeeling-hills/story-NHQEiGr4VS4x2hkUWnvINN.html
10-07-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh’s highest single-day spike trend cotinues, tally rises to 33,700||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 33,700 on Friday with the highest single-day spike of 1,338 cases, while the death toll reached 889 after 27 patients succumbed to the disease, a senior official said. The previous highest single-day spike in fresh cases -- 1,332 -- was recorded on July 7. Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 11,024 active cases in the state, while 21,787 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As many as 38,006 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to 10.74 lakh, Prasad said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate seven new labs of RT-PCR tests at a programme here on Saturday. These seven labs will be set up in Aligarh, Varanasi, Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Mirzapur and Balrampur hospital in Lucknow, he said. Taking strict action against those who step out without face covers in public places, the Uttar Pradesh government has increased the penalty on violators from Rs 100 to Rs 500, Prasad said. He said 36,114 help desks in the state have so far identified 16,030 people with symptoms and their tests are being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-highest-single-day-spike-trend-cotinues-tally-rises-to-33-700/story-u0rVzdKJ8ybKtMP6DUisbK.html
10-07-2020||India||Brahmaputra, northern tributaries of Ganga in severe flood situation due to continuous rains||The entire Brahmaputra and northern tributaries of the Ganges, including Ghagara and Barabanki, are in severe flood situation due to continuous rains, according to the Central Water Commission (CWC).The CWC in its Thursday flood situation report said floods in the north-east would aggravate in the coming days.The Brahmaputra is continuing to be in floods all through its reach from Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh district to lower Assam’s Dhubri district.Brahmaputra’s tributaries such as Jia Bharali, Dhanasiri, Desang, and Beki are also flowing in a severe flood situation.Severe flood is declared when the water level is touching or exceeding the danger level, but below the highest flood level (HFL).River levels in the region are likely to rise further rapidly because of a forecast for very heavy to extremely heavy rains in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, and Sikkim from Friday to Sunday. Several landslides were reported from Arunachal Pradesh on Thursday and Friday, where at least eight people lost their lives.Some districts like East Siang in Arunachal Pradesh; East Khasi Hills in Meghalaya received more than 200 millimetres (mm) of rain on Thursday.East Siang received 296.6 mm rain against a normal of 39.9 mm, a 644% excess, and east Khasi hills received 340.3 mm against normal of 63.3 mm, a 438% excess.“There is a likelihood of flash floods in hilly regions of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Sikkim. This combined with the existing riverine flood will further aggravate the flood situation. Since most of the catchments in north-east India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and Sikkim are already saturated there is a likelihood of continuation of floods in severe to extreme levels for the next three-four days. Maximum vigil has to be maintained along the banks of all rivers in these districts,” the CWC said in its report.Very heavy rains in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Uttarakhand, Bihar from Friday to Sunday is likely to trigger a severe flood situation in many places. Ghaghra in Ayodhya and Barabanki in UP is flowing in a severe flood category.India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its Friday bulletin said the monsoon trough is running close to the foothills of Himalayas. The combined effect of monsoon intensification in the hills and convergence of south westerly-southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal will continue over northeast & east India during the next three-four days. Under its influence, widespread and extremely heavy rain is likely over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh on Friday and Saturday and over eastern UP on Saturday and Sunday.“Extremely heavy rains have started over the north-east and eastern India because of the shifting of the monsoon trough. Hilly areas of Uttarakhand will also receive extremely heavy rains because it is receiving moisture both from the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC).“The normal position of the monsoon trough is between Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal. But through the monsoon months the trough keeps shifting or oscillating,” she added.The distribution of monsoon rains from June 1 to July 10 has been skewed with a large part of the country including Bihar, UP, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Sikkim and Meghalaya receiving excess rains. Delhi and Himachal Pradesh have remained largely dry, according to IMD.Earlier this week Okha in Gujarat made an all-time record with 480 mm of rain recorded on Tuesday.On July 5, Khambala, Kalyanpur, and Porbandar recorded 490 mm, 360 mm, and 290 mm, respectively, an all-time district average record in Dwarka. Thane and Mumbai also recorded extremely heavy rains on July 3 with 170 mm at Colaba in south Mumbai and 380 mm in Thane. “The west coast had received exceptional rains. This was mainly a result of a low-pressure area formation over Saurashtra and Kutch between July 5 and 8 and another low-pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal off Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts in the middle of the week which moved inland subsequently maintaining its intensity for about 48t hours,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at NWFC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmaputra-northern-tributaries-of-ganga-in-severe-flood-situation-due-to-continuous-rains/story-EDHSPpnPLzuXtjKal2eEQJ.html
10-07-2020||India||‘I am sorry’: KCR on damage to mosque, temple during secretariat demolition||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday expressed regret over the damage caused to two mosques and a temple in the premises of Telangana secretariat which is being demolished to pave way for the construction of a new official complex.“I am sorry about the incident. This happened unexpectedly. It should not have happened. The government’s intention is to build a new secretariat complex by demolishing the old buildings without causing any damage to the temple or the mosques,” an official release from the chief minister’s office quoting KCR said.The demolition of two mosques - Masjid Dafaatir-e-Muatamadi and Masjid-e-Hashmi and Nalla Pochamma temple, a Hindu shrine, which had been part of the secretariat complex for decades - kicked up a controversy evoking protests from the religious groups.Muslim groups strongly protested the demolition of mosques without consulting the Islamic religious heads. “One cannot shift the mosque from its original place. Once a mosque, always a mosque,” Hamid Mohammad Khan, president of Jamaat-e-Islami, Telangana chapter, told Hindustan Times.Leaders of the United Muslim Forum led by Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, condemned the demolition of two mosques in the premises of the old secretariat in Hyderabad and demanded their immediate reconstruction.“The tragic and unconstitutional demolition of the two mosques caused pain and agony to the Muslims. If the government failed to take steps for reconstruction of the demolished mosques at the same place without any delay, Muslims would be forced to launch a strong protest,” a statement from the UMF said.Hyderabad-based political outfit Majlis-Bachao Tehreek (MBT) sought the intervention of the Central Wakf Board in the matter and urged it to take appropriate action. “We are also lodging a complaint with the police against the chief minister and the state government for demolishing the mosques thereby hurting the sentiments of Muslims,” said MBT spokesperson Amjadulla Khan.Bharatiya Janata Party state official spokesman K Krishna Sagar Rao warned KCR of serious consequences and backlash from Hindus across the state of Telangana for demolishing a Hindu Temple in the state secretariat complex.“Destroying a temple is a blasphemy. The KCR government has undertaken an insulting and insinuating act of demolishing Hindus’ place of worship unilaterally. He has considered neither the sanctity of the temple, emotions of those who pray there nor the sentiments of the Hindus in the state,” Rao said.The chief minister, according to the official statement, said the temple and the mosques were damaged after debris fell on them while demolishing the secretariat buildings adjacent to them.He declared that in the new Secretariat premises, a new temple and mosque would be constructed in a much bigger area. The CM added he would soon have a meeting with the temple and mosque authorities over the matter.Meanwhile, the state high court on Friday stayed the demolition of secretariat buildings till Monday and asked the government to submit the details of permissions obtained for demolition.A division bench of the state high court comprising chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijayasen Reddy granted the stay order after hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Professor P L Vishweshwar Rao, Convenor Telangana Democratic Forum.The petitioner complained that the demolition was being carried out without following the due procedure of law and more specifically, the procedure laid down under the Demolition and Construction Rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-sorry-kcr-on-damage-to-mosque-temple-during-secretariat-demolition/story-mBrHvBbrKZtGBTNNetd80I.html
10-07-2020||India||UP records highest single-day spike of 1,338 Covid-19 cases, tally past 33,000||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 33,700 on Friday with the highest single-day spike of 1,338 cases, while the death toll reached 889 after 27 patients succumbed to the disease, a senior official said. The previous highest single-day spike in fresh cases -- 1,332 -- was recorded on July 7. Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 11,024 active cases in the state, while 21,787 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As many as 38,006 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to 10.74 lakh, Prasad said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate seven new labs of RT-PCR tests at a programme here on Saturday. These seven labs will be set up in Aligarh, Varanasi, Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Mirzapur and Balrampur hospital in Lucknow, he said. Taking strict action against those who step out without face covers in public places, the Uttar Pradesh government has increased the penalty on violators from Rs 100 to Rs 500, Prasad said. He said 36,114 help desks in the state have so far identified 16,030 people with symptoms and their tests are being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-338-covid-19-cases-tally-past-33-700/story-HcA0fPnql6T73hyaUgexIN.html
10-07-2020||India||Raipur reports record single-day surge, 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases||Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur reported 56 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday, a single-day record high among the 28 districts in the state over the past 15 days, officials said.State health department data showed that Raipur reported 15 Covid-19 positive cases between March 18 and April 30, but from June 1 to July 10 the figure climbed to 556, a record for any district in the state, amid growing concerns among officials how to contain the viral outbreak.On Thursday, three members of the family of the mayor of the Raipur Municipal Corporation (RMC), were among the 56 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in the city, including eight jawans of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), two government doctors and seven police personnel, officials said.“Raipur has 68 active containment zones, as the state capital is reporting around 13 Covid-19 positive cases daily. Raipur is the worst-affected place in Chhattisgarh, as far as the viral outbreak is concerned,” said a state health official.Niharika Barik Singh, health secretary, Chhattisgarh, put the reasons behind the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Raipur in perspective.“Several international travellers are found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. Moreover, many people from outside the state are coming to Raipur, a business hub, for trade amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions. Goods trucks are also coming to Raipur daily. No wonder, the city is the most susceptible to the viral outbreak,” Singh said.State officials also cited that aggressive daily testing has led to a spike in Covid-19 positive cases of late.“Raipur is testing up to 800 swab samples daily, which is exponentially higher than other districts in the state. All those, who have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient, are being mandatorily tested,” said Saurabh Kumar, commissioner, RMC.On Thursday, Chhattisgarh reported 146 Covid-19 positive cases, as the state’s tally stood at 3,679, and a death related to the viral outbreak at a hospital in Raipur.The state has recorded 761 active Covid-19 positive cases and 15 deaths to date, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raipur-reports-record-single-day-surge-56-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases/story-Y7GGPxrXIV8EN3rgTQsjfI.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: 10-day lockdown in Pune, clamped on the back of highest single-day spike||Highest single day spike in Covid cases in Maharashtra’s second worst-affected district, registered on Thursday, has led to administration deciding to clamp a 10-day-long complete lockdown in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of Rural Pune from July 13 to July 23.1,803 new Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday pushed the district’s overall count to 34,399, PTI quoted a health official as saying on Friday.34 new casualties have taken the death toll in the district to 978.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Complete lockdown announced for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of Rural Pune from 13th July to 23rd July. Only shops related to essential services like dairy and medical stores and hospitals will remain open,” Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Thursday, 1,032 cases out of 1,803 were reported from within the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits, where the number of positive patients has reached 24,977, the official quoted above added. 573 new cases were reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad region, taking the total count in the industrial township to 6,982.The rural parts of the district and the areas in the Pune cantonment board have risen to 3,138.The administration has identified 22 villages in the rural parts of Pune district where this lockdown will be implemented. The Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said that containment zones will be added to these villages apart from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas.Pune is not the only district in Maharashtra to go for increased restrictions as the state struggles to cope with the rising number of coronavirus cases. Aurangabad is also observing nine-day long Janta curfew aimed at disrupting the chain of transmissions. Maharashtra: Streets deserted in Aurangabad as city observes 9-day long Janta curfewThe decision to clamp a hard lockdown comes as the cases in Pune witness a rapid rise. On Wednesday, Pune city had reported 1,006 new coronavirus cases, which was a new record for most number of daily cases till it was overshadowed by nearly 2,000 cases on Thursday.ON Thursday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,30,599 with the addition of 6,875 new cases. The state also reported 219 deaths, taking the toll to 9,667, the state health department had said.The statement said the case recovery rate in the state was 55.19per cent, while the fatality rate stood at 4.19 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-11-days-lockdown-in-pune-clamped-on-the-back-of-highest-single-day-spike/story-mE3ixnDtKWpUKaASgQ88JI.html
10-07-2020||India||US aerospace major Boeing completes delivery of 37 military helicopters to India||In the midst of India’s tense border standoff with China, US aerospace major Boeing delivered the final five of the 22 Apache attack helicopters to the Indian Air Force last month, and the fleet has now been part of the assets deployed in key air bases along the Line of Actual Control, officials said on Friday.Boeing said it completed delivery of all 22 Apache and 15 Chinook military helicopters to the IAF and is fully committed to meet their operational needs of the Indian armed forces.Read here: Back story of how India readied its fleet of Chinook, Apache attack choppersThe AH-64E Apache is one of the world’s most advanced multi-role combat helicopters, and is flown by the US Army. The Chinook is a multi-role, vertical-lift platform, primarily used for transporting troops, artillery, equipment and fuel.India finalised a multi-billion dollar contract with Boeing to procure 22 Apache helicopters and 15 Chinooks for the IAF in September 2015.Both the Apache and Chinook helicopters have been pressed into service as part of the IAF’s deployment along the LAC in view of the bitter standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, officials said.“With this delivery of military helicopters, we continue to nurture this partnership and are fully committed to working closely with India’s defence forces to deliver the right value and capabilities to meet their operational needs,” said Surendra Ahuja, Managing Director, Boeing Defence India. India is one of 17 nations to select the Apache and has the most advanced variant, the AH-64E Apache.Defence and security ties between India and the US have been on an upswing in the last six years. The bilateral defence trade touched USD 18 billion mark in 2019, reflecting growing defence cooperation between the two sides.Both sides have also been pushing for joint venture and collaboration between private sectors of the two countries in defence manufacturing.In June 2016, the US had designated India a “Major Defence Partner,” intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with New Delhi to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners.In a statement, Boeing said the AH-64E Apache has an improved modernised target acquisition designation system that provides day and night target tracking system.“In addition to classifying air and ground targets, the fire control radar has been updated to operate in the maritime environment. It is uniquely suited to meet a commander’s needs, including reconnaissance, security, peacekeeping operations, and lethal attack, across myriad environments - without reconfiguration,” the Boeing said.It said 20 defence forces around the world either have Chinooks in service, or are on contract to receive them. “The iconic tandem-rotor helicopter has been the world’s most reliable and efficient heavy-lift helicopter for more than 50 years, allowing customers to operate in climatic (hot), altitude (high), and crosswind conditions,” the company said. It said the CH-47F(I) Chinook contains a modern machined airframe, a common avionics architecture system cockpit, and a digital automatic flight control system. “Those innovations and technologies will help the Indian Air Force meet evolving mission demands, maximize interoperability, and reduce life-cycle costs,” it said.Earlier this year, India and the US signed a contract for the acquisition of six Apaches for the Indian Army during President Donald Trump’s visit to Delhi. Boeing’s joint venture with Tata in Hyderabad has been producing aero-structures for the AH-64 Apache helicopter for both US Army and international customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-aerospace-major-boeing-completes-delivery-of-37-military-helicopters-to-india/story-Gw5SWY6Pu5h0XxL4BHzzgM.html
10-07-2020||India||How Delhi managed to curb its Covid-19 spike: All you need to know||Delhi’s Covid-19 count crossed the 1 lakh mark earlier this week with a continuing surge in new cases since the end of June. A ray of hope, however, shone through the health crisis in the capital as the recovery rate from the infection increased and nearly 80,000 patients recovered from the disease, according to Delhi government data. With the number of tests increasing, the death toll too has indicated a slight dip while the projections for July have not yet happened. These positive signs have raised hopes that the national capital may well be able to flatten the coronavirus curve if things go according to plan. Experts, have however, cautioned about the need to sustain the dip in cases. They have emphasised on the urgent need to continue with social distancing guidelines, mandatory wearing of masks, hand hygiene and other dos and don’ts to ward off the infection. Neglecting any of the health guidelines could once again lead to coronavirus cases soaring in the national capital, health experts have said.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 deaths per million among lowest globally: Health MinistryAlthough Covid-19 cases surged and crossed the one lakh mark on July 6, the active cases and positivity rate declined and the recovery rate increased in Delhi. On July 5, the recovery rate was 71.74 per cent, up from 63.32 per cent the week before . This was higher than the national recovery rate which at that time was 60.7 per cent.The Delhi government has adopted certain containment plans to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Here are some of the measures that have helped Delhi to fight the viral infection and bring about a dip in Covid-19 cases:1. Home Isolation and an awareness drive:The Delhi government has promoted the concept of home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients who were asymptomatic or even had mild symptoms. These patients made up almost 80% of all Covid-19 positive cases. Medical teams visited their homes explaining home isolation. Regular monitoring was done by these teams and guidance given via daily phone calls by healthcare workers. So patients had the option of recovering in the comfort of their homes. Their family members were also quarantined in the same house for 2 weeks and this ensured that they did not spread the disease. The accompanying awareness campaign also helped to reduce the stigma around being Covid-19-positive for most people. 2. Aggressive testing and Isolation of patients:The national capital had been following a strategy of high testing from the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. Before the end of last month, the capital city was testing more than any other state in India at 10,500 tests per million on May 31. From the first week of June, a strategy of increased testing was adopted by the Delhi government with a focus on areas that were becoming coronavirus hotspots. In the first week of June, the Delhi government carried out 5,500 tests per day. With the help of antigen test kits, by mid-June, the government carried out 11,000 tests per day and by the first week of July almost 21,000 tests per day. Obviously increased testing hiked the number of cases so Covid-19 positive patients were traced and isolated to curb the spread. So the number of active coronavirus cases began to plateau despite high testing, from June 16 onwards and fresh cases began to sharply decline from June 23.ALSO READ | ICMR plans nationwide sero-survey to detect exposure of people to Covid-19 infection3. Increasing hospital beds in Delhi:Till early June, there were only 8 private hospitals that were treating Covid-19 patients and these had a total of 700 beds available. This was in addition to 2,500 beds in Delhi government hospitals. When the cases started rising in the first week of June, the 8 private hospitals filled their capacity and when patients reached some of these hospitals they found no beds available. The government started expanding bed capacity in private hospitals. According to a government order, all private hospitals with more than 50 beds had to reserve 40% of beds for treating Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals increased from 700 to 5000, it also meant that Covid-19 facilities were now available in all parts of the city.4. Roping in large hotels and banquet halls:A few hotels were linked to private hospitals thereby increasing bed capacity of hospitals. With this hotel linkage, the number of beds in private hospitals went up from 5000 to 7000. Currently, there are over 15,000 Covid-19 beds in Delhi. While much of this increased capacity is still vacant - with only 38% of 15,000+ beds are occupied.5. Counselling of coronavirus patients by doctors:Many suspected patients rushed to hospitals, even though their symptoms were mild and they did not need hospitalization. In response to this, the Delhi government collaborated with a network of NGOs and doctor-volunteers who started real-time calling and counselling of Covid-19 positive patients, as soon as their lab reports got uploaded. A patient was able to get medical advice and counselling within hours of getting their lab reports. When doctors counselled them and explained how most coronavirus patients did not need hospitalization, patients were able to cope with the psychological and trauma of the disease.6. Plasma Therapy:Convalescent plasma showed encouraging results across countries in preventing mortality amongst critical patients, as it provides the patient with antibodies to fight the virus. Delhi was one of the first cities to start an experimental trial of plasma therapy in LNJP, the largest Delhi government Covid-19 facility. Trial results were encouraging. So Plasma Therapy could save some lives in Delhi. The government also set up a ‘Plasma Bank’ so that patients could easily access convalescent plasma. An aggressive awareness campaign for plasma donation has been led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to encourage recovered patients to come forward and donate their plasma for treating others.7. Oximeters and Oxygen Concentrators: One of the causes of deaths due to coronavirus is reduction in oxygen levels in the blood, hypoxia. Unlike other ailments where this hypoxia is accompanied with breathlessness, in Covid-19 a phenomenon of ‘Happy Hypoxia’, wherein a patient may have dangerously low levels of oxygen but may not be aware about it is visible. Monitoring oxygen levels and having accessible supply of oxygen was crucial to prevent mortality of patients in Home Isolation. The Delhi Govt provided oximeters to all patients recovering in home isolation so they could monitor their oxygen levels to prevent any sudden dip. The government purchased 59,600 oximeters and 58,974 are in use by patients in home isolation. Oxygen Concentrators were provided to local dispensaries that could immediately take these to a patient’s home and provide oxygen support, if their oxygen levels began to dip. The Delhi government purchased 2,750 oxygen concentrators. Most beds in Delhi government hospitals have oxygen facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-managed-to-curb-its-covid-19-spike-all-you-need-to-know/story-lXoVp05qbr44OlFt4uvbOJ.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China and India should be partners, not rivals, says Chinese ambassador and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China and India should be partners, not rivals: Chinese ambassador to IndiaNew Delhi: India and China need peace rather than confrontation and should work together to maintain peace and tranquillity along their disputed border until they find a “reasonable solution” to the complicated issue through negotiations, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said on Friday. Read moreVikas Dubey was hit on his chest, arm as he tried to escape from police: ReportVikas Dubey, the Uttar Pradesh gangster accused of killing eight policemen last week, was on Friday hit by four bullets in the retaliatory firing by members of the Special Task Force (STF) who tried stop him from escaping near Kanpur city, news agency ANI reported. Read moreVikas Dubey killed: Watch Priyanka Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav & Mayawati’s responseGangster Vikas Dubey has been killed in an encounter by the UP police after he reportedly tried to flee following an accident. Politics has now escalated over the matter with the Congress, Samajwadi Party and the BSP questioning the Yogi government. Watch to know moreChief Minister Arvind Kejriwal praises ‘New Zealand origin Delhiite’ for donating plasma, tweets videoDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to share a video of YouTuber Karl Rock. The chief minister praised Rock for donating plasma at Delhi government’s plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital located in Vasant Kunj. Read moreThe Old Guard movie review: Charlize Theron is back in beast mode in massively entertaining Netflix filmNetflix is no longer just in the original movie business, it’s in the franchise business. Not to be outdone by the other players in the market, which often fall back on legacy titles when the going gets tough, the streamer is well on its way to creating a legacy of its own. Read more‘One of the best exponents of reverse swing’: Sachin Tendulkar’s huge praise for veteran pacerFrom Imran Khan to Wasim Akram, and from Zaheer Khan to Waqar Younis, reverse swing is an art that has turned bowlers into legends. Some of the biggest seamers in world cricket have employed reverse swing in their arsenal as they went about toppling the opposition’s batting order. Read moreAlaya F’s home made coffee mask is perfect to get rid of dark circles, puffiness and moreBollywood newcomer Alaya F has been very productive with her time at home during the lockdown, imposed because of the coronavirus pandemic, and has been posting some very interesting and helpful workout tips, healthy recipes and sharing her home made skincare routine as well. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-and-india-should-be-partners-not-rivals-says-chinese-ambassador-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sqoK8w8BGKkJwwjFO6oT8I.html
10-07-2020||India||Total lockdown in Maharashtra’s Pune from July 13-23||A complete lockdown will be in place in Pune and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad districts from July 13-23, the Maharashtra government announced on Friday to stem the spread of coronavirus. Only shops related to essential services will remain open, it added.The district reported a record spike of 1,803 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday that pushed the tally to 34,399, while the toll rose to 978. “Complete lockdown announced for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of Rural Pune from 13th July to 23rd July. Only shops related to essential services like dairy and medical stores and hospitals will remain open,” said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.Twenty two villages have been identified in rural parts of Pune district where this lockdown will be implemented, said Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector. The officer added that the decision was taken to break the chain of viral spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-lockdown-in-maharashtra-s-pune-from-july-13-23/story-sSOx9XZL9odRVncqdOgDBO.html
10-07-2020||India||Jammu: BSF jawan dies of cardiac arrest||A head constable of the 183 battalion of the Border Security Force (BSF) died of cardiac arrest in Mendhar sector of Poonch district in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) on Friday at around 8.30am, officials said. The deceased has been identified as Uma Shanker, a resident of Ghazipur village in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Later, his body was shifted to Poonch district hospital for an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-bsf-jawan-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/story-sntzagKLzSAKLY0SFlOfsL.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Partners, rather than rivals’: Chinese ambassador to India||India and China need peace rather than confrontation and should work together to maintain peace and tranquillity along their disputed border until they find a “reasonable solution” to the complicated issue through negotiations, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said on Friday.Sun said the two sides should be “partners, rather than rivals” and also addressed calls from some quarters for the “decoupling” of bilateral economic and trade relations and to exclude “Made in China” goods, saying non-tariff barriers and restrictive measures would be unfair to Chinese enterprises and Indian consumers.The envoy further said India and China need to build trust through mutual respect and treating each other as equals. The two sides need to “respect and accommodate mutual core interests and major concerns” and adhere to the principle of non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, he said.Sun conveyed China’s position against the backdrop of partial disengagement by Indian and Chinese troops at key friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after a two-month standoff.The Indian side is proceeding with the disengagement process with extreme caution and on Thursday reiterated its rejection of China’s claim on Galwan Valley, which was the scene of a violent clash on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties.Sun made the remarks in a nearly 18-minute video posted on the Chinese embassy’s YouTube channel. The theme of his remarks was “Implement consensus and handle differences properly to bring China-India relations back on the right track” and the envoy made several references to the age-old ties between the two sides and the consensus achieved through the informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping since 2018.The envoy’s remarks focused on five key points – India and China should be partners, rather than rivals, they need peace rather than confrontation, they should pursue win-win cooperation instead of a zero-sum game, they need to build trust rather than suspicion, and bilateral ties should move forward rather than backward.“We need to seek convergence while putting aside differences and not impose one’s will on the other. We should honour our commitment, walk the talk, and ensure implementation of the leaders’ consensus in letter and in spirit,” Sun said.“The two sides should conduct timely strategic communication, enhance mutual understanding and cooperation, manage differences through dialogue, and firmly grasp the direction of bilateral relations,” he added.Referring to the phone conversation on July 5 between the two Special Representatives on border issues – India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi – Sun said the two had agreed to strengthen communication through the mechanism of the Special Representatives, hold Meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs without interruption, consistently improve and strengthen confidence-building measures and prevent more incidents that undermine peace and tranquillity in the border areas.The WMCC held its third virtual meeting since the beginning of the border standoff on Friday.Sun acknowledged that China and India have a “sensitive and complicated” boundary issue left over from history and said: “We need to find a fair and reasonable solution mutually acceptable through equal consultation and peaceful negotiation. Pending an ultimate settlement, we both agree to work together to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.”He also referred to the violent clash of June 15 and described it as “an incident causing casualties at the Galwan Valley”. He added, “It was a situation neither China nor India would like to see.”“China has all along advocated that peace is of paramount importance. We are neither a warlike state nor an assertive country. The right and wrong of what recently happened at the Galwan Valley is very clear. China will firmly safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and ensure the peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” Sun said.The phone conversation between the Special Representatives resulted in “positive consensus on easing the current border situation” and “frontline troops are disengaging on the ground in accordance with the consensus reached by the Military Corps Commanders”, he said.However, Sun said both sides can “avoid any strategic miscalculation” only by having a “correct view of each other’s intentions with a positive, open and inclusive attitude”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-and-india-should-be-partners-not-rivals-chinese-ambassador-to-india/story-2ucwLXpkme9hwtxBFyVBOP.html
10-07-2020||India||Indian Army soldier killed in unprovoked firing by Pakistan in J-K’s Rajouri||An Indian Army soldier was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the Nowshera sector of Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district, officials said on Friday.Havildar Sambur Gurung (36) was critically injured in the unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector and later succumbed to his injuries, the army said in a statement.“Havildar Sambur Gurung was a brave, highly motivated, and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand, defence spokesperson, said in the statement.He added that Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire.Gurung hailed from Manbu village in Nepal’s Gorkha district.In a separate incident, a woman, Hakam Bi (58), of Lanjote village in Mendhar sector, died on Thursday after she had sustained injuries due to Pakistani shelling the previous day. Another woman, Resham Bi (60), was also killed on the same day.In June, five Indian soldiers were killed on the LoC in Poonch and Rajouri sectors of Jammu division because of unprovoked Pakistani shelling amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-soldier-killed-in-unprovoked-firing-by-pakistan-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-OyUCze6SlLNbUyfuKGxjwO.html
10-07-2020||India||Vandalised statue of a tribal icon triggers BJP-TMC tug of war ahead of Bengal polls||The arrest of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker in connection with the breaking of a statue of Kanhu Murmu, one of the four leaders of the 1855 Santhal rebellion against the British and local landlords, has triggered political tension in Bengal’s Purulia district.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) lost the Purulia Lok Sabha seat to the BJP in 2019. The panchayat polls in Purulia were marked by violence in 2018.The alleged vandalism on July 7 took place at the village of Sandhya Rani Tudu, a TMC tribal leader and minister of state for backward classes’ welfare. The village is located in the Manbazar assembly constituency that Tudu represents.The statue was installed on a school ground on June 30 to mark the Hool festival observed by the Santhal community. The local fair committee accused Baidyanath Mandi, a BJP worker, in its police complaint. Mandi, a local resident, was arrested on Wednesday, said Partha Bhunia, officer-in-charge of Manbazar police station.Bengal sees highest one-day jump of 1,088 Covid-19 cases, toll at 854TMC has targeted the BJP, comparing the incident to the vandalism of the bust of 19th century educationist and social reformer Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar at a college in Kolkata during a poll rally by BJP leader Amit Shah in May 2019. It became a raging issue in the Lok Sabha polls but the BJP managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats, marking its best ever performance in Bengal. “@BJP4Bengal has sworn to attack and destroy every grain of Bengal’s cultural heritage. First, they vandalized Vidyasagar’s statue and now they have vandalized the statue of revered tribal hero Kanho Murmu in Purulia. We strongly condemn such acts of iconoclasm,” TMC tweeted on Thursday.“Our workers will visit door-to-door across households in Purulia and collect soil from their homes to reconstruct and reinstate the statue of the tribal icon to pay our respects and immortalize his contributions in the district,” TMC said in another tweet.Also Read: BJP ally IPFT holds protest in Tripura over arrest of supporterBJP has alleged that the vandalism is a conspiracy to malign it as TMC is fast losing ground in the state’s tribal belts before the 2021 assembly polls.“BJP has risen exponentially in the tribal belts and won the Lok Sabha seats of Purulia, Bishnupur and Midnapore where tribals constitute a sizable section of the voting population. The ruling party made tall promises in these regions but delivered nothing in nine years,” Khagen Murmu, BJP Lok Sabha member from the Malda North seat and president of the party’s scheduled tribe front in Bengal, told HT. “We will not tolerate this and start an agitation not only in Purulia but in other districts. TMC knows that its days are numbered. Hence, it is trying to rake up an issue by staging an act of vandalism. No tribal will ever touch a statue of Kanhu Murmu,” Murmu added.“Mandi is known to be an honest man and he takes part in our party programmes. It is not possible for one man to dismantle the statue from its foundation. Also, it is not possible to evade detection as policemen are always around since the minister and her family lives in the village,” said BJP Purulia district unit president Bidyasagar Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vandalised-statue-of-a-tribal-icon-triggers-bjp-tmc-tug-of-war-ahead-of-bengal-polls/story-yc88b1JqgGspPf0ff7I9SI.html
10-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate dips to 2.72 per cent: Health Ministry||From 2.82 per cent a month earlier, India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 2.72 per cent which is lower than that of many other countries, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.It also noted that 30 states and Union Territories have a fatality rate lower than the national average.Also, there is an upward trend in the recovery rate which was recorded at 62.42 per cent on Friday. In 18 states and UTs the recovery rates are higher than the national average, the ministry said.“At the national level, the case fatality rate has declined to 2.72 per cent. This is lower than the fatality rates observed in many other countries in the world. The focus of Covid-19 management in the country has been to keep the fatalities low,” it said.The ministry said with the support and guidance of the Central government, the states and union territories have taken many steps like mapping of communities to focus on high-risk groups like the elderly/aged and population with comorbidities, and providing special care to them.There is a focus on the improvement of quality of medical care for coronavirus patients. The country-wide strong network of ASHAs and ANMs along with Ayushman Bharat  Health and Wellness Centres have helped in effective surveillance and contact tracing of the cases, including the lakhs of migrants and returnees, it said. There are 30 states and UTs which have a fatality rate lower than the national average which includes Kerala (0.41 pc), Jharkhand (0.71 pc), Bihar (0.82 pc), Telangana (1.07 pc), Tamil Nadu (1.39 pc), Haryana (1.48 pc), Rajasthan (2.18 pc), Punjab (2.56 pc) and Uttar Pradesh (2.66 pc).Manipur, Nagaland, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim have zero case fatality rate.There are 18 states and UTs where the recovery rate is more than the national average. They which include West Bengal (64.94 pc), Uttar Pradesh (65.28 pc), Odisha (66.13 pc), Jharkhand (68.02 pc), Punjab (69.26 pc), Bihar (70.40 pc), Gujarat (70.72 pc), Madhya Pradesh (74.85 pc), Haryana (74.91 pc), Rajasthan (75.65 pc) and Delhi (76.81 pc).On Friday, India registered yet another record single-day jump of 26,506 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 7,93,802, while the death toll climbed to 21,604 with 475 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours.In the 24-hour period, 19,138 Covid-19 patients got cured, taking the cumulative figure of recovered cases to 4,95,515 on Friday, the ministry said. “The trend of progressive increase in the number of recovered Covid-19 patients continues. The national recovery rate is 62.42 per cent today,” it said.There are 2,76,682 active cases and all are under medical supervision. The improvement in recovery rate is the result of a combination of preemptive, proactive and graded steps taken by the Centre in collaboration with the states and UTs, the ministry said. “Aggressive testing that ensures early detection of patients, home isolation for the mild/pre-symptomatic patients, effective clinical management of the severe cases, ramped up hospital infrastructure and regular and seamless coordination between the Centre and states and UTs have together resulted in the continuously rising recovery rate in the country.” As of Friday, there are 1,218 dedicated COVID hospitals, 2,705 dedicated COVID healthcare centres and 10,301 COVID care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-dips-to-2-72-per-cent-health-ministry/story-A9fV8ST1k258c54dMDBLCO.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Justice only thing killed in CM Yogiji’s ‘encounter raj’: TMC’s Mahua Moitra||Senior TMC leader and MP Mahua Moitra came down heavily on the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday over the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey, asserting that justice is the “only thing killed” in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s “encounter raj”.Dubey was killed in an encounter earlier in the day, after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh to Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh met with an accident in the Bhaunti area of Kanpur district and he tried to flee.“It is the job of the courts to deliver justice. It is the job of the police to deliver the accused. Shocking that India under @BJP has confused the two,” Moitra said in a tweet.“Only thing killed in Yogiji’s “encounter Raj” is justice!” she added.Dubey had allegedly masterminded the ambush in Kanpur’s Bikru village, in which eight policemen, who had gone to arrest him, was killed past midnight on July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-only-thing-killed-in-cm-yogiji-s-encounter-raj-tmc-s-mahua-moitra/story-sXxz3AOvgF7zSLtkhRVEHP.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Inhuman, unreasonable’: Here’s what SC guidelines say on handcuffing criminals||The alleged encounter killing of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey on Friday has kicked up dust over his not being apparently handcuffed by the police, against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s disapproving the practice in various orders, calling it “inhuman, unreasonable, over harsh and arbitrary”.The police, on the other hand, has all along been supporting handcuffing at various judicial forums on the ground that the practice has been quite helpful in ensuring that a dreaded accused or convict does not flee the custody.The apex court has from time to time issued a slew of directives on the procedure to be followed while handcuffing an undertrial, maintaining that the insurance against escape does not compulsorily require handcuffing.According to police, Dubey was killed after he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti during his transit from Ujjain to Kanpur and their car met with accident.   It said the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen injured in the accident and was shot when he opened fire while trying to flee, an account being questioned by opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh.Six policemen, including two from the Special task Force, were hurt in the accident and the exchange of fire around 6 am, an official said.With this incident, the debate over handcuffing criminals while taking them from one place to another has ensued once again.The apex court in 1995 held that minimal freedom of movement cannot be cut down by application of handcuffs or other hoops. It had categorically stated that handcuffing of prisoners without judicial consent was illegal.“We clearly declare -- and it shall be obeyed from the Inspector General of Police and Inspector General of Prisons to the escort constable and the jailwarder -- that the rule, regarding a prisoner in transit prison house and Court house, is freedom from handcuffs and the exception, under conditions of judicial supervision we have indicated earlier will be restraints with irons to be justified before or after,” the apex court said.In another case -- Prem Shankar Shukla vs Delhi Administration, the top court in 1980 made important observations on he issue and said that there were other measures whereby an escort can keep safe custody of a “detenu without the indignity and cruelty implicit in handcuffs or other iron In contraptions”.It said: “Handcuffing is prima facie inhuman and, therefore, unreasonable, is over harsh and at the first blush, arbitrary. Absent fair procedure and objective monitoring to inflict “irons” is to resort to zoological strategies repugnant to Article 21.  “Surely, the competing claims of securing the prisoner from fleeing and protecting his personality from barbarity have to be harmonized”.The top court has observed that to prevent the escape of an undertrial is in public interest, reasonable, just and cannot, by itself be castigated. “But to bind a man hand and foot, fetter his limbs with hoops of steel, shuffle him along in the streets and stand him for hours in the courts is to torture him, defile his dignity, vulgarise society and foul the soul of our Constitutional culture,” it said.Referring to Articles 14 (Equality before law) and 19 (Freedoms of speech), the top court had said that when there is no compulsive need to fetter a person’s limbs “it is sadistic, capricious, despotic and demoralizing to humble a man by manacling him”.“Such arbitrary conduct surely slaps Article 14 on the face. The animal freedom of movement, which even a detained is entitled to under Article 19, cannot be cut down cruelly by application of handcuffs or other hoops. “lt will be unreasonable so to do unless the State is able to make out that no other practical way of forbidding escape is available, the prisoner being so dangerous and desperate and the circumstances so hostile to safe keeping,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-encounter-inhuman-unreasonable-here-s-what-sc-guidelines-says-on-handcuffing-criminals/story-eERAsML63mPgcGN4SEBJXN.html
10-07-2020||India||Videos tangle matters further in UP gangster Vikas Dubey’s encounter puzzle||Videos that have surfaced after notorious criminal Vikas Dubey was shot dead early on Friday morning while he was being taken to Kanpur have raised several questions about what the police said was an encounter. Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur last Friday, is said to have attempted an escape after the UP police vehicle he was travelling in overturned. The police said Dubey snatched a gun from an injured policeman and was asked to surrender but he opened fire, forcing them to fire back. ALSO WATCH | Vikas Dubey killed: Watch Priyanka Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav & Mayawati’s response “After the car overturned, Vikas Dubey tried to snatch a Police weapon and attempted to flee after which there was retaliatory fire by police in which he was injured. He was declared dead after being taken to hospital. We’ll issue an official statement soon,” said UP ADG law & order Prashant Kumar. Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) team along with history sheeter #VikasDubey who was arrested in Ujjain (Madhya Pradesh) yesterday, reaches Kanpur. pic.twitter.com/C405jxATZrOn the question of Dubey having snatched a police weapon, Dr NC Asthana, former DGP Kerala, highlighted that rules mandate that cops must secure their weapons by lanyards. The former Kerala top cop also pointed out that dangerous criminals are handcuffed, raising questions about Dubey’s escaping act. He then shared a video spotlighting the road condition and how an overturned car had all its doors closed.  OUTRAGEOUS STORY of Vikas Dubey encounter. The vehicle is seen lying "conveniently" on its side, all doors closed. Note the road condition. No reason to overturn "so softly"! Open fields all around! Even a fool with a paunch wud not consider running away in open. pic.twitter.com/8NGT2zx6lTA video of three cars crossing a toll plaza early this morning shows Dubey travelling in a car different from the one that was seen flipped on the highway, which the police said was a result of a road accident. The police are yet to comment on how and when the cars were switched.In another video taken at 6:30 am, media persons who were following the convoy bringing back the gangster were stopped by police in Sachendi area of Kanpur. This happened a little while before the encounter took place. #WATCH Media persons, who were following the convoy bringing back gangster Vikas Dubey, were stopped by police in Sachendi area of Kanpur before the encounter around 6.30 am in which the criminal was killed. (Earlier visuals) pic.twitter.com/K1B56NGV5pThe encounter triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster arrested less than 24 hours earlier from a temple in Ujjain had been killed to shield the people who had protected him.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/videos-tangle-matters-further-in-up-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-encounter-puzzle/story-Uk7Gq2C4c5puAOdyTQpBjJ.html
10-07-2020||India||At least 8 people, including 8-month-old, killed in Arunachal Pradesh landslides||Landslides, triggered by incessant rainfall, claimed the lives of at least eight people in two separate incidents in Arunachal Pradesh on Friday amid India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast for heavy rains in the coming days, as the Central Water Commission (CWC) warned of a severe flood situation in the sparsely populated remote border state.In the first incident, four members of a family, including an 8-month-old baby, were killed in a landslide in Papumpare district of Arunachal Pradesh on Friday at around 2:30 am.The incident took place at Tigdo village near the state capital, Itanagar. All four victims were buried alive while they were sleeping. Later, the bodies of the victims were retrieved from the debris.“Saddened by a tragedy that struck Tigdo village in Papumpare district this morning, where four members of a family perished in the landslide,” Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted.In the second incident at Modirijo, located between Itanagar and Naharlagun, four persons were buried in another landslide that occurred at 12:30 pm.According to a state government report, bodies of three of the victims have been retrieved, while efforts are underway to recover the fourth person.The chief minister’s office (CMO) has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased.“Incessant rain for the last couple of days that triggered landslides and floods has left trails of large scale devastation in the entire state,” Khandu was quoted in a release from CMO.“Reports have been pouring in about landslides in various locations from around the state capital. Road communication has been badly affected by nature’s fury,” he added.The CM cautioned that as per IMD, there is a likelihood of heavy rain across the state in the next few days. He requested everyone to take precautionary measures and refrain from staying at vulnerable locations.Instructions have been issued to all the districts to keep a strict vigil and continuously monitor the situation to avoid largescale devastation and loss of human lives, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-a-family-including-8-month-old-killed-in-arunachal-pradesh-landslides/story-IHKTHbUsIZi0NNQ4V4GLLN.html
10-07-2020||India||ICMR plans nationwide sero-survey to detect exposure of people to Covid-19 infection||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has announced its plan of a nationwide sero-survey which will be carried out to determine the exposure of the coronavirus infection among the population. The new survey will be similar to the one conducted in May, the results of which are still awaited.A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals and this is used to monitor trends of the coronavirus disease at the district level. The survey is carried out by the ICMR in tandem with the National Centre for Disease Control and with the help of state health departments. The results of the sero-survey that had been conducted by the research body in May, which focused on infections of mid-April is still under process, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 deaths per million among lowest globally: Health Ministry“The sero-survey that ICMR conducted across the country focused on infections of mid-April and preliminary findings were shared. Such sero-surveillance studies or any other scientific study is subject to peer-review and those inputs are also incorporated. So that process is going on. We will be in a position to share it once that gets over,” Bhushan said.Based on data compiled from 65 districts out of 83 districts across the country in the first part of the sero-survey, 0.73 per cent of the population surveyed had showed evidence of past exposure to Covid-19, according to ICMR’s data.ALSO READ | India records another single-day spike of new Covid-19 cases at 26,506, tally over 7.93 lakhThe results of the last sero-survey, which has been carried out in Delhi by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as a part of which 22,000 samples were collected from June 27 to July 5 from 11 districts, is also under process.“In the near future, ICMR is planning a follow up sero-survey pan-India to the earlier sero-survey that they had been done for mid-April infections,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-nationwide-sero-survey-to-detect-exposure-of-people-to-covid-19-infection/story-NZn72UXX5QfkmuniCktELP.html
10-07-2020||India||Kin of killed cops find solace in Vikas Dubey’s death while debate rages over gangster’s encounter||While questions continue to swirl around the killing of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, families of eight cops, slain in an ambush laid out by Dubey and his men in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 3, are coming out one after another, welcoming Dubey’s encounter by Uttar Pradesh police in an early morning operation on Friday, when Dubey allegedly attempted to escape after snatching a firearm from an injured policemen.Constable Ajay Kashyap, who was one of the several policemen injured in the early morning police raid at Vikas Dubey’s Bikru village residence on July 3, said Dubey’s death had brought him “solace” and will serve to restore public confidence in the police and government.“It has brought solace to my soul. It would restore public confidence in police and government,” constable Ajay Kashyap was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dubey’s dramatic arrest in Ujjain on Thursday and his death today has led to mixed emotions and reactions from across the spectrum with a strong undercurrent of suspicion of alleged police-criminal-politician nexus being at work to prevent the dark secrets from coming out. Relatives of some policemen killed in Kanpur ambush had yesterday alleged that Dubey’s arrest had been staged to save him from certain death in encounter with UP police’s special task force (STF).Kamal Kant, a relative of slain Bilhaur circle officer Devendra Mishra, had said Dubey would not have been able to travel across four states untouched and then “surrendered” unharmed had there not been forces working to save him.“This is a scripted surrender to save the criminal,” Kant told reporters at his house in Kanpur.Also Read: Kin of slain Kanpur cop call Vikas Dubey’s arrest a ‘scripted surrender’The relatives of two slain sub-inspectors from Prayagraj and Pratapgarh had sought capital punishment for Dubey, while questioning how he managed to reach Ujjain to save his life.The family members of another slain sub-inspector, Nebulal, from Prayagraj also demanded death for Dubey. Nebulal’s son, Arvind Kumar, said he and his family were not satisfied. The circumstances of Dubey’s arrest were doubtful, he had said on Thursday.Dubey’s elimination in the police action this morning has, however, left some with a sense of justice.“I am very proud of UP Police. Whatever they have done today has brought solace to my soul. I thank the administration and the Yogi government,” Tirath Pal, father of constable Jitendra Pal Singh who was killed in the Kanpur ambush on July 3, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Wife of constable Sultan Singh, who, too, lost his life last week in Kanpur in the elaborate trap laid out by Dubey and his men, says while she is satisfied at the outcome (Dubey’s death), the truth of any political patronage protecting Dubey may not come out ever now, that he is dead.“I’m satisfied. But now how will it come to the fore as to who were backing him (Vikas Dubey)? It could have been unraveled by questioning him,” Urmila Verma, wife of constable Sultan Singh was quoted as saying by the news agency.The Uttar Pradesh police said that three sub-inspector, one constable and two STF commandos were injured during the early morning encounter of Dubey, while he was trying to allegedly flee after the vehicle bringing him to Kanpur from Ujjain overturned just 20 km outside the destination city.Dubey was the sixth person to be killed in the case, while 10 others are under arrest and 12 wanted criminals are still absconding, according to Prashant Kumar, UP ADG, Law and Order.Vikas Dubey was ‘silenced’, his ‘encounter staged’: Who said what after Kanpur encounterOpposition leaders and civil rights activists have questioned the police’s version of events leading to Dubey’s death and demanded a thorough probe to unravel the alleged nexus between cops, politicians and criminals in the state of Uttar Pradesh. They have suggested that Dubey’s encounter was engineered to bury these facts.SP national president Akhilesh Yadav, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and BSP chief Mayawati have all alleged that Dubey’s death will help in preserving the powerful nexus. Mayawati also demanded a probe overseen by the Supreme Court of India to bring out the truth and to serve justice to the families of policemen killed in Kanpur ambush a week ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-killed-cops-find-solace-in-vikas-dubey-s-death-while-debate-rages-over-gangster-s-encounter/story-wXgffJHRAFiJoMfjT6x6WM.html
10-07-2020||India||‘No need to shed tears, why is Dubey’s encounter by cops being questioned’, says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said there was no need to shed tears over the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in an encounter and wondered why the police action was being questioned.Dubey was shot dead by the Uttar Pradesh police on the outskirts of Kanpur city on Friday morning. The police claimed that he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh overturned at Bhaunti in Kanpur district.Talking to PTI, Raut said, “Dubey had killed eight policemen. Attack on the uniform means there is no law and order. Taking strict action is the need of that states police be it in Maharashtra or Uttar Pradesh.” “There is no need to shed tears over the killing of Dubey in an encounter. Why is the police action being questioned?” the Rajya Sabha MP asked.Madhya Pradesh police had arrested Vikas Dubey outside the Mahakal temple in Ujjain on Thursday morning and he was handed over to an Uttar Pradesh police late in the evening.The UP police said that the car carrying him overturned and the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen, but was shot dead when he opened fire while trying to flee.Opposition parties, however, targeted the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the encounter.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the encounter as well as the ambush in which eight policemen died last week.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the criminal is now gone and asked what about those who had “protected” him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-shed-tears-why-is-dubey-s-encounter-by-cops-being-questioned-says-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-k33tn8is6F7oOKJAaV8mWM.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey was ‘silenced’, his ‘encounter staged’: Who said what after Kanpur encounter||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s killing in a shootout by the police early on Friday triggered attacks from several leaders of opposition parties, including Akhilesh Yadav, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Mayawati.They alleged that Dubey, who was arrested less than 24 hours earlier from the Mahakal Temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain had been “silenced” to shield the people who had protected him. The gangster, who ordered the killing of eight policemen last week, was being brought back to Kanpur in a sports utility vehicle when he was shot at following a road accident.Opposition leaders, who had demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s police and political nexus, hinted that the encounter was engineered to bury the facts.“It isn’t the car that had overturned; the government saved itself from overturning by preventing the secrets coming out,” Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party’s (SP) national president, tweeted in Hindi.Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also joined the rank of opposition leaders who reacted to the killing of Vikas Dubey in an encounter with UP police’s Special Task Force. Gandhi raised his suspicion in a succinct tweet in Hindi, without specifically mentioning the encounter which resulted in the gangster’s killing, and said that silence is better than many answers as it honours many questions that could have been raised. कई जवाबों से अच्छी है ख़ामोशी उसकीन जाने कितने सवालों की आबरू रख लीPriyanka Gandhi, the Congress party’s general secretary and UP in-charge, also posted on Twitter on the same lines.“Fine, the criminal’s dead; but what about those who protected him and his crime?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief, in a set of two tweets in Hindi, demanded a probe into the series of incidents since the policemen were killed in Dubey’s Bikru village.“A probe under the Supreme Court should be done into the killing of the policemen and then overturning of the car in which the UP police was bringing the heinous criminal Vikas Dubey while they were in transit from MP to UP and Dubey’s killing by the police,” she said. “A high-level probe is also necessary for true justice to the families of those policemen whom who were killed. And also to identify the nexus of police and criminal politics and strongest of punishment to those involved. Only by taking such steps UP could be made crime-free,” the BSP leader added.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged.Om Prakash Rajbhar, the president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and a former ally in the Yogi Adityanath-led government said: “What was being apprehended has happened. Had the main accused in the Kanpur incident Vikas Dubey spilt the beans then a lot of leaders and officers would have been in trouble. There is certainly a big fish who did not want Vikas Dubey to talk so his voice has been permanently shut before he could open his mouth before a magistrate,” Rajbhar tweeted in Hindi.“So the policemen whom Dubey killed did not get justice. Justice to them would have been done had the syndicate of police and leaders would have been exposed. With Dubey’s death, the hope of justice has been buried too. First the letters went missing, then pieces of evidence were buried, Vikas Dubey has exposed the real face of Yogi government to the people.”Senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada also chipped in.“With the end of Vikas Dubey in police custody the government has ensured that the trail which would have exposed his nexus with the people in positions of power who allowed criminals like him to flourish, has ended too,” Prasada posted on Twitter. In another tweet in Hindi, he said: “People expect justice from government, not revenge. What’s the difference between a soldier and a criminal.”The police shot dead the gangster 20km from Kanpur city. They said the vehicle in which Vikas Dubey was travelling overturned in a road accident and that he tried to flee after that. The gangster, according to a statement by Kanpur Police, snatched a service pistol from one of the policemen in the car and tried to run away. Policemen went after him and told him to surrender and when he did not listen, they shot at him.“But he didn’t listen and started firing at the police with an intention to kill,” the statement in Hindi said. He was shot in police firing and later died at a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-was-silenced-his-encounter-staged-who-said-what-after-kanpur-encounter/story-SL93D4NR3R3kdVRKMlGg7O.html
10-07-2020||India||Kerala HC defers bail plea of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh to Tuesday||The Kerala High Court on Friday deferred the bail application of Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the Thiruvanathapuram airport gold smuggling case, to Tuesday after her lawyer said he is yet to get a copy of the first information report filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Though the plea was deferred the high court did not stay her arrest. The NIA opposed her bail plea saying the smuggling incident involves international ramifications and the accused enjoyed a good rapport with influential people. She had moved the Kerala High Court for bail on Thursday. The Union Home Ministry had handed over the probe to the NIA on Thursday. This is the first time the agency is investigating a smuggling case.The Customs Department had seized 30 kgs of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was close to Suresh.The issue took on political colour after the Opposition Congress and BJP claimed that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan knew about his principal secretary Sivasankar’s alleged link with the prime accused. As the issue flared up, more skeletons started tumbling out of the cupboard of the accused.The Maharashtra -based university, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University, from where she reportedly obtained her B.Com degree made it clear that the varsity did not have a B.Com course and her degree was fake. Later, the controller of the examination Dr Vivek S Sathe sent a mail to a news channel saying it was a fake certificate. She was given a job at Air India-SATS and the Kerala IT department based on this degree. Two days back, her estranged brother also claimed she did not even clear her class 10 examination.Protests by the opposition parties seeking the resignation of the chief minister turned violent at several places. In Kozhikode in north Kerala, many people were hurt after police resorted to baton charge on agitating Youth League workers. In Kochi too, Yuva Morcha protests turned violent. In Kannur, police lobbed teargas shells to control Youth Congress workers who held a rally outside Vijayan’s ancestral house.Despite the CPI(M) and coalition rallying around the CM, many party insiders say the latest incident has dented the image of the government when the elections are just 10 months away. Some of the allies of the ruling dispensation have started airing their displeasure against the way Vijayan protected former principal secretary M Sivasankar. Junior partner the CPI said it had warned him about the “freestyle” of his secretary several times but the CM had ignored them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-defers-bail-plea-of-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-to-tuesday/story-t7imPElPdXCswemYEhRZXP.html
10-07-2020||India||India to invite Australia to Malabar naval exercise, Quad stands up to China||India plans to invite Australia to join the annual Malabar naval exercise that has so far included just Japan and the U.S., in a move that could risk China’s ire.The decision to include Australia in the drills -- the first time all members of the regional grouping known as the Quad will be engaged at a military level -- comes as Beijing and New Delhi are caught up in their worst border tensions in four decades. The exercise will bring together the navies of India, Japan, Australia and the U.S. in the Bay of Bengal at the end of the year, according to senior Indian officials who asked not to be identified, citing rules.New Delhi is expected to clear the way next week for a formal invitation to Australia following final government clearance and consultations with the US and Japan, the officials said.“The timing of India potentially letting Australia into Malabar would be especially significant at this juncture,” said Derek Grossman, researcher at the Washington-based RAND Corporation who worked in the U.S. intelligence community for more than a decade. “It would send a significant message to China that the Quad -- U.S., Australia, Japan, and India -- are de facto conducting joint naval exercises, even if not technically conducted under the auspices of a Quad event.”China has been uncomfortable with the informal coalition of four democracies, which was first formed in 2004 to help nations in the Indo-Pacific after the tsunami and revived in 2017. Post the coronavirus pandemic, the grouping has been coordinating efforts every month with Vietnam, South Korea and New Zealand.Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhawal declined to comment.A spokesperson for Australia’s defense department said in an emailed statement on Friday that while the nation was yet to receive an invitation to Exercise Malabar, “Australia sees value in participating in quadrilateral defense activities in order to increase interoperability and advance our collective interests in a free, open and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.”Strengthening TiesWhile the Malabar exercises between U.S. and Indian navies were instituted in 1992, they have been more regular since 2004 with other Asian nations joining in the annual event. China had objected to the only other time Australia participated in the drills along with India, Japan, U.S. and Singapore in 2007.India’s inclusion of Australia this year follows a defense agreement and upgrading ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. The Mutual Logistics support agreement announced in May by Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison allows access to each other’s bases and ports. India has a similar agreement with the U.S.Canberra’s inclusion in the games was “only a matter of time” given improving defense and economic ties, according to Biren Nanda, former Indian High Commissioner to Australia and senior fellow at Delhi Policy Group. Australia’s merchandise trade with India for the year ended June 2019 was A$21.1 billion ($14.5 billion), according to Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.“There’s no direct relation between inviting Australia and what’s happening at the Sino-Indian border,” said Nanda in a phone interview. “This was a natural progression. Yet the question will be raised: how would the Chinese regard this? And they will react negatively. Just like they had done earlier.”Weaponized QuadChina objected to Japan’s inclusion in the U.S-India annual Malabar event in 2015 with the then foreign ministry spokesperson Hong Lei warning “relevant countries” to not “provoke confrontation and create tension” in the region. Five years later, with an assertive China pushing neighbors across the Asian seas, Nanda expects a similar response.Yet, there may be more acceptance to the idea of “like-minded democracies that seek to keep the Indo-Pacific free and open” amid India’s rapidly souring on China ties, purely out of frustration, said Rajeswari Pillai Rajagoplan, distinguished fellow at New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation and author of ‘Clashing Titans: Military Strategy and Insecurity Among Asian Great Powers.’Although India and China are now in the process of disengaging along their 3,488 kilometer (2,167 mile) unmarked boundary in the Himalayas after high-level military and diplomatic talks, the deadly clashes that followed the months-long standoff in the Galwan valley was a blow to relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors.“Especially after Galwan, there’s a growing realization in New Delhi’s elite circles that its increasingly difficult to trust China. They have broken more than four decades of agreements. Good trade ties are no guarantee of peace,” said Rajagoplan. “They have time and again tried to interfere in other nations’ foreign policy. But there’s an agreement in India that China should not have a say in who our friends are.”With Washington indicating its willingness to back the region through an increased force deployment in Asia, the Malabar exercises may take on more importance.“The Quad has always been a security platform but didn’t have a military context to it,” said Rajagopalan. “The Malabar exercises may give it just that thanks to China upping its ante and threatening the region’s security.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-invite-australia-to-malabar-naval-exercise-quad-stands-up-to-china/story-InMstEVp3eqCWf8SrRQyOL.html
10-07-2020||India||BS Yediyurappa to ‘work from home’ after staff test positive for Covid-19||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who was set to hold a meeting with all 198 corporators of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to review the Covid-19 situation on Friday, said today he would be working from home as a precautionary measure after staff members at his office-cum-residence tested positive for coronavirus.“I am going to discharge my duties from home from today for the next few days in view of some of the staff in the office-cum-residence Krishna testing positive for coronavirus,” the CM said in a statement. Noting that he was healthy, Yediyurappa appealed to the people not to panic. He said he would be giving directions and suggestions online.Meanwhile, a few hours ago, the CM did sent birthday wishes to defence minister Rajnath Singh on Twitter. The chief minister’s office was seen tweeting about a 10,100 bed facility at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre. The largest Covid care centre in the country with 10,100 beds has been setup at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre.Its key feature being that everything that an Asymptomatic Covid patient needs will all be available under one roof.#KarnatakaCoronaUpdate pic.twitter.com/zdmGBLNvVeA few days ago, the CM’s residence was shut for sanitisation after a relative of a police constable posted there was infected by the virus.The chief minister urged people to adhere to the guidelines as a precautionary measure to control the spread of coronavirus.The total number of Covid-19 infections in the state on Thursday crossed the 30,000 mark as it reported its biggest single day spike of over 2,200 new cases and 17 related fatalities, taking the toll to 486, the Health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bs-yediyurappa-to-work-from-home-after-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8qqZoX4yDW9421vvN5dBFK.html
10-07-2020||India||Rajasthan: Accused in 38-year-old bank robbery and murder case arrested||A special operations group (SOG) of the Gujarat Police arrested an accused, who was wanted in a 38-year-old bank robbery and murder case, from Rajasthan’s Barmer district on Friday early morning.Anand Sharma, superintendent of police (SP), Barmer, said the accused, Shaktidan Singh (66), was arrested from Bijawal village that comes under the jurisdiction of Gadara Road police station.The SP said the accused had robbed a bank at Iqbalgarh in Gujarat’s Banaskantha district in 1982. He had opened fire and killed three persons, including a policeman and two civilians, while trying to decamp after the bank heist. He has been absconding since the incident, the SP said.Singh, a notorious dacoit in the past, was an accused in 40 cases in Rajasthan.However, in 1989, he had surrendered before the Rajasthan Police and became an approver after which no case was pending in his native state.But, he was still wanted in the Banaskantha bank robbery and murder case for which he was arrested on Friday early morning by Gujarat Police’s SOG, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-accused-in-38-year-old-bank-robbery-and-murder-case-arrested/story-6avXnNYmCEAbatPuUyvHUM.html
10-07-2020||India||‘6 dead, 12 still on the run’: UP Police on Kanpur shootout in which 8 cops were killed||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday said that 12 criminals, who attacked a police team in Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 3, are still on the run. Eight policemen were killed in the gunfight.“In this case, so far, three people have been arrested, six accused killed and seven people sent to jail (under section 120B IPC). Twelve wanted criminals are still absconding,” Prashant Kumar, ADG (Law and Order), said at a press briefing.The man who planned the killing, gangster Vikas Dubey, was eliminated in an encounter on Friday morning. Dubey was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday after being on the run since the shootout.The police had been aggressively pursuing Dubey and a massive manhunt was launched which spanned across three states. Many of those connected to Dubey, including his relatives, were taken into custody and questioned. Many of his aides were killed in police encounters in different cities.Along with the chase, the police had also launched an investigation about how Dubey got the information about the raid on July 3. It revealed a nexus between the gangster and the local cops, who alerted him about every movement of the police.The Station Officer of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, emerged as the biggest link and he along with other sub-inspectors was suspended and arrested. The investigators also found out about the caste factor at play.Dubey was a dreaded criminal, who had more than 60 cases against him. Eleven of those were of murder.Among his long list of criminal charges was the murder of BJP leader and UP minister inside a police station in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-dead-12-still-on-the-run-up-police-on-kanpur-shootout-in-which-8-cops-were-killed/story-WC8zjIn158YhA2IRDLwkzN.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown won’t impact three-month cheque validity, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that Covid-19 lockdown will not impact the three-month period of validity of the cheques.A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, was considering request of extension of timelines under various laws.When the question came on extension of three-month period of validity of cheques, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) informed the court that the same should not be done as it would impact banking activities. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna, accepted RBI suggestion and kept the three-month validity period of cheque intact. The RBI has fixed validity period of cheque under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act. The court noted that all banking systems across the country follow this prescribed period and there is no need to interfere with the same.The central government ordered starting economic activities in the country after an over two-month-long lockdown in phases. While the first phase of relaxation, called Unlock 1, began on June 1, the second of the three phases came into force from July 1.Though considerable relaxations have been given by the government in Unlock 2, there are no concessions for containment zones. The government advisory said that lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till July 31. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control will be maintained and only essential activities are allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-won-t-impact-three-month-cheque-validity-rules-supreme-court/story-OM7RU4ln7wAjvtMRDLpvuI.html
10-07-2020||India||In advice to China and India, Dalai Lama says both should live side-by-side||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has asked India and China to live side-by-side, underlining that both the countries were powerful and could not destroy the other. The rare comment by the supreme Tibetan spiritual leader came at a time the two countries are trying to resolve the two-month-long standoff along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh.“Both [are] powerful nations yet neither one can destroy the other one, so you have to live side-by-side,” he reasoned in an interview on TIME100 Talks series.The two countries, the world’s most populated nations with billion-plus people, appeared to have “some sense of competition in recent times”, the Dalai Lama said, tracing the historical links between the two countries when scholars from China would come to India to translate Buddhist scriptures and religious text. “Historically, China was a Buddhist country and India was the land of Buddha.”The Dalai Lama relinquished his political and administrative powers over the Tibetan movement and its government-in-exile that runs from Dharamshala in 2011 and since then, mostly refrains from explicitly commenting on political matters. He did, however, when recently asked about the India, China stand-off, link wars to the feudal system when people - king, queen or even religious leaders - were more concerned with their own power.Also Read: India must stand up for Tibet | HT EditorialBut younger leaders and activists of the Tibetn movement - the Dalai Lama turned 85 earlier this week - have been outspoken in their criticism of China.Over the last month or so, there have been protests in Dharamshala’s McLeodganj - also known as Little Lhasa because it is home to thousands of Tibetan refugees, - and elsewhere against China. Tibetan leaders have since then nudged India to take a harder stance over Tibet that had been a natural buffer between India and China till Beijing annexed it in 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-advice-to-china-and-india-dalai-lama-says-both-should-live-side-by-side/story-AHMnH62wyaqa9L7g22BauK.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey was hit on his chest, arm as he tried to escape from police: Report||Vikas Dubey, the Uttar Pradesh gangster accused of killing eight policemen last week, was on Friday hit by four bullets in the retaliatory firing by members of the Special Task Force (STF) who tried stop him from escaping near Kanpur city, news agency ANI reported.The 48-year-old gangster was shot at by the police team when he tried to escape after the vehicle he was travelling in met with an accident amid heavy rain in the region. The STF team was bringing him back to Kanpur from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain city.He was arrested outside the Mahakal Temple in Ujjain on Thursday and was being brought to Kanpur.ALSO WATCH | Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead in encounter “Vikas Dubey had three bullet injuries on the chest and one on his arm,” Dr RB Kamal, the principal of Kanpur’s LLR Hospital, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dr Kamal said the condition of the three injured police personnel is stable and that bullets brushed by two of them.Also read | Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past weekAccording to a police statement, there was an encounter as Vikas Dubey tried to escape when the sports utility vehicle (SUV) overturned early in the morning.Vikas Dubey, it said, snatched a pistol from one of the policemen after the accident and tried to run away. He reached a nearby field, was surrounded and asked to surrender. When he refused to surrender and fired at the team, police personnel shot at the gangster in self-defence, the statement in Hindi said.Prashant Kumar, UP additional director general of police (law and order) said three sub-inspector, a constable and two STF commandos were injured during the incident. Kumar said three people have been arrested, six accused killed, seven people sent to jail under section 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 12 wanted criminals still absconding.Dubey’s death in a police encounter triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster had been killed to shield the people who had protected him. Several opposition leaders, who had demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s political nexus, claimed that the encounter was engineered to bury the facts.Dubey was on the run since July 3 after he and his men ambushed and killed the eight policemen out to arrest him in his Bikru village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-was-hit-on-his-chest-arm-as-he-tried-to-escape-from-police-report/story-yKTwJtkSPnWwvzPT5Xo86I.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey encounter: MP home minister says law took its own course, CBI inquiry not needed||Madhya Pradesh (MP) home minister Narottam Mishra said matter-of-factly on Friday that law had taken its own course while justifying the encounter killing of dreaded Uttar Pradesh (UP) gangster Vikas Dubey near Kanpur earlier this morning and rubbishing the opposition’s allegations over the alleged extra-judicial incident.Dubey, who had been absconding for a week on charges of allegedly killing eight UP Police personnel in his native Bikaru village in Kanpur district, including Devendra Mishra, deputy superintendent of police (DySP), was taken into custody in Ujjain, MP, on Thursday morning and handed over to UP Police later at night.Mishra told media persons on Friday that: “Law has taken its own course (kanoon ne apna kaam kiya hai),”He brushed aside the opposition’s allegations that Dubey’s death has snuffed out the trail of political patronage.“On Thursday, the Congress was raising questions, as to how a dreaded criminal like him could be caught alive. A day later, the same party is asking, why was he killed, as many secrets were buried with his death. It shows the Congress’s mindset and its thought process. The party is raising questions against the bravery of our law enforcement agencies.”Mishra attacked the Congress for its duplicitous remarks and pointed figures for making contradictory statements a day apart.“On Thursday, the Congress said that both UP and MP are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But the fact of the matter is for all to see. MP Police arrested him (Dubey) and handed him over to UP Police and ensured that the cavalcade safely crossed our state border. Perhaps, those who raised questions on Thursday about his arrest and his death the following day are mourning about the turn of events,” the minister said.The minister fielded media persons’ barrage of questions and made it amply clear that the slain gangster had time to reveal secrets had he wanted to. “If Dubey wanted to reveal any secret he could have done it. He was in police custody for about 17 hours.”He also rejected the Congress’s demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the incident. “There is no need for a CBI investigation. What is left for CBI to probe into the incident?” he countered the Congress’s demand.Mishra took on Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav’s “conspiracy theory” that the car, in which Dubey was being taken to Kanpur, did not overturn, but the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government was saved from being dislodged, as the secrets of political patronage that he enjoyed for all these years was gone with his death in the police encounter.“Dubey was a member of his own (Yadav) party. Why is he saying this? I have a poster. On Thursday, Dubey’s mother herself said he was in the SP,” Mishra said.The media persons reminded the minister about the Congress’s claims that he might, too, have a link with Dubey because he was the in-charge of the slain gangster’s native district Kanpur during UP assembly elections in 2017.Mishra shot back at the “idle Congress leaders”, who, he said, are in the habit of spreading canards via social media.“Congress leaders have no work these days except tweeting. Nobody is calling Digvijaya Singh to address any public meeting these days. What do you expect him to do except tweeting in such a situation?” he asked.The minister was categorical about Friday morning’s encounter that led to Dubey’s death. “He was a criminal. He told (the police) about his crimes. You all know about the crime he had committed (in Kanpur). He narrated all this, but said nothing new,” the minister said.Earlier, Rajya Sabha (RS) member and Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had said, “Apprehensions came true. It will not be known, who had links with Dubey. In the past few days, two of his accomplices were killed in encounters with the police. Why there is a similarity in all these three encounters?”He sought to know why Dubey chose Ujjain’s Mahakal Temple to surrender before MP Police. “Who are the influential people in MP whom he trusted and came to the state to save himself from an encounter with UP Police,” Singh added.Another Congress leader and RS member Vivek Tankha tweeted, “There was an apprehension of an encounter since the time he was arrested on Thursday. That’s why a petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday itself. It’s a matter of custodial death. The inquiry into the incident should be done under the monitoring of the apex court.”“Dubey deserved to die. But by hanging by the neck on orders of a court, not at the hands of police, however, justified their anger be. Has the UP government lost faith in its criminal justice delivery system? ... this is absolutely shocking,” he further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-encounter-mp-home-minister-says-law-took-its-own-course-cbi-inquiry-not-needed/story-cHzqtIJo2AHVV4iAodhuhN.html
10-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling scandal: CM Vijayan faces heat as protesters rage||Protests marred many areas of Kerala as the opposition demanded resignation of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case.The Customs department had seized 30 kg gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Swapna Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry, had gone underground after the seizure. Later, the CM had transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar who was close to Suresh.In Kozhikode, many people were hurt after police resorted to baton charge on agitating Youth League workers. In Kochi too, Yuva Morcha protest turned violent. In Kannur, police lobbed teargas shells to control protesters.Youth Congress workers held a protest rally outside CM Vijayan’s ancestral house in Kannur.Bail plea of alleged mastermind Suresh which was to come up in before the Kerala High Court today has been deferred to Tuesday. On Thursday, the Centre handed over the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) after VIjayan petitioned the government saying the state was ready for any probe. Despite the CPI(M) and coalition rallying around the CM, many party insiders say the latest incident has dented the image of the government when the elections are just 10 months away.The issue took a political colour after the main accused was reported to be very close to many higher ups in the state government. Vijayan’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS official, has already been transferred.Some of the allies of ruling dispensation have started airing their displeasure against the way Vijayan protected former principal secretary M Sivasankar. Junior partner the CPI said it warned him about the “freestyle” of his secretary several times but the CM ignored them. It said the CM’s favourite trouble shooter has started giving him enough trouble now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-scandal-cm-vijayan-faces-heat-as-protesters-rage/story-QAEHGPWsSnIb5eGIkxAxRK.html
10-07-2020||India||AIIMS Rishikesh to treat neurological disorders among children in Uttarakhand||The Rishikesh-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is being equipped to treat neurological disorders among children in Uttarakhand, a healthcare facility that was not available in the hill state to date.The AIIMS administration has set up a new neurology division in the department of paediatrics, said a hospital statement.Earlier, many children, suffering from neurological disorders in Uttarakhand, had to be taken to AIIMS, Delhi, or Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, for treatment. However, those from the underprivileged socio-economic background couldn’t afford to make the journey to Delhi or Chandigarh for treatment and would suffer from several morbidities, at times, leading to even death.Professor Ravi Kant, director, AIIMS, Rishikesh, said: “The paediatric neurology division will provide state-of-the-art and comprehensive healthcare services for children with epilepsy, cerebral palsy, encephalitis, headache, muscular disorders, autoimmune, and other complex neurological disorders.”The multispeciality hospital has also introduced a doctor of medicine (DM) super-speciality course in paediatric neurology. AIIMS-Rishikesh is the fourth government institute in the country to start this prestigious course and first in Uttarakhand, he said.“The neurology division will run an outpatient department (OPD) facility in the morning and five speciality clinics will cater to children suffering from various neurological disorders. It is also well equipped with an in-patient facility for admitting children with neurological disorders and providing them with all advanced treatment options,” he added.Dr. Indar Kumar Sharwat, an associate professor and the head of the new neurology division, said there are plans to open a Paediatric Epilepsy Monitoring unit in the near future.“The division will initiate a comprehensive neuro-rehabilitation centre for children with multiple disabilities to provide them with various developmental and behavioural therapies under one roof,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-rishikesh-to-treat-neurological-disorders-among-children-in-uttarakhand/story-eDupslm0M8VqesaLtVx2RO.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition targets UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Dead men tell no tales’: Oppn aims at UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounterGangster Vikas Dubey’s death in a police encounter early on Friday morning triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster arrested less than 24 hours earlier from a temple in Ujjain had been killed to shield the people who had protected him. Read more1 lakh km of road built using plastic waste, govt aims to double itThe central government has been using plastic waste in road construction to properly utilise the material which otherwise is not recycled. So far, one lakh kilometre of road has been constructed using plastic waste, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported. Read more‘Will seek President’s views’: Chhattisgarh Governor on pending billsChhattisgarh governor Anusuiya Uikey on Thursday said that she will consult the President and University Grants Commission (UGC) after three senior ministers of the state’s Congress government met her urging to clear bills that curtails her powers to make appointments in the universities in the state. Read moreChina cities declare flood ‘red alerts’ as extreme weather threats surgeFour cities along China’s Yangtze river have declared top-level flood warnings over the past two days after torrential rain triggered landslides and inundated roads and farmland, with parts of the river threatening to burst its banks. Read moreHappy Birthday Sunil Gavaskar: Five interesting facts from former India captain’s historic careerFormer India captain and Test cricket legend Sunil Gavaskar celebrates his 71st birthday on Friday. The former right-handed batsman had a historic career in which he went on to score 10,000+ Test runs for the country. Gavaskar was the first cricketer in history to surpass the 10,000 runs mark in the longest format. Read moreDil Bechara Title Song: Sushant Singh Rajput rues getting friendzoned in impressive single take songDisney+ Hotstar has shared the first song from their highly anticipated film, Dil Bechara. The title song features late actor Sushant Singh Rajput as the star of his college, wowing everyone with a cool dance performance. The song has been shot entirely in a single take. Read moreExclusive: Inside the Apple Watch’s dance tracking algorithmsWhen Apple said at this year’s Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) that it can tell you how many calories you spent while dancing, it piqued our interest. Traditional workouts are repetitive, something algorithms excel at tracking. Compared to that, a dance is as erratic as a Twitter trend. Read moreWorld Population Day 2020: Raising awareness about the health and rights of women amid the coronavirus pandemicWorld Population Day is observed each year on July 11th in an attempt to increase awareness about issues regarding global population. First established by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989, it marks the day that the world reached the population of 5 billion in the year 1987. Read moreMoonwalker Dr Buzz Aldrin shares throwback picture of Earth taken from space in 1969. It’s enthralling“Beautiful,” “amazing,” or “mesmerising,” are few among the many adjectives you will be inclined to use to react to this throwback image recently shared on Twitter. Dr Buzz Aldrin, the astronaut who walked on the moon, wrote “This view of home never gets old” and shared the image. Read moreWatch: Covid death risk higher in elderly, men; Brazil press body sues Bolsonaro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-targets-up-govt-after-vikas-dubey-s-encounter-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DYbAcilMNdMTRblcl3Jc7O.html
10-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s prisons witness surge in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra’s prison department said on Friday 596 inmates and 167 prison staff have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the state till date. The number of Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra’s prisons are nearing 800 and the death toll stands at four. Meanwhile, 281 inmates and 93 prison staff have recovered till now.The Nagpur Central Prison is the worst hit, with more than 200 inmates and 57 prison staff infected with the virus. A few days ago, 68 inmates out of the 300 at the Akola District Jail had tested positive for Covid-19.The first set of cases in Maharashtra’s prisons was reported at the Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai. More than 100 inmates and prison staff were found to be infected.Last month, Bombay High Court had said the coronavirus tests being conducted on inmates lodged in jails and correctional homes in Maharashtra were not sufficient.Its observation came after the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, one of the oldest human rights group in India, brought to the court’s notice that the number of tests being conducted in jails and correctional homes was terribly low.Maharashtra continues to be India’s worst-affected state by the coronavirus pandemic where the number of cases have crossed the 230,000-mark and the death toll stands at 9,667.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-prisons-witness-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-Vn8tBJCfz8Bg1kzTA0VM4I.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Dead men tell no tales’: Oppn aims at UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounter||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s death in a police encounter early on Friday morning triggered sharp attacks from opposition parties who alleged that the gangster arrested less than 24 hours earlier from a temple in Ujjain had been killed to shield the people who had protected him. Vikas Dubey was arrested from Mahakal temple in Ujjain, nearly 650 km from Kanpur on Thursday morning. He was being taken back to Kanpur in a sports utility vehicle when the incident took place.Opposition leaders who had demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s political nexus claimed that the encounter was engineered to bury the facts.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged. Dead men tell no tales #VikasDubeyAlso Read: Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, arrested for killing 8 cops, shot dead in encounterSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav wondered if the vehicle had indeed overturned or the encounter was designed to stop the UP government from being turned on its head, a reference to the party’s allegations that Dubey had been shielded by local BJP leaders.WATCH:  Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead in encounterThe gangster was shot dead 20 km from Kanpur city. Police said the vehicle in which Vikas Dubey was travelling overturned in a road accident. The gangster, according to a statement by Kanpur police, snatched a service pistol from one of the policemen in the car and tried to run away. Policemen went after him and told him to surrender. “But he didn’t listen and started firing at the police with an intention to kill,” the statement in Hindi said. He was shot in police firing and later died at a hospital.Also Read: Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past weekCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had yesterday demanded a CBI inquiry, said the criminal may have died. But what about the people who protected him, she asked. अपराधी का अंत हो गया, अपराध और उसको सरंक्षण देने वाले लोगों का क्या?Vikas Dubey, who had 60 cases registered against him, hit national headlines a week back when his gang ambushed and shot dead eight policemen in Kanpur who had come to arrest him. Seven more policemen were injured. It turned out that he had been tipped off about the raid by a local policeman, one of the many who were on his rolls. He had been on the run ever since.The hunt for Dubey ended near Ujjain’s Mahakal temple.Srinivas BV, the Indian Youth Congress president, tweeted that Vikas Dubey’s encounter would come as a relief for BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh who had helped him. He also referred to two videos tweeted by news agency ANI that it said, showed Vikas Dubey travelling in a SUV of a different make than the one that overturned. In the second video recorded some time before the encounter took place, the news agency said the police had stopped vehicles of journalists following the police convoy at 6.30 am. The encounter took place half an hour later.Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra rebutted the BJP’s critics, saying the cops had done their job.“The law has taken its course. It could be a matter of regret and disappointment for those who raised questions on Vikas Dubey’s arrest yesterday and his death today. MP Police did its job. It arrested and handed him over to UP Police,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dead-men-tell-no-tales-oppn-aims-at-up-govt-after-vikas-dubey-s-encounter/story-dXOr9lPNfuXUEwK8HOuCgN.html
10-07-2020||India||Baushuan Ger is Taiwan’s new ambassador to India||Taiwan has named senior diplomat Baushuan Ger as its new representative to India while his predecessor Tien Chung-kwang has been promoted to the post of deputy foreign minister.Baushuan’s appointment was part of personnel changes announced by Taiwan’s foreign ministry on Thursday. Tien, who served as Taiwan’s representative to India for more than seven years, is expected to leave for home on Friday.However, Baushuan is expected to take up his post in India in September, people familiar with developments said. He is currently director general of the department of East Asian and Pacific Affairs in Taiwan’s foreign ministry and has served in the US and the UK.Tien will replace Hsu Szu-chien as deputy foreign minister. Hsu has been appointed as deputy secretary-general of Taiwan’s National Security Council.“Not only does such an arrangement convey approval for Tien’s performance as Taiwan’s representative to India over the past seven years, but it also suggests that the relationship with India is likely to become one of Taiwan’s most important diplomatic priorities in the future,” Taiwan News portal reported on Thursday.Under the “One China policy”, India doesn’t have full and formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan. Taiwan established the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC) in New Delhi in 1995 as its government representative office in India.Besides promoting bilateral relations in economy, trade, investment, media and tourism, TECC has divisions for consular, economic, education science and technology activities that are responsible for advancing mutual interests between Taiwan and India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal.Amid the border standoff between India and China, several experts and commentators have called for New Delhi to upgrade its ties with Taipei.In a recent article for HT, Sana Hashmi, Taiwan Fellow at the Institute of International Relations, National Chengchi University, wrote: “India’s foreign policy priorities, particularly with regard to the Indo-Pacific, should accommodate Taiwan. Along with military preparedness and aligning interests with key countries, Taiwan needs to be included prominently in its long-term strategy towards China.”Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen’s New Southbound Policy, launched in 2016, aims to expand political, economic, and people-to-people linkages with countries such as India. Taiwan also cooperated with India during the Covid-19 pandemic, donating one million face masks to protect frontline medical personnel engaged in the fight against the Coronavirus.In a recent editorial headlined “Taiwan must stand with India”, the leading newspaper Taipei Times said the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese troops “fits a pattern of Beijing’s increasingly aggressive expansionism in the region – which should also concern policymakers in Taiwan”.The editorial said: “The incident should be understood in the context of Beijing’s aggressive behaviour in the region, which has clearly become more frequent since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.”It added, “What motivates Chinese President Xi Jinping’s increased assertiveness in the region? This is a question that Taiwan, India and other regional nations must seek to answer... Taiwan should deepen ties with India, in particular economic, military and intelligence ties, to contain Chinese expansionism and put Xi back into his box.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taiwan-names-new-ambassador-to-india/story-ARz8tkyFMdWkfseZ7mVsfO.html
10-07-2020||India||Odisha’s revenue collection down 23% in first quarter as Covid cases surge||Odisha’s revenue collections have whittled down by 23% in the first quarter (April-June) of the current financial year 2020-21 in comparison to the corresponding period last year because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, officials said.State finance secretary Ashok Meena said the total revenue collection up to June was Rs 8,204 crore, as compared to the last year’s collection of Rs 10,645 crore.The dip is owing to an over 35% drop in the collection of state’s own taxes and revenues such as excise, Value Added Tax (VAT), Goods and Services Tax (GST), stamp duties and registration on the back of an unprecedented economic slump due to the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since end-March to contain the viral outbreak.However, non-tax revenue collections due to mining royalty went up by around 3% between April and June.The total non-tax revenue between April and June, 2019 was Rs 3,506 crore, which increased to Rs 3,609 crore during the same period this year.Officials said Odisha’s GST collection in the first quarter of 2020-21 fell by 35.25%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2019-20 fiscal. The gross GST collection in the April-June period of 2020-21 fiscal was Rs 5,192.30 crore, while it was Rs 8,019.44 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20.Finance department officials said even programme expenditures of all departments have gone down.The expenditure reduced by around 5.06% in April to June quarter, in comparison to the last fiscal. The total programme expenditure up to June in the current fiscal was around Rs 8,923 crore against around Rs 9,399 crore during the same period in the last fiscal.The dip in revenue collection has come at a time when the daily Covid-19 positive growth rate in Odisha has outpaced the national average.Odisha’s daily Covid-19 positive growth rate has risen from 5.4% to 6.74 % against the national average of 3.4% since last week. While the state’s sample positivity rate at 11.69% has also overtaken the national average of 9.2% until Friday.Sample positivity is total Covid-19 positive cases divided by the total number of tests multiplied by 100.The Naveen Patnaik-led government has recently capped expenditure on state schemes, except those related to agriculture and its allied sector and for combating Covid-19.The finance department in a press statement has announced a blanket ban on the creation of new posts except for the state health and family welfare department. Exceptions to the creation of new posts can only be made subject to approval by the finance department.Only expenditures, relating to Covid-19 management, and under other essential heads would be allowed, it added.A ban has been enforced on the purchase of new equipment, except those related to healthcare and internal security.The state government has banned the purchase of any new vehicle for the next two years and officials have been directed to avoid foreign tours. Air travel is not encouraged, while an emphasis is being laid on holding meetings via video-conference.Last week, the state government appointed a nodal officer for implementation of specific state reforms for availing of additional borrowing of 2% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) during 2020-21 to increase its resource base. Earlier, the Centre had allowed all states to borrow 2% of GSDP over and above the regular limit of 3% because of the pandemic.The opposition -- the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress -- has slammed the government for the hiring freeze for the next two years.Pradipta Naik, the leader of the opposition and a BJP member of the Odisha legislative assembly (MLA), said the recruitment freeze in state government jobs for the next two years is unfortunate, as many posts are lying vacant in several departments.“This is a conspiracy hatched by the state government to shirk its responsibility in the name of Covid-19 management amid an annual spike in the unemployment rate in Odisha,” Naik alleged.Niranjan Patnaik, president, Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC), said during this pandemic the state government was supposed to create more jobs, as many were rendered jobless.“Many good students are staring at an uncertain future because of the state government’s move,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-revenue-collection-down-23-in-first-quarter-as-covid-cases-surge/story-qI0QVvAzuYDE94ccwIOGFJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Bengal sees highest one-day jump of 1,088 Covid-19 cases, toll at 854||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 1,088 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike in infections so far, pushing the tally to 25,911 while a record 27 fatalities in the last 24 hours raised the death toll to 854, the state health department said. Out of the new deaths, 24 were due to comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, the department said in a bulletin.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  Kolkata accounted for 13 of the new fatalities, followed by six in North 24 Parganas, three in Howrah, two each in South 24 Parganas and Darjeeling and one in Dakshin Dinajpur district, it said. In the last 24 hours, 535 patients have been discharged from different hospitals in the state after recovering from the infection, it said, adding that a total of 16,826 were cured of the disease so far. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 8,231. The bulletin said in the last 24 hours, 322 people tested positive for the disease in Kolkata, 264 in North 24 Parganas, 167 in Howrah, 88 in South 24 Parganas and 53 in Hooghly. The remaining 194 cases were reported from 13 other districts. Since Wednesday, 10,805 samples have been tested in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sees-highest-one-day-jump-of-1-088-covid-19-cases-toll-at-854/story-ktu3Bac5Oc8qAREvs8FPSK.html
10-07-2020||India||1 lakh km of road built using plastic waste, govt aims to double it||The central government has been using plastic waste in road construction to properly utilise the material which otherwise is not recycled. So far, one lakh kilometre of road has been constructed using plastic waste, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported.The construction of every kilometre of road required nine tonnes of bitumen and one tonne of plastic waste. This means for every kilometre of road, one tonne bitumen is saved, which costs about Rs 30,000.Plastic roads consist of 6-8 per cent plastic, while 92-94 per cent is bitumen.Union minister Nitin Gadkari had announced the usage of plastic waste in road construction in 2016. Since then, plastic waste has been used in constructing one lakh kilometre of road in 11 states. In this financial year, the figure will double, according to Hindustan.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) used plastic waste in its roads for the first time in 2018. The MCG has now made the use of plastic waste mandatory in the construction of arterial roads.Assam started using the waste material from this year.Plastic has been used in the 270-kilometre-long Jammu Kashmir National highway. About 1.6 tonne of plastic waste was used in the two-kilometre-long stretch of Delhi-Meerut highway news UP Gate, according to Hindustan. It has also been used in constructing the road connecting Dhaula Kuan to the airport in Delhi, the report in Hindustan said.India generates at least 25,940 tonnes of plastic waste daily, equivalent to the weight of around 4,300 elephants. Of this, about 60 per cent gets recycled, according to the Union environment ministry. The rest gets dumped in landfills, clogs drains, goes into the ocean as micro-plastics, or is burnt, leading to air pollution.In the absence of a proper waste management system, the plastics that get recycled are often dirty, which makes the re-cycling process water-intensive and expensive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-lakh-km-of-road-built-using-plastic-waste-govt-aims-to-double-it/story-iwmkiKjlG86BYIDlg2aLtM.html
10-07-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to meet CDS Bipin Rawat, three service chiefs on current situation on LAC in Eastern Ladakh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday will meet Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the three services chiefs to discuss the current situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh.The meeting will also review the overall security situation.Asserting that India is committed to ensuring its sovereignty and territorial integrity, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava said during a media briefing on Thursday, “The diplomatic and military officials of both sides will continue their meetings to take forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation as agreed to by the Special Representatives. The next meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) is expected to take place soon.”Srivastava’s remarks came as the first phase of disengagement between armies of India and China at friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh has been completed and the talks for the second phase are expected to begin in next few days.On July 5, the Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question-- Ajit Doval and Chinese State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi--- had a ‘frank and in-depth exchange’ during a telephone conversation during which they agreed that both sides should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously.As part of the first phase of disengagement, Chinese troops have moved back from Finger 4 to Finger 5 in the Finger area. They have already moved back by around two kilometres in the other friction points including Galway valley, Hot Springs and Patrolling Point-15, top government sources told ANI.The Indian side has also moved back as per the mutual disengagement agreed upon during the Corps Commander-level talks, the sources added. The vacant spaces will be treated as temporary non-patrolling zones by both sides and their troops will not come there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-meet-cds-bipin-rawat-three-service-chiefs-on-current-situation-on-lac-in-eastern-ladakh/story-0UVbUvgwfyvDD3p2OwPMPK.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Sure, pure and secure’: PM Modi inaugurates Asia’s largest solar plant in MP’s Rewa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday Asia’s largest Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Power Project in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa will not only help the state but the entire world as a secure foundation for a clean environment.The Prime Minister dedicated the 750-megawatt ultra mega solar power plant, which the government has said will reduce emission equivalent to approximately 15 lakh tonne of carbon dioxide every year, to the nation through video conferencing. “Solar energy is going to be a major medium of energy needs not only today but in the 21st century. Because solar energy is sure, pure and secure,” the Prime Minister said.“Today, Rewa has really scripted history. Rewa is identified with the name of mother Narmada and the white tiger. Now, the name of Asia’s largest solar power project has also been added to it,” he said. Glimpses from the solar power project that was inaugurated in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh, this morning. pic.twitter.com/uZOZ0YXxAQ“I congratulate the people of Rewa and Madhya Pradesh and give them my best wishes. This solar plant of Rewa will help in making this entire area a big centre of energy in this decade,” he added.Madhya Pradesh’s Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union minister of new and renewable energy RK Singh and oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan were among those present during the inauguration virtually.The Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Limited (RUMSL), a joint venture of state-owned Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) and Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (MPUVNL), comprises three solar generating units of 250MW each located on a 500-hectare plot of land inside a solar park with a total area of 1500 hectare. The Prime Minister said as India is moving towards the new peaks of development, so are people’s hopes and aspirations and the need for energy and electricity. In such a situation, self-sufficiency in electricity is very important for a self-reliant India, he said.“When we talk about self-reliance and progress, the economy is an important aspect. Policymakers from all over the world have been in dilemma for years whether to think about the economy or environment,” he said.“As we are launching large projects of renewable energy, we are also making sure that our determination towards clean energy is seen in every aspect of life. We are trying that its benefits reach every corner of the country, every section of society, every citizen,” he added.The way India’s is utilising solar power, it is going to be discussed further and is being considered as the most attractive market of clean energy.“Keeping this expectation of the world and the humanity from India, we are engaged in connecting the whole world. The result of this thinking is ISA which is International Solar Alliance. This is the spirit behind one world, one sun, one grid,” he said.Central financial assistance of Rs 138 crore has been provided to RUMSL for the development of the park. Mahindra Renewables Private Ltd, ACME Jaipur Solar Power Private Ltd and Arinsun Clean Energy Private Ltd were selected by RUMSL through a reverse auction for developing the three solar generating units.The project is the first renewable energy project to supply to an institutional customer outside the state, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). It will get 24% of energy from the project with the remaining 76% being supplied to the state discoms of Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sure-pure-and-secure-pm-modi-inaugurates-asia-s-largest-solar-plant-in-mp-s-rewa/story-D0PL4ssjPZ3UH7LNsfxZiO.html
10-07-2020||India||BJP chief JP Nadda’s team to get younger players||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s new national team of office bearers expected be announced soon will see more younger representatives, said persons aware of the details.A senior functionary privy to the details said just as the average age of officer bearers including presidents at the 700 plus districts is under 50; the new team that will assist BJP president JP Nadda is also expected to have the same age median.The new national office bearers team and team will have a mix of the new and the experienced and though it is not confirmed if younger, less experienced faces will make it to the party’s decision making body, the Parliamentary Board and the National Executive Committee.In 2017the party leadership took the decision of grooming younger leaders to take charge. “Since then the officials who were appointed at the district and the state level have been in the age group of 4-50. A cut off age of 75 years was already announced for contesting elections or appointments to posts,” the functionary quoted above said.Citing examples, the functionary said the average age of functionaries in Uttar Pradesh is between 40 and 45; while in Bihar, the average age of the district presidents is 45.“There is a concerted move to give younger people more responsibility and offer them the chance to gather experience in administrative processes,” a second functionary said.The party will also stick to its practice of inducting 33% women in the office bearers panel. In 2010, the party had amended its constitution to ensure more representation foe women in party positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-s-team-to-get-younger-players/story-eMDp1gvdsSQLaJBGUQ12sI.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Will seek President’s views’: Chhattisgarh Governor on pending bills||Chhattisgarh governor Anusuiya Uikey on Thursday said that she will consult the President and University Grants Commission (UGC) after three senior ministers of the state’s Congress government met her urging to clear bills that curtails her powers to make appointments in the universities in the state.On March 26, the Chhattisgarh legislative assembly passed five amendment bills curtailing her powers, a few weeks after Uikey appointed Baldev Bhai Sharma as vice-chancellor of Kushabhau Thakre University and re-appointed Vans Gopal Singh as vice-chancellor of Pandit Sundarlal Sharma Open University in Bilaspur.Sharma was editor of RSS’ mouthpiece ‘Panchjanya’ and was also a biographer of former Sangh sarsanghchalak KS Sudarashan and Singh is considered close to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Chhattisgarh forest minister Mohammad Akbar, Agriculture Minister Ravindra Chaubey and higher education minister Umesh Patel met the Governor for seeking her views on the amendment bills that increases state government’s oversight over the state universities and ‘reduces’ the governor’s role.“We came here for discussion over amendment bills of state universities which were passed in the last assembly and were pending with the governor... We urged the governor for approval of the bills pending with her,” said Chaubey while speaking to media persons.“The amendment bill has been passed by legislative assembly and is pending for approval with the governor. She (the Governor) had sought certain clarifications about the bills which were sent by the government but approval has not been given,” said a senior official working with the chief minister’s office (CMO).The official said that Gujarat government has amended the university appointment rule in 2009 and had reduced the role of Governor in appointing vice-chancellors of the state universities. “In Gujarat, the governor approved the amendment and the state government has powers to appoint vice-chancellors now,” the official said. Commenting over the pending bills, Governor Uikey said she has no intention of delaying approval of any bills and was working as per the law.“After they sent me these five bills for approval, I sent a letter to the higher education department in April and asked about comparative details of such amendments in other states. Four days back, they sent me an answer claiming that Gujarat and one other state had made similar amendments in the past. I asked for the UGC guidelines on such amendments and found that the bill flouts UGC guidelines also,” said the Governor.Uikey said that she will consult UGC and the President of India over these amendments.“I am working as per my constitutional powers of Governor and since it is a matter of students and education, I will consult legal experts, UGC and President of India and then take further steps,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-seek-president-s-views-chhattisgarh-governor-on-pending-bills/story-6mn0FTWVY2E7wmRp7eYr5H.html
10-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey escaped, was asked to surrender, say police. Read full statement here||Gangster Vikas Dubey, who was accused of killing eight policemen last week, was shot dead when he tried to escape after a road accident while being taken to Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, the police said on Friday. According to a statement by the Kanpur Police, the car in which Vikas Dubey was being taken overturned on the highway and he tried to escape after snatching a pistol from one of the personnel of the Special Task Force (STF).The statement said the police asked Vikas Dubey to surrender but he fired at them, forcing them to retaliate.Here is the full statement issued in Hindi by Kanpur Police after Vikas Dubey’s death:Also read: Plea in Supreme Court seeks CBI probe in killing of Vikas Dubey’s aides in encounters“It is to be conveyed that the criminal wanted in a case registered in Chaubeypur police station on 03.07.2020 under M ​​/ s.192/20 Section 147/148/149/302/307/394 / 120B the Indian Penal Code & 7 CLA Act which is related to the martyrdom of 08 policemen, who has a reward of Rs 5 lakh, Vikas Dubey son Ram Kumar Dubey resident of Bikru police station Choubeypur in Kanpur City, was arrested by Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh police and was being brought to Kanpur city on 10.07.2020 by police and STF team today,” the statement said.“The above police vehicle overturned near Bhaunti, Kanpur Nagar resulting in injuries to the accused and policemen inside in it. After the accident, accused Vikas Dubey tried to escape by snatching the pistol of an injured policeman,” it added.“He was chased and asked to surrender by the police but he did not heed and started firing at the team with the intention of killing them. The police team fired back in self-defence and the accused Vikas Dubey was injured in the retaliatory firing. He was immediately taken to a hospital, where the accused died during treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-escapes-was-asked-to-surrender-say-police-read-full-statement-here/story-uTuJvQ1vio1sIgraFkPbLP.html
10-07-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks CBI probe in killing of Vikas Dubey’s aides in encounters||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed before the Supreme Court on Friday seeking CBI probe into the killing of five of Vikas Dubey’s aides by the Uttar Pradesh Police. All the five men were gunned down in encounter.The plea, which was filed before Dubey was killed today in an alleged encounter, also raised concerns that the gangster from Uttar Pradesh too might suffer the same fate. The petitioner Ghanyshyam Upadhyay, therefore, prayed that Dubey should be given adequate security so that he is dealt with as per the law.“Killing of accused by police in the name of encounter is against the rule of law and serious violation of human right and this is nothing short of Talibanisation of the country,” the petition stated.Dubey was killed in an encounter near Kanpur on Friday morning. The gangster was being brought by the Uttar Pradesh Police from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh where he was arrested on Thursday.Also Read: The Sequence of Events in Past WeekThe police said that the convoy in which Dubey was travelling met with an accident. They said that Dubey tried to flee after a vehicle of the convoy overturned and was gunned down in a field.Dubey was being chased since the killing of eight policemen by his men in Bikru village near Kanpur.The police, during their investigation and chase, identified key aides of Dubey who were killed in separate encounters in different cities of Uttar Pradesh.While on July 3 - the day eight policemen were killed - two of his associates, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by police in an encounter in Kanpur, on July 8 the police killed another aide, Amar Dubey, who carried a reward of Rs 50,000, in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district.On July 9, two more aides of gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush, were killed in separate encounters in Kanpur and Etawah districts.Prabhat Mishra was killed in Kanpur when he tried to flee from police custody, and another aide of Vikas Dubey, Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, was shot dead in an encounter in Etawah. Mishra was arrested from Faridabad on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-cbi-probe-in-killing-of-vikas-dubey-s-aides-in-encounters/story-Q36Keu9Eb6bHMMZUeFE3ZP.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Haryana close to 20,000 cases, Jammu and Kashmir inches towards 10,000-mark||India on Friday saw the highest-ever single-day increase in the number of coronavirus disease cases. In the last 24 hours, 26,506 new cases have been recorded which took the country’s tally to 7,93,802. As many as 475 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, which took the toll to 21,604.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have further increased their Covid-19 numbers. The gap between Tamil Nadu (at number 2) and Delhi has further widened. Other states, specially in south India, have seen a surge too.Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 2,30,599 on Friday. Over 1,27,259 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 9,667 have died.Tamil NaduThe number of Covid-19 cases in second-placed Tamil Nadu has reached 1,26,581. The state has witnessed 1,765 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 78,161.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 1,07,051 on Friday. As many as 82,226 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital while 3,258 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 39,194 on Thursday. The state has seen 27,718 people recover from coronavirus while 2,008 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-cases in Uttar Pradesh jumped to 32,362 on Friday while the number of recoveries has touched 21,127. The state’s death toll stands at 862.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 30,946 as on Friday. While 18,192 have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 331 in the state.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 31,105 coronavirus cases till date while 486 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 12,833 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. West BengalAs many as 25,911 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 16,826 recover from coronavirus while 854 people have been killed.RajasthanThe state has reported 22,563 Covid-19 cases till date. The death toll due to the disease stands at 491 in the state while 17,070 patients have recovered.Andhra Pradesh The state has reported 23,814 Covid-19 patients till date. While 12,154people have recovered from the disease across the state, the death toll stands at 277.Situation in other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 19,369. Over 16,000 (16,341 to be exact) people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has reached 13,944, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has touched 9,501. In Odisha, cases have reached 11,201 while Assam has reported over 14,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 7,140, and the number of cases in Kerala is 6,534. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,305. In Jharkhand, coronavirus disease cases have reached 3,246. States with less than 3,000 casesTripura, Nagaland, Ladakh, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. While Chandigarh has more tha 500 Covid-19 cases, the number is over 100 in Meghalaya.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-haryana-close-to-20-000-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-inches-towards-10-000-mark/story-mADLydgoLHRNsAcOkk9lBL.html
10-07-2020||India||After police kill Vikas Dubey in encounter, Akhilesh Yadav questions govt||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday questioned the Uttar Pradesh government after gangster Vikas Dubey, accused of murdering eight policemen on July 3, was killed in an alleged encounter by the police in Kanpur district. Officials said Vikas Dubey was shot dead by the police after he tried to escape following an accident involving one of the vehicles in the Special Task Force (STF) cavalcade bringing him back to Uttar Pradesh from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain city.Akhilesh Yadav posted his comment on Twitter without directly referring to Dubey.“The car hasn’t overturned but the government has been saved from being overturned because of secrets,” he tweeted in Hindi.Dubey, on the run since the attack on the policemen, was arrested near the Mahakal temple in Ujjain on Thursday.STF officials said there was an encounter as Vikas Dubey tried to escape when the vehicle overturned early in the morning amid heavy rains.They said Vikas Dubey snatched a weapon from one of the policemen after the accident. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added.He was killed as the police team fired in self-defence, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-police-kill-vikas-dubey-in-encounter-akhilesh-yadav-questions-govt/story-kpUXXGcAWb3ScdTyqHpvXK.html
10-07-2020||India||India records another single-day spike of new Covid-19 cases at 26,506, tally over 7.93 lakh||India recorded 26,506 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the highest jump so far, and 475 deaths in the last 24 hours pushing its infection tally to 793,802, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.The country has recorded more than two lakh Covid-19 cases since July 1 and has witnessed over 20,000 infections every day since July 3.There were 19,135 patients of the viral disease who were cured between Thursday and Friday morning taking the number of those sent home from hospitals to 495,512. With that, India’s recovery rate is now 62.42%.On Thursday, the number of recovered cases had overshot the number of Covid-19 active cases by 206,588. The number of recovered is now almost twice the number of active cases. Also read: Sero survey hints at a high Covid-19 infection rate in Delhi“This is a result of focussed attention on effective surveillance through house-to-house contact tracing, early detection, and isolation as well as timely and effective clinical management of COVID-19 cases,” the Centre said in a release.The country’s death toll stands at 21,604 after the new fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.The government has said that India has one of the lowest deaths in the world with deaths per million population at 15.31 which translates to a fatality rate of 2.75%—the global deaths per million population stand at 68.7.The Union health ministry said on Thursday patients over the age of 45 years, who form 25% of the country’s population, account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths.India also has one of the lowest cases per million population in the world at 538 while the global average is at 1497, the government has said.It has also said 49 districts across India account for 80% of Covid-19 cases in the country.Also read: China warns citizens of ‘unknown pneumonia’ with higher fatality than Covid-19Maharashtra continued to be the worst-hit state with more than 2.30 lakh cases and 9,667 deaths. Tamil Nadu has 126,581 Covid-19 cases and 1,765 deaths, while Delhi has reported 107,051 infections and 3,258 deaths till date.Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal have announced lockdowns once again to contain the spread of the virus as there was a surge in Covid-19 cases.The government in Uttar Pradesh, where the Covid-19 tally has crossed 32,000, announced a complete weekend shutdown from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am. In West Bengal, another week of complete lockdown kicked in Thursday afternoon across containment zones. The Covid-19 tally in the eastern state has gone past 25,000.Five districts, including Patna, in Bihar will go under lockdown from Saturday after more than a month as the state’s Covid-19 count neared 14,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-another-single-day-spike-of-new-covid-19-cases-at-26-506-tally-over-7-93-lakh/story-bs1Z1RO1EUj4R9st4jRrOM.html
10-07-2020||India||Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past week||Vikas Dubey, the dreaded gangster from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh who was captured on Thursday, was killed in an encounter on Friday morning.With this, the week-long saga which began after the killing of eight policemen in Bikru village near Kanpur has come to an end. Dubey’s men had killed these policemen on the intervening night of July 2 and 3 when they went to arrest the gangster in connection with an attempt to murder case.The complaint was filed by a resident of Bikru village, who claimed that Dubey tried to kidnap and eliminate him. Reports emerged that the complainant, Rahul Tiwari, first went to Dubey’s house with a policeman - SHO of Chaubeypur police station Vinay Tiwari - but they were both beaten up and threatened by the notorious criminal.The SHO did not tell anyone about the incident, a mistake that proved costly. It later emerged that the cop was regularly in touch with Dubey and provided him will all the updates about police action being planned against him. Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra - who was killed in the July 3 encounter - had even prepared a report against the SHO and sent to his senior in March (HT had seen a copy of the letter) complaining of him being hand in glove with Dubey but no action was taken then.The SHO was finally suspended on Wednesday and later he along with a sub-inspector KK Sharma were arrested for allegedly being part of the entire conspiracy.Mishra, meanwhile, prepared a team of 20 officials (including some others from the nearby police stations) and went to Bikru village to arrest Dubey. But the gangster was already aware of the raid, and was prepared to take on the team.When Mishra’s police team reached the village, it found the road near Dubey’s house blocked by an earthmover. As soon as the members of the team got down, Dubey’s men rained bullets on them from the rooftops - a scene straight out of a movie. The cops were caught unaware and couldn’t find a place to save themselves.Some of them tried to hide in a toilet nearby, but the bullets kept grazing past them. Eight of them were killed, including Mishra, and Dubey fled the village.A massive manhunt then began and the police formed more than 40 teams to capture Dubey who used different modes of transport, including motorcycles, an SUV, sand-laden trucks and taxis, to escape. He first went to Haryana’s Faridabad where he was caught on a CCTV footage installed at the hotel.Dubey kept giving slip to the cops, who in the meanwhile razed his house and eliminated five of his close aides. All the men connected to Dubey were questioned and help sought from other state governments too where Dubey went.He was arrested on Thursday in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain. Dubey was seen at the famous Mahakal temple where he arrived around 7.30 am in a private car having UP registration number. After purchasing a ticket worth Rs 250 for VIP darshan of the deity, Dubey went to a shop selling flowers and prasad, where the seller, Suresh Mali, identified the gangster, news agencies reported.The police was informed and Dubey arrested. The man with more than 60 cases including 11 murders, and wanted for the killing of the eight policemen, was handed over to Uttar Pradesh Police which was tasked with bringing him back to Kanpur.On Friday, while the convoy was on its way to Kanpur, it met with an accident in which one of the vehicles in the Special Task Force (STF) overturned. The police said that Dubey tried to escape and snatched a weapon from one of the policemen. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added. There was an exchange of fire and he was killed, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangster-vikas-dubey-killed-the-sequence-of-events-in-past-week/story-kHRkSW6TX04JAduOgVpRpI.html
10-07-2020||India||Army soldier killed in ceasefire violation in J-K’s Rajouri||An Indian Army soldier was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district, officials said on Friday.Havildar Sambur Gurung, 36, was critically injured in the unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector and later succumbed to his injuries, the army said in a statement.“Havildar Sambur Gurung was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” Lt Col Devender Anand, defence spokesperson, said in the statement.He added that Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-soldier-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-dnaT0x83s1gchOzSEXurPK.html
10-07-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Asia’s largest solar power plant in MP today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday inaugurate Asia’s largest solar power plant in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, which the government has said will reduce emission equivalent to approximately 15 lakh tonne of carbon dioxide every year. The Prime Minister will dedicate the 750MW ultra mega solar power plant, which is spread over 1,590 acres of land, to the nation through video conferencing. “Rewa Solar Project is an example of the excellent results that can be achieved if there is a synergy between central and state governments,” the Centre said in a release.Here’s all about the project:* The Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Power Project is one of the largest single-site solar power plants in India and the world.* The project comprises three solar generating units of 250 MW each located on a 500-hectare plot of land inside a solar park with a total area of 1500 hectare. * The solar park was developed by the Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Limited (RUMSL), a joint venture company of Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (MPUVN) and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), a central public sector undertaking.* A central financial assistance of Rs 138 crore has been provided to RUMSL for the development of the park. * Mahindra Renewables Private Ltd, ACME Jaipur Solar Power Private Ltd and Arinsun Clean Energy Private Ltd were selected by RUMSL through a reverse auction for developing the three solar generating units.* The project is the first renewable energy project to supply to an institutional customer outside the state, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. It will get 24% of energy from the project with the remaining 76% being supplied to the state discoms of Madhya Pradesh.* It also exemplifies India’s commitment to attaining the target of 175GW of installed renewable energy capacity by the year 2022, including 100GW of solar installed capacity, the government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-asia-s-largest-solar-power-plant-in-mp-today/story-yaBz5rj5TG78j6DJ3Y9siL.html
10-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Patients over the age of 45 account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.85% Covid-19 deaths in 45-plus age bracket: Govt dataPatients over the age of 45 years, who form 25% of the country’s population, account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as it asserted that the country has been able to manage the outbreak “relatively well” with cases and deaths per million of the population here among the lowest in the world. Read moreOdisha official arrested over sexual harassment allegationsPolice in Odisha arrested a 59-year-old senior state government official on Thursday over allegations of sexually harassing a 25-year-old junior. Mahila police station inspector Banita Maharana said director of AYUSH Mission Bibhu Prasad Sarangi was arrested following prima facie evidence of sending obscene messages to the woman employee. Read moreNagaland govt asks employees to declare names of family members connected to insurgent groupsThe Nagaland government has asked government employees to furnish details of family members who are affiliated to various insurgent groups in the state. According to an office memorandum issued on July 7 by chief secretary Temjen Toy, heads of departments have been asked to obtain information in self-declaration forms from all employees “regarding family members and relatives in underground organizations”. Read moreChina warns citizens of ‘unknown pneumonia’ with higher fatality than Covid-19The Chinese embassy in Kazakhstan has issued a warning about an unknown pneumonia sweeping through the central Asian country after more than 600 people died of pneumonia in June. In an advisory issued for its citizens living in the former Soviet Bloc country, the Chinese embassy said the new disease has a fatality rate “much higher” than Covid-19. Read moreCharlize Theron exclusive interview: Old Guard star reveals what she’d advise her ‘self-involved’ younger selfActor Charlize Theron scoffs at the idea that women can’t (or don’t want to) direct action films. She should know. It was a woman who directed her to annihilate innumerable villains in the upcoming Netflix film, The Old Guard. Directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, the film is based on a comic book, about a group of immortal mercenaries, written by Greg Rucka and illustrated by Leandro Fernandez. Read moreGoogle bans these apps for injecting malware, uninstall them right awayGoogle has removed 11 apps from the Play Store which were infected with the notorious Joker malware. Google has been tracking these apps since 2017. Check Point researchers discovered a new variant of the Joker malware that was present inside legitimate apps. Read moreMumbai Police shows a different side of sarcastic Chandler Bing, him giving important adviceBeing funny is a quality but the character Chandler Bing, from popular TV series Friends, takes it to a whole new level. A benchmark for sarcasm and the king of wit, retorts from Chandler Bing often made us laugh out loud – and continues to do so. Read moreGuided Meditation: Relieve stress and improve sleep patterns with this holistic practiceWe are only halfway into the year 2020, but it seems like it has been going on forever. Most people have always found it difficult to strike a work-life balance, which often tends to take its toll on one’s mental health, and it often goes unnoticed. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-patients-over-the-age-of-45-account-for-85-of-india-s-covid-19-deaths-says-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-j4l5UcdX7Kj0tOS9e1PQ8O.html
10-07-2020||India||55-hour Uttar Pradesh lockdown begins today: What remains open, what will close||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has decided to impose a lockdown in the state in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. The lockdown will come into force from 10 pm on Friday and remain till 5 am on Monday.The government, however, insisted that it is not a lockdown. It said the authorities have imposed curbs on certain activities to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.Except for essential and some other services, everything else will be closed in the state.Here is a look at what will remain open and what will be closed.What remains open:• Medical and health services and essential services will continue as before.• Petrol pumps and ‘dhabas’ (eateries usually present on the highways) would also remain open.• No restriction on movement of those working in essential services, corona warriors, sanitation and the door-step delivery staff.• The movement of railways would continue. Uttar Pradesh Road Transport Corporation would make arrangement to operate buses to carry passengers arriving at the railway stations.• Air services (both domestic and international) would also continue as before. There would also no curbs on movement of people from airports to their destination.• Goods carrier vehicles would also not be restricted.• The traffic on national and state highways too would continue.• The ongoing campaign of medical screening and surveillance too would continue unhindered.• Industrial units, which work continuously, would remain open in rural areas.• All big construction works of expressways, bridges, roads and private projects would also continue.What is closed:• All offices and markets in urban and rural areas will remain closed during this period.• Bus services, other than those ferrying passengers to railway stations, woul be prohibited during this period.• Barring those industrial units, which work continuously, other units in the urban areas would remain closed.The UP government order also said that at every public place, an awareness programme would continue with the help of the public address system against Covid-19 and communicable diseases.The magistrates and police officers would hold joint patrolling and the teams of police and UP-112 would ensure these restrictions, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/55-hour-uttar-pradesh-lockdown-begins-today-what-remains-open-what-will-close/story-auxLX8r2F4Vnaqx1S7P0wO.html
10-07-2020||India||India, China military talks next week to focus on Finger Area, Depsang plains||A fourth meeting between top Indian and Chinese commanders scheduled next week along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains, with a complex disengagement process that began after previous military talks on June 30 progressing smoothly in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, two officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday, speaking on the condition on anonymity.While the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pulled back 2km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley) and PP-15 (Hot Springs) earlier this week, a similar retreat was completed at PP-17 (Gogra) on Thursday, said one of the officials cited above. The Indian Army, too, has pulled back proportionately in these friction areas.The army has observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso over the last 48 hours, but it can’t be seen as disengagement, he said.Also read: After Galwan fightback, 16 Bihar moving to Col Babu’s home stateThe Finger Area will be at the centre of the next round of military discussions between the corps commander-ranked officers, with Depsang also figuring prominently on the Indian agenda, said a second official.“Disengagement at Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra looked doable from the beginning. The Finger Area is where negotiations could drag out as Chinese troops have dug in their heels in Finger 4. Getting the PLA to retreat in the Depsang sector is equally critical from the Indian perspective,” he said. The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process, as reported by HT on Thursday.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are 8km apart.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4 .Also read| Make 1962 war report public: War veteransThe army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.“With disengagement successfully completed in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, the military commanders will now get down to the more challenging discussions around the Finger Area and Depsang plains,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The Indian focus should not be entirely on disengagement but on restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in these two important areas, Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-meet-of-indian-and-chinese-commanders-to-focus-on-finger-tangle/story-LCC6UKT7NI496vXjMofYyM.html
10-07-2020||India||Centre urges SC against direct relief in scam cases||The Union government on July 6 filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court suggesting there was a trend of people accused in high-value economic offences approaching the Supreme Court directly — instead of an appropriate court — to get protection from arrest, and that in 44 such instances, the court had granted relief to them, significantly affecting the ability of investigative agencies to go about their probes into these cases.It wanted the court to address the issue, vacate the interim relief orders, and ask the petitioners to follow the prescribed legal route by appearing before the appropriate lower courts.The affidavit was filed in a matter pertaining to Bhushan Steel Ltd, involving the company’s former CFO Nittin Johari, and may be taken up by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on July 24.The list of cases appended in the affidavit include the Bhushan Steel Ltd case involving an amount of ~20,000 crore, a bank fraud case against Nilesh Parekh of Shree Ganesh Jewellers worth ~2,762 crore, a case against Vikram Kothari of Rotomac worth ~ 3,770 crore, and other such matters.However, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta brought up the issue on Wednesday while representing the Union government in a case against Jinofer Bhujwala, arrested in June 2019 in a ~134 crore Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) fraud case, and spoke of how investigative agencies are finding it difficult to do their work because of the accused often directly approaching the apex court for relief — and getting it.The CJI has asked for a list of such cases heard by different benches and has listed the matter “along with other similar matters” for two weeks from now.Mehta referred to around 60 cases under investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, Companies Act and GST Act etc, including the case against former finance minister P Chidambaram, and the former promoters of Bhushan Steel.He argued that in these large-scale financial frauds, the accused were consciously not resorting to the remedy available under the law — applying to the court of sessions or high court for bail – under section 438 of the CrPC (criminal procedure code) or other statutory remedies.Mehta declined to comment.Senior advocate and Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi told HT that he was ready to argue the issue.“I am appearing in more than one case, including P Chidambaram and DK Shivakumar. The mere dates for listing and hearing have been given. We are ready to argue. Significant issues of law are raised, and we would welcome a decision on such significant issues of law. The issues are important, not individuals,” he said.To be sure, Chidambaram’s case may be different. The former finance minister first moved the Delhi high court for bail. After the court rejected it, he appealed to the Supreme Court. He adopted the same route for anticipatory bail. The high court rejected it, and he was arrested while waiting to be heard by the Supreme Court.Shivakumar was granted bail by Delhi high court last October. The SC dismissed a plea by the Enforcement Directorate seeking cancellation of Shivakumar’s bail.“Every person has the right to move the Supreme Court under Article 32 if his fundamental right is violated. Moreover, for violation of any law whether it be Companies Act, PMLA, or GST, the prosecution must follow the procedure prescribed under CrPC. If there is a cognisable offence, an FIR must be registered first and there would be an investigation and a police diary would be maintained. The FIR would be uploaded online allowing an accused to challenge the FIR and seek bail.“Now the ED in these [economic] offences do not follow the FIR system. They register a report in their records which nobody including the accused knows about and suddenly there is a knock on the door and the accused is picked up. So our argument is that such a procedure is not valid and affects the liberty of the individual. There is already a judgment of the Supreme Court delivered eight years ago that it is mandatory to follow CrPC but they don’t follow it. That is why these cases have been filed and interim relief was granted,” senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, who is appearing for Nittin Johari, told HT.Senior advocate Siddhartha Dave, who is representing Jinofer Bhujwala, told HT: “On their argument that high courts have to be moved first, I would only like to point out how the Supreme Court has been hearing and striking down IPC [Indian Penal Code] provisions criminalising homosexuality and adultery in public interest litigations for violation of fundamental rights. The PMLA cases are one which affect the accused himself. So it is strange that the Centre is raising this argument that high court should be approached first. Besides, various high courts might give different orders. So, in order to avoid such contradictions, SC would be the appropriate forum.”“…in many of the cases, proceedings before the competent court are stayed and investigations have come to a standstill for the reason that the Supreme Court has directed ‘no coercive steps to be taken’”, the affidavit said urging the court to vacate such orders. HT has reviewed a copy of the affidavit.The affidavit said that the accused deliberately do not resort to the remedies available under the law, namely to apply to the sessions court or high court for bail under the code of criminal procedure or other applicable laws. Instead they approach the Supreme Court directly under Article 32 of the Constitution for protection from arrest by investigating agencies, the affidavit added.The grounds cited for claiming such relief is usually that the constitutional validity of the special laws under which action is being taken against them, are under challenge.“In all these matters, such interim reliefs are prayed for on the ground that some or the other provisions of special legislations like Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Companies Act and Central Goods and Service Tax Act are under challenge”, the affidavit said.The affidavit was filed by Arvind Saran (Director in Department of Revenue Director).It said that in some of the cases, interim orders of releasing the accused have been passed by the high courts while hearing the challenge to constitutional validity of the provision.“Further, orders in the nature of bail or staying the trial have been passed without the accused resorting to remedy under Section 439 CrPC (special powers to sessions/high courts to grant bail),” the affidavit added.The Centre further argued in the affidavit that “a very challenge to the constitutional validity may not be a ground to prevent statutory authorities from exercising its statutory powers of arrest etc”.Due to the interim relief, the affidavit claimed, “proceedings in many of the cases before the competent courts have stayed and investigations have come to a standstill for the reason that this court (SC) has directed ‘no coercive action to be taken’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-urges-sc-against-direct-relief-in-scam-cases/story-qL1y3nDp9s0OG5diLP3u3I.html
10-07-2020||India||Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, arrested for killing 8 cops, shot dead in encounter||Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey was on Friday shot dead by the police after he tried to escape following an accident involving one of the vehicles in the Special Task Force (STF) cavalcade bringing him back to the state from Madhya Pradesh.STF officials said there was an encounter as Vikas Dubey, arrested for killing eight policemen on July 3, tried to escape when the vehicle overturned early in the morning. They said Vikas Dubey snatched a weapon from one of the policemen after the accident. He then ran to a nearby field and was asked to surrender, which he refused to do, they added.Also read| Gangster Vikas Dubey killed: The sequence of events in past weekThere was an exchange of fire and he was killed, they said.“After being chased by the police team, he was asked to surrender but he did not and started firing with the intention of killing them. The police team fired back in self-defence after which Vikas Dubey was injured. He was taken to a hospital, where he died during treatment,” Kanpur Police said in a statement.ALSO WATCH | Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead in encounter Dubey was being brought back to Kanpur after he was nabbed in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain city outside a temple.The STF vehicle overturned following heavy rains in the region near Kanpur’s Sachendi area. Four policemen were also injured in the accident.The men, including an inspector, have been admitted to the nearest community health centre for treatment.Vikas Dubey was arrested outside a temple in Ujjain on Thursday, ending a manhunt for a fugitive behind one of the deadliest attacks on policemen in recent years.The July 3 shoot-out exposed alleged collusion within Uttar Pradesh police as the force later realised that their men had walked into a trap because some other police officials tipped off Dubey about an attempt to arrest him.A deputy superintendent of police, three sub-inspectors and four constables were killed, some of whom hacked to death, in the failed raid to nab Vikas Dubey.Police in Uttar Pradesh have killed at least five of his accomplices, who were involved in the attack, demolished his sprawling bungalow, and arrested at least a dozen people, including his wife and son, and policemen who aided his escape and shelter.They increased the bounty on his head from Rs 50,000 last week to Rs 5 lakh as he was on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-arrested-for-killing-8-cops-shot-dead/story-YdTi2HwrwifBKoHUEzpgZM.html
10-07-2020||India||Odisha official arrested over sexual harassment allegations||Police in Odisha arrested a 59-year-old senior state government official on Thursday over allegations of sexually harassing a 25-year-old junior.Mahila police station inspector Banita Maharana said director of AYUSH Mission Bibhu Prasad Sarangi was arrested following prima facie evidence of sending obscene messages to the woman employee.“We have arrested Sarangi under Section 354 of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) and Section 67 of the IT act,” said the inspector. The officer, who is due to retire next year, was interrogated for more than hours after his arrest.On Monday, the contractual woman employee had lodged a police complaint against Sarangi alleging that the officer was forcing her to have a physical relationship with him.“He used to ask me to do a video call while bathing. At other times, he asked me to go out with him and have fun without clothes,” the victim said in her first information report (FIR).Sarangi also allegedly threatened to dismiss her when she objected to him sending obscene videos and messages to her on WhatsApp.Refuting the allegations, Sarangi filed a counter FIR against the woman claiming, saying he had not sent any videos or messages containing obscene content to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-arrested-over-sexual-harassment-allegations/story-ykUSTg4nehywtD1qiCexlM.html
10-07-2020||India||Rajasthan to install solar panels atop Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal, other reservoirs||Rajasthan’s public health engineering department (PHED) is mulling to install solar panels on top of the Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal (RGLC) and other large reservoirs across the state.Rajesh Yadav, the department principal secretary, said discussions are being held to install solar panels on the 190-km long Rajiv Gandhi Lift Canal in Jodhpur region and other large reservoirs across the state.“This will not only save electricity at the pumping stations but help in producing additional energy,” Yadav said.He said energy can be produced on a large scale by setting up a 110-megawatt solar plant in the RGLC region.“A letter will be sent to NTPC to study the feasibility of the project (installation of solar panel) at RLGC or at other big raw water reservoirs,” said Yadav. NTPC is a public sector undertaking engaged in generation of electricity and allied activities. A senior official of the department said that around 140 such pumping stations have been identified in the state where solar plant of 75-kilo watt capacities is expected to be installed.He said a similar project is being undertaken on the Narmada canal in Gujarat.RGLC is a composite carrier system with eight intermediate pumpings at different stages. The system draws water from the Indira Gandhi Main Canal (IGMC). Various drinking water schemes are sanctioned and have been executed with source as RGLC and are connected and sanctioned at different points on RGLC.Jodhpur city is at its tail end.PHED will use a mobile application for time-bound monitoring of each of the phases of drinking water projects in the state. A special mobile app has been developed for this, through which photographs will be captured with geo-tagging on each stage of the projects.In addition, the department has also developed an app GIMS or Government Instant Messaging System for messaging officials up to the level of executive engineers and junior chemist.This will be used as an alternate to WhatsApp for the exchange of internal information, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-install-solar-panels-atop-rajiv-gandhi-lift-canal-other-reservoirs/story-QN7pilKxc2GTmW6aFBSQMI.html
10-07-2020||India||Nagaland govt asks employees to declare names of family members connected to insurgent groups||The Nagaland government has asked government employees to furnish details of family members who are affiliated to various insurgent groups in the state.According to an office memorandum issued on July 7 by chief secretary Temjen Toy, heads of departments have been asked to obtain information in self-declaration forms from all employees “regarding family members and relatives in underground organizations”.The details are to be submitted by the department heads to the home department by August 7. Names of underground organizations are not mentioned in the memorandum.The employees, who have family members in these organizations, have been asked to mention their names, the organization to which they are affiliated to, position in the organization and the nature of relationship with the government employee in the self-declaration form.The memorandum mentions that the order has been issued “as per instructions”, but there’s no clarity on who had issued the instructions for such a move.A note in the order mentions that family member means spouse, sons/daughters, sibling and parents of the government employee while relative will consist of “anyone who is directly related to any of the family members of the government employee”.Neither chief secretary Temjen Toy nor principal secretary (home) Abhijit Sinha could be reached for their comments on the government’s move.The order comes after Governor RN Ravi wrote a letter to chief minister Neiphiu Rio last month alleging that a few armed gangs were threatening authority of the elected government in the state.Reacting to the letter, the Nagaland government issued a statement last week saying that Ravi’s assessment of law and order situation in the state is “precarious” and doesn’t appear “factual”.Nagaland has several insurgent groups, some of whom are in peace talks with the government. Though a framework agreement with NSCN-Isak Muivah was signed in August 2015 and peace talks with several other groups concluded in October last year, a final agreement on Naga peace talks is still due.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-govt-asks-employees-to-declare-names-of-family-members-connected-to-insurgent-groups/story-0t8Ccr4IIFU17spqQ3Z24L.html
10-07-2020||India||BJP ally IPFT holds protest in Tripura over arrest of supporter||The Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), an alliance partner of Tripura’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Thursday launched a 24-hour strike at Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) headquarters protesting over arrest of one of their supporters on charges of arson in a BJP office. The TTAADC is nearly 25 kilometres from Agartala and covers almost 68 per cent of Tripura’s geographical area throughout the total eight districts.The strike was peaceful, said police.“We demanded the police to release our party supporter Pradip Debbarma on bail as he was arrested in a fake case. Our 24-hour strike was against his arrest,” IPFT MLA Brishaketu Debbarma told reporters.Debbarma, president of IPFT’s frontal organization Indigenous Motor Workers’ Union (IMWU), was arrested on July 6. He is currently in judicial custody. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said, “Police arrested the person based on their investigation. As far as the BJP is concerned, we didn’t mention his name in the FIR. Being an alliance partner, the IPFT should not blame us. It is because they are also in the government.” A BJP office near Khumulwung was burnt at the end of June, a day before nearly 400 people were supposed to join BJP. Bhattacharjee said that a case was filed against some local people who were allegedly involved in the incident but Debbarma’s name was not in the list.In the 60-seat Tripura Assembly, IPFT has eight MLAs and formed the government in alliance with BJP in 2018. After forming the government, the rift between the alliance partners came to light earlier with a series of clashes over nominations of Block Advisory Committee (BAC) chairmen, ADC village committee executives and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ally-ipft-holds-protest-in-tripura-over-arrest-of-supporter/story-qavdJ6LGVdHqQCgTfjRfCL.html
10-07-2020||India||ICMR to conduct nationwide sero survey to determine Covid-19 exposure||The ICMR on Thursday said a nationwide sero survey to determine the exposure of the novel coronavirus among the population will be carried out as a follow-up to a similar study conducted in May, the results of which are yet to be released. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a ‘sero-survey’ which involves testing of blood serum of people to check for the prevalence of antibodies against coronavirus infection.The final results of the sero-survey conducted by the ICMR in May, which focused on infections of mid-April is still under process, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.  “The sero-survey that ICMR conducted across the country focused on infections of mid-April and preliminary findings were shared. As you know all such sero-surveillance studies or any other scientific study is subject to peer-review and those inputs are also incorporated. So that process is going on,” he told reporters.  “We will be in a position to share it once that gets over,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe ICMR had earlier said on the basis of the data compiled from 65 districts out of 83 districts across the country in the first part of the sero-surveillance study, 0.73 per cent of the population surveyed showed evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2.Bhushan further said the findings of the sero-survey, which has been done in Delhi by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as a part of which 22,000 samples were collected from June 27 to July 5 from 11 districts, is being processed.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “In the near future, ICMR is planning a follow up sero-survey pan-India to the earlier sero-survey that they had done for mid-April infections,” Bhushan explained. The sero-survey conducted in May had two parts -- estimating the fraction of the general population that has been infected with SARS-CoV-2 and estimating the number of people who have been infected with coronavirus in containment zones of hotspot cities, ICMR officials had earlier said.   The IgG antibodies against an infection takes around 15 days to develop in the body.Also read: 85% Covid-19 deaths in 45-plus age bracket, shows govt dataIndia saw a record single-day surge of 24,879 coronavirus infections, which pushed the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 7,67,296 on Thursday, while the death toll climbed to 21,129 with 487 new fatalities, the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-to-conduct-nationwide-sero-survey-to-determine-covid-19-exposure/story-EfPrhzNOojQPKAHdLGlbJN.html
10-07-2020||India||‘Silence is better than many answers’: Rahul Gandhi on Vikas Dubey’s killing in encounter||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday joined the rank of Opposition leaders who reacted to the killing of history sheeter gangster Vikas Dubey in an encounter with UP Special Task Force. Gandhi raised suspicion in a succinct tweet, without specifically mentioning the encounter which resulted in killing of the gangster, and said that silence is better than many answers as it honours many questions that could have been raised. कई जवाबों से अच्छी है ख़ामोशी उसकीन जाने कितने सवालों की आबरू रख लीThe killing of Dubey, who was on run after killing eight policemen last week and was being brought back to Kanpur in a sports utility vehicle when he was shot at following a road accident, has raised eyebrows among several Opposition leaders who are stating that the encounter was engineered to prevent secrets from being revealed. Also read | ‘Dead men tell no tales’: Oppn aims at UP govt after Vikas Dubey’s encounterThey alleged that Dubey, who was arrested less than 24 hours earlier from the Mahakal Temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain has been “silenced” to shield the people who had protected him. Moving past the encounter, Priyanka Gandhi, the Congress party’s general secretary and UP in-charge, asked about due course of action for those who protected Dubey and his crime. Gandhi also said it should be revealed who are the people involved in raising such a criminal.  उप्र की कानून-व्यवस्था बदतर हो चुकी है। राजनेता-अपराधी गठजोड़ प्रदेश पर हावी है। कानपुर कांड में इस गठजोड़ की सांठगांठ खुलकर सामने आई।कौन-कौन लोग इस तरह के अपराधी की परवरिश में शामिल हैं- ये सच सामने आना चाहिए।सुप्रीम कोर्ट के मौजूदा जज से पूरे कांड की न्यायिक जाँच होनी चाहिए pic.twitter.com/vRHQlsaJ3y“Fine, the criminal’s dead; but what about those who protected him and his crime?” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.अपराधी का अंत हो गया, अपराध और उसको सरंक्षण देने वाले लोगों का क्या?Also read | ‘6 dead, 12 still on the run’: UP Police on Kanpur shootout in which 8 cops were killedIn a scathing remark, Samajwadi Party’s national president and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh said that the ‘car did not overturn; the government saved itself from overturning by preventing the secrets coming out’. Yadav was referring to the police’s claim which states that the police vehicle carrying Dubey from Ujjain overturned at Bhauti area in Kanpur on Friday morning. Inspector General of Police (Kanpur) Mohit Agarwal said Dubey, who was handed over to UP police force by Madhya Pradesh police force, tried to flee from the spot after snatching the pistol of a inspector leading to an encounter. दरअसल ये कार नहीं पलटी है, राज़ खुलने से सरकार पलटने से बचाई गयी है.Opposition leaders have demanded a thorough probe to unravel the gangster’s political nexus, claiming that the engineered encounter leads to burying of facts.“Dead men tell no tales,” former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said in a tweet after news of the encounter emerged. Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief, in a set of two tweets in Hindi, demanded a probe into the series of incidents under the Supreme Court’s scrutiny since the policemen were killed in Dubey’s Bikru village.“A probe under the Supreme Court should be done into the killing of the policemen and then overturning of the car in which the UP police was bringing the heinous criminal Vikas Dubey while they were in transit from MP to UP and Dubey’s killing by the police,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silence-is-better-than-many-answers-rahul-gandhi-on-vikas-dubey-s-killing-in-encounter/story-Ah53z4StBEebtHzRSN9LeN.html
10-07-2020||India||Make 1962 war report public: War veterans||Amid the border row in eastern Ladakh and worst tensions there since the 1962 India-China war, a group of military veterans led by former navy chief Admiral Laxminarayan Ramdas (retd) has petitioned the government to de-classify the “un-redacted” Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report on the reasons behind India’s defeat in that war.The statement signed by 143 veterans said the report should be made public so that “the military-bureaucratic-political system and the public” can learn from past mistakes.“There can be no sensible reason for this report remaining secret even after 57 years,” said the statement e-mailed to the President, the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs. The signatories to the statement include six retired three-star military officers.Australian journalist Neville Maxwell made portions of the report public in March 2014 by uploading it on the internet, triggering a debate on India’s military defeat in the war and the events that led to it. The report practically held the entire civilian and military leadership responsible for driving the country into a war it wasn’t prepared for. The veterans demanded the setting up a fact-finding body to look into “the intrusions, incursions and encroachments by China” in Depsang, Galwan, Pangong Tso and other places, urging that it should table its in Lok Sabha within a time-bound framework.The veterans sought an overhaul of the country intelligence system. “The incident at Galwan Valley (on June 15) could only have happened because of failure at one or more levels in the political, civil and military establishments, especially in continuous intelligence acquisition and dissemination,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-1962-war-report-public-war-veterans/story-guz5Os1kobljhMcQ44RyIL.html
10-07-2020||India||CWC meeting likely soon to extend Sonia’s tenure||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, is expected to meet soon to take a call on extending the tenure of Sonia Gandhi, who completes one year as the Congress’s interim chief on August 10.The extension is a technical requirement under the Congress’s constitution given that a regular president is yet to be elected, a Congress functionary said. It is also a prerequisite for the party to inform the Election Commission of its decision.The process of electing a new president could not be initiated because of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced on March 25 to contain its spread, the functionary cited above said, requesting anonymity.“Soon after her appointment, there were assembly elections in Maharashtra and Haryana in last year followed by polls in Jharkhand and Delhi. Then Covid-19 struck,” he added.The CWC named Sonia Gandhi as the party’s interim chief on August 10 last year after Rahul Gandhi refused to take back his resignation as Congress president. Rahul Gandhi quit after the Congress’s rout in the April-May 2019 general elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) became the first party to win a majority on its own since 1984. The Congress managed to win just 52 seats in the 543-member Lok Sabha against the BJP’s 303.There has been a renewed pitch for Rahul Gandhi to take over as the party chief, but at least four Congress leaders said on condition of anonymity that he remains adamant on his decision and is unlikely to assume the reins of the organisation in the immediate future.“Rahul Gandhi had raised certain important issues when he resigned last year. What has changed in the party between May last year and now? Not much,” said one of the four, a central leader who looks after the party’s affairs in a north Indian state. “No doubt, Congress leaders and workers want Rahul Gandhi back as the party chief and he is the only opposition leader in the country seen to be aggressively taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government but he does not appear to be keen to once again assume the reins at least for now,” he added.The CWC will again make a last ditch attempt to persuade Rahul Gandhi, 50, and in case he refuses to relent, it will consider extending Sonia Gandhi’s term as the interim party president, said the party functionary cited in the first instance.At a fractious CWC meeting on May 25 last year, Rahul Gandhi slammed party veterans for “placing the interests” of their sons above the party’s, said some leaders had lost election from their own strongholds and criticised a section of the so-called GenNext for hankering after posts of power.Rahul Gandhi brought finality to his decision to step down as the party president on July 3 when he tweeted a four-page farewell note listing the reasons.In the letter, he took a sharp dig at his party colleagues for the electoral humiliation the Congress suffered and referred to a lack of support for him, saying he had been completely alone in the fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological mentor.“I personally fought the Prime Minister, the RSS and the institutions they have captured with all my being. I fought because I love India. And I fought to defend the ideals India was built upon. At times, I stood completely alone and am extremely proud of it,” he wrote.In the CWC meeting on August 10 last year, Sonia Gandhi accepted entreaties to lead the party once again -- she had quit as Congress chief in December 2017 after almost two decades at the helm from March 14, 1998 to December 16, 2017 when Rahul Gandhi took over -- on the condition that she would stay as chief only until an election is held to choose a full-time president.Sonia Gandhi, 73, had then said her returning as the party chief would again give a handle to the opponents to attack the Congress on grounds that the Gandhi family was unwilling to give up its hold over the party. She had also insisted that this point be included in the resolution.The Congress constitution empowers the CWC to appoint a provisional president pending the election of a full-time chief by the All India Congress Committee, the party’s central unit comprising around 2,000 members from across the country.“The Congress needs to identify a leader who can give it a direction and helps the party in regaining its political voice. Whether that leader will be Rahul Gandhi or anyone else is a decision best arrived at through a genuine democratic process within the party. But the leadership model needs to be a multi-centred one,” said political analyst Chandan Gowda, of Bengaluru’s Azim Premji University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cwc-meeting-likely-soon-to-extend-sonia-s-tenure/story-OFv7sIKLUDA7yUhnILa4EN.html
10-07-2020||India||Assam proposes changes in ordinance on industries to protect land rights of indigenous people||Following opposition and concerns, Assam government on Thursday announced changes to a recent ordinance of setting up industries in order to protect land rights of indigenous people of the state.On June 29, Assam cabinet had passed an ordinance allowing setting up of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) industries by just submitting a self-declaration without taking any permission for a period of three years and added that land for setting up industries would be “deemed converted”.The move had led to apprehensions that ‘outsiders’ would purchase agricultural land and convert them for industrial purpose without any checks, which might hurt land rights of indigenous people.Addressing a press conference on Thursday, industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary informed that in order to address the concerns Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal held a meeting earlier this week to discuss provisions of the “draft ordinance related to use of land”.“It was unanimously decided that stringent measures and provisions should be made so that the right of the indigenous people are protected and kept unaffected,” said the minister.Patowary said a provision has been proposed to be made in the draft MSME ordinance that all provisions of the Assam Agricultural Land (Regulation of Reclassification and Transfer for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Act, 2015 and other laws will have to be followed for setting up any enterprise and no exemption will be given under the aforesaid Act or any land related Act for any business initiative or business enterprise. “Earlier there was a provision that after getting the acknowledgement certificate, agricultural land was proposed to be deemed converted for non agricultural purpose to set up an industry,” said the minister.“But now it is proposed that so far as land is concerned, no such exemption will be given. The business enterprises will have to take all the permission, clearance and approval related to land before starting any industry,” added Patowary.Also all land related laws and provisions under the Assam Agricultural Land (Regulation of Reclassification and Transfer for Non-Agricultural Purpose) Act, 2015 will have to be followed by all enterprises.Existing provisions in the draft ordinance restricting use of public grazing reserves, village grazing reserves, wetland, heritage, historical and archaeological sites, land belonging religious institutions and land in tribal belts and blocks, for setting up industries will remain.Patowary said that due to Covid-19 more than 3.5 lakh people have returned from various parts of the country to Assam and the MSME ordinance was drafted keeping them into consideration so that they could set up industries in own land.“Keeping in mind apprehensions of the people, government has decided to make more stringent arrangement so that there should be no ambiguity that the rights of the local people are protected. The government reassures its commitment to the rights of the indigenous people over their land,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-changes-ordinance-on-land-use-after-protests/story-8iyVPnn1aWBcDrp4Y4abCP.html
10-07-2020||India||Centre’s rural spending doubles amid Covid-19 pandemic||The rural and agriculture sectors have seen higher government spending in April and May because of cash transfers, free LPG cylinders and food grains, apart from new allocation for the rural job guarantee scheme, expenditure data of central departments from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) shows. The higher spending comes amid a robust monsoon, higher sowing and has helped revive rural jobs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 30 announced the extension of the provision of free rations to 800 million people until November. The package was announced in March to help the poor when the lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread was announced. The government in March announced free cooking-gas cylinders to 83 million poor families, a one-time cash transfer to 30 million senior citizens, and money transfers to about 200 million poor women for three months. An additional ~40,000 crore was in May allocated for the federal job guarantee programme, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, as demand for work surged after lockdown left daily wagers jobless.In the first two months of the current fiscal year–April and May–the total expenditure of the agriculture and rural affairs ministries more than doubled in comparison to the corresponding months a year ago. Despite a sharp drop of up to 40% in revenue collection, agriculture, food and rural affairs ministries saw the highest spending, while expenditure on defence, education, among others, lagged, the data released by the CGA shows.In April, the first month of 2020-21, the agriculture ministry spent ~25,717 crore, or 18% of its annual budget estimates of ~1,42,762.35 crore. In May, the farm ministry spent ~31,742, or 22% of the budget estimates. Over the two months, it spent a total of ~57,459 crore. The rural affairs ministry, which funds MGNREGS, in April spent ~38,059 core, or 31% of its budget estimates of ~122398 crore. In May, it spent ~59611 crore, or 49% of its total budget estimates. Together, the rural and agriculture ministries spent ~155128 crore over the two months, more than double the spending of ~45000 crore in the same months of the previous year. The food ministry, which is offering free subsidised food grains to two-thirds of the population, spent ~66290 crore in the two months, which is also twice the amount it spent in the corresponding period last year. “The big gain in employment is happening in rural India. And, it may see bigger gains in the months to come or at least sustain the current gains,” said Mahesh Vyas of the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE). The government had initially budgeted ~60,000 crore for MGNREGS for 2020-21. In May, it increased allocation to a total of ~1 lakh crore. Compared to the rural sector ministries, the human resources department has seen lower spending of 10% of its total budget estimates over April and May. Similarly, defence services spending was 15%, compared to the previous year’s 22%. “Aggressive use of the MGNREGS scheme, timely rains and enhanced sowing activities seem to have helped engage rural India and bring the unemployment rate down,” Vyas of CMIE wrote in a note||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-rural-spending-doubles-amid-pandemic/story-i5eIke9OcCmOsWXB3E94kL.html
10-07-2020||India||Calls for probe in ‘staged’ arrest among top 10 developments in Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey case||Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey was taken into custody outside a temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday marking an end to six day long manhunt for a criminal accused of orchestrating one of the deadliest attacks on policemen in recent years that led to death of eight policemen including a deputy superintendent of police, three sub-inspectors, and four constables. The day began with the arrest of two of his aides and ended with controversy over Dubey’s arrest. Here are the top 10 developments throughout the day in Kanpur gangster Vikas Yadav’s arrest case.1. Vikas Dubey is reported to have shouted his name out when being arrested outside the famous Mahakal temple in Ujjain. “Main Vikas Dubey hoon, Kanpur wala!,” he was heard saying by eyewitnesses. Varying versions of how his arrest was carried out emerged through the day. A Madhya Pradesh minister claimed Dubey was caught by a policeman, while police officials, eyewitnesses, and an administration official claimed he was spotted by locals first and may have surrendered before his arrest.2. Madhya Pradesh’s top cop Vivek Johri claimed that a man selling flowers spotted Dubey and informed the security agency at the Mahakal temple, following which the police outpost nearby was informed. When the cops checked Dubey’s identity card, they found it was in the name of one Naveen Pal. He started shouting on further questioning by the cops fearing his identity will be revealed.3. A senior administrative officer, who didn’t wish to be named, said Dubey surrendered to police since he feared that he could be killed in a similar manner as his accomplices. The officer added that Dubey purchased a ticket for Rs 250 from the temple counter at about 8.30am. He later told the flower shop owner that he was Vikas Dubey from Kanpur. The flower seller said he had identified Dubey as he behaved suspiciously and later informed the security agency guard at the gate of the temple.4. A police officer said Dubey kept changing his responses while initial questioning in Ujjain and didn’t correctly reveal how he reached Ujjain and from where and when. The police officer said that Dubey claimed to have arrived in MP through Kota on Wednesday by a bus, but his account was not credible since the interstate bus service is still suspended, the officer added. A liquor company’s manager, who is a relative of Vikas Dubey, was reportedly picked up by police to find out whether he had called Dubey to Ujjain. The police did not confirm his detention.5. A police officer who interrogated him in Ujjain said that Dubey had claimed to have stayed in a city hotel on Wednesday night. Most of the officers involved in the manhunt said Dubey was helped at every step, from leaving to a friend’s place at Shivli in Kanpur Dehat to reaching Ujjain while covering around 1,250 km across four states. The police are particularly looking at who Dubey may have reached out to after the Kanpur ambush, while hiding at a friend’s house in Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli town, three kilometres from his village. Cops said he reached Shivli on a motorcycle as travel by car would have required him to go through the main roads.6. According to police officials who didn’t wish to be named, Dubey’s aide Prabhat Mishra claimed during his interrogation before he was killed in an encounter in Kanpur that Dubey had planned everything from his escape to eventual surrender. He used an SUV to reach Auraiya and then hitched multiple rides to reach Faridabad. Cops added that he had initially wanted to surrender in UP and then in Delhi, which couldn’t materialize.7. Dubey is then alleged to have asked his key shooter Amar Dubey to reach Madhya Pradesh through the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. But the police nabbed Amar in Hamirpur and he was killed in an encounter when he tried to escape, the police said. Prabhat Mishra and the staff of the hotel, where Vikas Dubey stayed in Faridabad, said he was confident and relaxed.8. Dubey’s accomplice Prabhat Mishra was killed on Thursday morning while attempting to snatch a cop’s weapon in an attempt to escape while being brought back from Faridabad, UP police officials said. The other aide, Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, also wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush, was killed in an encounter in Etawah, the police said.9. Dubey’s wife, his son and their domestic help were also arrested later in the day. According to figures by Kanpur police, the number of people arrested could be as high as 20, including four women who were the spouses of some of the fugitives. Among them was Khushboo Dubey, who married Amar Dubey four days before the shoot-out on June 29. Police have not given any reason for her arrest.10. While BJP MLAs and a Samajwadi Party spokesperson denied any connection with the gangster, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a CBI probe to ascertain the facts about the alleged patronage and protection to Vikas Dubey. Former MP chief minister Kamal Nath said the gangster’s “safe departure” from Kanpur, arrival at Ujjain and the manner of arrest gave birth to a lot of suspicion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-for-probe-in-staged-arrest-among-top-10-developments-in-kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-case/story-VHEJxn7nl6WOmJIOS4VtOJ.html
10-07-2020||India||States fall back upon lockdown to stop Covid-19’s expanding footprints||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal have started to go back to lockdown mode to contain the spread of the virus.Uttar Pradesh, where the Covid-19 tally has crossed 32,000 announced Thursday evening a complete weekend shutdown from Friday 10 pm till Monday 5 am.All offices, markets, urban and rural haats, grain markets, and commercial establishments will remain shut during the lockdown period. All essential services such as health services, essential commodities supply will operate as before and there will be no restriction on movements of such people working in these places including corona warriors and door-step delivery persons.Railways will continue to operate the way it has been and the UP roadways would make arrangements to operate buses to ferry the passengers who arrive at the stations. However, barring these, UPSRTC buses would not operate anywhere in the state.In West Bengal, another week of complete lockdown kicked in Thursday afternoon across containment zones. The Covid-19 tally in Bengal has gone past 25,000.The lockdown is spread across all 23 districts and covers 434 containment zones including 25 in Kolkata.Kolkata’s neighbouring districts of North 24 Parganas and Howrah have 95 and 56 containment zones respectively.Entry and exits into these zones have been sealed and only essential services personnel will be allowed. Only shops selling essential items will be allowed to open, no public conveyance will be allowed and all offices and business will remain shut.In Bihar, five districts including Patna will go under lockdown from Saturday after more than a month as the state’s Covid-19 count neared 14,000.The lockdown in Patna, Bhabua and Purina districts will be a week while Supaul and Nawada will observe the lockdown for three days.In Patna , all offices of the Central government, its autonomous/subordinates offices and public offices (with the exception of defence, central armed police forces, treasury, public utilities, disaster management, power generation, etc.) will remain closed during the period.In addition to this, offices of the state government/union territory governments, their autonomous bodies, corporations, etc., (with exceptions of police, home guards, disaster administration, treasury, electricity, sanitation) as well as commercial and private establishments will also remain shut.All places of worship will remain closed during the period and no religious congregation will be allowed.But shops selling grocery, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and vegetables, fish will remain open between 6 am and 10 am and 4 pm to 7 pm.The order exempts banks, insurance offices and ATMS, telecommunications, delivery of all kinds of goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce, petrol pumps, LPG, and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, capital and debt market services, electronic and print media from lockdown.Shortly after the Patna district administration decided to lock down the state capital for a week, four more districts - Bhabua, Purnia, Supaul and Nawada - followed suit on Thursday with different lengths of lockdown.In Assam, the government announced a “total lockdown” in Golaghat town from Thursday evening for eight days to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.Elsewhere in the state, a complete shutdown is already in force for a fortnight in Kamrup Metropolitan district that includes Guwahati city from June 28 for a fortnight. The government is contemplating to extend the lockdown.Maharashtra, where the lockdown is in force till July 31, the government had allowed hotels, lodges and guest houses to operate from July 8 Wednesday, but at 33% of their capacity.Dine-in restaurants, however, will remain to be shut and operate only for takeaways as the government has not taken any decision yet. Restaurants at hotels and guest houses will be available only for the resident guests.Swimming pools, gymnasiums, playing areas, gaming arcades and gatherings of more than 15 people at these hotels will not be allowed, a government notification said.The government has also extended the timings of shops and markets by two hours across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-fall-back-upon-lockdown-to-stop-covid-19-s-expanding-footprints/story-3ex4Wfqnfh9olEbfZ99EGJ.html
10-07-2020||India||85% Covid-19 deaths in 45-plus age bracket: Govt data||Patients over the age of 45 years, who form 25% of the country’s population, account for 85% of India’s Covid-19 deaths, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as it asserted that the country has been able to manage the outbreak “relatively well” with cases and deaths per million of the population here among the lowest in the world.The findings about the age-wise distribution of deaths due to the coronavirus disease in India are in line with what scientists have observed about the global trends of the disease — it is disproportionally fatal for those who are older. Officials, however, did not release any data about breakup of cases based on gender and comorbidities.Senior government officials, during the first Covid-19 press briefing by the health ministry in nearly a month, also reiterated that India has not yet reached the community transmission stage and said that there have only been “localised outbreaks in some geographical areas”. “There may be some localised pockets where transmission is high but as a country, there is no community transmission in India,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said separately on Thursday after chairing 18th meeting of group of ministers on Covid-19.The health ministry press briefing came a day after India saw the largest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 25,724 new infections on Wednesday, the first time more than 25,000 new cases were reported in 24 hours. As of Thursday night, 794,117 confirmed cases of Covid-19 had been detected in the country and 21,577 people had died, with 25,871 cases and 441 deaths being reported on Thursday, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Government data showed that 85% of all people who have died due to Covid-19 in the country were over the age of 45 years. People between the ages of 60 and 74 years, who are only 8% of the population, form the largest proportion of fatalities — 39%. Those older than 75 (2% of India’s population) account for 14% of the total Covid deaths.At the other end of the spectrum, people under 14 years of age (35% of the population) make up only 1% of all Covid deaths in the country, and those between 15 and 24 years of age (18% of population) constitute 3% of fatalities. Those between the ages of 30 and 44 (22% of population) account for 11% of Covid deaths, the government said. This is the first time in two months that the government has released an age-wise breakup of fatalities in the country. The data released on May 1 showed that of the 51.2% who died were above the age of 60, 42% between 60 and 75, and 9.2%, above 75. “In spite of a population of 1.3 billion people, India has been able to manage Covid-19 relatively well,” Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, Union health ministry, said.According to the World Health Organization (WHO) report, India has 538 cases per million population while it is at least 16-17 times more in some countries, he said. “We have 15 deaths per million population, whereas we have countries where it is 40 times as much,” he said.On a question about the Covid-19 outbreak in the country entering the community transmission phase, Bhushan said, “We should not forget that in our country, 49 districts alone account for 80% of Covid-19 cases. In a country of more than 733 districts, if 49 districts account for 80%, then it is not justified to talk about community transmission.” He also highlighted data that showed that the proportion of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 has been growing steadily over the past three months, which has meant that the number of active cases in the country has not risen at an alarming rate. As the gap between active cases and recovered cases is growing, he said it ensures country’s health infrastructure is not “creaking under the pressure”.As on July 9, there are total a total of 3,914 dedicated Covid-19 facilities in the country, with 377,737 isolation beds (without intensive care support), 39,820 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and 142,415 oxygen supported beds along with 20,047 ventilators.On the World Health Organization’s acknowledgement about “emerging evidence” of the airborne spread of the virus, officials said the outbreak was an evolving and dynamic situation that the government was tracking. “We have been keeping abreast with information coming out of WHO headquarters on this aspect, but you would all appreciate and realise that even during the initial stages of the outbreak, we and PM Narendra Modi had repeatedly emphasised the importance of ‘do gaz ki doori (two-metre distance)’ and wearing masks... These concepts protect you from small droplets that may remain suspended in air for longer period of time,” Bhushan added.When asked about ICMR director general’s letter on the launch of Covid-19 vaccine, he said that the 15 August deadline was “only to expedite duly approved clinical trials without compromising on safety and security concerns”.Even as 100-odd vaccine candidates are at various stages of development globally, trials for two indigenous vaccine candidates that have also made it to the human clinical trials stage in India are about to start, officials said. “In record time, indigenous vaccine candidates have been developed for the new disease. The aim of the letter was to ask sites to fast-track it. We need the vaccine today, if we go by conventional methods to develop the vaccine and take two years then it would be of no use,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, senior scientist, epidemiology division, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/85-deaths-in-45-plus-age-bracket-govt-data/story-II4EFnB7APRnLuU3MPmyZK.html
10-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India registered, in the first eight days of July, nearly a fourth of the total Covid-19 cases it has seen till July 8.Two out of every three currently active cases were registered in these eight days (which is understandable, because it indicates a surge in cases in recent days, and also that a high number of older cases have been resolved — which one would expect with a recovery rate of 62% — but still interesting), as were around 18% of all deaths from the coronavirus disease. There’s a lag of roughly two weeks in the correspondence between cases and deaths, so it will probably make sense to look at deaths between July 14 and July 21 to understand if the country is becoming better at saving lives.India saw 25,724 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, its highest single-day tally thus far. The number of new cases has increased sharply, from around 10,000 in the middle of June to in excess of 22,000 every day this week. There isn’t a similar pattern with deaths — which is, again, understandable — but the number has steadily climbed. The number of daily deaths was in the 300s in mid-June. It has largely been in the late 400s this week.Clearly, India, as a whole, isn’t flattening any curve right now. Nor, for that matter, is the US, which, like India, is seeing daily records in terms of new cases.But Delhi appears to be — or, at the least, it is showing early signs of doing so. In the first eight days of July, the city registered a sixth of the total Covid-19 cases it has seen till July 8.In Delhi’s case, three out of every four currently active cases were registered in the first eight days of July — which means the city has a better record at resolving older cases than the country as a whole (as reflected in its recovery rate of 75%).The Capital has seen a rise and a fall in this period. From somewhere in the 2,000s in mid-June, the number of daily cases soared to over 3,000 in the last week of the month before dipping to the early 2,000s this week. Just as with India, there isn’t as clear a pattern with deaths, although two days this week have seen numbers in the 40s, the lowest since mid-June.One reason for this is the city’s high testing rate.What about Tamil Nadu, a state that has been as aggressive as Delhi with testing? Like Delhi, it too has managed to bring its positivity rate, or the proportion of people testing positive to those tested, down from its peak. (Regions that do so are clearly testing adequately, because only that will result in positivity rates first plateauing, and then declining).In the first eight days of July, the state registered a little more than a fourth of the total Covid-19 cases till July 8.And almost 70% of currently active cases were registered in the first eight days of July, highlighting the surge of cases that Tamil Nadu has witnessed in this period, as well as its record at resolving older cases (60% — lower than the corresponding number for both Delhi and India as a whole).The state has seen a sharp increase in number of new cases in this period — the numbers are off their peaks seen last week, but still in the late 3000s, higher than in mid-June. The trend is a bit muddied when it comes to daily deaths, but that number rose to the mid-60s by late June, and have stayed there.Tamil Nadu is not flattening the curve by any measure.Why?It’s possible that while the state has increased the depth of its testing, it hasn’t increased the width — unlike Delhi, which launched rapid antigen tests for everyone in a containment zone (and not just those who met the stringent testing criteria).That is an important lesson. Broad-based random testing of anyone willing and wanting to be tested is the way ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8Mt64XTz67IBje28v0hDqI.html
10-07-2020||India||July 3 ambush was carefully planned, Dubey’s aide revealed||The ambush by gangster Vikas Dubey and his group that killed eight personnel on July 3 was the result of careful planning even as he planned his escape route, his aide Prabhat Mishra told the police while he was in custody, according to officials aware of the matter.Mishra, who was arrested in Faridabad on Wednesday, snatched a pistol from a policeman and tried to escape while being brought back to Kanpur, the police said. Two Special Task Force (STF) personnel were injured and Mishra killed in the exchange of fire on Thursday morning.After the late-night ambush, Dubey spent more than a day at a friend’s house in Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli town, 3km from his Bikru village where the incident took place. While the police were looking for him, he was busy planning his escape, Mishra said, according to officials who did not want to be named.Officials said he could have got help at every step, from leaving to Shivli to reaching Ujjain. He covered 1,250km and crossed four states before his arrest in Ujjain.“Without help, he could not have gone this far; we are pursuing some leads. It will become clear as to who helped him,” one of the officials said.Dubey reached Shivli on a motorcycle as travel by car would have required him to go through the main roads, police said. He reached Auraiya in an SUV made available to him by a resident of Mangalpur in Kanpur Dehat, Mishra said, according to officials.Hitching multiple rides, an official said, Dubey reached Faridabad. Although he initially planned to surrender in Uttar Pradesh, he changed his mind and chose Delhi. That plan did not materialise.He sent his key shooter, Amar Dubey, back from Faridabad and asked him to reach Madhya Pradesh through the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. Police intercepted Amar in Hamirpur, and he was killed in an encounter when he tried to escape.“He (Vikas Dubey) was buying time to let his contacts get their chance to facilitate his surrender,” said the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/july-3-ambush-was-carefully-planned-dubey-s-aide-revealed/story-qx2nsOHZApSB9UUAaeqCCJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Kin of slain Kanpur cop call Vikas Dubey’s arrest a ‘scripted surrender’||Relatives of three of the eight policemen killed in the Kanpur ambush on July 3 questioned the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey’s in Ujjain on Thursday with one of them calling it a “scripted surrender”.Kamal Kant, a relative of slain Bilhaur circle officer Devendra Mishra, said had a nexus of corrupt politicians and police officials not been at work, Dubey would not have been able to travel across four states untouched, he alleged. “This is a scripted surrender to save the criminal,” Kant told reporters at his house in Kanpur. Mishra’s daughter, Vaishnavi, has already demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the killing of her father and seven other policemen by Dubey’s men. She said her father had given enough evidence to expose Dubey’s support base within the department and that was why he was killed.The relatives of two slain sub-inspectors from Prayagraj and Pratapgarh demanded capital punishment for Dubey. They, too, asked as to how Dubey managed to reach Ujjain. Ramesh Bahadur Singh, the father of sub-inspector Anoop Singh killed in the Kanpur ambush, demanded a CBI inquiry. Singh was a resident of Belkhari village in Mandhata area of Pratapgarh. “How can Vikas reach Ujjain via Delhi, Haryana when borders of the state (UP) were sealed soon after the incident...Those involved in helping Vikas Dubey should be exposed and action should be taken against them,” he said.The family members of another slain sub-inspector, Nebulal, from Prayagraj also demanded death for Dubey. Nebulal’s son, Arvind Kumar, said he and his family were not satisfied. The circumstances of Dubey’s arrest were doubtful, he said.It seemed that Dubey surrendered in Ujjain in a planned way and had been helped by some policemen and his political patrons, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-slain-cop-call-it-a-scripted-surrender/story-0holzCxX445ibUMGScnJjJ.html
10-07-2020||India||Cop killer nabbed after 6-day manhunt||Five people were killed, at least a dozen were arrested, and a sprawling bungalow was demolished with bulldozers as the Uttar Pradesh set out to “set an example” in its hunt for Vikas Dubey, a gangster who last week was responsible for the audacious attack on a police group that left a deputy superintendent, three sub-inspectors, and four constables dead. When Dubey was finally caught, it was in Madhya Pradesh outside a temple, hundreds of kilometres away from where he was last seen in the National Capital Region city of Faridabad.“Five criminals in involved in the shoot-out have been killed in encounters with the police and nearly a dozen arrests have been made. The operation is going on to arrest others involved in the ghastly crime,” said Prashant Kumar, the additional director general of police (ADG), law and order in Lucknow.  The first of Dubey’s accomplices to be killed were his uncle Prem Prakash Pandey and nephew Atul Dubey, who were gunned down allegedly during a gunfight in Kashiram Nivada’s jungles on July 3. The following day, on July 4, police sent bulldozers to raze Dubey’s bungalow and destroy two SUVs parked in the compound. By Thursday, when Dubey was arrested, three more people linked to him were killed by police, including two of his closest aides: Amar Dubey and Prabhat Mishra. The five, and two others who were injured in a police encounter, were among seven gunmen who took positions on rooftops on the night of July 2, waiting for a police team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devender Mishra.  Mishra and seven who accompanied him would later be killed in the gunfire, and some of their bodies were mutilated in an unheard of attack against law enforcement. The policemen are believed to have walked into a trap, with Dubey tipped off by informants within the police who would later by arrests. The case illustrates problems often regarded endemic in police in India, where allegations of criminal collusion and overreach often run alongside charges of inactionOn Thursday, officials said Dubey is likely to have had continued help from someone on the inside, which allowed him to stay a step ahead. “Without help, he could not have gone this far; we are pursuing some leads. It will become clear as to who helped him,” said an Uttar Pradesh police official, asking not to be named.The police are particularly looking at who Dubey may have reached out to in the immediate aftermath of the attack when he camped at a friend’s house in Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli town, three kilometres from his village.It was here that he was enlisting support to help get out of the area alive and surrender, according to the official, who cited the interrogation by Prabhat Mishra.At least one other police official, who was involved in the hunt, said that Dubey was being tipped off while he travelled over 1,250 km over four states while being on the run. Till now, the state police has moved the entire staff of Chaubeypur police station, from where Dubey is first believed to received a tip-off. As many as 55 police constables, 10 head constables and 13 sub inspectors were sent back to police lines.The then station officer Vinay Tiwari and-sub inspector KK Sharma have been arrested and accused of conspiracy to murder and leaking the information. Anant Deo, who served as SSP Kanpur till June 16, was removed as DIG STF after a special report of the slain DSP Mishra surfaced. Mishra had alleged that Tiwari colluded with Dubey, and recommended action against him.While he remained on the run, the Uttar Pradesh police’s special task force (STF) also went on a spree of arrests, the latest of which included the wife and elder son of Dubey. In all, according to figures by Kanpur police, the number of people arrested could be as high as 20, including four women who were the spouses of some of the fugitives. Among them was Khushboo Dubey, who married Amar Dubey four days before the shoot-out on June 29. Police have not given any reason for her arrest, which experts have questioned for being a case of overreach. Retired IPS officer Prakash Singh, who headed the Uttar Pradesh police between 1991 and 1993, said that while the action may have been sloppy at first, which led to the deaths, the follow up action has been commendable. “Initially police did not have intelligence about Dubey and his armed men waiting for them. But the action there after has been commendable. The current chief minister, Yogi Adityanath is a no nonsense person when it comes to criminals. He does not let political influence come in way of criminals. The current DGP is also a man of integrity. They may have been let down by their juniors initially,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-killer-nabbed-after-6-day-manhunt/story-57dJZ0RwD0EtVaefidpmeM.html
10-07-2020||India||Economy showing green shoots: PM||Claiming that India will play a leading role in global economic revival, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that the call for a “self-reliant India” is not about “being closed to the world” but about merging domestic production and consumption with global supply chains. Modi also said India is one of the most open economies in the world, and invited global companies to invest in the country across sectors including defence. In a speech by video link to the inaugural session of India Global Week, an event organised by a London-based group, India.Inc, the PM reiterated that green shoots were visible in the economy. He also spoke about the reservoir of Indian talent and India’s capacity to reform and rejuvenate; highlighted the economic achievements of the past six years and laid out the contours of the relief package as well as economic reforms in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic; and said India will play a key role in the production and scaling up of the vaccine for the virus once it is developed. “This is an India that is reforming, performing and transforming. This is an India that offers new economic opportunities. This is an India that is adopting a human-centric and inclusive approach to development. India awaits you all,” he said. The PM’s remarks come in the backdrop of a projected contraction in the economy due to the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb its spread. It also comes amid speculation about the spirit behind the Self-Reliant India campaign, and whether it would mark a reversal of a liberal, globalised economic paradigm. “Self-reliant India is about merging domestic production and consumption with global supply chains. It is not about being self-contained or closed to the world. It is about being self sustaining and self-generating, and pursuing policies which promote efficiency, equity and resilience,” the PM said. Claiming that very few countries offer the kind of opportunity India does today, the PM mentioned how recent reforms have created a conducive environment for investment and outlined a list of sectors with potential — agriculture, particularly storage and logistics; the micro, small and medium enterprises sector which will “complement big industries”; space; technology and startups, among others.He also mentioned the scope in defence, with relaxed foreign direct investment norms. “One of the world’s biggest militaries invites you to make products for it.” The PM spoke of how India’s pharma industry has been an asset for the world — by playing a leading role in reducing the costs of medicines, providing two-thirds of the vaccines needed worldwide for children and now as a part of international efforts to find a vaccine for Covid-19. “India will have a big role in the development and scaling up of the vaccine when it is found.”The PM said India will have a key role in global revival because of two factors — its talent and its reformist abilities. “Indians are natural reformers.” But he said that the revival India is aspiring for is revival with care, with compassion, and a revival which is sustainable for both the economy and the environment. Claiming that the foundations have been laid by the work done in the last six years, the PM specifically mentioned “total financial inclusion”, record housing and infrastructure creation, ease of doing business and tax reforms such as the Goods and Services Tax. He also spoke about how the relief package in the wake of the pandemic is reaching the poor, with every penny in their hands, with the help of technology. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said.“PM Modi is showing people stars in broad daylight by painting a picture of roses on canvas of cactus stitched with thread of his government’s mismanagement and mishandling of economy,”Modi’s version of “self-reliant” India means solely being reliant on his government’s “hollow slogans and sketchy implementation” rather than being reliant on jobs, profitable business and growth which the BJP has successfully snatched away from the landscape of Indian economy, he added.Shergill said the PM’s approach of labelling 45-year-high unemployment, projects negative growth rate, rising NPAs (by Rs 4 lakh crore in next year), closing MSMEs, evaporating savings, rising fuel prices as “green shoots” fits into classic description “Nero fiddled while Rome burned”.“Tragedy of the nation is while economic recession is spreading like wildfire, the PM is busy window dressing rather than addressing the deepening crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-showing-green-shoots-pm/story-PKlmwfg4pSNEWJ3UKEdYJO.html
10-07-2020||India||Race for indigenous Covid-19 vaccines: Centre says human trials to begin soon||Human clinical trials are about to start on two indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, as they join the race with 100-odd potential vaccines that are in various stages of development globally.“For India, it is a proud moment that two of its entirely indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidates are ready for human clinical trials. One of the two is from Bharat Biotech International Ltd. and the other is of Cadila Healthcare Ltd. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate is being developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR],” said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, Union health ministry.On both these vaccine candidates, animal toxicity studies have been completed.“Animal toxicity studies are conducted on mice, guinea pigs, and rabbits. These studies have already been concluded and the toxicity data in respect of both these vaccine candidates has been shared with the Drugs Controller General of India. The drugs controller has permitted these two vaccine candidates to go in for phase 1 and phase 2 (human) clinical trials,” said Bhushan. The sites for clinical trials have already been finalised, and the trials are about to start.“The results of animal trials data submitted to the department were found to be satisfactory to allow these to progress to next level of human trials. There is a subject expert committee that scrutinises the data set at every level before giving their consent. Nothing substandard can pass through. This is just one step and there are several steps before the vaccine is ready for use,” said a senior official in the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO).Twelve sites have been finalised for the trials.“When the results are out, we will put it in the public domain,” said Bhushan.The director general of ICMR caused a stir last week by mentioning a deadline of August 15 for the vaccine to be ready for public use; experts warned that such a short deadline could compromise on safety and efficacy data. Later, the government clarified that the missive was intended to spur the process on and not meant as a hard deadline.“Whole idea is to have indigenous candidates that our manufacturers have developed in record time for a new disease ready as fast as possible and be made available for public use. DG ICMR’s letter’s intent was to direct sites to fast track the process so that we don’t miss the bus. The vaccine is needed now, and if we go by conventional methods of manufacturing and come up with a vaccine after 2 years then it will be of no use,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, senior scientist, epidemiology division, ICMR.On the issue of shortage of Covid-related drugs, the drugs controller directed states to take strict action against anyone found black-marketing or selling the medicines above the registered maximum retail price.The drugs controller wrote to companies that are manufacturing Covid-related drugs and made two specific suggestions, Bhushan said.“One is that companies must put in place a 24x7 helpline where patients or their caregivers could contact in case the drug is not available or is being over-charged. The second suggestion was that companies must proactively put on their website the details of their distribution network and their supply lines so that all confusion and anxiety in the market subsides,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/race-for-indigenous-vaccines-centre-says-human-trials-to-begin-soon/story-9rWSZ84T0J11EyxjVt2qnM.html
10-07-2020||India||Odisha’s migrant worker raps his way to fame||A 27-year-old Dalit in Odisha’s Kalahandi district has found fame with rap songs on migrant workers turning the focus on their plight after the lockdown enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).With the songs going viral, Duleswar Tandi, a 27-year-old science graduate and a migrant worker himself, is being compared to the character played by Bollywood actor Ranveer Singh in the 2019 Hindi film Gully Boy. Tandi, who wiped tables and washed plates at an eatery in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, for a living, came back to his mudhouse in Borda village in March just a day before the national lockdown was announced.“As I watched the Covid cases grow in China, US and European countries, I could sense that it was matter of weeks before the virus comes to India. So I decided to come back,” said Tandi.Several of his friends in the villages nearby who worked in states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chennai and Karnataka could not return for more than a month. Many of them returned a couple of months later, by hopping onto a bus or walking or cycling. Sitting at home without work and seeing the videos of migrant workers travelling in pitiable conditions stoked the inner angst in Tandi.After coming back, Tandi, who goes by the nickname Rapper Dule Rocker in Kalahandi, did a 2.45 minute rap video called Telling the Truth in which he vents his anger against the politicians, calling them thieves. In May, Tandi made a 3.5 minute rap video called Sun Sarkar, Sat Katha (translation) in which he raps about how the coronavirus disease and subsequent distress came as a rude jolt to migrant workers.“In that video I rapped about how the migrant workers who had saved their hard-earned money lost everything in a matter of days after the factories and construction sites were closed due to the lockdown. All that the leaders were doing is giving us sermons instead of helping the migrant workers. I was angry and so wrote down the rap song,” said Tandi, who first migrated for work soon after completing his B. Sc degree in chemistry from a government college in Kalahandi in 2013.With the two acres of land mortgaged with a bank in 2014 for Rs. 50, 000, when his mother had to undergo a surgery in a hospital in Visakhapatnam, Tandi said he had no option but to work. He initially wanted to be a doctor, but his family’s financial condition meant he had to forget that ambition. In 2017, his father, Nilamani Tandi, a farmer and local police station assistant, passed away.The Dalit man had his set his heart in rap music since his college days. “When I used to write lyrics for rap music, everyone used to dissuade me. Everyone used to say what would you gain out of it. But in my heart I knew that I wanted to be a rapper,” he said.In 2014, someone from Punjab saw one of his videos on Facebook and called him to perform in Chandigarh. “It was a new experience for me as I performed in different competitions,” he said. In 2015, he came to Bhubaneswar and made the round of studios for making videos. No one helped him because he did not have the money required to make slick rap videos. “One needs at least Rs 50,000 for making each such rap video which I did not have. So I decided to stick to making the videos on my mobile phone.”The rap songs on migrants that Tandi composed during lockdown have slowly become popular. After hearing his songs, Odia singer Humane Sagar recently gave him Rs 30,000. A local recording studio recently called him, expressing an interest in recording his music.Tandi says his songs would be about common people and their hardships. “I don’t want to promote sleaze or liquor in my songs. Migrant workers like us have too many issues. Those things would find a place in my songs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-migrant-worker-raps-his-way-to-fame/story-u1rTnlOZNHJ9KX0gUrJUjO.html
10-07-2020||India||Men, aged at much higher risk of death from coronavirus: UK study||The risk of death from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is higher for men, old people, and people with greater deprivation, according to the largest analysis to date on the topic, published in the journal Nature on Thursday. Consistent with previous work, the study from the UK found men had a 1.59-fold higher risk of Covid-19-related death than women, and age was a major risk factor.People 80 years and older had a 20-fold-increased risk of death compared to 50–59-year-old people, found the OpenSAFELY study, which analysed pseudonymised health data of close to 17.3 million UK adults to identify the clinical risk factors for Covid-19-related deaths.It also confirmed increased risk of death with various pre-existing medical conditions such as diabetes, obesity and asthma. Black and South Asian people, and those of mixed ethnicity, were 1.62–1.88 times more likely to die of Covid-19 than white people, but contrary to earlier speculation, the increased risk was only partially attributable to pre-existing clinical risk factors and deprivation, or lack of basic necessities.“Men having higher risk has been noted in many countries including India as they have higher comorbidities, are more likely to smoke, and have high levels of Ace-2 receptors in the testes. South Asians, especially women, have lower vitamin D levels as do black populations,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (Ace-2) is the cellular entry receptor used by the new coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 to enter human cells and cause infection. The virus’s crown-like spike protein binds Ace-2 -CoV-2 to invade the air sacs in the lungs, leading to respiratory distress.Data from several countries has consistently shown men carry up to three times higher risk of death from Covid-19 than women. Men accounted for close to two-thirds (64%) of deaths in China as compared to women, with Italy, Spain, South Korea, France, Germany and India revealing a similar gender gap in death rates.The OpenSAFELY study found pre-existing medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes, severe asthma, and respiratory, chronic heart, liver, neurological and autoimmune diseases raised risk of Covid-19-related death.Data from 1.7 million Covid-19 cases and 103,700 deaths in the US from January 22 through May 30 showed people with chronic disease like heart disease and diabetes are 12 times more likely to die and six times more likely to be hospitalised than healthy patients, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). One in five (19.5%) of patients with underlying diseases died compared to 1.6% of those who were healthy, said the CDC in June.Data from 17,299 hospitalised patients in India showed hypertension was the most common pre-existing condition, followed by diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma and chronic renal disease, according to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme data.People 60 years and older account for 53% of Covid19 deaths in India, according to data from the ministry of health and family welfare. “The chances of severe illness and death increase with age, particularly with people with underlying health conditions. Older age, hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, immuno-suppression, and chronic kidney disease are some of the leading causes that lead to complications and increased risk of death. Obesity is an established risk factor, which is common in an urban private tertiary care hospital such as ours,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of anaesthesiology and critical care, Medanta -The Medicity , Gurugram.The UK’s OpenSAFELY study also found the most deprived people in the cohort were 1.8 times more likely than the least deprived to die with Covid-19 while clinical factors made only a small contribution to this risk, suggesting that social factors have a role. “The social gradient for comorbidities has reversed in a while ago in the UK, while it has only partially reversed in India,” said Dr Reddy.“We need highly accurate data on which patients are most at risk in order to manage the pandemic and improve patient care. The answers provided by this OpenSAFELY analysis are of crucial importance to countries around the world. For example, it is very concerning to see that the higher risks faced by people from BME backgrounds are not attributable to identifiable underlying health conditions,” said study co-lead Liam Smeeth, professor of clinical epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), in a statement.The study was led by academics at LSHTM and the University of Oxford, working on behalf of the UK’s National Health Service (NHS) and in partnership with NHSX, a UK government unit driving digital transformation of health and social care. The research team developed OpenSAFELY, a secure analytics environment running across detailed pseudonymized data for 40% of all NHS patients in England. Among the electronic health records of 17,278,392 adults, there were 10,926 deaths in and out of hospital that were linked to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-aged-at-much-higher-risk-of-death-uk-study/story-eNrrZMxiritoKVP2P6yXqK.html
10-07-2020||India||War, terror failed to stop Parliament but coronavirus poses new challenge||In December 1971, then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi announced the unconditional surrender of Pakistan in the Lok Sabha, which had continued to sit even as the country was at war.Indeed, records show that Parliament sessions have continued through adversities -- war, the Emergency, even soon after a terror attack -- but now, it has to find a way to deal with the coronavirus disease. The new circumstances forced on everyone by the pandemic have prompted large-scale consultations by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla with officials to find a feasible way to conduct the session within the framework of health guidelines -- social distancing being the most important of them. At last 10 meetings have happened this year to find solutions, and many more are in the pipeline.Work must go on, according to Afzal Amanullah, former parliamentary affairs secretary.“This is a special situation. You need not conduct the session within Parliament complex alone and anyway, holding the session would show our capability of doing so during a pandemic,” he addedWith 770 MPs in both Houses, India has the world’s fourth-largest parliament by number of lawmakers after the UK, Italy and France.During the India-China war of 1962, Parliament’s winter session skipped Question Hour, but nothing else. “The Session was to commence on 19 November 11, 1962 but due to Chinese aggression, it was advanced,” a parliamentary report said. The war started on October 20 and lasted till November 21.From 26 October, Parliament also made a special provision: it started from 12 noon instead of 11 am. While the original schedule was for 34 days, the session lasted for 26 days.According to PRS legislative research, Parliamentarian Hari Vishnu Kamath suggested that “the Parliament of the nation must continue to be in session and have the privilege of advising and guiding the government in this emergency.”During the 1971 war too, the daily schedule was changed. “From 6 to 23 December (due to Pakistani aggression), hours of sittings of Lok Sabha were changed to 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and Question Hour and Calling Attention matters were suspended,” documents state. Similarly, in 1965, the monsoon session ran from August 16 till September 24, although it was cut short in the wake of the war.During the Emergency, imposed by the Indira Gandhi regime, Parliament continued to function. Between June 1975 and March 1997—the tenure of the Emergency—five parliament session were conducted. The monsoon session of 1975—the first after declaration of the Emergency—didn’t have Question Hour or time for Opposition MPs to ask questions to different ministers. The winter session of 1976 too, didn’t have a Question Hour.Several constitutional amendments were cleared hurriedly during this period. One of the most controversial among these was the 42nd Amendment Act that added the words ‘Socialist’ and ‘Secular’ to the Preamble of the Indian Constitution.“Our Parliament has worked through war, famine and economic colpase. Its work did not stop even after a terrorist attack. Democratic institutions should be impervious to unfavouable circumstances. Our Parliament needs to adapt to the challenge posed by the pandemic and innovate to fulfill its mandate to the people,” said Chaksu Ray of PRS legislative research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-terror-failed-to-stop-parliament-but-coronavirus-poses-new-challenge/story-soFR2FZjGFkvFq6TXBhIGN.html
10-07-2020||India||Red warning in east, NE, orange alert for U’khand, HP, West UP||Parts of the country’s northeastern and eastern regions are likely to receive extremely heavy rain--over 20 cm daily--this week and face floods, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday as it issued alerts to authorities to remain prepared. Widespread and heavy rains were expected in parts of north-western India from Thursday due to the convergence of moisture carrying winds from the Arabian Sea.IMD issued a red warning for the northeast and parts of eastern India, including Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, from July 10 to July 12. Authorities are required to take action to prevent any rain or flood-related disasters in case of such a warning. An orange warning was issued for Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and western Uttar Pradesh from July 10 to 13. The three-month monsoon season, which generally begins in June, delivers about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is critical for the country’s agricultural sector, which employs over half of its population. The monsoon is important in determining the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds. The rains lasted longer last year and triggered floods that left hundreds dead.Regional Weather Forecasting Centre head Kuldeep Shrivastava said Delhi may receive light rain for the next three to four days but the main impact will be in northern Punjab, Haryana, and Uttarakhand as the monsoon trough shifts northwards towards the Himalayan foothills. “The monsoon trough is now passing over Karnal in Haryana. There is also a cyclonic circulation over Haryana. We can expect widespread and heavy rains in these regions particularly along the Western Himalayas.”The monsoon trough is likely to gradually shift northwards along the foothills of the Himalayas. IMD said the convergence of south-westerlies and southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the northeast and eastern India will lead to very heavy rains.IMD said extremely heavy rains are very likely in Uttarakhand over the weekend; Uttar Pradesh, Bihar on Friday and Saturday; sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya, and Arunachal Pradesh from Thursday to Saturday. “We can expect extremely heavy rains and flooding in the northeastern region. This is mainly a result of the monsoon trough shifting to the Himalayan foothills,” said IMD director general M Mohapatra.The Central Water Commission also issued a flood alert in districts along rivers in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Sikkim, and sub-Himalayan West Bengal on Wednesday.“The Brahmaputra river is continuing to be in floods all through its reach from Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh district to Dhubri in lower Assam. Its tributaries... are also flowing in severe flood situations. There is a forecast for heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall...,” the commission said in its bulletin.On Thursday, severe flood situation, which involves water levels touching or exceeding the danger level but below the highest level, was recorded in most river tributaries in Assam, Bihar, and some in Uttar Pradesh.According to IMD, Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh have recorded 51% and 73% excess rainfall from July 1-8.Moderate to intense thunderstorm and lightning was very likely in eastern and western Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, eastern Madhya Pradesh, northern Chhattisgarh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam, and Meghalaya.There have been 13% excess monsoon rains in the country. Eastern India has received 6%, northeast 26%, and south peninsula 10% excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-warning-in-east-ne-orange-alert-for-u-khand-hp-west-up/story-MIHeQsnxuAScqVLkp0XWMP.html
10-07-2020||India||After Galwan fightback, 16 Bihar moving to Col Babu’s home state||The 16th battalion of Bihar regiment, or 16 Bihar, whose soldiers fought off numerically superior Chinese troops at the cost of their own lives in the remote Galwan Valley on June 15, is moving out of its forward location in eastern Ladakh after completing its two-and-a-half-year tenure near the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said on Thursday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The infantry battalion’s 37-year-old commanding officer, Colonel B Santosh Babu, was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in a seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered. Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades.The battalion is being sent to Hyderabad, which is the capital of Colonel Babu’s home state, Telangana, said an official cited above. Babu’s unit is being replaced by another battalion of Bihar Regiment, 1 Bihar, he said.“Soldiers from 16 Bihar and other units involved in the brutal Galwan Valley skirmish acquitted themselves honourably and fought their way against heavy odds. 16 Bihar is moving to a peace-time location,” said a second official. 16 Bihar completed its two-and-a-half-year tenure in eastern Ladakh in March-April, but its movement to the peace location was delayed because of the lockdown measures announced by the government to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a third official said.“The valour displayed by 16 Bihar in an unprecedented combat situation is bound to be documented in India’s military history. The battalion’s actions will inspire those carrying out front-line duties along India’s vast borders,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to reduce rising border tensions.The squad, however, found that a few tents and an observation post were still intact and the Chinese soldiers had not retreated from PP-14. The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak, as reported by HT on June 22.Limited military disengagement was initiated in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra after the June 6 meeting between the senior commanders. However, the June 15 clash dashed disengagement hopes. A fresh disengagement plan is currently being implemented in eastern Ladakh. The PLA has withdrawn up to 2.5km from friction areas in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, with the Indian Army also pulling back proportionately in those sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-regiment-to-move-out-of-lac-position/story-Us57chKKSmWr3SluluYZAN.html
10-07-2020||India||NIA to probe Kerala gold smuggling case||The Union home ministry directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the Kerala gold smuggling case on Thursday, a day after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a high-level investigation into the incident that has triggered a major political controversy.A home ministry spokesperson said NIA was handed over the probe “as the organised smuggling operation may have serious implications for national security”.Earlier in the day, Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) asked the Union government for a faster probe into the smuggling of gold through a diplomatic cargo into the state as the main suspect in the racket, a female information technology consultant, moved the high court for anticipatory bail.“Some people are creating a smoke screen to target the state government. We have nothing to hide. The CM had sent a letter to the Prime Minister saying the state is ready for any probe. But it is getting delayed. We suspect delay is aimed at embarrassing the government,” said VS Vijayaraghavan, convenor of the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF).Vijayaraghavan alleged that the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which have sought to link the racket to the state government, were worried about the growing popularity of the LDF because of the successes it has scored in the fight against Covid-19. In New Delhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury echoed the view.The customs department seized 30kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates addressed to its consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Main suspect Swapna Suresh, who was working as the operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT ministry, has since gone into hiding. CM Vijayan then transferred his principal secretary M Sivasankar allegedly because he was close to Suresh.Amid the controversy, Suresh sent an audio tape to a news channel in which she said there was a concerted move to target the government with an eye on elections and she had been made a scapegoat. She claimed that she made a call to the customs department to release the consignment at the behest of the he UAE consular office. She also said she feared for her life and was keeping away from public glare until the dust settles.In her plea in the high court, which listed the matter for Friday, Suresh said she was dragged in the case for political reasons and the customs took up the case following a vigorous media trial. A public interest litigation, too, was filed in the court seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation.“This has a familiar ring to the solar scandal that routed the ruling UDF [United Democratic Front] in 2016. A scandal is a scandal and whether there is substance in the allegations is electorally irrelevant. That is the history of the state,” said senior journalist and political observer John Mary. That’s a reference to a 2013 scandal in which a solar energy company used a woman to create political contacts and duped people by offering to make them business partners or offering to install solar power units. The Congress has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the entire matter, including the alleged involvement of leaders of the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the national level.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the recent developments in Kerala have highlighted the “brazen attitude and high-level access” of certain individuals to the highest echelons of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-probe-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-UGUEJ5fa7x3TzvtYycxI5O.html
10-07-2020||India||Banned apps told to disclose location of centres, data collection method||The ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) has sought details about their operations, data collection practices and locations of operational centres from the owners of short video sharing platform Tik Tok and 58 other applications, mostly of Chinese origin, that India banned last week, officials familiar with the development said.A questionnaire seeking the details was sent by the ministry to the parent companies of the apps on Wednesday so that more information can be collated as a follow-up to the ban, which came amid border tensions between India and China.“The emails have been sent to them so that we can collate and analyse more details about the operations of the applications,” a Meity official said on condition of anonymity. “This is a part of the process under the IT Act.”The government banned mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat citing concerns that they were “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order” amid military tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a violent brawl in Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 that also left an unspecified number of Chinese casualties.Information and Technology minister Ravi Shanker Prasad called the ban a “digital strike” on China. The operators of the applications will also appear in front of a panel to make their case against the ban, officials said.An executive at the operator of the apps said on condition of anonymity that they had been given three weeks to respond to the questionnaire.A Tik Tok spokesperson said the app’s operator was working to respond to the government “within the stipulated time frame.”“We have been in compliance with the laws and regulations of the Government of India and will continue to cooperate, address their concerns and provide necessary clarification. Ensuring the data sovereignty, security and privacy of our users has always been and will continue to be a top priority for us,” the spokesperson said in a statement to HT.India is particularly concerned that these applications could be compromising the data of Indian users, Hindustan Times reported on June 30. The 59 apps have been reported for “leaking data”, according to an IT ministry official who asked not to be named.“All these apps have been reported to have been leaking data. Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China. Moreover, the beauty apps, such as Beauty Plus and Selfie Camera have also been reported for being a threat as they contain pornographic content,” this person said.Among the banned applications is the popular short-video streaming app TikTok, which has a wide following in India. TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India as of January this year and had become one of the most prominent social media tools used by young Indians.“We have asked for more information regarding where their centres are located, how they are collecting data and further details about their operations,” the Meity official mentioned in the first instance said.The panel that will hear the representations from the owners of the apps will include an official from the home ministry, MEITY, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, and the law ministry, under section 69A of the IT Act.“The apps will have a chance to present their side of the story,” the second official cited above said.According to independent data researcher Srinivas Kodali, the move to ban the apps was premature..“The ministry should have first sought this information and then effected the ban,” Kodali said. “The investigation should have happened first.”Kodali added that most apps, including those made in India, generally store data in the US as it is a cheaper option.“It is likely that these apps stored data in China because it would have been cheaper for them,” he said. “The list, in any case, is selective as Chinese apps like PUBG {an online game} have not been included, despite repeated concerns and red flags raised about it.”“Meity can block the apps because they pose a national security threat, but to ask questions is different since these applications don’t necessarily have to answer to them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banned-apps-told-to-disclose-location-of-centres-data-collection-method/story-IavRAlKptvooLcJqc5G0nI.html
10-07-2020||India||LeT behind shooting of BJP leader in J-K: Cops||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Waseem Bari and his father and brother were killed in an attack executed by two terrorists owing allegiance to the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in north Kashmir’s Bandipore district, the police said on Thursday.All 10 policemen guarding Bari, a 28-year-old former BJP district president, have been suspended on charges of dereliction of duty and arrested after the Wednesday night, according to Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar.The personal security officers (PSOs) of Bari were not with him when the attack took place barely 10 metres away from a police station around 9pm, and face dismissal from service over the lapse, he said.Kumar also said the examination of footage from CCTV cameras in the police station confirmed that Bari was being followed. Both terrorists involved in the attack have been identified and they will be “neutralised soon”, he told reporters in Bandipore.Kumar said a local, identified as Abid, and a foreigner carried out the attack on Bari and his family members in their shop. The family’s residence is in the same building.On Wednesday evening, Bari came back from his in-laws’ house and went to his shop, where his father, Bashir Ahmad, and brother, Umar Bashir, were already present, according to Kumar. His PSOs went to their rooms, he said.“A militant came walking inside the shop and targeted the three from a close range. They received bullets on their heads and unfortunately succumbed to their injuries [after they were taken to a hospital],” Kumar said.He said while one of the terrorists fired upon the three men — all associated with the BJP — another was guiding him from a distance. “When he [Bari] left his house early in the evening for his in-laws’ house, a person is seen in the CCTV footage. And when he returned, the same person is there. It was a planned attack,” Kumar said.“Even if two of his [10] PSO’s remained with him, they would have killed the militant. All the PSOs were suspended and arrested; now they will be dismissed from service for this security lapse,” he said.Kumar stressed that the police are committed to providing protection to everyone who was under threat. “If anyone gets a threat, we appeal them to contact the SSP [senior superintendent of police] concerned and they will be provided with security,” he said.When asked if the security of BJP leaders in the Valley would be strengthened, Kumar said: “Increasing or decreasing security does not stop incidents. What matters is how alert a securityman is and how bravely he fights.”Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu condemned the killing of Bari and his father and brother.He said the killing of innocent people is against the humanity and the perpetrators of this “cowardly act “shall be brought to justice, read a statement from the department of information and public relations, Jammu and Kashmir.BJP state president Ravinder Raina and general secretary Ashok Koul visited Bari’s residence on Thursday and offered their condolences. Bari, his father and brother were laid to rest close to their house in the afternoon amid tight security.Raina said the frustration of Pakistan and Pakistan-sponsored terrorists with the growing footprints of the BJP in the Kashmir Valley was behind the attack. He added that the killings will be avenged by flushing out terrorists from their hideouts and eliminating them.“Pakistan and its terrorists cannot deter us. The want to demoralise us. That is not going to happen. All of those terrorists involved in the killing will be eliminated,” he said.Security forces have stepped up their offensive against terrorists in the Kashmir Valley, killing 122 of them since the beginning of this year. And 48 were killed in June alone. Among the major successes of security forces this year is the killing of Riyaz Naikoo, a top commander of local militant group Hizbul Mujahideen, in an operation in Beighpora in May.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-behind-shooting-of-bjp-leader-in-j-k-cops/story-z4VDWBpLTevwe3MsPSHT6K.html
10-07-2020||India||Sero survey hints at a high Covid-19 infection rate in Delhi||Around 15% of Delhi’s population appears to have been infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the rate much higher in some pockets, according to initial results of antibody testing of 22,823 people across the Capital.The overall trend of a Delhi-specific sero surveillance, conducted by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Delhi government across 11 districts between June 27 and July 5, suggests that certain pockets have developed widespread transmission but are still amenable to containment, according to government officials familiar with the findings of the report.The interim findings of the report are higher than the national average of positivity rate for tests — around 10%. To be sure, health experts have said that many people around the world may have had Covid-19 (and since recovered) without realising it because they suffered few or very mild symptoms. A similar survey in New York, for instance, suggested that nearly 14% of the population there had been infected by the virus and recovered.“Interim data indicates the average cross-sectional prevalence looks to be around 15%, which has even gone up to 25% in a few zones. The entire data is not out yet so there may be some variation in the final result, but the overall the trend suggests certain pockets have developed widespread transmission that is still amenable to containment,” the official cited above said, requesting not to be identified. In a serological surveillance, or sero survey, blood serum of a group of individuals is tested in order to understand the prevalence of a virus in that region.The final result of pilot sero survey done by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across 21 states in April is also being processed, and the research body is preparing to launch a follow-up sero survey soon, officials said.“These studies are subject to peer review, and currently ICMR’s pilot survey that was done around mid-April is being peer-reviewed. It will be put out in public domain once the process is complete,” said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, health ministry, during a media briefing on Thursday.He also announced that a follow-up sero survey by ICMR also in the process of being conducted. “There is another sero prevalence study being planned by ICMR across India as a follow up to their mid-April study. For Delhi’s sero survey, 22,823 samples were collected between June 27 and July 5 across 11 districts by the state government and National Centre for Disease Control. It is being analysed in 15 odd laboratories,” Bhushan said.The blood samples are tested for detecting IgG antibodies. The IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection, once the individual has recovered after infection and last for several months. Therefore, the IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episode of Sars-CoV2 infection in the past, say experts.“Merely knowing the volume of people who have been infected will only provide the sense of the spread of the disease; what we must try to know is the quantity and quality of antibodies being produced against the virus. Also, for how long these antibodies stay in human blood so as to know if it’s enough to offer protection against the disease,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology division, ICMR“Our mortality rate is low as compared to other countries such as Italy or US. People dying due to a disease depend on several factors, of which most important is medical care. Fortunately for India, our medical infrastructure is not overwhelmed. We can manage our patients well. Elderly are at high risk, so they should strictly follow preventive measures,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology, AIIMS, Delhi Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, in a briefing on Thursday about the prevalence of Covid-19 in the country, said that there was no need to panic and that most cases and deaths were reported from limited geographical areas. “We have had a detailed discussion with experts and it is reassuring to know that 90% active cases are restricted to only 8 Indian states, and 80% active cases are in 49 districts. Six states have reported 86% of the total Covid-19 deaths,” Harsh Vardhan said. His comment was not linked to the sero survey.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-hints-at-a-high-infection-rate-in-delhi/story-WTwxsCMLadqyw0vIIMD7jN.html
10-07-2020||India||India again tells China to strictly respect the LAC||India on Thursday again rejected China’s claim on the Galwan Valley and said the Line of Actual Control (LAC) must be strictly respected, a day ahead of a meeting of diplomats of the two sides to build on the de-escalation and disengagement process underway in the Ladakh sector.Both countries said on Thursday they will continue meetings through diplomatic and military channels to take forward the disengagement. People familiar with developments, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs will on Friday hold its third virtual meeting since the beginning of the border standoff between the two countries.The people said corps commanders of the two sides are expected to meet in the Ladakh sector next week, though the date is yet to be finalised, to discuss the next steps in disengagement and de-escalation.India is moving forward with great caution in the disengagement process after the worst crisis along LAC in decades. Troops from both sides have pulled back in a limited manner at key friction points along LAC since the Special Representatives on the border issue – India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s foreign minister Wang Yi – held a phone conversation on Sunday. The two agreed that peace and tranquillity along the border are essential for the overall development of bilateral ties.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava spelled out India’s position on the disengagement process during a weekly virtual news briefing. He said recent Chinese claims on the Galwan Valley are “exaggerated and untenable”. Srivastava added LAC “must be strictly respected” and observed “this is the basis for peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.Neither side should take any unilateral action to alter LAC, he said. “We remain convinced of the need for maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue. At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, said the situation in the western sector of the disputed border was “improving”. He added there will be another round of dialogue under the WMCC mechanism.“Following the consensus reached at the commander-level talks, China-India border troops have taken effective measures to disengage at the frontline in the Galwan Valley and other areas,” Zhao said.“The situation along the border is stable and improving. The two sides will continue dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels including by holding [a] meeting of the WMMC on border affairs.”He did not give details of the disengagement or protocols that the People’s Liberation Army is following to pull back troops and equipment.The corps commanders have so far met on June 6, 22 and 30. WMCC has held two virtual meetings on June 5 and 24. On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry told HT its troops had begun to disengage from the Galwan Valley.Zhao said China hopes “India will work together with us to take concrete action and implement the consensus reached and jointly work for de-escalation along the border.”Srivastava said Doval, during his conversation with Wang, “conveyed categorically India’s position on recent developments along the LAC, including in the Galwan Valley area”. He added Doval “emphasised in this context that the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management and at the same time, our forces were deeply committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and security”.Srivastava noted the two shared the view that it was necessary to “ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation in the India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols”.He pointed out one of the key provisions of these agreements is the commitment by both sides to “strictly respect and observe the LAC”. Srivastava said Doval and Wang also agreed the two sides “should work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity”.Experts believe the disengagement and de-escalation process could be long-drawn.Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, said: “I would not be surprised if the disengagement process stretches on for some time. The disengagement is being done point by point, and 72 hours is set aside for verification at each point. But even now, disengagement at Pangong Lake, Depsang, and Demchok has not even come up.“In the worst-case scenario, the Chinese would have no hesitation in stretching it till winter. They have got all the infrastructure in place but this is not a problem for us. It is a good sign that the Indian Army is leading the discussions on the ground because there will be some more tough negotiations ahead.”Ranade said the imminent threat has been deferred but India cannot let down its guard. “For the Chinese, it is an unfinished chapter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-tells-china-to-strictly-respect-the-lac/story-8PNPe5KzD42pmkiEPXJBQO.html
10-07-2020||India||UGC considering a later start to academic calendar||New DelhiUniversity Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, is considering a later start to the academic calendar as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to keep campuses shut and universities struggle to hold examinations.An expert committee headed by Central University of Haryana vice chancellor R C Kuhad has written to UGC that admissions to undergraduate courses be completed by the end of October and the new session begin by November, according to a person familiar with the developments who requested anonymity.The panel has also recommended that for postgraduate courses, the admission process be completed by the end of November and the session commence from December 1.The human resource development (HRD) ministry and UGC had appointed the Kuhad committee to make recommendations on the calendar for the Covid-hit academic year 2020-21. The panel had earlier recommended that the session begin from September-October .With no improvement on the pandemic front, the Kuhad panel has now sent revised recommendations to the UGC, which is expected to take a call on them in the coming days, according to the person cited above.Significantly, it was in the same revised report that the Kuhad committee had also suggested that exams for the final year in all courses be held -- whether online, offline or a blend of both. The report also suggested that all university exams be completed by September 30.“The UGC had in an emergent meeting on July 6 discussed the part of the report about exams. Most of the suggestions were accepted. However, the committee has also given revised dates for the academic calendar. The UGC is yet to take a call on the revised dates. The panel has suggested that the session for Bachelor {degree} programmes begin from November 2 and Masters programmes from December 1,” said the person.The Kuhad committee’s suggestion on further pushing the start of the academic calendar to November and December would be discussed in the coming weeks based on how the situation evolves, a second person aware of the matter said.“It is expected that results of all school boards would be out by July-August so the session for undergraduate courses can begin early. The postgraduate courses would begin after university results are out. However, there may also be a need to compress semesters or readjust syllabus etc if the session gets too curtailed,” said the second person.According to an academic calendar issued by UGC earlier, admissions to the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes for the 2020-21 session ought to be completed by August 31. If the necessity arises, provisional admissions could be made and documents of qualifying examinations cleared by students may be accepted up to September 30.The Academic Session 2020-21 may commence from August 1 for old students and from September 1 for fresh students, the UGC said.Former UGC member Inder Mohan Kapahy said: “Considering the trajectory of spread of Covid in India to extend the beginning of academic sessions for UG and PG courses from November and December respectively is a reasonable decision. However the decision of the Kuhad Committee, accepted by the UGC, to make it mandatory to hold the final year semester end or year end examinations in offline/online/mixed mode needs revist. The UGC has done away with the compulsory requirement for such examinations for non final year UG and PG students. They shall be promoted in ac ordnance with average performances and internal assessments in the previous years or semesters. Why should the same formula not be applied also to final year students. It should be appreciated that final year students are in a state of psychological limbo from March 2020 onwards. They are worried about future admissions to higher classes or about their job prospects. Epidemiologists are predicting that peak in India may reach after two or three months. Final year exams may require to be further postponed. This shall add to the stress already accumulated on the young minds. UGC should apply the same rational formula for all students whether in final or non final years.”“We can study on our own. But there is definitely advantage of being in a classroom. There are no labs available to a student at home and no social life either. These are uncertain times which are affecting students. We hope the policymakers take the best decisions to bring learning back on track,” said Shubham, a student pursuing B Tech in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-considering-a-later-start-to-academic-calender/story-i7vGh7ztssN7CeA3nTdwCI.html
10-07-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 5,368 new Covid-19 cases, 204 deaths take toll close to 10,000-mark||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 5,368 new Covid-19 cases and 204 deaths, taking the state’s coronavirus count to 2,11,987, the state health department said. The state, which is worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, registered a slight dip in fresh cases today after recording over 6,000 new patients on Sunday.With the addition of 204 fatalities, the death toll in Maharashtra due to the viral infection has now mounted to 9,026, the health department’s data indicated.Despite having a low recovery rate, at least 1,15,262 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far. The state has till date carried out 11,35,447 tests of suspected Covid-19 patients.ALSO READ | ‘India’s Covid-19 positivity rate at 6.37 percent’: Ministry of HealthFinancial capital Mumbai on Monday detected 1,200 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the maximum city’s coronavirus count to 85,724. The death toll in Mumbai has now surged to 4,938.The number of active cases in Maharashtra currently stands at 87,681 and the western state’s recovery rate among coronavirus patients is 54.37%, significantly lower than the national average which crossed the 60% mark last week.The national positivity rate of Covid-19 -- the average rate of samples testing positive for the coronavirus disease across the country-- stands at 6.73% now, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed on Monday.The ministry said that the Centre had stressed increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of all Covid-19 cases in the country.ALSO READ| ‘Not correct to sack workers when industrial activities have begun’: ThackerayA record single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally close to the 7-lakh mark on Monday, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 19,693 with 425 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry.With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the fourth consecutive day.On Sunday, India overtook Russia to become the third worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The United States and Brazil are the only two countries that are ahead of India in terms of the total number of coronavirus patients currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-5-368-new-covid-19-cases-204-deaths-take-toll-close-to-10-000-mark/story-uxG9LemsBPD6LMbYMHb1pL.html
