13-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police seize huge cache of ammo, wireless sets from Maoist hideouts||RAIPUR : Chhattisgarh police have seized a huge cache of ammunition, detonators and wireless sets from Maoist storage dumps in the jungles of Rajnandgaon district which comes under the Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone of CPI (Maoist).Police also claimed, on Monday, to have found a diary of Dipak Teltumbade, a Central Committee Member (CCM), of CPI (Maoist ) , who is also in charge of MMC, which reveals important strategies and planning of the left wing ultras.The seizures were made on Sunday after the interrogation of Divisional Committee Member (DVCM) of MMC, David, who was arrested by police after he was injured in an encounter in Rajnandgaon on June 30.“During the interrogation he told us about three dumps of Maoists. We made a team and recoveries were made between Dhobedalli, Mangikholi and Chhuipani villages under Gatapar police station,” said Superintendent of police, Rajnandgaon, Jitendra Shukla.The SP further said that police also seized two steel boxes containing 975 live cartridges for various weapons such as AK-47 rifles, 9 mm pistols, self loading rifles (SLR), six detonators, 12 walkie-talkie sets, charger clips and a diary of Dipak Teltumbade, a Central Committee Member (CCM) were seized.The Maoists have built a new red corridor in the tri-junction of three states -- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone in 2016-17. Many documents that have been seized suggest Maoist are continuously moving in that area to strengthen the new zone and recruitment for the area was also being carried out. Senior officers of Chhattisgarh believe that there are about 200 armed Maoists in the Vistaar Dalam of the MMC zone, who are trying to establish their grip. The new zone is said to be a refuge of hard core Maoists of Bastar and other regions. Most of the cadres in this region were recruited from South Bastar, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-seize-huge-cache-of-ammo-wireless-sets-from-maoist-hideouts/story-V5bCTTT1zFutLVgWc8YTmI.html
13-07-2020||India||Singhvi moves SC for mechanism to probe encounter killings, custodial deaths||Congress leader and senior advocate Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi moved the Supreme Court on Monday seeking creation of a special mechanism for time-bound investigation by judicial magistrates into encounter killings and custodial deaths.There should be a judicial magistrate earmarked in every district for such investigation which should be completed within two months and the trial, which follows, should be concluded within a year, Singhvi prayed.“Once the preliminary inquiry is completed by the judicial magistrate, unless exonerated by such report, departmental proceedings should be initiated (against the concerned police officials) and completed within a period of 4 months,” the plea said.He also requested constitution of a permanent committee in each state headed either by the chief justice or a judge of the concerned high court and also comprising one independent member of civil society and one senior government IAS officer not below the rank of joint secretary, to oversee and monitor such investigation into encounters/ custodial deaths. Singhvi moved the application as part of the landmark case of DK Basu v. State of West Bengal in which the Supreme Court has from time to time issued directions for police reforms.Singhvi who is the Amicus Curiae (friend of the court) in the matter also sought setting up of Human Rights Courts envisaged by the Human Rights Act.The plea comes in the backdrop of the encounter killing of Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey and alleged custodial killing of Tamil Nadu men Jayaraj and Fenix. Singhvi, however, clarified in his application that his plea is not limited or arising only because of the Tamil Nadu or Vikas Dubey incidents but the same have been used merely as illustrative examples to create the legal safeguards.He submitted that as per the data collected by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) there was a sharp increase in the number of cases of custodial deaths and encounter killings in past 4-5 years.“There have been a total of 359 custodial deaths only in past 4 years. This translates into the fact that roughly every 4th day a person is killed in police custody and denied a fair trial,” the plea pointed out.Singhvi also said that there has been a normalization of custodial violence and encounter through their depictions in popular culture and there is a need to create an informed and compassionate citizenry.“In the recent past the custodial deaths/encounters have not seen the necessary push back from the citizenry that is accepted of it; on the contrary in few cases such incidents have had huge public support. This leads to an environment that breeds a police force that commits such acts with impunity and victims who do not see a conducive social environment to seek justice,” the application said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhvi-moves-sc-for-mechanism-to-probe-encounter-killings-custodial-deaths/story-BPVBWMA7r4yptYbMWVBw5J.html
13-07-2020||India||Bid to tarnish Kerala’s Covid-19 fight, says Pinarayi Vijayan after Nadda alleges fudged data||Some forces are trying to subvert Kerala’s ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by spreading false information but people will see through their designs, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday.He was referring to the criticism of Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda on Sunday in which he said the Kerala government was “messing up the data related to the pandemic just for records”. Without taking his name, Vijayan said some people were deliberately raising wild allegations to portray the state in a bad light.“Let them first compare the state’s records with others. We have a proven strategy and it is doing well,” he said adding the case fatality rate of the country was 2.67 percent whereas in Kerala it was a mere .39%. “We don’t want to flaunt our records. But some people are forcing us to do it,” he said. He also rejected the BJP chief’s contention that the state’s testing rate was poor. “Our test positivity record is good,” he said.The state reported two deaths and 449 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. Out of the 8,322 total cases, 4,263 have recovered and 4,025 are active cases. With two more deaths, the toll went up to 34 in the state. This is the fourth day that the state has been reporting more than 400 cases. Among those infected are 77 ITBP personnel and five health workers, said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bid-to-tarnish-kerala-s-covid-19-fight-says-pinarayi-vijayan-after-nadda-alleges-fudged-data/story-D2sDm68D6tbBSsusTt78yJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Goa doctor who headed state’s Covid-19 hospital tests positive||Dr Edwin Gomes, one of Goa’s leading doctors in the fight against Covid-19 disease, has himself contracted the virus, state health officials have confirmed. Dr Gomes, who headed the Medicine Department of the Goa Medical College and Hospital, helped set up the state’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital and was heading the hospital for more than three months until he was relieved from duty earlier this month. “Our COVID19 warrior Dr Edwin Gomes has been at the forefront of this fight against the pandemic for the last several months. Dr. Gomes has helped hundreds of patients win the battle against coronavirus & I am confident he will emerge victorious in his battle too,” Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said in a tweet while wishing him a speedy recovery.  Our #COVID19 warrior Dr Edwin Gomes has been at the forefront of this fight against the pandemic for last several months. Dr. Gomes has helped hundreds of patients win the battle against coronavirus & I am confident he will emerge victorious in his battle too. pic.twitter.com/zJkhPPRqRuWhile his earlier tests, as part of regular testing that is done on frontline workers, were negative, he emerged as positive in a test done during a three week layover he was given after three months on the job. Prior to Dr Edwin testing positive, two nurses at the state’s dedicated Covid-19 Hospital had also tested positive. Staff at the hospital are put up at accommodation arranged by the Goa Government and are not allowed to travel home for fear of infecting their families given the risk of contracting the disease they face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-doctor-who-headed-state-s-covid-19-hospital-tests-positive/story-70Br7ljy5aVE0xM16MDHBN.html
13-07-2020||India||BJP legislator found dead in north Bengal||Kolkata / Siliguri: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Debendra Nath Roy, 65, was found hanging with his hands tied near his house in Uttar Dinajpur,north Bengal, on Monday morning. The police said it appeared to be a case of suicide and Roy had left behind a suicide note, but his family members and senior BJP leaders alleged that he had been murdered.BJP leaders demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) enquiry and called for a 12-hour shutdown strike in north Bengal districts starting at 6 am on Tuesday. A team of BJP leaders also met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Kolkata and sought a CBI inquiry.“Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide. The victim has left behind a suicide note in which he has named a few persons. They would be questioned. We are exploring all angles,” said Sumit Kumar, superintendent of police of Uttar Dinajpur. Roy’s body was found hanging from the ceiling of a shop, more than a kilometre away from his house in Bindole in Hemtabad. While the noose was tied around his neck with one end of the rope, the other end of the rope was tied to his left hand. The suicide note was found in his pocket, police said.Family members, including the victim’s wife and his nephew, alleged that Roy went out around 1 am on Monday after someone called him. The family could not identify the person who called, but said that he was riding a motorcycle as they had heard the sound. A few hours later his body was found in a market place. “I have never heard any person committing a suicide with his hands tied. There was no mud on his feet even though it was a kutcha road and it raining yesterday. He went out yesterday after someone called him around 1 am,” said Chadima Roy, the victim’s wife. Roy had won the assembly elections from Hemtabad in Uttar Dinajpir district in 2016 on a Communist Party of India (Marxist) ticket in 2016 and joined the BJP in 2019.“Incident has sent shock waves. Have impressed @MamataOfficial for fair investigation. Police Officials cannot be “law unto themselves” or politically motivated. Inappropriate and demeaning treatment of opposition MPs and leaders by police officials will not be countenanced. BJP Sr leaders MP Dilip Ghosh, Rahul Sinha and others called on me and sought CBI investigation of political murder of Hematabad MLA Debendra Nath Roy. Delegation expressed concern at postings of police officials tasked to harass and liquidate opposition leaders,” Dhankhar tweeted.Not willing to accept the suicide theory put forward by the police, the saffron party’s top leadership including the party president JP Nadda also tagged it as a heinous killing..“The suspected heinous killing of Debendra Nath Ray, BJP MLA from Hemtabad in West Bengal, is extremely shocking and deplorable. This speaks of the Gunda Raj & failure of law and order in the Mamta govt. People will not forgive such a govt in the future. We strongly condemn this,” Nadda tweeted.“Roy was murdered. The position in which his body was found hanging clearly suggests that it was preplanned. He was murdered and then the accused persons tried to pass it off as a suicide. The TMC {Trinamool Congress} is involved,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP’s national secretary.The state government has ordered a probe by the criminal investigation department into the case.“They have gone mad. They engage in so many encounters in other states that they demand a CBI enquiry even in a normal case. What will the CBI do? The local police solve more cases than the CBI. Whoever joins the BJP suffers from depression,” said Firhad Haki, TMC leader.Opposition parties including the CPIM and the Congress also demanded an enquiry.“Even MLAs are not safe in the present regime. Today it was a BJP MLA. Tomorrow it could be from another party. I don’t understand why is the Mamata Banerjee still retaining the post of home minister,” said Abdul Mannan, Congress leader who heads the opposition in the state assembly.BJP’s state president Dilip Ghosh claimed that more than 100 BJP supporters had been killed in political violence, but most of the cases were still pending and none had been convicted. He said BJP supporters would stage protests outside police stations on July 15 against the legislator’s killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-legislator-found-dead-in-north-bengal/story-mgkQrtOm8RZQEyUVyDTMEI.html
13-07-2020||India||Sundar Pichai announces $10bn fund||New Delhi: Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced that his company will invest nearly $10 billion into developing digital infrastructure and for funding innovation in India over the next five to seven years, he said on Monday, shortly after holding an online meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.India-born Pichai made the announcement at the sixth edition of Google for India event, saying the tech giant will help expand the scope of digital payments using Google Pay, and develop low-cost smartphones and other products and services relevant to India. He hoped India will lead the next wave of innovation.“We spoke on a wide range of subjects, particularly leveraging the power of technology to transform the lives of India’s farmers, youngsters and entrepreneurs,” Modi tweeted earlier in the day, detailing his “extremely fruitful interaction” with Pichai.Modi said he and Pichai, who is the chief executive officer of Google’s parent Alphabet Inc, also discussed “the new work culture that is emerging in the times of Covid-19”, and the challenges the pandemic has brought. They also talked about the “importance of data security and cyber safety”.“I was delighted to know more about the efforts of @Google in several sectors, be it in education, learning, @_DigitalIndia, furthering digital payments and more,” Modi added, referring to a flagship programme of his government.In his reply, Pichai said: “Thank you for your time, PM @narendramodi - very optimistic about your vision for Digital India and excited to continue our work towards it.”Later, at the Google for India event held via video conference, Pichai said Google for India Digitization Fund will invest $10 billion (about Rs 75,000 crore) over the next five to seven years, stressing that the move is “a reflection our confidence in the future of India and its digital economy”.“We will work towards enabling affordable internet access to every Indian in their own language,” Pichai said. He added that special attention will be paid to empowering small businesses, and leveraging technology and artificial intelligence for areas such as health and agriculture.Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union minister for electronics and information technology, said the digital transformation of India has especially focused on “digital inclusion”.“We are working towards developing 100,000 digital villages across India and I would appreciate if Google could pick a cluster of these villages and make them model villages in terms of skilling and delivery of telemedicine,” he added.According to R Chandrashekar, former president of industry body NASSCOM and chairman of the Centre for the Digital Future — a policy research organisation — Google’s move is an endorsement of the potential of India’s digital economy.“The investment is pretty large and will help drive innovation that will primarily come from start-ups and the tech eco-system in the country,” Chandrashekar told HT. He added that the initiative will also help in job creation.RK Bhatnagar, former technical advisor at the department of telecommunications, said the tie-up shows that most of the major US-based companies, after turning away from China, are looking at India. “That they are looking to make India a manufacturing hub is a possibility that is now becoming visible,” Bhatnagar told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sundar-pichai-announces-10bn-fund/story-gp4VKreTJKCxtsGlfV5BLO.html
13-07-2020||India||Class 12 results: Pass percentage improves but no merit list announced||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday declared results of Class 12 examinations in a format aimed at reaching out to students hit by disruptions in test schedules and classes amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, with an overall pass percentage increase of 5.38 percentage points over last year.The board decided against releasing a merit list this year due to a change in the Covid-19-hit evaluation criteria, while also replacing the term “fail” with “essential repeat”. Education experts said the moves were aimed at a student-friendly format of the results amid extraordinary circumstances due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A nationwide lockdown necessitated by the outbreak, which began stalking the country in March, led to the cancellation of Class 12 examinations in 12 subjects, with classes at schools also being cancelled to prevent infections. Around 11 exams were cancelled in north-east Delhi, which was also hit by communal riots in February before the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen began spreading in the Capital. The students were evaluated on the basis of the average of marks in exams they took before the lockdown came into effect on March 25.Delhi’s government schools performed better than private schools for the fifth consecutive year. The overall pass percentage of Delhi government schools stood at 98%, highest ever and around 6 percentage points higher than that of private schools. “Feeling v proud to announce that the CBSE class 12 result of Delhi govt schools this year is 98% - highest ever so far. It’s historic. Congratulations to my Team Education, all students, teachers, parents and education officers. Proud of you all,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.In all, 1,192,961 students from 13,109 schools across the country appeared for the CBSE Class 12 examination this year – 1,059,080 of them cleared the examination. The overall pass percentage was recorded at 88.78%, compared to last year’s 83.40%.Keeping with a trend that has persisted over several years, girls performed better than boys in the examination. While the overall pass percentage of girls stood at 92.15%, around 86.19% of boys passed the exam. The pass percentage of transgender students was recorded at 66.67%, down from last year’s 83.33%.Divyanshi Jain, a student of Lucknow’s Navyug Radiance Senior Secondary School, secured the perfect score of 600. “This is unbelievable. I am elated and surprised at the same time,” Jain said.CBSE’s controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said: “The major reason behind the increase in pass percentage this year is the changes CBSE made in the examination pattern. For the first time, CBSE included 25% objective-type questions in all the subjects. We also gave 33% internal choice in the exams.”“The results were declared on the basis of the average of exams in which students appeared. The numbers of exams also vary from student to student. Keeping this unprecedented situation in mind, the board decided not to release any merit list this year,” Bhardwaj added.The board also decided to replace the term “fail” with “essential repeat” in the results this year. Several principals said the evaluation scheme adopted by CBSE amid the pandemic was student-friendly. Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales Pusa Road, said: “The board has given out very student-friendly results even without conducting exams of some subjects. The board’s decision of not announcing the merit list was also very appreciable because it’s been a very difficult year for students because of the pandemic.”According to a statement released by the board, the term “Fail” will also be removed from the documents. “The idea behind using the term essential repeat was to not to make students feel bad about their performance if they fail in any subject. The term means they have to essentially appear in the compartment exam,” a senior official said. The numbers of students who scored above 90% and 95% marks also increased significantly this year. A total of 38,686 students scored 95% marks and above in aggregate, up 118.6% from 17,693 in 2019. As many as 157,934 students scored 90% and above, 67.48% higher than last year’s tally of 94,299.According to officials at the Delhi University, this increase will have a direct impact on cut-off scores, since more than 70% applications for admissions received by the university are from CBSE students. “As per the preliminary trends, we are getting about the CBSE results, we won’t be able to keep the percentage low,” said Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu College.Among regions, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest pass percentage at 97.67%, followed by Bengaluru at 97.05% and Chennai at 96.17%. The overall pass percentage of the Delhi region stood at 94.39%.Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya outperformed others at 98.70%, followed by Kendriya Vidyalaya (98.6%) and the Central Tibetan School Administration (98.23%).“Some students have called us saying that they would have scored better on their pending papers if the exams had been conducted and the moderation marking scheme has affected their average score,” said Tania Joshi, principal of Indian School.The board has decided to conduct optional examinations for students who are not satisfied with their results and want to improve them. “The CBSE will conduct an optional examination in the subjects, whose examinations were scheduled to be conducted from July 1 to 15, as soon as conditions are conducive as assessed and decided by the Central Government.“Candidates whose results have been declared on the basis of the assessment scheme will be allowed to appear in these optional examinations to improve their performance if they wish so. Marks obtained by a candidate in these optional examinations will be treated as final for those who opt to take these examinations,” the board said.The declaration of results on Monday came as a surprise for most as the board did not announce the date in advance. Ishita Singh, a humanities student at DPS Vasant Kunj, said: “It was a surprise. We did not expect the result to be announced so randomly. Also, the website was not working properly. It took me an hour to access my result.” Shortly after the results were declared, Union human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ tweeted: “We congratulate you all for making this possible. I reiterate, Student’s health & quality education are our priority,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-12-results-pass-percentage-improves-but-no-merit-list-announced/story-ZXrhEIz89cS1jqHpOXmFzH.html
13-07-2020||India||Pregnant govt employees in Uttarakhand to be called to work only in emergency||Pregnant government employees, women with children below 10 years of age and employees above 55 years of age and employees with serious health conditions should be called to work only in unavoidable situations amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttarakhand government said in a new order on Monday.The order released by Pankaj Kumar Pandey, secretary in-charge, Uttarakhand government said that from July 14, 100% attendance would be mandatory for officials of category A and B and 75% attendance for officials of category C and D.Officials have also been asked to conduct meetings via video conferencing as far as possible. If in-person meetings are to be held, then masks should be compulsorily worn by all officials while following all norms of social and physical distancing norms.Meanwhile, two patients who were being treated for Covid-19 died in the state on Sunday and Monday. One of them died due to the virus and the cause of death is awaited in the other case. With this the Covid-19 death toll has increased to 49 in Uttarakhand, but Covid-19 has been attributed as the cause of death in only six cases and others have died due to comorbidities.The health bulletin released on Monday evening mentioned that a 55-year-old male patient died at Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital in Nainital on Sunday.In another case, a 45-year-old male patient died in Dehradun district on Monday. The deceased had tested positive for Covid-19 before home isolation and expired later. The cause of death is awaited.Seventy-one fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported from the state on Monday, taking the tally of total cases to 3,608.Of the 71 cases, maximum 38 cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar district. Of the total cases, 32 cases were found to close contacts of earlier detected positive persons, one healthcare worker and a police staff each tested positive from Haridwar district and eight patients tested positive during antenatal care check-up. The other patients had returned to the state from places like Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Delhi-NCR and Jaipur.Seventy patients were also discharged in different districts like Almora (13), Dehradun (12), Haridwar (4), Pauri (2) and US Nagar (39).The Uttarakhand government also issued an order on Monday evening sanctioning transfer of Rs 1000 each to all Aanganwadi and ASHA workers in Uttarakhand for their role in the state’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. There are over 11,6000 ASHA workers currently working with the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-govt-employees-in-uttarakhand-to-be-called-to-work-only-in-emergency/story-1PeIIO60uGvxyl7aLUh6hN.html
13-07-2020||India||India, EU set to hold virtual summit; trade negotiations to get fresh push||The stalled negotiations between India and the European Union (EU) on a trade and investment pact could get a fresh push when the two sides hold their virtual summit this week amid efforts by both parties to build supply chains that are less dependent on China.Negotiations on the broad-based Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) began a little more than 13 years ago though the two sides haven’t had very substantive engagements on this issue in the last few years, mainly due to differences over matters such as access to the Indian market for European products and the movement of Indian professionals in EU states.With new leadership taking over in the European Council and European Commission last year and the NDA government securing a second term, the two sides had decided to look afresh at BTIA and see if they could reach common ground and take things forward, people familiar with developments said on Monday.The 15th India-EU Summit, to be held via video conference on July 15 and co-chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, could give fresh impetus to these efforts, the people said on condition of anonymity.“This summit will be critical in terms of trying to find a meeting ground between the two sides and find a way forward,” one of the people cited above said.At a time when India has been taking a more critical look at trade and investment with China, EU states are examining the issue of “over dependence on some suppliers” and the European leadership has spoken publicly about economic sovereignty and strategic autonomy, which requires that countries shouldn’t be completely depend on the outside world for critical supplies, the person added.The leadership of both sides have also spoken of the need to diversify supply chains and to make them more secure.India and the EU will also focus on strengthening multilateralism during the summit amid uncertainty created by the Covid-19 pandemic and the rise of an assertive China.Besides charting a roadmap for the India-EU strategic partnership till 2025, the two sides are also expected to discuss the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and its fallout on the global economy and international organisations.Earlier this year, the European Parliament was critical of both the Indian government’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019 and the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which cast a cloud on the overall relationship. There was clarity on whether these issues will figure during the summit.However, both sides are looking at greater cooperation in the economic field. The EU’s mission in India tweeted on Monday: “With EU-India bilateral trade crossing 100 billion EUR, and both sides having vast domestic markets and a strong entrepreneurial tradition, there is enormous potential for the EU and India to benefit from reinforced trade, economic and investment relations.”The EU is India’s largest trading partner, accounting for trade in goods worth about $100 billion a year and trade in services worth $40 billion a year, with a surplus for India in both. EU investments in India are worth about $91 billion.The EU is the second-largest destination for Indian exports (more than 14% of the total) after the US. However, India is the EU’s 10th largest trading partner, accounting for 1.9% of total trade in goods in 2019, and well behind the US (15.2%), China (13.8%) and the UK (12.6%).India also sees the EU states as a key source of technology such as artificial intelligence and 5G, innovation and investments for sectors such as infrastructure, climate and smart cities. The EU is also a leader in creating standards for emerging technologies that manage national interests while keeping things open for glaobal engagements, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-set-to-hold-virtual-summit-trade-negotiations-to-get-fresh-push/story-w980ybKEzTZqjgSiLi60YO.html
13-07-2020||India||Amid political crisis, I-T raids on 20 locations of 3 groups linked to aides of Gehlot||As the political crisis intensified in Rajasthan following deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s revolt against the Chief Minister – Ashok Gehlot, the Income Tax department on Monday conducted raids on three business groups and individuals allegedly linked to the aides of Gehlot, people familiar with the development said.One of the persons whose premises were searched by the I-T sleuths includes – Rajiv Arora of Amrapali Jewels, who is also the Vice President of Rajasthan Congress. According to an official familiar with development - the main allegations against Arora’s company - the group is that a substantial part of its silver jewellery business is carried out outside the regular books of accounts. The company has business of trading of silver/gold jewellery and antique silver articles and has associate enterprises in various other countries like UK, USA etc., as well as properties and bank accounts in these countries. The I-T teams also raided - Om Kothari Group, which has engineering, construction, real estate, automotive dealership, manufacturing and other business interests as well as a third company - Mayank Sharma Enterprises.It is suspected that Mumbai-based Mayank Sharma Enterprises owns a hotel and one of its main investors – Ratan Kant Sharma - has close association with Vaibhav Gehlot, son of Ashok Gehlot. In fact, officials said, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing transactions of Rs 96 crore allegedly received by Sharma from Mauritius. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya had alleged in 2013 that a Mauritius-based company had purchased the shares, having value of Rs 100, of Trion Hotels and Resorts of Sharma, at an absurd amount of Rs 40,000 each while seeking a probe into the involvement of Vaibhav Gehlot. In all, 20 places were searched by at least 80 I-T sleuths in Jaipur, Mumbai, Delhi and Kota, officials said.The probe, they said, pertains to “tax evasion” and some benami transactions and raids were conducted after examining several documents over a period of time.A finance ministry officer, requesting anonymity, said – “Raids are being conducted by the income-tax department’s field formations based on inputs related to tax evasion. Such raids take place only after prolonged investigations and after finding discrepancies in the company or individuals tax returns. So, allegations of politically-motivated raids hold no ground. In fact, those indulging in tax evasion often term such raids as motivated to cover up their illegal activities. Tax evasion is a criminal activity and the law is same for everyone –unscrupulous companies or individuals - irrespective of their political affiliations.”The Congress questioned the timing of raids while targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah. “The frontal departments of the BJP – I-T and ED have come out in the field. When will CBI come?” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted while taking a dig at the government. He added that such raids will not topple the Congress government in Rajasthan.Om Kothari’s flagship company – Om Metals Infraprojects Ltd, is listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and specializes in executing turnkey contracts for infrastructure projects covering power, roads, irrigation and real estate, according to the group website.Officials cited above said that the company was raided in connection with transactions related to a contract given to it to build a dam in Rajasthan. Interestingly, Om Metal’s joint managing director Sunil Kothari was raided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in November 2017 in connection with the VVIP chopper – AgustaWestland scam.When contacted, a representative at Om Metals main office in Pushp Vihar, Saket – said, “I-T officials are still here”. He, however, was not authorized to talk to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-political-crisis-it-raids-on-20-locations-of-3-groups-linked-to-aides-of-gehlots/story-lnEnAnTuzPhBHUfm4ful6N.html
13-07-2020||India||BJP accuses KCR of taking a leaf out of TMC’s book and attacking political rivals||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday accused the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of adopting the tactics of Trinamool Congress in West Bengal by engineering attacks on opponents with the support of police forces.The Telangana BJP gave a call to party leaders and workers to take up rallies and dharnas all over the state in protest against the attack on the vehicle of BJP MP from Nizamabad, Dharmapuri Arvind, allegedly by TRS activists in Warangal on Sunday.“Though BJP took up the protests strictly following Covid-19 guidelines, the TRS government unleashed a reign of terror. In Warangal, the police arrested hundreds of our party leaders and workers and booked them in various cases,” BJP state president Bandi Sanjay told Hindustan Times.He alleged that the TRS was adopting the strategies of the TMC in West Bengal and the CPI (M) in Kerala by terrorising political rivals. “But KCR has forgotten the fact that the BJP is a national party with a strong cadre. We are going to counter the TRS in every aspect. If they use police force to suppress us, we too, will retort with strong cadre force,” Sanjay said.The Telangana BJP, which has been going all out to emerge as an alternative political force in Telangana, ever since it had won four Lok Sabha seats in May 2019 Lok Sabha elections, has stepped up its attack on the TRS government for the last few days.On Sunday, TRS activists allegedly attacked the convoy of Arvind in Warangal in protest against his comments against KCR and his family members. “Anti-Hindu forces in TRS attacked me in Warangal, which I visited to address a press conference on ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. They also chased my vehicle on the highway to Hyderabad,” Arvind tweeted.The Nizamabad MP had earlier commented, while speaking to reporters in Warangal that the TRS government had miserably failed to control the Covid-19 situation in the state. He alleged that KCR and his family members were more interested in making money. “He and his family members will be in Chanchalguda jail after 2023 and special rooms are being readied for them in the jail,” he commented.Arvind also accused KCR of handing over the Telangana state to anti-Hindu forces. “He is a fake Hindu and Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Assaduddin Owaisi is his elder son,” the MP commented.Within hours of his comments being telecast on television channels, the TRS youth wing activists tried to barge into the BJP Warangal Urban office in Hanamkonda and attack the convoy of the MP with eggs. The police quickly entered the scene and took them into custody.In retaliation, the BJP activists tried to stage a dharna at the camp office of government Chief Whip Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar but they were dispersed by the police.TRS chief whip Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar condemned the allegations of the BJP MP. Stating that Arvind had no stature to make comments against the chief minister and the TRS, he alleged that the BJP leader had won the elections by making false promises to the people of Nizamabad.“He has no business to come to Warangal and make false allegations against the TRS and KCR,” Bhaskar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-kcr-of-taking-a-leaf-out-of-tmc-s-book-and-attacking-political-rivals/story-ddpZRWUmqcnHdPygjAGnRM.html
13-07-2020||India||I-T dept asks taxpayers to verify ITRs for AYs 2015-16 to 2019-20 by Sep 30||The Income Tax (I-T) Department on Monday gave a one-time relaxation to taxpayers who have not yet verified their e-filed tax returns for assessment years 2015-16 to 2019-20, and asked them to complete the verification process by September 30, 2020. A taxpayer filing Income Tax Returns (ITR) electronically without digital signature has to verify it using either Aadhaar one-time password (OTP), or logging into e-filing account through net banking, or by Electronic Verification Code (EVC) or by sending a duly signed physical copy of ITR-V through post to CPC Bengaluru within 120 days of uploading the ITR. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in an order said that a large number of electronically filed ITRs still remain pending with the IT Department for want of receipt of a valid ITR-V (Verification) form at Centralised Processing Centre (CPC), Bengaluru from the taxpayers concerned. It said non-filing of ITR-V within time can lead to returns being declared as ‘non-est’. As a one-time measure for resolving the grievances of the taxpayers associated with non-filing of ITR-V for earlier assessment years and to regularise such returns which have either become ‘non-est’ or have remained pending for non-filing or non-receipt of ITR-V form, the CBDT has permitted verification of electronically filed tax returns for assessment years 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 either by sending a duly signed physical copy of ITR-V to CPC Bengaluru through speed post or through EVC/OTP modes. Such verification process must be completed by September 30, 2020. It, however, clarified that “this relaxation shall not apply in those cases, where during the intervening period, Income-tax Department has already taken recourse to any other measure as specified in the Act for ensuring filing of tax return by the taxpayer concerned after declaring the return as Non-est.” Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said that in many cases, ITRs filed by individuals became invalid due to non-completion of verification process. Consequently, tax refunds, if any, claimed in those ITRs also got stuck. “By this order, the government not only relaxes the timeline allowing taxpayers to verify their past years’ invalid ITRs by 30th September but also allows processing of such past ITRs by 31 December, 2020. This order can benefit a large number of taxpayers, mostly being individual taxpayers, who could not verify their past ITRs inadvertently,” Kumar said. This order provides a good opportunity to them for regularising their past ITRs and not only solve the issue of past non-compliance but also receive past pending refunds stuck due to this procedural lapse, he added. AKM Global Tax Partner Amit Maheshwari said, “This is a welcome measure as practically we have seen several cases where there were legacy issues in terms of non receipt of ITR V. Also, considering the consequences of non filing, this was a much needed relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-asks-taxpayers-to-verify-itrs-for-ays-2015-16-to-2019-20-by-sep-30/story-9Z3xNLtesfa1kDdkxPMhTK.html
13-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot stands his ground, turns down second invite from Congress to attend meet||Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot late Monday snubbed the Congress party’s request to attend a meeting of the legislature party on Tuesday amid a turf war with chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Hours after Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot shifted his 100-plus lawmakers to a luxury resort on the outskirts of Jaipur, the party announced that the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) will meet Tuesday morning to discuss the political situation and invited the deputy CM to attend.But Pilot’s aides say he will not attend the CLP meet, signalling a hardening of stance.Also read: Ashok Gehlot aces 1st test, sequesters MLAs in luxury resort to prep for more“To discuss the political situation another Congress Legislative Party (CLP) will meet at 10 am tomorrow. We request Sachin Pilot and all MLAs to come. We’ve requested them to come and discuss the situation,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, according to ANI.Surjewala also said that Ashok Gehlot’s government is safe and that the BJP’s attempts to lure away MLAs to bring down the government have failed.WATCH | Rajasthan cliffhanger: Will Sachin Pilot stay with Congress or will he go?“With a majority of 109 for the Congress Government in Rajasthan under Ashok Gehlot, all our MLAs gave their support letter. They have ensured that the BJP’s attempts have failed,” Surjewala said.Surjewala reiterated that the Congress leadership including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were ready to listen to everyone to find a solution.Also read: Sachin Pilot always in Rahul Gandhi’s heart, says Congress leader’s office“They are requested to come and discuss how to strengthen Rajasthan and serve the 8 crore people together. If there are some differences with someone then they should say that with an open mind. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are ready to listen to everyone and find a solution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-gandhi-ready-to-listen-congress-asks-sachin-pilot-to-attend-crucial-party-meet/story-20Ylsi6XLwZEI45PdtSVCJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Tiger takes shelter in goat shed as Assam’s Kaziranga national park gets flooded||The flood situation in Assam continues to worsen affecting not just human beings but animals as well.With 95% of the Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve, spread over 430 sq km, submerged due to flooding caused by heavy rainfall, many animals have been forced to leave the sanctuary and seek shelter in higher locations.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the flood situation has worsened further affecting over 21 lakh people in 27 of the state’s 33 districts.Six more deaths due to drowning were reported on Monday taking the total this season so far to 50. Over 60,000 people uprooted by floods are taking shelter in 480 relief camps. On Monday morning, a sub-adult male tiger came out of the park’s Agratoli range and took shelter in a goat shed in Kandolimari village located on the periphery of the world’s largest habitat for one-horned rhinos.“Due to the rise of water and to find a safe escape, a sub-adult tiger has entered inside a goat shed in Kandolimari village, Agratoli. Utmost care is being taken to ensure safety of both people and tiger,” P Sivakumar, director of the national park, informed.Photos and a video of the tiger taking shelter under the shed as water level rose and covered most of its body soon went viral on social media. Forest officials reached the spot and monitored the situation, allowing the big cat to rest at the spot without disturbing it.Later in the afternoon, the tiger moved out of the shed and went back towards the Agratoli range of the park.Every year, as annual floods inundate Kaziranga, many of the park’s wild animals leave the park and head towards the nearby hills in Karbi Anglong district by crossing the National Highway 37 that passes near the park’s boundary.On Monday, authorities closed a section of the national highway 37 between Kohora and Bagori ranges of Kaziranga national park due to inundation. Vehicles will have to use alternate routes till further notice.This season, nine animals including wild boar, swamp deer and hog deer have died due to drowning while 11 hog deer were killed after being hit by vehicles. Twelve animals died during treatment.Thirty five deer were injured due to flood and one by vehicle hit. Carcass of a rhino which died due to natural causes was found last month.Of the 223 camps used by forest personnel to patrol the park, 166 have been inundated and seven of them have been vacated due to rising water levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-takes-shelter-in-goat-shed-as-assam-s-kaziranga-national-park-gets-flooded/story-9nixAzckp91XhLv9MSPe6O.html
13-07-2020||India||Deve Gowda demands Karnataka-wide lockdown as Covid-19 cases cross 40,000- mark||Even as Bengaluru - both urban and rural districts - prepared for a week-long lockdown starting Tuesday 8 pm, former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda demanded that the Karnataka government announce a statewide lockdown as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to spiral. The former PM also appealed to the people to cooperate with the government and follow the necessary norms to combat the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Grocery shops, meat shops, and other essential but non-emergency establishments will be open only between 5 am and 12 noon. However, all other commercial private establishments would be shut for a week.On Monday, Karnataka registered 2,738 new coronavirus cases taking the state’s tally to 41,581 which includes 757 deaths and 16,248 discharges.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has made it clear that the lockdown in Bengaluru would be only for a period of one week and would not be extended. This clarification came after the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry criticized the government’s decision to opt for another lockdown saying it would have a negative impact on industrial and economic activity which was just picking up. In spite of the CM’s assurance of lockdown being limited to just one week, thousands of migrant workers have begun moving out of Bengaluru to their native districts in the state.Earlier in the day, the CM held a video conference with DC’s of all districts across the state. The CM advised DC’s that they should give priority to rapid antigen tests as the state had procured and distributed one lakh test kits. Yediyurappa pointed out that the number of Covid-19 cases had increased heavily in Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Bellary, Udupi, and Kalburgi districts and asked officials in these districts to take extra measures to bring down the number of cases.Pointing out that the mortality (death) rate in Bidar district is one among the top five districts in the country; the CM instructed that measures be taken to control the death rate. The CM also directed officials to take action against private hospitals that were not cooperating with the government to treat Covid-19 and non- Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deve-gowda-demands-karnataka-wide-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-cross-40-000-mark/story-VBra0Ptxu1CgQ824B1atsK.html
13-07-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 6,497 new cases of Covid-19 to its tally||Maharashtra reported 6,497 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking its tally to 2,60,924 the health department said in a statement.Out of the new cases, 1,158 were from Mumbai where the tally has risen to 94,146.The death toll went up to 10,482 with 193 casualties during the day. Forty-seven of the casualties were in Mumbai where the death toll now stands at 5,335.A total of 4,182 people were discharged from hospitals in the state to take the number of recoveries to 1,44,507.Maharashtra currently has 1,05,935 active cases of Covid-19, the health department’s statement said.The mortality rate in the state is 4.04%, the second highest in the country after Gujarat which has a mortality rate of 4.89%. Among the dead in Maharashtra, 70% had co-morbidity factors. Sixty-five per cent of the dead were male and 35% female. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.A whopping 80% of the samples tested so far were positive for Covid-19 In the slums of Dharavi, six new cases of Covid-19 were reported taking the tally of the shanty town to 2,381.Dharavi now has only 96 active Covid-19 cases. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has stopped disclosing Covid-19 deaths in the slum since last month. As many as 2,039 patients have already recovered and have been discharged. Last week, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had praised the efforts taken by the authorities to contain the spread of the pandemic in Dharavi.Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, is spread across 2.5 square km and has a population of around eight lakh with people living in tiny houses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-6-497-new-cases-of-covid-19-to-its-tally/story-HkCvGhNt61YyADOiMDqsBO.html
13-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs to 63.02%, 19 states ahead of national average and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs to 63.02%, 19 states ahead of national averageIndia’s Covid-19 recovery rate has jumped to 63.02%, with nearly 19 states across the country logging a recovery rate higher than that of the national average, the Centre said on Monday. Read moreRIL launches WhatsApp chatbot for all AGM-related queriesReliance Industries Limited (RIL) is set to host its 43rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) via a virtual event on July 15. Read moreExclusive: 5 things we found out about Watch Dogs Legion that you need to knowAt the Ubisoft Forward event last evening, the game studio made some important announcements regarding all the new games that are coming in this year and even a few that are scheduled for next year. Read moreMadhur Bhandarkar: The anger after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death won’t subside easilyBollywood filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar speaks exclusively to HT City Entertainment Editor, Monika Rawal, about the current scenario in the film industry, the tension and fear among everyone who is being extra careful being saying anything. Read moreBreast Cancer Awareness: All you need to know about the disease, its symptoms and moreBreast cancer is a fairly common type of cancer that affects about 2.1 million people annually. According to the World Health Organisation, it causes approximately 15% of all cancer-related deaths in women and affects women about 100 times more than men. Read moreGorilla weighing 196 kg gets Covid-19 test, treated for other wounds. Pictures are viralA 31-year-old gorilla named Shango has recently undergone a test for Covid-19 while he was being treated for other wounds following a fight with another gorilla. Read moreAlia Bhatt’s sister Shaheen shares screengrabs of hate messages they’ve received, promises to expose culpritsActor Alia Bhatt’s sister, writer Shaheen Bhatt, has said that she will expose and report any person who sends her inappropriate messages on social media. “I will use all legal recourse available to me to take action,” she wrote. Read more‘Ganguly would take his sweet time to adjust cap, put on shoes’: Pathan describes Dada’s knack of turning up late for tossFormer India left-arm fast bowler Irfan Pathan has weighed in on Sourav Ganguly and his tendency of turning up late for tosses during his time as captain of the Indian cricket team. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-to-63-02-19-states-ahead-of-national-average-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8thAC2aoL5ZAC3w5frwMMN.html
13-07-2020||India||India will revisit existing business models in post-Covid-19 world: Niti Aayog tells UN||Sustaining a high growth trajectory will be a challenge following the Covid-19 pandemic, however, India is revisiting existing business models in a post- Covid-19 world and exploring ways of developing relevant sectors of infrastructure and industry, such as the pharmaceutical and health equipment sector, Niti Aayog has said in its report to the United Nations.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s response includes a USD 279 billion economic package, comprehensive health coverage for front-line workers and direct cash transfers for the most vulnerable, including unemployment protection for job losses, and income support through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, it said. The apex planning body presented India’s second Voluntary National Review (VNR) titled Decade of Action: Taking SDGs from Global to Local on the implementation of the SDGs before the United Nations (UN). VNR serves as a basis for an international review of the SDGs progress.India is a signatory to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and participates in the international review. The VNRs are presented at the UN’s High-Level Political Forums (HLPF), which have met annually since 2016. India submitted its first VNR in 2017.“Given the uncertainty in the global economy, especially following the Covid-19 pandemic, sustaining a high growth trajectory will be a challenge for India, as it will be for all nations across the world. However, the success of the economic growth strategy in the past five years and the learnings from the same will inform India’s growth plans for the next ten years,” the report said.“While the Covid-19 pandemic has put forth severe breaks on the momentum of global economic growth, India is fast exploring ways of developing relevant sectors of infrastructure and industry, such as the pharmaceutical and health equipment sector. It is also revisiting existing business models in a post- Covid-19 world by aggressive adoption of Artificial Intelligence and technology based products and services in education, health and financial services, among others,” it added.Niti Aayog also said developed countries have an intrinsic obligation to provide financial assistance to the developing countries, especially for global public goods such as climate change mitigation and control of pandemics, such as Covid-19.The report states integrated health labs in all districts including block level labs and public health units will need to be set up to deal with future pandemics adding that there should also be an increase in public health infrastructure.Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar in his opening remarks said Covid-19 pandemic has caused disruptions to plans and timelines for 2030 agenda on SDGs. “While we take satisfaction in our accomplishments, we are well aware of the arduous path ahead. Ours is a young population with rising aspirations. Fulfilling these aspirations of nearly 1.3 billion people, from different social, economic and cultural backgrounds is a daunting challenge. The Covid-19 pandemic has thrown up several challenges. These will be addressed in the shortest possible time,” he said.The transformation the world is striving for, is not only policy or programme-based, but also behavioural and social, which, looking back at history, had taken decades to accomplish. However, we must remind ourselves that we do not have the luxury of time. The Covid-19 pandemic has caused disruptions to plans and timelines. Therefore, we have every reason to double or triple our efforts for achieving the targets of the Agenda 2030,” he added.India will for first time include marginalised groups as key focus areas in assessing the impact of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) second Voluntary National Review, Hindustan Times had reported in January. The VNR report also highlights policy interventions for the LGBTQIA+ community. “The recent legislations in relation to the LGBTQIA+ community in India have no doubt been pivotal in addressing the exclusion issues of the community, yet, how the recognition of these rights are harmonised in different public systems, including data collection and enumeration, remains to be seen and will determine the way forward. Multifarious social challenges including and not limited to discrimination and stigma will not only require interventions by the state but also active involvement of the civil society and markets,” it noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-revisit-existing-business-models-in-post-covid-19-world-niti-aayog-tells-un/story-TeS6Uyo5dCblWAPSEOtOHJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Aurangabad: 186 new Covid-19 cases take tally to 8,650||With 186 new Covid-19 cases being recorded on Monday, the overall count in Aurangabad district in Maharashtra rose to 8,650, an official said. The death toll so far stood at 354, he said.Of the 186 cases, 168 detections were reported from Aurangabad city and the rest 18 from rural areas.The number of the recovered cases now stands at 5,061 while 3,235 patients are currently undergoing treatment, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aurangabad-186-new-covid-19-cases-take-tally-to-8-650/story-tJHdQuAZNnkBmzx7fD2uMO.html
13-07-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to launch video programme to counter ‘narrative of hatred’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will launch a video programme on current affairs and history and make them “accessible for those interested in the truth”. “I want to make our current affairs, history and crisis clear and accessible for those interested in the truth. From tomorrow, I’ll be sharing my thoughts with you on video,” Gandhi tweeted.Over the past few weeks, Gandhi had interacted with former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan and Nobel Laureate Abhijeet Banerjee on separate occasions on video to discuss measures taken to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and economic strategy to move forward.In another tweet, the Congress leader said the media has been “captured by fascist forces” and a narrative of hatred and lies was “tearing India apart”. “Today a large part of the Indian news media has been captured by fascist interests. A hate filled narrative is being spread by television channels, whatsapp forwards and false news. This narrative of lies is tearing India apart,” he wrote.He is expected to talk on current issues confronting the country and tell viewers what he thinks about those, sources said.The Congress’ relationship with the media has not been smooth in recent times. In May last year, soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections the party decided not to send its spokespersons on television debates. The move was widely attributed to the party’s discomfiture caused by the leadership crisis after Rahul Gandhi quit as party president. But Congress functionaries had maintained that the decision was taken to register protest against the alleged “unfair treatment” meted out to its panellists in debates by anchors who “toe the BJP’s line”. Ten months later in April this year, the Congress rescinded its decision of not sending its spokespersons on television debates a week into the first phase of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-launch-video-programme-to-counter-narrative-of-hatred/story-9TkJtBIHYdmKKW7SpQYdNI.html
13-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs to 63.02%, 19 states ahead of national average||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate has jumped to 63.02%, with nearly 19 states across the country logging a recovery rate higher than that of the national average, the Centre said on Monday. The number of recoveries exceeds the active coronavirus cases by more than 2.5 lakh, health ministry data indicated.The number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the viral infection is currently much higher compared to the number of Covid-19 active cases in the country. In the last 24 hours, 18,850 people have recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recovered cases among patients to 5,53,470.Among the 19 states which have registered a recovery rate significantly higher than the national average are Ladakh with 85.45%, closely followed by Delhi at a healthy 79.98% with Uttarakhand in third spot with a recovery rate of 78.77%.ALSO READ | 28,701 new Covid-19 cases, 500 deaths take India’s tally beyond 8.78 lakhChhattisgarh with 77.68%, Himachal Pradesh with 76.59 per cent, Haryana at 75.25%, Chandigarh at 74.60%, Rajasthan with 74.22%, Madhya Pradesh with 73.03% and Gujarat at 69.73 per cent are some of the other states where a high number of Covid-19 patients have recovered till date. Earlier on July 9, India’s Covid-19 recoveries first overshot the active cases by 2,06,588, with the recovery rate climbing to 62.09%. This took the number of recovered cases to 1.75 times (almost twice) the number of active coronavirus cases the Union health ministry had said. India’s Covid-19 fatality rate has also declined to 2.64% this month despite a huge surge in positive cases reported daily which has taken the country to third place globally with a high concentration of coronavirus patients.ALSO READ | No vacancy in Kolkata’s private hospitals as Covid-19 cases double in 15 daysStates that have a fatality rate lower than the national average are the north-eastern states of Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim, Tripura, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have logged a zero per cent fatality rate this month, while states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka have nearly 1 per cent fatality rate while Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi have 2 per cent of mortality rate, according to the health department.Last week the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had also indicated that the country’s Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population still remains among the lowest in the world, despite India being a country with 1.3 billion people.India’s Covid-19 count on Monday stood at 8,78,254 with 23,174 deaths till date. There are 3,01,609 active cases and all the patients are under medical supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-to-63-02-19-states-ahead-of-national-average/story-db2mijDt3ZrtEsBCKIZHFJ.html
13-07-2020||India||‘Taking a risk should be worth it!’||The coronavirus scare, actors testing Covid-19 positive and low budgets are leaving actors in two minds about shootings, said Flora Saini who played the ghost in film ‘Stree’.The ‘Inside Edge’, ‘Gandii Baat’ and ‘Aarya’ actor said, “I am excited that offers are coming my way but I am yet to say yes to any of them. Everything has to fall in place. Now, the budgets have gone down and people want to pay less. With so much risk involved, the money has to be worth the story, role, character and other things.”As the actor lives with her parents, she can’t put them at risk either. “We have to weigh the situation: how safe it is to shoot now! Eventually, laut ke ghar aana hai, aur ghar pe parents hain (I have to come back home, where my parents are). I being the only child, my parents are against me going out for the moment. For a paltry amount, my mother will surely not agree to me taking the risk.”After many actors tested Covid-19-positive she is more scared. “After Mr (Amitabh) Bachchan’s family, Anupam (Kher) Sir’s family and Parth Samthaan, it has become very scary. Manu Rishi (Chadha) sir also shared a video after recovering from Covid. So, I am also very confused, like others, how to go about things — ‘buri tarah fas gai hoon main’ (I am facing a dilemma).”Flora realises that letting projects go is also not an option. “Projects will happen with or without me! I am listening to every script coming my way. I am now looking forward to projects that will start in late August or September onwards, as honestly speaking, right now, it seems to be a bit risky.”“The release of ‘Aarya’ kept me busy for some time. Before that I dubbed for it from home itself. I made it a point to catch up with friends everyday, which keeps me busy and gives each other positivity. I am enjoying great food made by Mom, and during the lockdown, she has started cooking hotel-type food all thanks to the Internet. Besides, I am interacting with my fans.”Her film ‘Darbaan’ was about to be released when the lockdown took place. “It’s an adaptation of Gurudev Rabindra Nath Tagore’s story. I play Sharad Kelkar’s wife. Sharib Hashmi is doing the role of Darbaan. I hope it releases soon. Before the lockdown, I was shooting for the second season ‘City of Dreams’ which also got stuck.”She has also shot for season three of ‘Inside Edge’ which is awaiting release. “Earlier, I have shot for Ram Gopal Verma’s film ‘12 ‘o’ Clock’ which will be releasing soon. I play Manav Kaul’s wife in the horror film,” the actor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/taking-a-risk-should-be-worth-it/story-9JNIHAQ17jVNqwQ0ISs3TL.html
13-07-2020||India||Telangana doctor drives tractor to transport Covid-19 victim’s body for last rites||A doctor in Telangana on Sunday came forward to drive a tractor carrying the body of a Covid-19 victim to the cremation ground for last rites at a time when there have been instances of mishandling bodies .Dr Pendyala Sriram, who works as a district medical surveillance officer in Pedapalli district, was on duty on Sunday when the Covid-19 patient died. Since there was no ambulance available in the hospital and the driver of the tractor provided by the municipal authorities refused to drive, the 45-year-old doctor decided to drive the vehicle to the cremation ground.The incident came to light after a video showing Dr Sriram driving the tractor with the victim’s body was widely shared on social media.According to Sriram, the patient died at around 9.30 am on Sunday. It was the first death at Peddapalli government hospital, though the district has reported eight deaths till now.Watch: Doctor drives tractor to take Covid victim’s body to graveyard “Since it was the first case in the district, the hospital staff also did not know how to handle the body of a Covid-19 victim, including its packing as per the protocol. In fact, there was a lone woman medical officer and some nurses at the hospital. Unfortunately, the hospital does not have a mortuary to preserve the body at a temperature of 4 degrees Celsius for a long time and there was not even an ambulance to carry a dead body, let alone a Covid-19 victim,” the doctor said.On receiving a call from the hospital, Sriram reached the spot and understood the situation. “The hospital authorities were in a hurry to dispose of the body and the relatives were anxious. I immediately spoke to my superiors, police and the local municipal authorities to make arrangements for the disposal of the body,” he said.Since there was no ambulance, the municipal authorities sent a tractor to carry the body. In the meantime, Sriram got the body packed as per the Covid-19 protocol. The tractor arrived, but the driver refused to carry the body. He left the vehicle there and ran away.It was then that Dr Sriram decided to take the responsibility. He wore the personal protection equipment and asked the four family members of the victim to do the same. With their help, he placed the body in the tractor and then drove the body to the cremation ground, about two kilometres away and performed the last rites as per their customs.“Since I do practise cultivation during the weekends in Karimnagar, I know how to drive a tractor. That came in handy for me in carrying the Covid-19 body in the tractor,” he said.Dr Sriram said he was very much aware how much pain and agony the family members of a deceased person would undergo if there was a delay in handing over the body for cremation.“In July 2018, I lost my 18-year-old son in a road accident in Bengaluru. And I had to struggle for nearly 20 hours to get his body from the hospital mortuary after post-mortem. I could see the same agony in the faces of the family members of Covid-19,” he said.Disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims has become a huge problem as many government officials and even family members in some cases have been refusing to handle the bodies for fear of contracting the virus. There have been at least three incidents of mishandling of bodies of Covid-19 victims in the recent weeks, all from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh.On July 10, the Nellore district administration in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh ordered a probe into an incident of the local municipal staff allegedly carrying the bodies of three Covid-19 victims in an earth mover and then dumping them into a grave, at a spot adjacent to Penna river.On July 6, municipal authorities in Tirupati had also used an earth mover to lift the body of a Covid-19 victim from the ambulance and then dumped it into a grave.On June 26, the municipal staff in Palasa town in Srikakulam district used an earth mover to carry the body of a Covid-19 victim from his house for last rites, after the victim’s relatives refused to perform the last rites. On chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions, the district authorities suspended six municipal employees over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-doctor-drives-tractor-to-transport-covid-19-victim-s-body-for-last-rites/story-Z9WLnSJYjQ19wp6NQA6nnK.html
13-07-2020||India||Kerala court cancels ex-Bishop’s bail in rape case, issues arrest warrant||A special court in Kottayam in Kerala on Monday cancelled the bail of Franco Mulakkal, former Bishop of Jalandhar who is accused of raping a nun and issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against him.When the court took up the case public prosecutor Jithesh Babu informed the additional district judge G Gopakumar that some of the reasons cited by the accused to avoid his appearance were factually incorrect. In the last hearing on July 1 his counsel had said since Jalandhar was a Covid-19 containment zone he was denied permission to travel to Kerala.To buttress his point the prosecutor produced documents obtained from Jalandhar which showed his contentions were wrong (HT has copies of the documents) and said he was avoiding appearance citing wrong reasons. He told the court that the Civil Lines area in Jalandhar where the former bishop is staying was not in the list of the containment zones.Mulakkal was not present on Monday either when his counsel said the former bishop had a detailed talk with his lawyer who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was asked to go into quarantine. But the court said since his first claim fell flat it can’t accept the latest one. Later the court cancelled his bail and directed the Kottayam police superintendent to arrest him and produce him before it. The court posted the next date of hearing for August 13.“Mulakkal had cited flimsy reasons to avoid his personal appearance many times. His men also tried to intimidate some of the witnesses. With his defiant attitude he was challenging the judicial system of the country,” said Felix J Pulludan, convener of Save Our Sisters, an organisation floated during the stir against Mulakkal before he was arrested for the first time.The spokesman of Jalandhar diocese Father Peter expressed shock over cancellation of Mullakal’s bail and said there was a concerted move to influence the judiciary with wrong information. “A section of the media said the bishop was absent 13 times, but there are only four occasions. We have submitted all documents to the court in this regard. It is sad his submission was overlooked,” said the PRO.Last week the Kerala High Court had rejected the former bishop’s plea to quash the case against him and directed him to face the trial. In March the trial court in Kottayam had also dismissed his discharge plea.The case surfaced in 2018 after a 43-year-old nun had complained to the police in Kottayam that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. But Mulakkal denied it saying he was implicated after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent.Later a special investigation team (SIT) was formed and it arrested him in September 2018. He was granted bail after spending 40 days in jail. He was removed from the post of the bishop later. The SIT had filed the charge sheet against him last year but he failed to appear before the court several times.The petitioner had also complained that some of the witnesses were threatened by Mulakkal’s followers. While opposing his discharge plea the state government had said in the High Court that evidence against him was strong and he was deliberately delaying the trial filing different pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-cancels-ex-bishop-s-bail-in-rape-case-issues-arrest-warrant/story-FhVdo7j8uLH4UsmRZxhxCM.html
13-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot aces 1st test, sequesters MLAs in luxury resort to prep for more||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who has been under attack from his deputy Sachin Pilot, on Monday shifted his 100-plus lawmakers to a luxury resort on the outskirts of Jaipur city to shield them from the pulls and pressures of politics that could jeopardise the survival of his 18-month-old government.The lawmakers were packed into buses on Monday afternoon, minutes after they signed off on a resolution expressing complete support for Gehlot’s leadership role in the state government and accused the BJP of efforts to topple the government. Their destination was Fairmont Jaipur, a 245-room luxury resort about 25 km from the chief minister’s official residence. The hotel, built in the tradition of grand Mughal palaces, has a published room tariff starting at Rs 8,500.A Congress leader claimed that the legislators were being shielded from rivals till the situation stabilises. It isn’t clear for how long this would continue.Congress leaders who attended the legislature party meeting at Gehlot’s official residence in state capital Jaipur’s plush Civil Lines locality said the chief minister had the support of 107 lawmakers. “The government has more than a comfortable majority,” a Congress leader said.While the Congress did not formally put out the number of lawmakers present, it did make public its resolution . The resolution, apart from extending support to Gehlot, blamed the BJP for the crisis and demanded action against legislators who were playing the BJP’s game. That was a dart aimed at Sachin Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress president.Sachin Pilot’s camp, however, has made light of the resolution or the number of legislators backing it.The chief minister’s garden isn’t the place to prove the majority, the assembly is.”If they have numbers as claimed then why not do a head count, take them to the governor instead of moving them to a hotel,” sources close to Sachin Pilot said, according to news agency ANI.A Congress leader said the party and Gehlot were preparing for such eventualities. One option on the table, the Congress leader, is to parade the lawmakers before the governor. Since such a parade does not have any legal basis, there is a view that Gehlot should request the governor to convene a session of the assembly and move a confidence motion before letting the lawmakers at Fairmont resort head home.This is the second time in one month that the Congress has had to commandeer its lawmakers into a hotel. The first was right before the Rajya Sabha elections last month when Gehlot was worried that some lawmakers could vote against his two nominees.Also Read: Rajasthan govt in crisis as Sachin Pilot leads rebels outQuestions over the survival of Ashok Gehlot government peaked late last evening after Sachin Pilot’s camp claimed that he had the support of over 30 Congress and some independent MLAs.Gehlot, who had been primming for an all-out battle with his deputy for months, worked the phones through the night.At 2.30 am, the Congress in-charge for Rajasthan Avinash Pande announced at a press conference that they had secured the written support of 109 lawmakers. A meeting of the Congress legislature party was also convened for 10.30 am in Jaipur for a show of strength.The majority mark in the 200-member assembly is 101.The Gehlot camp, however, had some trouble ensuring their physical presence by the early Monday deadline and had to defer the meeting to afternoon. Before the meeting started, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken, struck a conciliatory note, saying Pilot and the other MLAs could still attend the party meeting. The doors are open for them, Surjewala said. The resolution pushing for action against Pilot came later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-aces-1st-test-sequesters-mlas-in-luxury-resort-to-prep-for-more/story-eMYy5ToFJl2tvrag9BmOiI.html
13-07-2020||India||No vacancy in Kolkata’s private hospitals as Covid-19 cases double in 15 days||There are no beds left to treat Covid-19 patients in several private hospitals in Kolkata while in others the number of beds is fast drying up as the city has witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 positive cases.The number of active cases in Kolkata has doubled in the last fortnight. While on June 29 the city had 1,772 active cases, on Sunday the number was 3,568. The state has 10,500 active cases at present.While the state-government has prepared 10,862 beds in 80 Covid-19 designated hospitals across the state, in Kolkata there are 2,062 beds in seven state-run hospitals and hospitals that the government has designated as Covid-19 hospitals. In addition to this there are 1,414 beds in 32 private hospitals in Kolkata, including some of the city’s best known super-specialty hospitals, where Covid-19 patients are being treated. In North 24 Parganas and in the satellite towns of New Town and Salt Lake there are a few other private hospitals with around 336 beds.According to figures released by the government, in at least 13 of these 32 hospitals in the city there are no beds vacant as on date. In the rest, only around 218 beds were vacant as reported by the respective hospitals. “Government hospitals have more than 10,000 beds for Covid-19 patents across the state. Compared to this the private hospitals are limited and have less than 2,000 beds. Hence they are drying up fast. We still have a huge vacancy in government hospitals and the number of beds is also being increased,” said a top official of the state health department.In government hospitals 70% of the beds are vacant, while less than 20% of the private hospitals’ beds are vacant.“Most of the people living in cities like Kolkata and urban areas are more inclined towards private health care facilities even though the state-run hospitals in Bengal offer the best treatment at lower cost,” said an expert associated with the global advisory body that has been set up to advise the Mamata Banerjee administration.To cope up with the health crisis, many top private hospitals in the city have launched ‘home care packages’ for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms undergoing treatment at home.“We have three packages ranging from Rs 4,500 to Rs 16,000. This includes tele-consultation, tool-kit comprising masks, PPE, gloves, pulse oximeter and vaporizer among others which are home delivered and emergency services such as free ambulance pick up. But the patient must be less than 58-years of age, must have mild symptoms and should not have diseases such as diabetes and asthma,” said a senior doctor of a hospital in south Kolkata.In June, the government had tied up with some private hospitals in Kolkata to start Satellite Health Facilities (SHFs), a variant of observation wards in healthcare units’ vicinity, where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients with mild or no symptoms could be treated, while setting aside beds in the dedicated hospitals for critically-ill patients. Earlier, the state had come up with 106 “safe home centres” in Kolkata with a capacity of over 6,000 beds, where mild and asymptomatic patients could be treated.“Both these arrangements – SHFs and SHCs – were launched for the first time in India in a bid to keep hospital beds free for critically ill Covid-19 patients amid a daily spike in the number of positive cases,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-vacancy-in-kolkata-s-private-hospitals-as-covid-19-cases-double-in-15-days/story-TQxhQfaU4AxVug1tWcQK6J.html
13-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot always in Rahul Gandhi’s heart, says Congress leader’s office||As the Congress fights a crisis in Rajasthan where deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot is at loggerheads with his boss Ashok Gehlot, there is no word yet from former Congress president Rahul Gandhi.But on Monday, Gandhi’s office insisted that “He (Sachin Pilot) is always in his heart. And they speak often and directly. They have great respect and affection for each other.”There has been no word on Twitter either from Rahul Gandhi on the Rajasthan crisis. The former Congress president tweeted twice on Monday. The first tweet questioned the government’s claim the fight against Covid-19 was going well and the second was about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s stand on the face off with China in Ladakh.This response came when HT asked for Rahul Gandhi’s response to whether he had been in touch with Pilot, who is said to have been furious after the Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) summoned him for questioning after Gehlot claimed that the BJP was trying to lure Congress MLAs by bribing them with sums ranging from Rs 10 crore to Rs 15 crore.The SOG operates under Gehlot and although the chief minister was also summoned Pilot’s supporters claimed it was an eye wash.Pilot had claimed that the Ashok Gehlot government was in minority and that he had the support of over 30 MLAs in the 200-member Assembly.In the afternoon, the Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party passed a resolution in Jaipur supporting the Ashok Gehlot-led government in the state amid the tussle for power.It also recommended strong disciplinary action against any Congress MLA and office-bearer who conspires against the government.“This meeting urges that strict disciplinary action be taken against any office bearer or member of the legislature party who indulge in activities against the Congress government, party or gets involved in any conspiracy,” read the resolution.Party sources claimed that 106 MLAs, both from the Congress and those supporting it, were present in the meeting. Sachin Pilot and some of his loyalists did not attend it.The resolution expressed confidence in the leadership of national party president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.Ahead of the meeting of the MLAs at the chief minister’s official residence, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala the party doors were still open for Pilot to sort out matters.“On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member,” Surjewala said.There has been no word from Sachin Pilot’s camp about his next step. The deputy CM’s aide told HT in the morning that the leader is not joining the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-always-in-rahul-gandhi-s-heart-says-congress-leader-s-office/story-zM9GFDIHcWTBCwnpvGIgqK.html
13-07-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Tamil Nadu further suspends bus services till July 31||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Tamil Nadu government has suspended bus services further till July 31. Earlier, the bus services were suspended till July 15 amid the coronavirus crisis. With nearly 1.4 lakh coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-affected state in the country. While nearly 40,000 patients in the state have recovered from Covid-19, the death toll nears 2,000. Meanwhile, neighbouring state Karnataka plans to operate 800 buses from Bengaluru. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has planned to operate 800 buses from Bengaluru to other places in the state on Monday and Tuesday ahead of the seven-day lockdown. The state government has decided to impose the lockdown between July 14 and July 22 after registering a sudden spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Tamil Nadu extends suspension of bus services till 31st July in view of a spike in #COVID19 cases. Earlier, bus services were suspended till 15th July. pic.twitter.com/xlXR1rbZpJThe state government on Monday issued a circular advising strict home isolation/quarantine for people get tested for Covid-19 and are awaiting their test result.Karnataka’s health minister B Sriramulu said on Sunday that the number of cases in the state would double in the next 15-30 days and next two months would be a big challenge for the state government to combat the infection. Karnataka recently overtook Uttar Pradesh as the fifth worst-affected state in the country reporting over 38,000 coronavirus cases till date. The state has registered more active cases of coronavirus than that of Delhi and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-tamil-nadu-extends-suspension-of-bus-services-till-july-31/story-SiIJmESM8o9e6ZqzMFWeuN.html
13-07-2020||India||‘Big boost toward achieving $1 tn digital economy’: Ravi Shankar Prasad hails Google’s $10 bn investment||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hailed Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s announcement that the company will invest nearly $10 billion into digitising India. Pichai, on Monday, said that Google’s investment will be aimed at developing infrastructure and funding digital innovation in India over the next five to seven years. Prasad hailed the move and described it as a “big boost” toward realising PM Modi’s vision of making India a $1 trillion economy. “The story of ‘Digital India’ is that of development, empowerment and inclusion. Delighted that Google will invest $10 bn in India. Under the leadership of PM Modi, we’re moving towards a $1 trillion digital economy and for that, it’s a big boost. Thank you Sundar Pichai,” Prasad tweeted.  Story of #DigitalIndia is that of development, empowerment & inclusion. Delighted that @Google will invest $10 billion in India. Under the leadership of PM @narendramodi we are moving towards a $1 trillion digital economy & for that it is a big boost. Thank you @sundarpichai https://t.co/VgkV9DTG3qPichai and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad addressed the sixth annual edition of “Google for India” earlier today wherein the minister talked about the scope of digital transformation in India. “The Google for India digitization fund will invest $10 billion over the next 5-7 years in terms of equity, partnerships, operations and infrastructure development,” Pichai said during the event. “This is a reflection of our confidence in the future of India and its digital economy. We will work towards enabling affordable internet access to every Indian in their own language,” he said. I was delighted to know more about the efforts of @Google in several sectors, be it in education, learning, @_DigitalIndia, furthering digital payments and more. @sundarpichaiEarlier in the day, Pichai held a wide-ranging virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and discussed ways to leverage technology for the benefit of India’s farmers and entrepreneurs.“This morning, had an extremely fruitful interaction with @sundarpichai. We spoke on a wide range of subjects, particularly leveraging the power of technology to transform the lives of India’s farmers, youngsters and entrepreneurs,” PM Modi tweeted.“We also talked about the importance of data security and cyber safety,” the prime minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-boost-toward-achieving-1-trillion-digital-economy-ravi-shankar-prasad-hails-google-s-10-billion-investment-to-digitise-india/story-Cm2xUikW1HpzDKKeBQ3JaL.html
13-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: CLP passes resolution urging strict action for rebels who ‘weaken’ party||The Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party on Monday passed a resolution recommending strict disciplinary action against any Congress MLA and office-bearer who ‘weakens’ the party, a statement issued by the party after the meeting said .“This meet urges that strict disciplinary action be taken against any office bearer or member of the Legislature Party who indulges in activities against the Congress govt, party or gets involved in any conspiracy,” the resolution readCongress lawmakers at the CLP meeting supported the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan amid a power tussle between him and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.The resolution also indicated confidence in the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi. As many as 107 MLAs attended the CLP meeting, which was held on Monday afternoon.“The Congress Legislature Party expresses full faith and confidence in the leadership of party president Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi. This meeting unanimously supports the Congress government led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot,” the resolution said.The CLP members condemned all “undemocratic wrongful acts for weakening” the Congress Party and the state government.Gehlot had called the legislature party meeting on Monday to gather lawmakers supporting his government. Congress leader Sachin Pilot, had claimed last evening that the Gehlot-led government had been reduced to a minority in the state assembly. Pilot’s camp had last night also claimed the support of 30 MLAs. These indications from Pilot forced the Congress to call for a press briefing at 2:30 am saying it had the support of 109 MLAs.In the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, the majority mark is 101. The Congress before Pilot decided to openly rebel, had a strength of 107 MLAs and support from other independent MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-clp-passes-resolution-urging-strict-action-for-rebels-who-weaken-party/story-FXWGjLLAgZywpmi1FAp2UI.html
13-07-2020||India||NIA gets custody of prime accused in Kerala gold smuggling case for 8 days||A Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Monday sent Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling racket, to the agency’s custody for eight days.The NIA submitted in the court that the accused forged the seal and emblem of UAE Embassy to commit the crime. The NIA maintained that the smuggled gold was to be used not for jewellery but terror activities, ANI reported.The two key accused were earlier remanded to custody by the NIA court on Sunday, a day after they were taken into custody in Bengaluru.The two had been on the run since the Customs busted a gold smuggling racket on July 5 with the seizure of 30 kg gold from a chartered flight from the UAE that was carrying an consignment for the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The racket allegedly used diplomatic channels to smuggle the gold.Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, and Nair are among the four people booked by the NIA in the smuggling racket.The NIA which was ordered by the Union home ministry to probe the case, had on Friday registered an FIR under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. It said the case has international links with initial inquiries revealing the proceeds of the smuggled gold valued at Rs 15 crore could be used for terror financing in India.Suresh, Sarith PS and Nair of Thiruvananthapuram and Fazil Fareed of Ernakulam have been arraigned as accused. While Sarith was arrested by the Customs, Fareed is still at large.The gold smuggling racket has put the Kerala government under intense fire from the opposition with the Congress-led United Democratic Front on Monday deciding to bring in a no-confidence motion and seek Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation alleging that his office was linked to the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-gets-custody-of-prime-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-for-8-days/story-HA81gku0cXgsBvS4o3pItN.html
13-07-2020||India||Top Indian, Chinese generals to meet tomorrow as talks enter crucial stage||Senior Indian and Chinese military commanders are set to meet at Chushul in eastern Ladakh on Tuesday to negotiate the next stage of disengagement between the two armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with the talks expected to focus on reducing tensions in the Finger Area and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons from friction points, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.This will be the fourth round of talks between the corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the disputed border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.Negotiations are expected to be far harder this time as the continued presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point of the talks, said one of the officials cited above. The meeting is expected to begin at 11.30 am.In Tuesday’s talks, the two commanders are expected to discuss the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from friction areas along the LAC and thinning the overall military buildup in the region, said a second official.This military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.The July 14 dialogue will be crucial as it will take up the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and the Depsang plains where there is Chinese intrusion across India’s perception of the LAC, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“In both these locations, the Indian side should insist on restoration of status quo ante as anything less than this could leave us with a territorial disadvantage,” Hooda added.The military talks follow a series of steps taken by the two armies at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to implement a complex disengagement plan hammered out at the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.The current disengagement process began after the June 30 military dialogue and a subsequent conversation on July 5 between national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. Even as uncertainty persists in the Finger Area and Depsang plains, the army is monitoring the withdrawal of the PLA from Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, where 4-km buffer zones have come up.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in the Finger Area, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The creation of buffer zones has temporarily restricted the patrolling activities of both armies in the region. While some experts saw this as a necessary step, others cautioned that the temporary curtailing of patrolling rights should not become a long-term feature undermining Indian presence and control.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The PLA pulled back 2 km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) last week, with the Indian Army withdrawing proportionately in these areas.The army observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area over the last week but it can’t be seen as disengagement, said a third official.The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process, as reported by Hindustan Times last week.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are 8 km apart.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4 where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps over the last two months.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-officers-meeting-to-be-held-tomorrow-at-chushul/story-32pS7EhdUEj3wJeyVM9fnI.html
13-07-2020||India||Former MP who led protests for Kapu reservations in Andhra, withdraws agitation||In a big setback to the politically-strong Kapu community in Andhra Pradesh, former MP Mudragada Padmanabham, who had been leading agitations for the last two decades demanding reservations for the community under Other Backward Classes (OBC) category, announced that he was withdrawing the agitation.The demand for provision of reservations for Kapus in education and employment under the OBC quota, on the lines of Jats in north India rocked Andhra Pradesh before and after the last assembly elections.Padmanabham, also a former minister and four-time MLA from East Godavari district, had been in the forefront of the agitations, including the one that turned violent at Tuni in January 2016, in which Kapu protesters set fire to Visakhapatnam-bound Ratnachal Express.In a statement on Monday, Padmanabham said he was withdrawing the agitation for Kapu quota as he was deeply hurt following a campaign against him by some community leaders through social and mainstream media.He was referring to the allegations that he had made big money during the agitations taken up during the Telugu Desam Party regime and had become silent after the TDP lost power in 2019.“I don’t know why they are making wild allegations. Are they under the impression that I have not given them a share in the money which I had allegedly received from industrialists and businessmen during the movement for Kapu reservations?” he asked.Padmanabham clarified that he had taken up the cause of the Kapus only because the previous Telugu Desam Party government led by former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had gone back on its promise to include Kapus in the OBC list and give them reservations in education and employment.He clarified that he had never aspired for posts and positions or made big money through the Kapu agitation. “On the other hand, I have lost heavily both in terms of money and health. I always strived to uplift the Kapus,” he said.The former MP said though there were attempts by other Kapu leaders to hijack his movement, he had never felt bad about it. “I always welcomed the attempts of any leader who strived for Kapu quota. I never wanted the entire credit to myself,” he said.Kapus and their sub-castes of Balijas, Telagas and Ontaris, form a politically strong community in Andhra, constituting 15.2 per cent of the total population in the state. While they are spread all over the state, they are predominant in East and West Godavari districts which are considered as the Kapu belt.The Kapu community got politically polarized to some extent during 2009 elections when popular Telugu film hero K Chiranjeevi, who hails from the community, launched Praja Rajyam Party (PRP).The party, however, polled just around 17 per cent of the votes and won only 18 out of 294 assembly seats in the combined Andhra Pradesh. Subsequently, Chiranjeevi merged the PRP with the Congress.His brother Pawan Kalyan launched a separate political party Jana Sena in 2014, but his party did not contest the elections held for a divided Andhra Pradesh. Instead, he supported the TDP-BJP combine.However, in 2019 assembly elections, Jana Sena fought the elections independently and it was presumed that Pawan Kalyan would split the Kapu community votes to a large extent. But they voted largely in favour of YSR Congress party, which was evident from the way the party won 27 out of 34 seats in East and West Godavari districts.On the other hand, Jana Sena won just one assembly seat and less than 7 per cent votes. Pawan himself lost in both the assembly seats – Bhimavaram and Gajuwaka, which have considerable Kapu votes.After Jagan came to power, he ignored the Kapu quota demand. Instead, he recently launched YSR Kapu Nestham programme seeking to provide financial assistance to the economically weaker Kapus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-mp-who-led-protests-for-kapu-reservations-in-andhra-withdraws-agitation/story-Rdum1jR7lX1C4ZxlzxKE2J.html
13-07-2020||India||‘Strict home isolation for those who get tested for Covid-19’: Karnataka govt||Keeping in view the rise in coronavirus cases in the state, the Karnataka government has issued a circular advising strict home isolation/quarantine for people get tested for Covid-19 and are awaiting their test result.With 38,843 coronavirus cases, Karnataka recently overtook Uttar Pradesh as the fifth worst-affected state in the country. As many as 15,409 patients have recovered from the infection across the state while 684 people have lost their battle with Covid-19. “Persons who have provided swab samples for Covid-19 testing may be infectious. Hence, as matter of abundant caution, all such persons shall be advised strict isolation/quarantine at home till their lab results are communicated,” the order read. It further added that strict action will be taken against those who violate the norms. “Any irresponsible behaviour by the person, like going outdoors, socialising, going to work, etc. will result in spread of infection in the community and consecutively such acts shall invite stringent legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” the release stated. Karnataka Health Department issues circular advising 'strict isolation/quarantine at home' for people who have undergone #COVID19 testing till their results are declared. pic.twitter.com/tyhw3o6Z3TAt 22,750, Karnataka’s tally of active Covid-19 cases is more than that of Delhi and Gujarat. Of Karnataka’s total coronavirus cases, Bengaluru has reported over 18,000 infections till date of which over 4,000 patients have recovered and 275 have succumbed to death. India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday jumped to 878,254, as per the data shared by the Ministry of Health. So far, 553,470 people have beaten the disease across India while the death toll stands at 23,174. India stands third on the global Covid-19 tally after the US and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strict-home-isolation-for-those-who-get-tested-for-covid-19-karnataka-govt/story-2oom7MQaPS1FX7soodFvCP.html
13-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over rising Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka slams UP govt over rising Covid-19 cases, says ‘no logic behind weekend baby pack of lockdown’Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday attacked chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state.Read moreAfter party meet, Gehlot and MLAs head to resort as Sachin Pilot holds firmThe twists and turns in Rajasthan potboiler are far from over, and the latest in it is the Congress MLAs being bused to a resort to keep the flock together. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is also reported to have boarded the bus along with his legislators.Read more‘Tax us substantially’: Over 80 global millionaires’ solution for tackling Covid-19The millionaires, mostly based in the United States and the United Kingdom, say in the open letter that raising the taxes will adequately fund health systems, schools, and security through a permanent tax increase on the wealthiest people on the planet, ‘people like us’. Read moreEngland vs West Indies: Nasser Hussain points out hosts’ weakness with the bat as main reason for loss at SouthamptonWest Indies’ thrilling win over England in the opening Test of the three-match series in Southampton might be good news for cricket in general but for the hosts it is yet another reminder of their problems with the bat. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan, Abhishek are stable, do not require aggressive treatment: hospital sourcesAmitabh Bachchan and his son, actor Abhishek Bachchan, who were admitted to a hospital in Mumbai after testing positive for coronavirus, are “clinically stable”, hospital sources said on Monday. Read moreBody Positivity: The movement on a mission to change the way we see ourselvesThe Body Positivity Movement is rooted in people’s want and need to be able to accept themselves and those around them as they are rather than what popular media would like us to be. Read moreGoogle for India 2020 key announcements: $10bln Digitization fund, Prasar Bharti tie-up, and moreCompany CEO Sundar Pichai along with Sanjay Gupta - country head and vice president and others made the announcements. Read moreWatch | Support pours in for Gujarat cop Sunita Yadav who took on minister’s sonThe constable had stopped a car which was out during curfew time. A youth in the car then called the minister’s son who arrived at the spot and got into an argument with the constable. Social media has been abuzz with messages in support of the constable. Watch the video for more details. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt-over-rising-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RXlVepax3fMl3dJnNOmcFL.html
13-07-2020||India||Glenmark Pharma drops price of Covid-19 drug Favipiravir to Rs 75/tablet||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Monday announced that it has reduced the selling price of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) drug Favipiravir from Rs 103 to Rs 75 per tablet that could significantly lessen the cost for a 14-day regimen from Rs 14,000 to Rs 10,200. The antiviral oral drug is marketed under the brand name FabiFlu and was formally launched in the country on June 21.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted it approval for Covid-19 treatment under emergency use authorisation, which means since there is limited data available on the medicine’s performance on Covid-19 positive cases, doctors prescribing it would have to document the written consent of a patient.“The price reduction has been made possible through benefits gained from higher yields and better scale, as both the API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) and formulations are made at Glenmark’s facilities in India, the benefits of which are being passed on to patients in the country,” said the company in a statement.“Glenmark has successfully developed API and the formulation for FabiFlu through its own in-house R&D (research & development) team within the country, ensuring self-reliance with regard to long-term production and manufacturing. The API is manufactured at the Gujarat production facility which is USFDA (United States Food and Drug Administration) and MHRA-UK (Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency – the United Kingdom) approved. The formulation product is manufactured at the facility in Himachal Pradesh, which is also USFDA and MHRA-UK approved,” it added.The company also announced that it has started a post-marketing surveillance (PMS) study on FabiFlu in a bid to closely monitor the efficacy and safety of the drug in 1,000 Covid-19 patients that are prescribed the drug as part of an open-label, multicentre, single-arm study.“We expect this PMS study to shed more light on the drug’s clinical effectiveness and safety in a large section of patients prescribed FabiFlu. Our priority from the start of this pandemic has been to offer effective treatment for Covid-19 patent and also ensure accessibility to the masses. Our internal research shows us that we launched FabiFlu in the country at the lowest market cost, as compared to the cost of Favipiravir in other countries, where it is approved. This further price reduction will make it even more accessible for patients across the country,” said Alok Malik, senior vice president, and head – India business, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd.Initially, FabiFlu was launched in India at Rs103 a tablet, while its equivalent price is higher in other countries such as Russia (Rs 600), Japan (Rs 378), Bangladesh (Rs 315), and China (Rs 215).“Most patients exhibiting mild to moderate symptoms can benefit from FabiFlu use. Glenmark has also completed the phase-III clinical trial with Favipiravir (FabiFlu) in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients in India. The trial results will be available shortly,” said the company in a statement.Glenmark is also conducting another phase-III clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of two antivirals drugs, Favipiravir and Umifenovir, as a combination therapy in moderate hospitalised adult Covid-19 patients in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-pharma-drops-price-of-covid-19-drug-favipiravir-to-rs-75-tablet/story-VNVG3UWN0strJyqXkY1gTM.html
13-07-2020||India||SC turns down plea for restrictions on Amarnath Yatra for Covid-19||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain a plea which sought directions for restriction for the Amarnath Yatra in Jammu and Kashmir due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud dismissed a PIL filed by Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organization. The Court left it to the local administration and refused to interfere with the steps they were taking by restricting pilgrims this year. The Court cited the principle of separation of powers and said the administration would take a call on it.The PIL by Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organisation had sought a direction to the Centre, Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board to restrict the access of pilgrims in the Yatra this year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The plea had also sought a direction for ‘live darshan’ of Lord Shri Amarnath Ji Shrine on the internet and television.The Jammu and Kashmir administration has already curtailed the Amarnath yatra to a 12-day affair and has limited the number of pilgrims who will be allowed to prooceed to the Amarnath caves every day. The pilgrimage is likely to be held from July 21 to August 3.A thousand pilgrims will be allowed to take a helicopter ride and another 500 will be allowed on foot through the shorter Baltal route each day of the pilgrimage.Earlier this month, Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam said the pilgrimage would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner so that the SoPs to contain the spread of Covid-19 can be strictly enforced.Subrahmanyam said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Executive Committee constituted under the Disaster Management Act has issued SoPs which among other things prescribe 100% RT-PCR test for all persons travelling into Jammu and Kashmir. Anyone travelling to J&K will have to be sampled, tested and quarantined till they are reported to be negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-turns-down-plea-for-restrictions-on-amarnath-yatra-for-covid-19/story-x5uv5GReXYX7rG899dw2CK.html
13-07-2020||India||Not our victory, says ex-royal family on Padmanabha Swamy temple verdict||The erstwhile royal family of Travancore, whose rights on the administration of age-old Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple in Thiruvananthapuram were upheld by the Supreme Court on Monday, welcomed the verdict thanking all devotees and others who stood with them during the long years of legal battle.The state government made it clear that it has no plan to go in for a review or appeal and it will go by the verdict of the apex court even as devotees took to streets in large numbers to celebrate it by distributing sweets. Since lockdown was in place in the state capital they took care to avoid a big gathering outside the temple.“It is not the victory of the royal family. It is the victory of people and devotees. Finally, the will of the Lord Padmanabha Swamy prevailed. We dedicate this to the presiding deity,” said Aswathi Tirunal Lakshmi Bhai, a member of the ex-royal family. She thanked all devotees and others who stood with them in trying times.“It is a landmark judgment which upholds devotees’ rights. Under Article 25 &26, devotees enjoy every right to manage their places of worship. But in some communities the government holds this power. Let it be a pluralistic and uniform status,” said Rahul Iswar, an activist belonging to the tantri (head priest) family of Sabarimala hill temple. He said the latest verdict will have its bearing on similar cases relating to faith, including Sabarimala.In 2018 a five-member bench of the Supreme Court had allowed women of all ages to worship at the hill temple which led to a series of violent protests as women of child-bearing age were barred here citing the eternal celibate status (nishtika brahmachari) of the presiding deity. In an unusual move, the Supreme Court decided to take a relook and referred the issue to a larger bench.“The temple and its huge wealth existed because of the royal family. Had it been in the hands of politicians it would have been looted long back,” said a devotee Saradha M Thampi. “It is a welcome verdict. With this uncertainty over the custody of the shrine will be over,” said historian M G Sasibushan.Like in Sabarimala, the Congress-led UDF favoured a status quo in Padmanabha Swamy temple also but the CPI(M)-led government wanted a government-controlled body to manage the temple affairs on the lines of Guruvayur and Travancore Devaswom boards where chairmen are appointed by the government, always politicians. Former chief minister VS Achuthanandan had once said scions of the royal family were in a race to loot Padmanabha Swamy temple inviting enough criticism from many quarters. The opposition Congress and BJP also lauded the verdict.“It is another slap on the face of the government. It should apologise to devotees for trampling their rights,” said BJP state president K Surendran. “With his verdict we hope the government will respect age-old beliefs and customs of people,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-our-victory-says-ex-royal-family-on-padmanabha-swamy-temple-verdict/story-7QlY6G6G36AeKVJEfNCmeP.html
13-07-2020||India||Priyanka slams UP govt over rising Covid-19 cases, says ‘no logic behind weekend baby pack of lockdown’||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday attacked chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. The Congress general secretary questioned the logic behind the 55-hour-long lockdown in the state which came to an end today at 5 am. Gandhi described it as the weekend “baby pack” of the lockdown. “No one has understood the logic of the weekend lockdown and efforts are on to hide failures,” she tweeted. Also read: Major cities in Maharashtra under stricter lockdown till weekend as Covid cases surgeउप्र: पिछले तीन दिन में कोरोना के मामले 10 July - 134711 July - 140312 July - 1388लॉकडाउन के वीकेंड ‘बेबी पैक’ का लॉजिक अब तक किसी को समझ नहीं आया। अपनी असफलता छुपाने के लिए खिलवाड़ जारी है। ‘मर्ज़ बढ़ता गया ज्यों ज्यों दवा की’ pic.twitter.com/swuFuPcHjcShe also listed out the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh in the last three days. Uttar Pradesh was under a strict lockdown over the weekend keeping in view the rise in coronavirus cases in the state. The lockdown kicked off from 10 pm on Friday and remained in place till 5 am today. The Yogi Adityanath government, however, described it as an imposition of curbs on certain activities to keep the spread of virus under check. Barring essential services, everything else was shut across the state.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday issued unlock guidelines for the state and announced that all markets will be allowed to remain open from Monday to Friday while the sanitisation process will be carried out over the weekends. The chief minister also directed the administration to be alert to the Covid-19 situation in Kanpur, Varanasi, Baliya, Kushinagar and Deoria.According to the latest data issued by the state health department, Uttar Pradesh has reported record 1,654 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours pushing the tally to over 38,000 cases. The Covid-19 death toll in the state has reached 955 with 21 more fatalities in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-slams-up-govt-over-rising-covid-19-cases-says-no-logic-behind-weekend-baby-pack-of-lockdown/story-otuKtKcV4Ntszjfdg119eI.html
13-07-2020||India||After party meet, Gehlot and MLAs head to resort as Sachin Pilot holds firm||The twists and turns in Rajasthan potboiler are far from over, and the latest in it is the Congress MLAs being bused to a resort to keep the flock together. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is also reported to have boarded the bus along with his legislators. Ashok Gehlot had called the legislature party meeting this afternoon to flaunt lawmakers supporting his government, smiled broadly for the cameras and even flashed the victory sign, a rebuttal to his deputy Sachin Pilot, who claimed last evening that Gehlot-led government had been reduced to a minority.Pilot’s camp had last night claimed the support of 30 MLAs. The messaging from Pilot forced the Congress to call for a press briefing at 2:30 am late last night saying it had the support o f 109 MLAs.In the 200-member house, the majority mark is 101. The Congress before Pilot decided to rebel, had a strength of 107 MLAs and support from other independents. The MLAs were seen boarding buses headed towards a hotel after their meeting at the chief minister’s official residence.The meeting endorsed the leadership of Ashok Gehlot and blamed the BJP for “ripping of the democracy” by trying to destabilise an elected government. It also called for action against those working against the interests of the party.“This meet urges that strict disciplinary action be taken against any office bearer or member of legislature party who indulge in activities against the Congress government, party or gets involved in any conspiracy,” read the resolution.“All is well,” minister Mamta Bhupesh told news agency PTI before boarding one of the buses. A few weeks ago ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, the Congress had shifted its MLAs to a resort for about a week to ensure that they were not “lured” away before the voting. Before the meeting of lawmakers started at the chief minister’s official residence, Randeep Surjewala declared that the party hadn’t shut its doors on Sachin Pilot. The Congress leadership has spoken to Pilot a number of times over the last 48 hours and if anyone is upset in a family, they should be sitting together with other members to work things out.“On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member,” Surjewala said.There has been no word from Sachin Pilot’s camp about his next step. The deputy CM’s aide told HT this morning that the leader is not joining the BJP. At the state party headquarters, party workers had taken down posters and banners that had a photograph of the state unit chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-party-meet-gehlot-and-mlas-head-to-resort-as-sachin-pilot-holds-firm/story-h14XJbYMZma8i0QibE2uoI.html
13-07-2020||India||State govt is taking legal opinion on comedian Agrima issue: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday that the Mumbai Police has sought legal opinion in a case filed against stand-up comedian Agrima Joshua and action would be taken if she is found guilty of allegedly insulting the state icon, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, in her year-old video.Deshmukh said all those, who have used foul language for the stand-up comedian on social media, would face strict action. Two such persons have been arrested in Gujarat and Maharashtra, he added. Joshua has been accused by a Shiv Sena legislator of insulting the Maratha warrior king during one of her stand-up acts a year ago.Later, she had apologised on social media and deleted the video.She has been getting rape threats on social media for allegedly insulting Shivaji Maharaj. On Sunday, a YouTuber, Shubham Mishra, was arrested from Vadodara on charges of threatening and abusing Joshua.Umesh Jadhav alias Imtiaz Shaikh has been arrested in Maharashtra for a similar offence and strict action would be taken against him, if found guilty, Deshmukh said.“All those, who have used objectionable and derogatory language against the stand-up comedian, will face action. Police are preparing a list of all those accused of threatening Joshua and action will be taken against them,” he added.Deshmukh said that the authorities would also look into the complaint against Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers, who allegedly vandalised the restaurant, where Joshua’s show was shot last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govt-is-taking-legal-opinion-on-comedian-agrima-issue-anil-deshmukh/story-pD9DLbxsPIJZSOAwCLCYWK.html
13-07-2020||India||‘Zero tolerance’: Army chief on ceasefire violations by Pak, terrorists infiltration||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Monday reiterated India’s “zero tolerance” policy against the ceasefire violations by Pakistan and attempts by terrorists to infiltrate from across the border.Pakistan has intensified ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir and the Indian Army has said it has recorded as many as 2,542 violations till June 30. On Sunday, Pakistan initiated cross-border firing in Nowshera sector of Rajouri and Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch.The 3,289 violations of the mutually-brokered a truce deal in November 2003 were recorded last year and were the highest in 16 years.“The COAS (chief of army staff) reinstated the fact of ‘zero tolerance’ against the ceasefire violations by Pakistan and infiltration attempts by terrorists,” Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said in a statement.“He further highlighted that all agencies of the services and Govt are working together relentlessly and will continue to do the same to defeat the nefarious design of proxy war being fueled by our adversaries,” he added.The comments came Gen Naravane visited the forward areas along India’s 198 kilometre-long international border with Pakistan to review the security scenario and preparedness of troops deployed in Jammu-Pathankot region.He interacted with the field formation commanders and troops during his visit. He also visited the forward areas of Gurj Division and was briefed by Maj Gen YP Khanduri, GOC Gurj Division. “The Army Chief addressed all ranks of Western Command through video conferencing and lauded the morale of the troops. He expressed complete confidence in Indian Army’s capabilities to thwart any misadventure by the enemies of our country and handle any situation,” the spokesperson said.The army chief arrived in a fixed-wing aircraft at the technical airport in Jammu and then visited Tiger Division from where he flew into the chopper to the forward areas.The International Border (IB) in Jammu region is manned by the Border Security Force (BSF) on the Indian side and Pakistani Rangers on their side.A senior army officer said Gen Naravane will fly to Pathankot later in the day.“Though there is no heightened activity across the IB, the army chief had to see the prevailing security scenario,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-tolerance-army-chief-mm-naravane-on-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-infiltration-of-terrorists/story-LQtWSs1BoRKafwuTOSt6CL.html
13-07-2020||India||Moments before Gehlot’s show of strength meet, photo-op to make his point||Ahead of a meeting of Rajasthan lawmakers supporting his government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot invited the media into his official residence for a photo session to back up his claim that the rebellion by deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot hadn’t succeeded in reducing his government to a minority. Gehlot camp leaders have claimed that the chief minister had the support of more than 101 lawmakers, the majority mark in the 200-member assembly.Not everyone of the 107-plus lawmakers claimed by Gehlot’s camp was present. Gehlot’s supporters said some more MLAs were on their way to the chief minister’s official residence. The meeting, scheduled to begin at 10.30 am, was reportedly put off to enable more lawmakers to join in.Congress leaders Ajay Maken, Randeep Singh Surjewala and Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande were also present at the meeting.Ashok Gehlot will address a media briefing after the meeting of lawmakers is over.The Congress-led alliance in Rajasthan had the support of 125 lawmakers - 107 from the Congress - before Sachin Pilot, the party’s state unit chief and Gehlot’s deputy in the government, threatened to walk out of the party.Sachin Pilot, who had led the Congress’s campaign for the 2018, has been sore that he hadn’t received his due. Gehlot had agreed to have him as his deputy in the government at the end of negotiations running into several days but has been accused by Pilot’s camp of undercutting the 42-year-old ever since. Lately, Gehlot’s camp had been nudging the leadership to drop Pilot from the Rajasthan Congress chief’s post.Congress leaders have been on an overdrive to save the government after Sachin Pilot’s camp last evening claimed to have the support of 30 lawmakers, spending a sleepless night to reach out to each legislator and allies to get them to support Gehlot. At a 2.30 am press conference, Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande claimed to have letters of support from 109 lawmakers. Some more, he said, would sign by morning.Before the meeting of lawmakers started at the chief minister’s official residence, Randeep Surjewala declared that the party hadn’t shut its doors on Sachin Pilot. The Congress leadership has spoken to Pilot a number of times over the last 48 hours and if anyone is upset in a family, they should be sitting together with other members to work things out.“On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member,” Surjewala said.There has been no word from Sachin Pilot’s camp about his next step. But the Rajasthan Congress appeared to be prepping to its future minus Pilot in the leadership role. At the state party headquarters about 7 km away , party workers had taken down posters and banners that had a photograph of the state unit chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-puts-on-a-show-of-mlas-as-sachin-pilot-stays-back-in-delhi/story-1zQ8sbCjR31mzwAhTPhkSK.html
13-07-2020||India||Court denies bail to AAP leader Tahir Hussain in IB staffer’s murder in Delhi riots||A Delhi court on Monday denied bail to former Aam Aadmi Party Councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with the murder of IB official Ankit Tiwari during the north-east Delhi riots, adding that Hussain was present at the crime spot and used rioters as “human weapons, who on his instigation could have killed anybody”.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav refused to grant bail to Hussain, who had been charge sheeted by the Delhi police for playing a “pivotal role in the incident”, while stating that there is “enough material” on record by way of witness accounts. “….There is enough material on record to presume that Hussain was very well present at the spot of crime and was exhorting the rioters of a particular community and as such, he did not use his hands and fists, but used rioters as “human weapons”, who on his instigation could have killed anybody.“It is again a matter of record that the investigation in the matter is still under progress as some other persons have to be apprehended. Statement of two more persons have been recorded by crime branch on July 7 namely Rahul Kasana and Girish Pal, who both have stated about the conspiracy of communal riots hatched at the residence of applicant on February 24,” the judge said in his 21-page order.The court said that the possibility of Hussain threatening the witnesses also cannot be ruled out if he is released at this stage. It said that the riots in the area of north-east Delhi were carried out in an organised manner and as part of deep-rooted conspiracy and Hussain’s involvement is being investigated with regard to his connection with members of PFI, Pinjra Tod, Jamia Coordination Committee, United Against Hate Group and anti-CAA protesters.Appearing for Hussain, his counsel Javed Ali had contended that there is no cogent evidence which is admissible in the eyes of law to connect his client in the alleged murder of Ankit Sharma. He said that there is a delay in recording the statements of the witnesses and Hussain was not present at the spot on the day of the incident.The court, however, said that “the statements of witnesses can be said to be delayed when the witnesses are known to the police and yet police do not record their statements; whereas, in a case of rioting, police hardly have any idea as to who were the witnesses”.“Further, people normally do not come forward and it is an admitted position on record that on the date of incident nearly 10,000 PCR calls were recorded in the area of PS Dayalpur. Thereafter, on the basis of these calls, police called back and traced out some of the witnesses. Therefore, at this stage, it cannot be said that there is delay in recording of statements of witnesses by the investigating agency,” said the court.Advocate Javed Ali for Hussain also submitted that there is no evidence by way of video footage or CCTV footage to prove that Hussain was present at the scene of crime at the time of incident.Further, there is no evidence of abetment or conspiracy to kill Ankit Sharma, Ali added. He also said that one of the co-accused Haseen had categorically admitted in his extra-judicial confession about murder of Ankit Sharma by him alone, which clearly exculpates Hussain.However, opposing the bail application, the public prosecutor told the court that several prosecution witnesses have clearly identified Hussain at the scene of crime, instigating the rioters of a particular community and exhorting them to kill the people of other communities.The PP said that the witnesses have deposed before the magistrate that Hussain had incited the religious feelings of rioters from a particular community, as a consequence the rioters killed Ankit Sharma.The city police’s crime branch had earlier filed a charge sheet against 15 people, including Hussain and his younger brother Shah Alam. The police had contended here was recovery of crates containing glass bottles having some liquid filled in them and their necks stuffed with pieces of cloth. It said that these were as “Molotov cocktails” while adding that a large number of bricks, stone pieces and three catapults were also seized from Hussain’s house. It said that this point towards the conspiracy and the extent of preparation for causing riots in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-denies-bail-to-aap-leader-tahir-hussain-in-ib-staffer-s-murder-in-delhi-riots/story-LWU0CppA7W13lu4TT3aLfK.html
13-07-2020||India||‘Spoke on a wide range of subjects’: PM Modi, Sundar Pichai discuss Covid-19 crisis, technology and more||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had an “extremely fruitful interaction with Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet Inc. and subsidiary Google LLC, and discussed ways to leverage technology for the benefit of India’s farmers and entrepreneurs. In a wide-ranging virtual discussion, PM Modi and Pichai also discussed the coronavirus pandemic that has gripped the world and the new work culture that is stemming from the crisis. “This morning, had an extremely fruitful interaction with @sundarpichai. We spoke on a wide range of subjects, particularly leveraging the power of technology to transform the lives of India’s farmers, youngsters and entrepreneurs,” PM Modi tweeted.  Also read: Google for India 2020 event begins: Catch live updates hereThis morning, had an extremely fruitful interaction with @sundarpichai. We spoke on a wide range of subjects, particularly leveraging the power of technology to transform the lives of India’s farmers, youngsters and entrepreneurs. pic.twitter.com/IS9W24zZxsThe prime minister and Pichai also discussed various challenges brought by the global pandemic to areas such as sports. “We also talked about the importance of data security and cyber safety,” the prime minister stated, adding that it was delightful for him to learn more about Google’s efforts in several sectors such as education, learning, digitisation and more. Look forward to address the sixth edition of #GoogleforIndia today at 2:00 pm and share the transformational story of #DigitalIndia and the road ahead. #G4IN https://t.co/Ij5O9Ze2nHPichai and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad are slated to address the sixth annual edition of “Google for India” event later in the day wherein the minister will talk about the scope of digital transformation in India. At the event, Google is expected to announce some India-specific updates for its apps and services. Google and Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai is also supposed to give a special keynote during the event. “Look forward to address the sixth edition of #GoogleforIndia today at 2:00 pm and share the transformational story of #DigitalIndia and the road ahead,” Prasad had tweeted earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spoke-on-a-wide-range-of-subjects-pm-modi-sundar-pichai-discuss-covid-19-crisis-technology-and-more/story-iOIi7iUFJOvEqpLJIEGS1L.html
13-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot’s posters removed from Rajasthan Congress office in Jaipur||The Congress workers on Monday removed the posters of Rajasthan party president and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot from the party office in Jaipur amid his rebellion against the leadership.On Sunday evening, Pilot had announced that he would not attend the party legislature meeting called by CM Ashok Gehlot the following day and claimed that the Congress-led government had been reduced to a minority.Pilot maintained that he enjoyed the support of 30 members of the 200-member Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs).Contrary to Pilot’s claims over 100 Congress MLAs attended the legislative party meeting on Monday morning and reposed their faith in CM Gehlot’s leadership. The Congress had issued a whip to all its MLAs, stating that the attendance of the meeting at CM’s official residence was mandatory.Amid the backdrop of the high-voltage political drama in Rajasthan, a re-run of a similar rebellion in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh in March that had led to the toppling of the Kamal Nath-led government, the banners with Pilot’s pictures were removed from the boundary wall of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office in Jaipur on Monday morning. The state party office wore a deserted look on Monday morning.Pratap Singh, Jaipur district president of the Congress and state transport minister, took a potshot at the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for their bid “to destabiliise an elected government” in Rajasthan, but stopped short of naming Pilot as the wrecker-in-chief.“People voted for the party (the Congress) and now they (the BJP leaders) are insulting the people’s mandate,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-s-posters-removed-from-rajasthan-congress-office-in-jaipur/story-tb4PDOhtgcpDkUo12tBsdP.html
13-07-2020||India||Army chief visits India-Pak border in Jammu, reviews security scenario||Amid India-China standoff, Army chief General MM Naravane on Monday visited forward areas along the 198 kilometre-long India-Pak international border in Jammu region to review security scenario and preparedness of troops.“The Army chief arrived in a fixed-wing aircraft at the technical airport in Jammu and then visited Tiger Division from where he flew into the chopper to the forward areas to take stock of security scenario and to review operational preparedness of the troops, “ said a senior Army officer.The International Border (IB) in Jammu region is manned by the BSF on the Indian side and Pakistani Rangers on their side.Also read: Another terrorist killed in ongoing encounter in J-K’s AnantnagThe Border Roads Organisation (BRO) recently constructed six strategic bridges along the international border - two in Tarnah area of Hiranagar in Kathua district and four in Akhnoor-Pallanwala sector - for the swift movement of Armed Forces. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had inaugurated all six bridges recently.The Army officer informed that General MM Naravane will fly to Pathankot later in the day.“Though there is no heightened activity across the IB, Army chief had to see the prevailing security scenario,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-visits-india-pak-border-in-jammu-reviews-security-scenario/story-YxWb7J4X0Glxkm88hv4QtJ.html
13-07-2020||India||As Covid cases spike, half of Srinagar locks down||Lockdown restrictions returned in many parts of the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir’s capital, Srinagar, on Monday, as the authorities sealed several areas amid a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases over the past week.On Monday morning, the authorities, including police personnel, can be seen roaming on Srinagar’s streets and urging the public to stay indoors.“People are requested not to come out of their homes. Only your co-operation can help in the containment of this viral disease,” said the announcements made via public address system fitted on the vehicles.Shops and markets are closed and intra-district movement of mini-buses and private taxis has also been suspended.The roads are nearly deserted amid a massive presence of J&K Police and paramilitary forces.“The police have erected iron barricades and sealed roads in the containment zones. There is hardly any vehicular movement, except those for emergency services,” said Javaid Ahmad of Nowpora, a containment zone in Srinagar.On Sunday, J&K administration had ordered a partial lockdown in Srinagar — the worst-affected district in the UT — by designating over 88 containment zones amid a surge in Covid-19 positive cases over the past week, officials said.The lockdown is being imposed in 88 red zones of the city and no movement would be allowed in these areas without permission, they said.Shahid Chaudhary, deputy commissioner (DC), Srinagar, said that penalties have been increased such as Rs 1,000 for not wearing face masks in public places and Rs 10,000 for violating social distancing norms.Srinagar’s main thoroughfares are open, but the by-lanes and interiors of the city are off-limits for the public.“It took me 45 minutes to reach Khanyar from Karan Nagar, which usually takes a maximum of 15 minutes because all interior link roads have been barricaded. All markets are shut and a few people are out on the roads,” said Mohammad Saabit, a businessman from Srinagar’s Old City.J&K has reported 10,513 Covid-19 positive cases until Sunday since the first viral outbreak case was reported in the UT on March 9. The death toll stands at 179, including 162 and 17 in Kashmir and Jammu divisions, respectively, until Saturday.Srinagar has recorded 1,708 Covid-19 positive cases, including 1,145 active ones and 44 fatalities.Some areas have been de-notified, where there is no restriction on the movement of people, but authorities are urging the public to compulsorily wear face masks and strictly maintain social distancing norms in these areas.DC Chaudhary said 24 existing containment zones have been partially de-notified after they didn’t report any fresh Covid-19 positive cases.“We are thankful to the public for their co-operation and observing norms to bring their areas out of it. Gratitude to field teams for all the efforts. Let’s continue to observe precautions,” Chaudhary said.Healthcare experts have warned that hospitals in Srinagar would “crumble under pressure” if the administration did not impose lockdown restrictions soon amid a spike in Covid-19 positive cases.The Kashmir Valley has reported more Covid-19-related deaths since June 7, which has recorded a 73% spike in the total fatalities and 78 people succumbed to their viral infection in the past 12 days alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-cases-spike-half-of-srinagar-locks-down/story-bqSOVTpQPLwAmAKheDpgUJ.html
13-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Madhya Pradesh CM distributes portfolios, Scindia loyalists in charge of key ministries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MP cabinet: CM allocates portfolios, Scindia loyalists get key ministriesMadhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan distributed portfolios on Monday morning among 28 new ministers, who were inducted in the cabinet on July 2, CM secretariat officials said. Read moreBJP’s Bengal poll campaign film enacts rape scene, police report soughtThe West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a report from the Kolkata Police on a short poll campaign film made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) showing theatrical enactment of an alleged rape. Read morePadmanabha Swamy Temple to be managed by ex-royal family, rules Supreme CourtThe Supreme Court on Monday sided with the erstwhile Travancore Royal family for the administration and control of the Padmanabha Swamy temple in Kerala. Read moreRussian varsity claims successful trials of world’s first Covid-19 vaccine. Here’s how it was tested on volunteersA Russian university has claimed the clinical trials of the world’s first vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on volunteers have been completed successfully. Read moreSourav Ganguly had Harbhajan Singh, Anil Kumble: Former India skipper compares MS Dhoni’s Test captaincy with DadaWhen talking about making a mark in Test cricket in home conditions, India captain Sourav Ganguly’s name always comes to mind. The 2001 Test series win over Australia under Ganguly’s captaincy was an era-defining moment for Indian team. Read moreSamsung launches the SpaceMax Family Hub in India for ₹2,19,900Samsung has added to their Internet of Things (IoT) product portfolio in India with the launch of the connected SpaceMax Family Hub Refrigerator today. The SpaceMax Family Hub Refrigerator comes with features that automate meal planning, lets you see inside the refrigerator from anywhere and connects with other smart appliances at your home including smartphones. Read moreHogwarts-inspired makeover: Ulta Beauty is bringing a Harry Potter makeup collection for Potterheads soonBeauty brand Ulta Beauty announced the launch of a Harry Potter-themed makeup collection that includes Hogwarts-house themed eye-shadow palettes, brushes, and various lip products. Read moreInsect or flower? Oddly beautiful Orchid Mantis leaves netizens baffled. WatchThe Internet is full of videos of strange, mysterious, enigmatic and beautiful creatures and it seems the list remains unending. One such clip shared by IFS officer Susanta Nanda is an addition to that treasure trove. Read moreWatch: At least 21 injured in explosion & fire on naval ship in San Diego||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-madhya-pradesh-cm-distributes-portfolios-scindia-loyalists-in-charge-of-key-ministries-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TKMoUFx483ujIng3LiFXyM.html
13-07-2020||India||Sanjay Jha wades into Gehlot vs Pilot in Rajasthan, faults Cong for turmoil||Sanjay Jha, the Congress leader sacked last month as party spokesperson last month for his critical comments, on Monday sided with Sachin Pilot who led the Congress campaign in the 2018 assembly elections but had to settle as the number 2 in the Rajasthan government. “I fully back Sachin Pilot,” Sanjay Jha said, expressing support to Sachin Pilot who rebuilt the party during the years that he was Rajasthan Congress chief.Jha, a familiar face of the Congress on television debates, was sacked as the party spokesperson’s post after a newspaper article that was severely critical of the party leadership.His tweets came around the same time that the Congress, after several phone calls from the party leadership to Pilot, decided to follow up with a public appeal. Congress spokesperson Randeep Sdustaurjewala told reporters that the party’s doors were open for him. The Congress-led coalition has 125 lawmakers in the 200-member assembly. The majority mark is 101.“Look at the facts,” Jha said, underlining that the Congress had reached its lowest tally of 21 seats in the 2013 elections when Ashok Gehlot was the chief minister. Sachin Pilot was appointed the Rajasthan Congress president the next year.In 2018 - when Pilot had a lead role in the election campaign - the Congress ended up with 100 seats and more than halved the BJP’s presence in the assembly, down from 163 in 2013 to 73.“One man slogged 5 years for it; Sachin. But who becomes the CM?” he said, crediting the Congress “spectacular single-handed comeback” in 2018 to Sachin Pilot. He also wondered if Gehlot, who had already twice been the chief minister, needed to become the chief minister for a third time.To be sure, Sachin Pilot and his supporters had tried hard to persuade the Congress leadership in the days after the 2018 elections that the 42-year-old should be given an opportunity to run Rajasthan. But Gehlot had been unwilling to back down. Eventually, the Congress attempted a balancing act by giving Gehlot a lead role and convincing Pilot to be his number 2.But the two clearly did not get along, particularly over the assessment in the Pilot camp that Gehlot had been trying to undercut him and appoint bureaucrats in ministries held by Pilot. A parallel campaign had also started within the party to seek Pilot’s removal as the Rajasthan Congress chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-jha-wades-into-gehlot-vs-pilot-in-rajasthan-faults-cong-for-turmoil/story-IhOjo3ZhC7sYRaLiXqc82H.html
13-07-2020||India||Two hardcore Maoists surrender before police in Odisha’s Malkangiri district||Two hardcore Maoists, including a woman cadre, carrying a combined cash reward of Rs six lakh on their heads and wanted in many crimes, have surrendered before the police in Odisha’s Malkangiri district, a senior officer said.Kanna Madhi, an area committee member of the outlawed CPI (Maoist), and Lake Punem, a woman cadre hailing from neighbouring Chhattisgarh, surrendered before Malkangiri Superintendent of Police, Rishikesh D Khilari on Sunday saying they were disillusioned with extortion and exploitation of innocent people by the Naxals.Madhi (24), who hailed from Kalimela area of Malkangiri district, was carrying a reward of Rs 4 lakh on his head declared by the Odisha government, the SP said.Madhi joined the banned organization in 2013 and was an area committee member in the ‘Andhra Odisha border military platoon’ of the CPI (Maoist) and operating in Malkangiri and Koraput region, the SP said.Lake (22) hailed from Bhusan village in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh and carried a reward of Rs 2 lakh on her head announced by the Odisha government, he said.While Madhi is suspected to be involved in around 10 cases relating to murder, IED blasts and exchange of fire with security forces, Lake was wanted in connection with several offences including a murder case and encounters with security personnel, police said.Both the surrendered ultras said they decided to give up the path of violence and return to the social mainstream as they realized that the Maoists were indulging in extortion and killing of innocent tribals instead of helping the poor.The two also alleged that they were being ill-treated by their seniors and said intensive operations by the security forces in the region had also put tremendous pressure on them.Both will be provided with monetary assistance as per the Surrender and Rehabilitation Scheme of the Odisha government and financial assistance for building of house, pursuing studies and training in a trade/vocational of their liking, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-hardcore-maoists-surrender-before-police-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-district/story-ZZY9zatXDpnMqlEba2aR9K.html
13-07-2020||India||Maharashtra: Major cities under stricter lockdown till weekend as Covid cases surge||The growing number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases have led most of the civic bodies in Maharashtra to enforce stricter lockdown restrictions that have been extended until July 19.Besides the municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Aurangabad, and Solapur have also extended the lockdown restrictions.Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Navi Mumbai – part of the densely populated MMR – have imposed a new round of lockdown restrictions until July 19.Similar steps have been taken by Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad Solapur, and Aurangabad municipal corporations.While Nagpur and Nashik civic bodies have warned the public of imposing similar lockdown restrictions if the overcrowding on streets goes out of control.Mumbai, however, has succeeded in stabilising the spike over the past few weeks, officials said.In Maharashtra, the Covid-19 positive cases have spiked amid the state government’s Mission Begin Again campaign that started from June 3 in a bid to open up commercial activities to revive the economy battered by the viral outbreak.On June 3, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 count and fatalities stood at 74,680 and 2,587, respectively.But, a month on, the corresponding tallies had risen to 1,92,990 and 8,376, respectively.The viral outbreak was pronounced in several densely populated urban parts of the state, including MMR, Pune Metropolitan Region, Nashik, Aurangabad, and Solapur, prompting civic authorities to enforce stricter lockdown restrictions by prohibiting the public from stepping out of their homes unless for essential services.“The state government was planning to roll out the next phase of Mission Begin Again campaign by allowing more employees to attend private companies and easing public transport restrictions from the first week of July. However, MMR civic bodies opposed the move because of a spike in Covid-19 positive cases owing to the increase in movement of the public between Mumbai and adjoining urban centres such as Thane, Kalyan-Dombiwali, and Mira-Bhayandar. The municipal authorities have demanded an extension in lockdown restrictions in a bid to rein in the viral outbreak. This is the crucial week as far as containment and the viral spread is concerned. We expect the viral scourge to stabilise soon,” said a state government official requesting anonymity.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had held a meeting with the civic bodies last week, except the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), and directed the MMR chief to take a leaf of the BMC’s book by ramping up their respective healthcare infrastructure.Nashik’s guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has warned the public that stricter lockdown restrictions would be imposed if norms are found to be violated.“The lockdown norms were relaxed in a bid to revive the economy. But, the public has stopped following the norms, triggering the spike in Covid-19 positive cases. We will be forced to impose stricter lockdown restrictions, if the public doesn’t pay heed to our advice,” Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had said on Saturday.Maharashtra has reported 2.54 lakh Covid-19 positive cases and 10,289 viral outbreak-related deaths until Sunday – the highest in the country on both counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-major-cities-under-stricter-lockdown-till-weekend-as-covid-cases-surge/story-n2zV1biJzKgMhOMjtn5cGL.html
13-07-2020||India||After phone calls, Congress delivers a public appeal to Sachin Pilot to stay put||Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Monday said that issues within a family must be resolved with the members by sitting together and finding a solution. Reacting to the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan, Sujrewala said that the party’s doors are always open Sachin Pilot or any other member. “If anyone is upset in family, they should find a solution by sitting with members of the family. On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member,” Surjewala said on Monday.  #WATCH If anyone is upset in family, they should find a solution by sitting with members of the family...On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji & Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member: Randeep Surjewala, Congress pic.twitter.com/x4sYvVs4GkHe also said that over the last 48 hours, the Congress leadership has spoken to Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot a number of times about the present political situation in the state.“If anyone, be at any post or profile, has any problem, they must come forward and mention the issue on the party forum. We will work to resolve it together and keep our government intact in the state,” Sujrewala added. Amid the ongoing political tussle in Rajasthan, a close aide of Pilot told HT that the deputy chief minister is unlikely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party.According to Pilot’s supporters, the deputy CM had raised issues against the functioning of chief minister Gehlot over the past fortnight. “His concerns were not addressed,” said a party leader considered close to Pilot. If anyone, be at any post or profile, has any problem, they must come forward and mention the issue on the party forum. We will work to resolve it together and keep our govt intact in the state: Randeep Surjewala, Congress. #Rajasthan https://t.co/ujJzRgwd1sThe political turmoil in Rajasthan intensified with chief minister Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot at loggerheads. While Gehlot has blamed the BJP for trying to destabilise the state government by poaching MLAs, Pilot is camping in Delhi to speak to the party leadership regarding the political turmoil in the state.The Congress Legislative Party (CLP) had issued a whip to its MLAs to attend a legislature meeting in Jaipur today, stating that they will face disciplinary action on skipping the meeting without mentioning a reason.Congress has 107 MLAs in Rajasthan assembly and the Gehlot government is supported by 10 Independent MLAs and two each from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party. The BJP has 72 seats in the 200-member Assembly.As many as 30 Congress MLAs and some independent legislators who are in touch with Sachin Pilot have pledged their support to him. The Congress, however, has maintained that a total of “109 MLAs have signed a letter expressing their trust and support to a government led by CM Ashok Gehlot”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-political-crisis-in-rajasthan-cong-says-leadership-spoke-to-sachin-pilot-number-of-times-over-last-48-hours/story-gHB49xNjps8bRwjUb7qZ1N.html
13-07-2020||India||SC confirms Travancore royal family’s rights in running of Kerala temple||The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday upheld the rights of the Travancore royal family over the Padmanabhaswamy temple at Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, putting an end to the 11-year-old litigation.A two-member SC bench, headed by Justices UU Lalit and Indu Malhotra, allowed the appeal filed by the king of the Travancore royal family challenging a 2011 Kerala high court (HC) judgment that had given the rights over the temple to the Kerala government.The court held that the Shebaitship -- the right to maintain and manage the temple and the deity -- of the royal family over the shrine would not come to an end with the death of the ruler in 1991, who had signed the instrument of accession with the Indian government by which the erstwhile princely state of Travancore had merged with the Indian Union.The court ordered that for now, an administrative committee with the district judge of Thiruvananthapuram, as its chairperson, would manage the shrine’s daily administration.The temple had come under media glare when the apex court in 2011 had ordered an inventory of the temple and its properties. This led to the opening of five of the six vaults of the temple, leading to the discovery of treasure trove valued at around Rs 90,000 crore.One of the vaults, vault B, was not opened and it was later put on hold by the court. Now, the administrative committee will decide whether vault B should be opened.The temple was under the management of a trust headed by the king of the royal family, when a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in 2009 in Kerala HC by a former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, TP Sundara Rajan, praying that its control should be handed over to the Kerala government.This petition was entertained by the Kerala HC, which had held in January 2011 that after Chithira Thirunal Balaverma, the ruler, who signed agreement of the accession with the Indian government, passed away in 1991, the temple would stand vested with the Kerala government.The royal family then moved the SC, which, in 2014, constituted an administrative committee to manage the temple in the interim.In August 2012, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium was appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court) by the SC. Subramanium submitted a voluminous report before the court in April 2014, alleging serious mismanagement of the temple by the trust and indicting the royal family on various counts.The court after accepting the report set up an administrative committee on April 24, 2014, to manage the temple in the interim and also ordered a special audit of the temple and its properties by Vinod Rai, the former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-confirms-travancore-royal-family-s-rights-in-running-of-kerala-temple/story-zs7raGS7I4e8P46KewXCgP.html
13-07-2020||India||MP cabinet: CM allocates portfolios, Scindia loyalists get key ministries||Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan distributed portfolios on Monday morning among 28 new ministers, who were inducted in the cabinet on July 2, CM secretariat officials said.Earlier, the first Cabinet expansion had taken place on April 21 amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and about a month after Chouhan assumed office for a fourth term. Five ministers were inducted in the first cabinet expansion.The current strength of the Chouhan cabinet is 34, including the CM, and one ministerial berth is still lying vacant.The CM holds the following portfolios -- general administration department, public relations, Narmada valley development, aviation, and all other departments not given to any other minister.Dr. Prabhuram Chaudhary, a loyalist of Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, has been allocated the public health and family welfare portfolio amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: Narottam Mishra is MP home minister, Yashodhara Raje Scindia gets sports. Check full listState home minister Narottam Mishra, who was holding the public health and family welfare portfolio to date, has made way for Dr. Chaudhary, the erstwhile school education minister in the then Kamal Nath-led Congress government.Mishra retains home and has also been given additional charges, including jail, parliamentary affairs, law, and legislative affairs.Gopal Bhargava is the new public works department (PWD) minister. He has also been given the additional charge for cottage and village industries (gramodyog).Bhargava, who belongs to MP’s Bundelkhand region is a veteran BJP minister, having held rural development and panchayat raj portfolios in earlier Chouhan’s tenure as the CM.Tulsiram Silavat, a Scindia loyalist, who is among the five ministers inducted in the first expansion on April 21, has retained the water resources department and was also given fisheries as an additional charge.Another Scindia loyalist, Govind Singh Rajput, is the new revenue and transport minister, the same portfolio he had held in the Kamal Nath cabinet.In the first cabinet expansion, he was given food and civil supplies.Imrati Devi has been given the women and child development department, which she had held in the earlier Congress government.Similarly, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, who was the labour minister in the then Kamal Nath government, has been allocated rural development and panchayat raj.Pradyumn Singh Tomar, the former food and civil supplies minister in the Congress government, has been given the energy portfolio.Devi, Sisodia, and Tomar are known to be Scindia loyalists.Besides Mishra and Bhargava, Jagdish Devda is the other senior BJP leader, who has been named the new finance minister. He has also been given the additional charge of commercial tax, planning, economic affairs, and statistics.Vijay Shah has got the forest department portfolio.Yashodhara Raje Scindia has been given the charge of sports and youth welfare, technical education, skill development, and employment ministries.Bhupendra Singh, who was the home minister in the previous Chouhan cabinet prior to 2018 assembly elections, is the new urban development and housing minister. Bisahu Lal Singh, a senior lawmaker and among the 22 ex-lawmakers, who had resigned from the MP Assembly in March as rebel Congress legislatures to pave the way for the formation of the Chouhan-led BJP government, has been allocated the food and civil supplies and consumer protection portfolios. He had been a minister in the then Digvijaya Singh-led government as well.Minister for tribal and scheduled caste welfare Meena Singh and minister for farmers’ welfare and agriculture development Kamal Patel, who were inducted into the Cabinet on April 21, have retained their portfolios.Other ministers and their departments include Aindal Singh Kansana (public health engineering, PHE); Brijendra Pratap Singh (mineral resources and labour); Vishwas Sarang (medical education and Bhopal gas tragedy relief and rehabilitation); Prem Singh Patel (animal husbandry and social justice); Omprakash Saklecha (micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) and science and technology); Usha Thakur (tourism, culture, and Adhyatm); Arvind Bhadoria (co-operative and public service management); Mohan Yadav (higher education); Hardeep Singh Dang (new and renewable energy and environment); and Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon (industrial policy and investment promotion).The ministers of state and their departments include Bharat Singh Kushwah, horticulture and food processing (independent charge) and Narmada valley development; Indar Singh Parmar, school education (independent charge) and general administration; Ramkhelavan Patel- backward class and minority welfare and de-notified nomadic and semi-nomadic caste welfare (independent charge) and panchayat and rural development; Ram Kishore Kanware, Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH) (independent charge) and water resources; Brijendra Singh Yadav, PHE; Girraj Dandotia, farmers’ welfare and agriculture development, Suresh Dhakad PWD; and OPS Bhadauria, urban administration, and development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cabinet-cm-allocates-portfolios-scindia-loyalists-get-key-ministries/story-LS2OEU19jocr6mGwmp7OAI.html
13-07-2020||India||Battling surge in infections, Karnataka reports more active cases than Delhi and Gujarat: Covid-19 state tally||As coronavirus cases continue to rise across the country, states are also seeing a rapid rise in patients who are beating the deadly contagion and recovering from the infection. The south Indian state of Karnataka is one where active cases of Covid-19 are more than what is being reported in some of the worst affected states like Gujarat, and Delhi.Karnataka has reported 38,843 total Covid-19 cases of which 22,750 are active cases - more than Delhi (19,155) and Gujarat (10,613). Active cases stand for the number of Covid-19 patients at present, excluding those who have recovered from the infection and fatalities. Overtaking Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka is now the fifth worst-affected state in the country. India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday jumped to 878,254, as per the data shared by the Ministry of Health. So far, 553,470 people have beaten the disease across India while the death toll stands at 23,174. Also read: 28,701 new Covid-19 cases, 500 deaths take India’s tally beyond 8.78 lakhHere’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 254,427 on Monday. Over 140,325 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 10,289 have died.Tamil NaduWith 138,470 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 1,966 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 89,532.DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 112,494 on Monday. As many as 89,968 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital while 3,371 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 41,820 on Monday. The state has seen 29,162 people recover from coronavirus while 2,045 people have died.Karnataka The South India state has witnessed 38,843 coronavirus cases till date and is now the fifth worst-affected state overtaking Uttar Pradesh. While 684 have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 15,409 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 36,476 while the number of recoveries has touched 23,334. The state’s death toll stands at 934.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 34,671 coronavirus cases. While 22,482 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 356 in the state.West BengalAs many as 30,013 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 18,581 recover from coronavirus while 932 people have been killed.Andhra Pradesh The state has reported 29,168 Covid-19 patients till date. While 15,412 people have recovered from the virus across the state, the death toll stands at 328.RajasthanThe state has reported 24,392 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 510 while 18,103 patients have recovered.Other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 21,240. Over 17,632 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has crossed 16,42, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 10,000. In Odisha, cases have crossed 13,000 while Assam has reported over 16,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 7,821, and the number of cases in Kerala stands at 7,873. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,537 cases. In Jharkhand, coronavirus cases inch toward 4,000-mark. Chandigarh, Tripura, Nagaland, Ladakh, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battling-surge-in-infections-karnataka-reports-more-active-cases-than-delhi-and-gujarat-covid-19-state-tally/story-i4DldBflO99vX3AuK3xrpI.html
13-07-2020||India||Another terrorist killed in ongoing encounter in J-K’s Anantnag||Security forces on Monday killed two terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed, one of them a foreigner, in an ongoing gun battle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag, officials said.One of them was gunned earlier in the day in Srigufwara area of Anantnag, where the encounter erupted early in the morning. Officials had said two to three terrorists were holed up at the encounter site.“#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: 01 more #unidentified #terrorist killed (total 02). Search going on. #Incriminating materials including #arms & #ammunition recovered. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Zone police tweeted.On Sunday, three terrorists were killed in a day-long encounter with security forces in Sopore in the northern district of Baramulla.Lashkar-e-Taiba’s (LeT’s) Usman was among those killed in the encounter in Reban.“He was involved in a recent terror attack at Sopore in which one CRPF jawan was martyred and a civilian was also killed. Big success for police and security forces,” Vijay Kumar, Kashmir’s inspector general of police, said. “Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. Searches were going,” Kashmir Police Zone also tweeted.Police along with security forces have arrested four associates of terrorists during two separate search operations at Chandargeer and Sadhunara areas of Bandipora.Bandipora Police along with 13 Rashtriya Rifles and 45th Battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), acting on a specific input, arrested a terrorist associate during a search operation in Chandargeer. He has been identified as Shafat Ahmad Dar resident of Chandargeer. Incriminating materials including a live grenade has been recovered from his possession, officials said.Similarly, during another search operation in Sadhunara, security forces arrested three more terrorist associates identified as Mudasir Ahmad Khawaja, Abdul Qayoom Margo and Ishfaq Ahmad Dar all residents of Sadhunara.Incriminating material, including two live grenades, a AK magazine, 25 live rounds of AK-47 rifle and a UBGL, has been recovered from their possession.Officials said all the four associates are actively involved in providing logistic support and shelter to active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). A case under relevant sections of law was registered in Hajin police station and further investigation was initiated, they added.Suspected terrorists also attempted to attack a deployment of central armed forces with grenades at Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama.“Terrorist attempted an attack on CAPF at 1645 hours today at Chersoo, Awantipora. Suspects moving on a bike threw two grenades on CAPF (who were) deploying without taking out pins. Grenades did not explode. Efforts are on to nab the terrorists,” a spokesperson of the Indian Army said.Officials have said around 134 terrorists have been killed in Kashmir so far this year with 48 of them in June, the highest monthly toll in recent years. Majority of these militants have been killed in south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-ongoing-encounter-in-j-k-s-anantnag/story-UDmIS4nVPQ44QBdhXj1AVK.html
13-07-2020||India||Padmanabha Swamy Temple to be managed by ex-royal family, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday sided with the erstwhile Travancore Royal family for the administration and control of the Padmanabha Swamy temple in Kerala. Settling the long-running dispute, the top court overturned the January 2011 judgment of the Kerala high court which had ruled that the state government should take over the control of the temple from a trust headed by the former royal family.“Great God’s will prevailed. Will say more about it after going through the whole verdict,” said Princess Gowri Lakshmibai of the erstwhile Travancore royal family soon after the judgment.Devotees came out in large numbers and distributed sweets before the sixth century temple, situated in the heart of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram. Some devotees were even seen crying before the temple. The Kerala state government welcomed the verdict.“We are bound to go by the verdict. We have always followed the apex court order in letter and spirit,” said state Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran. The temple shot into limelight after the top court in May 2011 ordered a detailed inventory of the articles in the temple vaults which had long rumoured to be holding immense riches.When five its six vaults, known as ‘Kallara’ in Malayalam, were opened in line with the court order, vast treasure of gold and other priceless objects were discovered. It was estimated that the intrinsic value of the treasure amounted to more than Rs 90,000 crore. One of the vaults, Kallara B could not be opened and the opening of the same was later kept in abeyance by the apex court.In August 2012, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium was appointed Amicus Curiae (friend of the court) by the Supreme Court. Subramanium submitted a voluminous report before the court in April 2014 alleging serious mismanagement of the temple by the trust and indicting the royal family on various counts.The temple was under the control of a trust headed by the ex-royals’ family until April 2014 when the top court by way of a crucial interim order handed over its management to a four-member administrative committee headed by a district judge.The legal genesis of the dispute lies in the agreement of accession (agreement) signed between the Kings of Travancore with the Government of India in 1949 by which the princely state of Travancore became a part of the Indian Union.Article VII of the agreement provided that administration of the Padmanabha Swamy temple shall be conducted, subject to the control and supervision of the ruler of Travancore, by an executive officer appointed by the ruler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-upholds-the-rights-of-travancore-royal-family-to-administer-kerala-s-padmanabhaswamy-temple/story-0Ts5b1lxLfD5QOgPXGIYcM.html
13-07-2020||India||Narottam Mishra is MP home minister, Yashodhara Raje Scindia gets sports. Check full list||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has divided the portfolios among 28 ministers more than a week after they were inducted into the cabinet.Narottam Mishra has been made the home minister of Madhya Pradesh and has also been given the responsibility of parliamentary affairs and law and Justice ministries. Yashodhara Raje Scindia has been given the responsibility of the ministry of sports and youth welfare as well as the ministry of technical education, skill development and employment in the government.Also read| MP cabinet: CM allocates portfolios, Scindia loyalists get key ministriesHere is a list of ministers:* Narottam Mishra - Home, jail, parliamentary affairs and law* Gopal Bhargava - Public works, cottage and village industries* Tulsi Ram Silvat - Water resources, fisheries welfare and fisheries development* Vijay Shah - Forest* Jadgish Deora - Commercial taxes, finance, planning economic and statistics* Bisahu Lal Singh - Food civil supplies and consumer protection* Yashodhara Raje Scindia - Sports and youth welfare, technical education cell development and employment* Bhupendra Singh - Urban development and housing* Meena Singh Mandwe - Primitive caste welfare, Scheduled Caste welfare* Kamal Patel - Farmers welfare and agricultural development* Aidal Singh Kanshana - Public health engineering* Govind Singh Rajput - Revenue, transport* Brijendra Pratap Singh - Mineral resources, labour* Vishwas Sarang - Medical education, Bhopal gas tragedy relief and rehabilitation* Imarti Devi - Women and child development* Prabhuram Chaudhary - Public health and family welfare* Mahendra Singh Sisodia - Panchayat and rural development* Pradyuman Singh Tomar - Energy* Prem Singh Patel - Animal husbandry, social justice and disabled welfare* Om Prakash Sakleva - Micro, small and medium enterprises, science and technology* Usha Thakur - Tourism, culture, spirituality* Arvind Bhadoria - Cooperatives, lake service management* Mohan Yadav - Higher education* Hardeep Singh Dung - New and renewable energy, environment* Rajwardhan Singh Prem Singh Dattigaon - Industrial policy and investment promotionMinisters of state* Bharat Singh Kushwah - Horticulture and food processing (Independent Charge), Narmada Valley development* Inder Singh Parmar - School education (Independent Charge), general administration* Ramkhelavan Patel - Backward class and minority welfare and denotified nomadic and semi-nomadic caste welfare (Independent Charge), panchayat and rural development* Ram Kishore (Nano) Kanware - AYUSH (Independent Charge), water resources* Brijendra Singh Yadav - Public health engineering* Giriraj Dandotia - Farmer welfare and agriculture development* Suresh Dhakad - PWD* OPS Bhadauria - Urban administration and development||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narottam-mishra-is-mp-home-minister-yashodhara-raje-scindia-gets-sports-check-full-list/story-5Xdmi3cGBTwISiu9OgCjdI.html
13-07-2020||India||28,701 new Covid-19 cases, 500 deaths take India’s tally beyond 8.78 lakh||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stood at 878,254 with another single-day spike of 28,701 fresh cases and 500 deaths, according to the Union health ministry on Monday.India has added nearly three lakh Covid-19 cases in the last 13 days—on July 1 there were 585,493 infections.The health ministry’s dashboard showed 553,470 people have been cured of the viral disease, 18,850 between Sunday and Monday morning, taking the recovery rate to 63%.There are 301,609 active cases of Covid-19 across the country. The death toll in India, the third worst-hit nation in the world, stands at 23,174. Also read: Plasma therapy a ray of hope as Covid-19 patient comes out of ventilator supportThe country’s worst-affected state of Maharashtra has 254,427 Covid-19 cases and 10289 deaths, while Tamil Nadu has reported 138,470 infections and 1,966 fatalities. Delhi has had 112,494 Covid-19 cases and 3,371 deaths so far.Several states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Assam, have extended their lockdown curbs in hotspots in yet another attempt to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.“India’s clinical protocol has focused on early detection through widespread testing, surveillance, prompt triaging and clinical management of cases,” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday.“This has resulted in one of the lowest case fatality rate of 2.66%. Our success can be seen in the recovery rate which is almost 63% with more than 5.3 lakh patients recovered,” he said.Also read: Pune lockdown starts from today. Here’s what you need to knowHe added as the country proceeds further into Unlock 2.0, it is critical to ensure that everyone relies on the “social vaccine” of “do gaj ki doori” and must follow appropriate behaviour.According to Johns Hopkins University, 12.8 million people have contracted the viral disease and 568,528 have succumbed till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-701-new-covid-19-cases-500-deaths-take-india-s-tally-beyond-8-78-lakh/story-789zrK5nmW2lNjwvZ9rCWK.html
13-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot not joining BJP, says his aide amid turmoil in Rajasthan Congress||Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot is not joining the BJP nor is there any meeting planned with the opposition party, a close aide of the leader told Hindustan Times on Monday. However, Pilot will not be attending the legislature party meeting called by chief minister Ashok Gehlot at 10:30 am. Pilot, who has been away from Jaipur since Saturday, will continue to camp in Delhi.Also read: Rajasthan Cong issues whip before legislature party meeting, claims support of 109 MLAsPilot’s aide pointed out that it was against the rules for the CM to issue a whip when the assembly was not in session. he aslo asked how can whip be issued for a meeting at the CM’s home.Late last night, Pilot’s office issued a statement saying the Gehlot government is in a minority and claimed the support of 30 MLAs. A few hours later, at a 2:30 am press conference, the Congress said a total of “109 MLAs have signed a letter expressing their trust and support to a government led by CM Ashok Gehlot”.Party’s Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande said a whip has been issued to all party MLAs to be mandatorily present at the Monday legislature party meeting, adding strict disciplinary action will be taken against any MLA who is absent without mentioning any reason.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken were sent to Jaipur to stem the fallout from the brewing political crisis in the state unit over differences between the CM and his deputy.Pilot’s supporters said he has raised issues against the functioning of Gehlot over the past fortnight with the party’s state in-charge and Avinash Pande, Congress organisation secretary KC Venugopal and senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel in Delhi.“His concerns were not addressed,” said a party leader considered close to Pilot.The ongoing crisis reahed a tipping point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state. Gehlot had alleged on Saturday that the BJP is trying to topple his government, a charge vehemently denied by the opposition party.For the Congress, the developments in Rajasthan could be reminiscent of what happened in Madhya Pradesh in March, when 24 legislators owing allegiance to Scindia resigned from the party and the state assembly, reducing chief minister Kamal Nath’s government to a minority.In the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, the Congress has the support of 125 MLAs, including 107 of its own legislators. The majority mark is 101. The BJP has 72 legislators and has the support of three of Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RPL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-not-joining-bjp-says-his-aide-amid-turmoil-in-rajasthan-congress/story-SonvuUZQWKNraaRKNfIchL.html
13-07-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh: Bank robbery accused shot at, injured by police in encounter||Three persons, accused of a bank robbery in Indore on Friday afternoon, have been arrested, police said. Earlier, two more persons, who were allegedly involved in the bank heist, have been arrested.The accused have been identified as Shubham Karde, Shubham Verma, Ankur Chauksey, Rohit Yadav and bank guard Rajesh. “An encounter led to the arrest of three persons. Karde and Chauksey sustained bullet injuries, while Verma was hurt in his legs, as tried to jump off a bridge,” said HN Mishra, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore.“Four armed men robbed a private bank’s branch at Pardesipura in Indore on Friday afternoon and decamped with Rs 5.35 lakh. Preliminary investigation revealed suspicious behaviour of Rajesh, the bank’s security guard. Later, he confessed to his crime and told the police that he had helped the four armed robbers to loot the bank,” Mishra said. “We got a tip-off that the three accused, Karde (24), Verma (20), and Chauksey (30), were present near the super corridor bridge in Indore and a police team was sent there to nab them. The trio fired at the police team unprovoked. The police, too, opened retaliatory fire. Karde and Chauksey sustained bullet injuries. While Verma got hurt while trying to escape,” Mishra said. On Saturday, the fourth accused Rohit Yadav (28) was arrested from Madhya Pradesh’s Shivpuri district.Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Indore, Shashikant Kankane; Indore city superintendent of police (CSP) Nihit Upadhyaya; Pardesipura police station in-charge Rahul Sharma; Banganga police station in-charge Rajendra Soni; and constable Mukesh Singh also sustained injuries in the encounter, the DIG said.Police have recovered Rs 3.10 lakh of the stolen cash and two country-made pistols from the accused.Nine accused, who were involved in loot of ornaments and cash from a trader’s family at an apartment in Usha Nagar, Indore, last Wednesday afternoon have been also been arrested. The looters held the women and a three-old child of the family hostage while carrying out the loot. The arrested accused also include the guard of the apartment, the DIG added.(With additional inputs from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bank-robbery-accused-shot-at-and-injured-by-police-in-encounter/story-POjCkB73u3wy9iwIniFAbN.html
13-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Another shock for Congress in Madhya Pradesh as MLA joins BJP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid Rajasthan crisis, Congress suffers another jolt in Madhya Pradesh as MLA joins BJPPradyumn Singh Lodhi, a Congress legislator from Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region, resigned from the state assembly and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. Lodhi’s resignation has come amid the political crisis the Congress is facing in Rajasthan after having lost its government in Madhya Pradesh. Read morePlasma therapy a ray of hope as Covid-19 patient comes out of ventilator supportPlasma therapy as a cure to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has kindled a ray of hope after a doctor from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur was weaned off ventilator support, besides two other patients, at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna. Read moreOur cadres killed in Arunachal Pradesh to send message to China, says NSCN-IMThe Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) has alleged that six of the insurgent outfit’s cadres were killed by security forces in Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday in order to send a message to China. Read moreBrazil’s coronavirus death toll surpasses 72,000More than 630 new coronavirus-related deaths were confirmed in Brazil in the past 24 hours, bringing the country’s total Covid-19 death toll up to over 72,000 according to the latest data from the Health Ministry. In the past 24 hours, 24,831 new cases and 631 new deaths from Covid-19 were confirmed, according to Sunday health ministry data. Read moreSunil Gavaskar said ‘do only one thing’: Inzamam-ul-Haq reveals how India great’s advice helped him tackle short ballsFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq lauded India legend Sunil Gavaskar, explaining how a piece of simple and short advice from the opener helped him overcome problems against short-pitched deliveries. Inzamam said he went on his first tour to England after a successful World Cup in 1992 in Australia and there he faced troubles handling short deliveries. Read moreAnupam Kher says mother moved to isolation unit after testing positive for Covid-19, thanks fans for wishesActor Anupam Kher has given an update on his mother’s health after she was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Sunday. Anupam’s brother Raju, his sister-in-law and his niece were also found positive for the novel coronavirus. Read moreCreative hacks people are using during the pandemic: Weird or Genius? You decideHuman ingenuity and tenacity are the stuff of legend. Since the beginning of time, we have persevered through all the world has thrown at us. We are not at the top of the food chain by accident. No matter the situation, humans learn to evolve and overcome. Read moreWatching this cat sleep may make you wonder what he is dreaming about. WatchMany may agree with us when we say that cats are mysterious beings. Their derpiness usually doesn’t fail to surprise us. Now, here is a feline who is mystifying us even as it sleeps. Posted on Reddit July 11, the clip is almost 5 seconds long. Read moreWatch| HT Salutes: Burdwan cop who turned messiah to help the needy with ration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-another-shock-for-congress-in-madhya-pradesh-as-mla-joins-bjp-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NPe700zdMuketEEvB1W27K.html
13-07-2020||India||‘Is he in Delhi? Am not aware’: Rajasthan Congress in-charge on Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande landed in Jaipur last evening from Delhi. At the airport, the leader appeared surprised when he was asked about if he met deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in Delhi. “Is he in Delhi? I didn’t know about it,” Pande told a posse of reporters gathered around him at the city airport.  #WATCH: Is he in Delhi? I didn't know about it: #Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande on being asked if he met Sachin Pilot in Delhi, after arriving at Jaipur Airport late last night (12.07.2020) pic.twitter.com/FrDX4gY2PrA miffed Sachin Pilot has been camping in Delhi with MLAs loyal to him amidst apprehensions over a possible split in the party. The Congress had also sent two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – to Jaipur in a bid to iron out differences between Pilot and CM Ashok Gehlot, who have differed on a number of issues since the formation of the party’s government in 2018.Pande, at a 2:30 am press conference last night, in a counter claim said the Congress had the support of 109 MLAs hours after Sachin Pilot’s media office released a statement claiming the Ashok Gehlot government was in a minority.“A total of 109 MLAs have signed a letter expressing their trust and support to the government led by CM Ashok Gehlot and leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Few more MLAs had telephonic conversation with CM and they’ll also sign a letter of support till morning,” said Pande at a 2:30 am press briefing. There was no mention of deputy CM Sachin Pilot in that.He further added that a whip has been issued to all party MLAs to be mandatorily present at the Congress legislature party meeting to be held today, adding a strict action will be taken against any MLA who is absent without mentioning the reason.Pilot, who is also Rajasthan Congress president, has already made it clear that he won’t be attending the meeting. The ongoing crisis erupted after Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state.Pilot’s supporters said he has raised issues against the functioning of Gehlot over the past fortnight with the party’s state in-charge Avinash Pande, Congress organisation secretary KC Venugopal and senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel in Delhi. “His concerns were not addressed,” said a party leader considered close to Pilot.CM Gehlot alleged on Saturday that the BJP is trying to topple his government, a charge vehemently denied by the opposition party. With Pilot rushing to Delhi on the same day, some Congress legislators backing him and a few Rajasthan BJP MLAs are said to be staying in a five-star hotel in Manesar on the outskirts of Delhi.In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has the support of 125 MLAs, including 107 of its own legislators. The party has the backing of 13 independents and five from other parties. The majority mark is 101. The BJP has 72 legislators and has the support of three of Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RPL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-he-in-delhi-am-not-aware-rajasthan-congress-in-charge-on-sachin-pilot/story-H8UOm23LsSi2voCyqADdmI.html
13-07-2020||India||Amid Rajasthan crisis, Congress suffers another jolt in Madhya Pradesh as MLA joins BJP||Pradyumn Singh Lodhi, a Congress legislator from Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region, resigned from the state assembly and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday.Lodhi’s resignation has come amid the political crisis the Congress is facing in Rajasthan after having lost its government in Madhya Pradesh.The 52-year-old Lodhi’s jump to the ruling party has also come at a time when Congress with 24 MLAs short of the majority mark in the 230-member state assembly hopes to regain power by defeating the BJP in the by-polls to the 24 assembly seats.The dates for the by-polls are yet to be announced by Election Commission of India (ECI).Lodhi joined the BJP at state BJP headquarters in presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state BJP president VD Sharma and certain other BJP leaders.“Bundelkhand needs more irrigation projects to check migration from there. My demand for a Rs 450-crore irrigation project for the region was accepted by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan two days back despite the state government facing a financial constraint,” Lodhi said after he joined the BJP. “Two other projects have been sanctioned for the region. I have joined the BJP for development of my region and BJP’s policies are public welfare-oriented,” he added.Soon after he joined the BJP, he was appointed the chairperson of the Civil Supplies Corporation.Lodhi, who is considered close to former chief minister Uma Bharti and Union minister Prahlad Patel, won the 2018 state assembly elections from Malhara seat in Chhatarpur district 19 months ago to enter the House the first time. Protem speaker of state assembly Rameshwar Sharma said on Sunday Lodhi tendered his resignation from the state assembly on Saturday. “I asked him to not to take such a decision in haste and consult others whoever he wanted to, before taking a final decision on the same. Today, he appeared before me and said his decision to resign from the state assembly was final and he didn’t want to work as an MLA. I have accepted his resignation and further proceedings have been initiated in this regard,” Sharma said.State Congress president Kamal Nath’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja accused the BJP of trying to kill democracy “as it doesn’t believe in democratic values and institutions.”“First, it dislodged democratically elected Congress government in Madhya Pradesh in March by indulging in a horse-trading and now it doesn’t want any opposition’s voice. That’s why it’s trying to poach the Opposition MLAs. But the public will give a befitting reply to the BJP in the by-polls,” Saluja said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rajasthan-crisis-congress-suffers-another-jolt-in-madhya-pradesh-as-mla-joins-bjp/story-esAijJVd8SWbFqoA3ie3UJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Four terrorist associates held in Jammu and Kashmir’s Bandipora district||Bandipora police along with security forces have arrested 4 terrorist associates in Chandargeer and Sadhunara areas of Bandipora’s Hajin, said Kashmir Zone Police on Sunday.In a tweet, Kashmir Zone Police said that two grenades, AK magazine, 25 AK rounds and other incriminating materials have been recovered from arrested terrorists.“Bandipora police along with security forces arrested 04 #terrorist #associates in #Chandargeer & #Sadhunara areas of #Hajin. 02 grenades, AK magazine, 25 AK rounds & other #incriminating materials have been recovered from their possession. Case registered. @JmuKmrPolice,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-terrorist-associates-held-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-bandipora-district/story-h9mcJVdBt9Ms8C3HuT7RnO.html
13-07-2020||India||At 2:30 am press conference, Congress says 109 Rajasthan MLAs support it||Hours after a late night statement by Sachin Pilot’s media office about Ashok Gehlot government being in minority, the Congress, at a 2:30 am meeting, said it had the backing of 109 legislators. The majority mark in the 200-member assembly is 101.“A total of 109 MLAs have signed a letter expressing their trust and support to government led by CM Ashok Gehlot and leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.Few more MLAs had telephonic conversation with the CM and they’ll also sign letter of support till morning,” said Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande late into the night at a press conference after a legislature party meeting at Ashok Gehlot’s residence in Jaipur.Pande said a whip has been issued to all party MLAs to be mandatorily present at Congress legislature party meeting to be held on Monday morning, adding strict disciplinary action will be taken against any MLA who is absent without mentioning any reason. The Rajasthan state-in charge upon being asked if he met Sachin Pilot in Delhi feigned ignorance about the latter’s presence in the national capital. Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who has been camping in Delhi with his MLAs, has said he will not be attending the meeting. The Congress had rushed two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – to Jaipur yesterday in a bid to iron out differences between Pilot and CM Ashok Gehlot, who have differed on a number of issues since the formation of the party’s government in 2018.“The Ashok Gehlot government is in minority after over 30 Congress and some independent MLAs have pledged their support to Sachin Pilot,” said the statement released by Pilot’s media office yesterday.In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has the support of 125 MLAs, including 107 of its own legislators. The party has the backing of 13 independents and five from other parties. The majority mark is 101. The BJP has 72 legislators and has the support of three of Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RPL).Pilot’s supporters said he has raised issues against the functioning of Gehlot over the past fortnight with the party’s state in-charge and general secretary, Avinash Pande, Congress organisation secretary KC Venugopal and senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel in Delhi.“His concerns were not addressed,” said a party leader considered close to Pilot.The ongoing crisis in the desert state reached a tipping point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state. The Congress sought to downplay it, saying a similar notice was sent to Gehlot as well. Leaders close to Pilot called it a “joke” since the chief minister is also in charge of the home department that oversees the police force. Pilot’s camp said the July 10 notice is yet another move to “humiliate” the deputy chief minister and “undermine” his authority.With Pilot rushing to Delhi on Saturday, some Congress legislators backing him and a few Rajasthan BJP MLAs are said to be staying in a five-star hotel in Manesar on the outskirts of Delhi.For the Congress, the developments in Rajasthan could be reminiscent of what happened in Madhya Pradesh in March, when 24 legislators owing allegiance to Jyotiraditya Scindia resigned from the party and the state assembly, reducing chief minister Kamal Nath’s government to a minority. Scindia is now in the BJP camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-2-30-am-press-conference-congress-says-109-rajasthan-mlas-support-it/story-Bj73GQ7ZAVkfITFcz9CPMO.html
13-07-2020||India||NDRF carry out rescue operation in Assam’s flood-affected areas||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams on Sunday carried out rescue operations in flood-affected areas of Assam’s Barpeta district.“NDRF teams reached the site and evacuated 487 marooned villagers and transported them to safer places. Besides teams are also assisting district administration in distribution of mask, screening inundated areas and maintained proper social distancing due to Covid-19 emergency. More than 950 marooned villagers evacuated this year monsoon season by first Battalion NDRF Guwahati,” an NDRF said in a statement.“A total of 11 search and rescue teams of NDRF are pre-positioned deployed in Assam i.e. Jorhat, Bongaigaon, Kamrup Metro, Kamrup Rural, Baksa, Barpeta, Cachar, Sivasagar, Sonitpur, Dhemaji and Tinsukia. NDRF control room keeping close watch in other flood affected areas,” it said.Incessant rainfall since last one week in Assam caused unexpected flood occurred in Districts-Bongaigaon, Baksa, Kamurp Rural (Rangia) and Barpeta. Flood situation was created due to overflowing the Rivers Puthimari, Beki, Aie and Pahumara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-carry-out-rescue-operation-in-assam-s-flood-affected-areas/story-I1gFLHqMlPUu921VjZLDPI.html
13-07-2020||India||Our cadres killed in Arunachal Pradesh to send message to China, says NSCN-IM||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) has alleged that six of the insurgent outfit’s cadres were killed by security forces in Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday in order to send a message to China.In an early morning operation by the Indian Army, Assam Rifles and Arunachal Pradesh police on Saturday, six cadres of NSCN-IM were “neutralised” at Nginu in Longding district of Arunachal Pradesh and a large cache of arms, ammunition, improvised explosive devices (IEDs) etc. recovered.Also read: Indian, Chinese commanders likely to meet this weekAccording to Arunachal Pradesh police, intelligence input was received and verified by several agencies that the NSCN-IM cadres camping in the Nginu area had plans to abduct some prominent persons in Longding district.“Longding district inhabited by Nagas is not far from the Indo-China border where India is having a border dispute. There is reportedly heavy concentration of Chinese PLA soldiers in the disputed area,” NSCN-IM said in a press release issued on Sunday.“After the Galwan incident in June, this Longding killing of 6 NSCN-IM personnel by Indian security forces may be understood to send the message across that Indian Army will not tolerate any forces who dare to come too close for comfort,” it added.The release was referring to the violent face-off between the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley during which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.The biggest of the Naga insurgent outfits, NSCN-IM has been in peace talks with Centre since 1997 and signed a framework agreement in August 2015. Also read: India to reduce over-dependence on Chinese pharmaceutical raw materialsThough peace talks with NSCN-IM and other pro-talks rebel outfits concluded in October 2019 a formal deal to end the decades-old Naga political problem is still awaited.Terming the encounter in Longding as an instance of “state-sponsored terrorism”, NSCN-IM stated that the outfit has been “driven to the wall after repeated provocation and aggression”.“The goodwill spirit of the ceasefire has been stamped to the ground. The ceasefire has lost its meaning because ceasefire can only make sense where there is mutual respect,” said the NSCN-IM release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-cadres-killed-in-arunachal-pradesh-to-send-message-to-china-says-nscn-im/story-3qpLwh7wiRfpwZV3EgPoPI.html
13-07-2020||India||Earthquake of magnitude 4.3 hits Andaman and Nicobar islands||An earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on the Richter scale hit 153 km north of Diglipur in Andaman and Nicobar Island on Monday, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said.The tremors were felt at 2:36 am on Monday.Earlier on June 28, an earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter Scale hit near Diglipur of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-4-3-hits-andaman-and-nicobar-islands/story-SuI8b5WyPgJU2SPmnniazL.html
13-07-2020||India||Our govt in Rajasthan stable, will last full term: Congress||The Congress rushed two senior leaders to Jaipur late on Sunday to smooth differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot that plunged the state government into crisis even as the party insisted that its administration in the state was safe.Two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – attended a late-night meeting of Congress legislators held at the residence of Gehlot even as a message released by Pilot’s team claimed he had the backing of over 30 MLAs.“All Congress MLAs are in touch with me and the government in Rajasthan is stable and will last its full term,” said Avinash Pande, in-charge of Rajasthan affairs in the Congress.Late in the evening, three Congress lawmakers, who had left for Delhi earlier in the day, said they would follow the party line.Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip state legislature party meetAddressing a press conference at Gehlot’s residence, Rohit Bohra, Danish Abrar and Chetan Dudi called themselves “soldiers” of the party and said they will do whatever the top leadership tells them.“We are with the Congress party which gave us tickets…we are soldiers of the party and will remain so for lifetime,” Bohra said. A meeting of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) will be held at Gehlot’s residence at 10:30 am on Monday, the party added.Also read: Rajasthan govt in crisis as Sachin Pilot leads rebels outPande blamed the BJP for the political crisis in the state. “Congress is strongly working together. BJP is deliberately diverting the present situation. This conspiracy has been hatched by BJP,” he said.But the BJP rejected these claims. Also read: Sidelining of Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?“We are not even thinking about forming a government in the state. This government will fall of its own ‘karma’ (deeds),” said Rajasthan unit chief Satish Poonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-govt-in-rajasthan-stable-will-last-full-term-congress/story-RFm2oPi25KZulaHttbPTyI.html
13-07-2020||India||Forces have ‘full possession’ of all our country’s land, says ITBP chief||As Chinese and Indian troops move to disengage in eastern Ladakh after a tense standoff, the chief of ITBP and BSF on Sunday said all the country’s land is under “full possession” of our security and defence forces.SS Deswal, Director General of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Border Security Force (BSF), was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a plantation drive held at a BSF camp in Bhondsi.“All the country’s land is with us. Our land is in full possession of our security forces,” Deswal said, responding to questions on the current military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.“All our borders are safe, be it the eastern, western or northern. The security forces of the country are very active, capable and dedicated. They are capable to protect the borders against any kind of enemy with all their might and efficiency,” the 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said.“The morale of the troops of the army and border guarding forces is very high. Since independence, the security forces have made numerous sacrifices to protect the country’s borders and for security of the country whether is is external threat or internal security,” he said.“You can see our forces are quick and alert to ensure protection,” Deswal said.All the security arrangements are in place at the borders and we can say that the country’s security is ensured, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-have-full-possession-of-all-our-country-s-land-says-itbp-chief/story-LWSpcjdm0gQcvHZXQMcWIM.html
13-07-2020||India||Indian, Chinese commanders likely to meet this week||A fourth meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders is expected to take place along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh this week, officials said. Both sides are working on finalising the date, the officials added. The military-level talks between corps commander-ranked officers are expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains. The next phase of the complex disengagement process is expected to begin after the fourth round of talks, the officials said.Also read: Army to order 72,000 assault rifles from United States amid border rowThe previous military-level talks, which were held on June 30, set the stage for disengagement in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra.Also read: No buffer zone on LAC, only suspended patrolling to avoid flareup on borderDuring the meeting, Indian and Chinese armies had stressed the need for an “expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” of the ongoing border conflict “on priority”, people familiar with the developments had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-commanders-likely-to-meet-this-week/story-hHnYLj8WG9Zh3TnBBt7gFO.html
13-07-2020||India||US UAV, Israeli loitering bombs as Indian infantry gets lethal||The Indian army has set its eyes on acquiring hand-launched, remotely controlled unmanned aerial vehicle Raven from US and state-of-the-art Israeli Spike Firefly “loitering” ammunition to add lethality to its ground infantry apart from long-range precision artillery shells with a range of over 40 kilometres.While the army is sharpening the teeth of its infantry, the air force will get five Rafale multi-role fighter jets from Paris this month, with another four to be used for training in France. The five fighter jets will be based at Ambala.The Indian navy is all set to commission its second ballistic missile-firing nuclear submarine, INS Arighat, later this year.According to people in South Block aware of the development, the army is set to acquire 200 pieces of RQ-11 UAV, which can fly up to 10 kilometers at an altitude of 500 feet and speed up to 95 kilometre per hour, to help infantry troops conduct reconnaissance of the battle theatre ahead and placement of enemy troops. After the Indian army brought Spike Mark III anti-tank guided missiles from Israel as part of emergency purchases due to the Ladakh standoff with China, it is now buying firefly ammunition that can deliver a precision strike on enemy troops hiding within a range of one km. The latest Firefly ammunition not only has loitering capability to locate a target but also can be called back if the target has moved beyond range.While the IAF and Indian Army have been at the forefront of the Indian posture in Ladakh, the Indian Navy has been on the front foot in the Indian Ocean against Chinese warships.According to senior military officials, the Navy through its Fusion Centre at Gurugram, has kept a close watch on the Indian Ocean throughout the Ladakh crisis and has been able muscle out six Chinese warships from the Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean region. “These ships were around Gwadar port in Balochistan. First three ships went back to China with Indian Navy closely watching them and then the remaining three also returned to their home country. Today, there is not a single Chinese warship in Indian Ocean,” said a senior military officer on condition of anonymity.While the senior military commander talks on disengagement in Ladakh will take place this week, the troop withdrawal exercise from all the four stand-off points is currently on with verification on the ground. While the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has tried to link the withdrawal with other conditions, Indian army commanders have made it clear that the disengagement is unconditional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-looks-to-acquire-us-aerial-vehicle-to-strengthen-infantry/story-vY4Cn0fZDAofyij2b0LvbN.html
13-07-2020||India||Why Bihar lags in population control||The latest Sample Registration System (SRS) findings show that Bihar is a laggard when it comes to controlling population growth in India. Total fertility rate (TFR) for Bihar in 2018 was 3.2. This is the highest among the eight large states where TFR is greater than 2.1, referred to as the replacement fertility level. A comparison with previous SRS rounds shows that Bihar and Uttar Pradesh had the same TFR of 4.2 in 2006. Uttar Pradesh’s TFR came down to 2.9 in 2018, while Bihar’s still stood at 3.2. So, what went wrong in Bihar? Answering this question requires an understanding what drives TFR. The World Health Organization defines TFR as the total number of children born or likely to be born to a woman in her lifetime if she were subject to the prevailing rate of age-specific fertility in the population. A TFR of about 2.1 children per woman is called replacement-level fertility and represents the average number of children a woman would need to have to maintain the population (see https://bit.ly/2ZjgAB3).TFR is calculated by summing up age-specific fertility rates (ASFR) for women in the age groups of 15-49 years, broken every five years (thus, 15-19, 20-24, 24-29 toll 45-49). ASFR is the number of live births in a particular age group divided by the mid-year population in that particular age group multiplied by thousand.TFR is, thus, a function of two factors. First is the age of marriage. If women get married at a younger age, ASFR for the younger age groups will be higher, which will contribute to a higher TFR. The second is the use of family planning methods, which determines the ability to maintain a gap between children or limit child birth.A comparison of these two factors can throw some light on why Bihar has failed to bring down its TFR .  As can be seen, ASFR in the younger age group of 20-24 has declined in both Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. This is in keeping with the all-India trends, and suggests that the average age of marriage and child birth are rising in the country. In fact, Bihar has done better in reducing ASFR in the age-group of 20-24 than Uttar Pradesh. However, in the 25-29 age group, the ASFR decline has been lower in Bihar than in Uttar Pradesh and in the 30-34 age group, the ASFR growth in Bihar has been much higher than in Uttar Pradesh. To be sure, Bihar witnessed a large growth in the ASFR for the 15-19 age groups, but the overall ASFR for this category in Bihar was quite small (11.9) and less than the all-India average (12.2).The average age of marriage is almost the same in Uttar Pradesh (22.3 years) and Bihar (21.7 years) according to the SRS findings. This brings up the question of use of family planning methods in determining ASFRs, and hence TFR.The 2015-16 National Family and Healthy Survey (NFHS) ranks states by unmet need for family planning. This is a sum of two categories – unmet need for spacing of birth, and unmet need for limiting births. Among large states, women in Bihar reported the highest unmet need for family planning. In 2005-06 as well, when the third round of NFHS was conducted, Bihar ranked second among big states, after Jharkhand, in terms of unmet need for family planning.Unmet need for family planning is directly correlated with TFR levels across states. Bihar has the highest fertility rate among big states and also ranks first for the highest unmet need of family planning.  What explains the higher levels of unmet need for family planning in Bihar compared to Uttar Pradesh? NFHS also gives data on use of modern contraception methods.Female sterilisation, which can only work for limiting childbirth, is the most common contraception method in India. Male sterilisation is among the least used methods. Bihar actually fares better vis-a-vis Uttar Pradesh when it comes to female sterilisation. However, it lags behind Uttar Pradesh by 8.5 percentage points when it comes to current use of modern family planning methods. The biggest reason for this gap is a nearly 10 percentage point lead for Uttar Pradesh in the use of condoms. Uttar Pradesh was ranked eight among the 36 states and union territories when it came to the use of condoms. Bihar was ranked 32nd. Share of married women and men who use any modern method of contraception has largely remained unchanged in India between 2005-06 and 2015-16, according to NFHS. However, in Bihar, the share of currently married women and men who use any modern method of contraception has decreased by 5.7 percentage points (from 28.9% to 23.2%). The share of women, whose husbands used condoms has also decreased from 2.3% to 1%. On the contrary, the share of women and men who use any modern method of contraception in Uttar Pradesh increased by 2.4 percentage points (from 29.3% to 31.7%). And the share of women whose husbands used condoms has increased from 8.6% to 10.8% between 2005-06 and 2015-16.If the 2015-16 trends have persisted, the gap between Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, as far as use of modern family planning methods is concerned, must have grown by 2018. In 2015, TFR in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh was almost similar. If Bihar is interested in bringing down its TFR levels, it needs to learn how Uttar Pradesh has been able to encourage the use of condoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-bihar-lags-in-population-control/story-7CMDdLBNNNUgSdpNUj3xuI.html
13-07-2020||India||House strove for just social order: Supreme Court judge||The Indian Parliament has striven to achieve the vision of the Constitution for a just social order and laws providing right to information and food security are examples towards that end, Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud said on Sunday.The Right to Information Act was enacted by Parliament in 2005 and empowers citizens to request information from any public authority. The Food Security Act came into force in 2013 and enables eligible households/ people to avail subsidized food grains.“The judiciary has consistently endeavoured to align itself with the constitution’s underlying vision for a more just society. Parliament has similarly continued this aspiration by introducing social welfare legislations to ensure the RTI and the food security”, Justice Chandrachud said in his speech on ‘A changing society and Constitutional Continuity’.He was speaking at the celebration of birth centenary of his father, former Chief Justice of India late YV Chandrachud. The event was organized by the Indian Law society and ILS Law College, Pune.The judiciary, Justice Chandrachud said, has taken effective steps to adapt to the changing needs of society including the striking down of several colonial era provisions.“The social vision of the constitution was nothing less than revolutionary but the political vision was based on an orderly transition governed by the rule of law,” he added.In what he termed a “shrill discourse of polarized universe across the world”, Justice Chandrachud also issued a word of advice. “Humanity needs to gather together and remind ourselves of what we share. We may have myriad explanations to tell us why others are different from us but at the core of it all is our shared human identity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-strove-for-just-social-order-supreme-court-judge/story-3wuYRdtpF0BhYw8Xt1SevN.html
13-07-2020||India||3 LeT terrorists killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Sopore||Two Pakistani nationals were among the three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Sunday, officials said. “Two of the killed terrorist were foreigners and have been identified as Abu Rafia, alias Usman, and Saifullah, both residentsof Pakistan. Abu Rafia, alias Usman, was active in the Valley since year 2016,” a police spokesperson said. The third terrorist is yet to be identified, they added.Inspector General of Police (IGP) of Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, confirmed that Usman was involved in an attack on security forces at Sopore, in which one CRPF jawan and a civilian were killed. “Pakistani LeT terrorist Usman killed in encounter. He was involved in recent terror attack at Sopore in which one CRPF jawan was martyred and a civilian was also killed. Big success for Police & SFs,” he said.A joint party of police, army and CRPF launched a search operation at Rebban area of Sopore around midnight following a tip-off, a police official said. “A cordon was laid and contact established (with militants) which led to a gunfight,” an army spokesman said. The gunfight continued throughout the day, killing three terrorists, the official added. “Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. Searches were going,” Kashmir Police Zone tweeted later in the day.Meanwhile, suspected militants hurled two grenades on a team of security personnel in Pulwama on Sunday, but they didn’t explode, an army spokesperson said. “Terrorist attempted an attack on CAPF at 1645 hours today at Chersoo, Awantipora. Suspects moving on a bike threw 2 grenades on CAPF (who were) deploying without taking out pins. Grenades didn’t explode.” Attackers have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-let-terrorists-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-sopore/story-zo7uIlD23Z9NCeXucN2G7M.html
13-07-2020||India||2 sent to judicial custody in Kerala gold smuggling case||An NIA court in Kochi on Sunday remanded to judicial custody, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, the two key accused arrested in connection with the gold smuggling case in Kerala. The duo were produced before the NIA special court, where the investigation agency moved an application, seeking their custody for interrogation.The court will on Monday consider the application seeking custody of the accused, who were brought to the state from Bengaluru this morning.The accused, remanded to 30 day custody, underwent the mandatory Covid-19 test and would be sent to coronavirus care facilities, official sources said The NIA on Saturday took into custody Suresh and Nair, both on the run, in connection with the bid to smuggle over 30 kg of gold using diplomatic channel through the Thiruvananthapuram international airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-7YNSn3JjaP1iphY2AYgfqJ.html
13-07-2020||India||No reason for BJP to cheer, Cong govt in Rajasthan will complete full term: Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Sunday exuded confidence that the party’s government in Rajasthan will complete its five-year term and said the BJP has no reason to cheer.Surjewala reached Jaipur along with party colleague Ajay Maken late on Sunday night. The two leaders have been sent by the Congress as central observers to save the party’s government in the state.The action by the Congress leadership came in the midst of a widening rift between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot.Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meet“There is no reason for the BJP to cheer. Congress government will complete its five-year term,” Surjewala, who is also the party’s spokesperson, told reporters.Surjewala and Maken will hold a meeting with Gehlot and Congress MLAs to avert a crisis in the state.AICC general secretary Avinash Pande also reached the chief minister’s residence for the meeting.Pilot, who has been camping in Delhi, skipped the meeting.Also read: At loggerheads with Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot is angry. Here’s whyGehlot had on Saturday alleged that the opposition BJP was trying to lure Congress MLAs to topple the state government.The BJP dismissed the claim, saying the recent developments only reflected the power struggle between Gehlot and Pilot, simmering since the Congress leadership in Delhi picked the more senior politician for the CM’s post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-reason-for-bjp-to-cheer-cong-govt-in-rajasthan-will-complete-full-term-surjewala/story-T0R8XK3YVXqabPKDJyHkGI.html
13-07-2020||India||26-year-old Gujarat man held for hurling abuses, giving rape threats to stand-up comedian: Cops||A 26-year-old man from Gujarat’s Vadodara was arrested on Sunday night following outrage over his video that surfaced on social media where he could be seen hurling abuses at a woman stand-up comedian, police said.Shubham Mishra had posted the video on his Instagram account on Saturday. He could be heard passing the derogatory remarks against Agrima Joshua and issuing rape threats over her year-old video on Maratha king Shivaji’s statue in Maharashtra.Vadodara City Police took suo moto action against Mishra for uploading and sharing the video.“We have detained him and initiated legal process for registration of FIR against him under relevant section of IPC and IT act,” they wrote on Twitter.Mishra’s arrest came as the National Commission for Women (NCW) sought immediate action against him. The commission’s chairperson Rekha Sharma wrote to Gujarat’s director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha regarding the video that was going viral. “The NCW is committed to creating safe online space for women and ensuring cyber security to women and is perturbed by the rise in use of cyberspace to instigate crime against women,” Sharma said in the letter.NCW also took to Twitter to inform about Mishra’s arrest and reassured people about their commitment to the safety of women.“Following @NCWIndia Chairperson @sharmarekha’s letter to #DGPGujarat, Vadodara Police has arrested Shubham Mishra. #NCW hopes this would be a lesson for all those who threaten women online. We are committed towards ensuring safety and security of #women,” the NCW tweeted.Mishra later took down the video and apologised for the abusive comments he made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-year-old-gujarat-man-held-for-hurling-abuses-giving-rape-threats-to-stand-up-comedian-cops/story-JzfKDmqLbQEj35WS7OEZOM.html
13-07-2020||India||Army to get state-of-the-art US assault rifles amid border row||NEW DELHI At a time when India and China are locked in a border stand-off in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Army is laying the groundwork to buy an additional 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles for its troops from the United States, people familiar with the development said on Sunday.This proposed purchase follows an order for 72,400 assault rifles placed with the US last year, and is expected to be made by invoking a key clause in India’s arms buying rules that govern speeding up purchases to meet urgent requirements, said one of the officials cited above.India signed the previous order worth ₹700 crore in early 2019 and the deliveries of all the rifles have been completed. That order was also made through the fast track procedure (FTP) prescribed in India’s defence procurement rules.The Sig Sauer rifles are being bought to meet the army’s requirement of a total of 800,000 assault rifles, said a second official. The new assault rifles will gradually replace the flaw-ridden 5.56mm INSAS (Indian Small Arms System) rifles inducted around 22 years ago.The remaining requirements of the army will be met through a Make in India project for the local production of AK-203 assault rifles at Amethi’s Korwa, and this procurement is in its final stage with a committee ironing out pricing issues, said a third person, asking not to be named.The FTP can be invoked in cases where “undue/unforeseen delay” in buying weapons is seen to be adversely impacting the military’s capacity and preparedness.According to rules, weapons sought under the FTP should already be in the military’s armoury, have been trial evaluated or be in service in foreign militaries so that the time required for evaluation is minimised.India has also ordered more stocks of Excalibur precision guided munitions from the US for its artillery guns, while Russia assured swifter delivery of weapons and ammunition during defence minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to Moscow last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-get-state-of-the-art-us-assault-rifles-amid-border-row/story-AjypcjEm8rIK0yARcudVLJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Rajasthan govt in crisis as Sachin Pilot leads rebels out||The Congress government in Rajasthan stared at a political crisis on Sunday with a number of its legislators loyal to deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot camping in the National Capital Region amidst apprehensions over a possible split in its ranks.The Congress called a meeting of all its Rajasthan legislators on Monday and rushed two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – to state capital Jaipur in a bid to iron out differences between Pilot and chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who have differed on a number of issues since the formation of the party’s government in 2018.In a late-night statement released on WhatsApp, Pilot’s camp said the deputy chief minister has the backing of about 30 legislators in the 200-member assembly. “The Ashok Gehlot government is in minority after over 30 Congress and some independent MLAs have pledged their support to Sachin Pilot,” said the statement released by Pilot’s media office.Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meetBut the Gehlot camp appeared confident about the government’s stability. A large number of Congress and other legislators supporting the government met the chief minister at his residence amid hectic parleys. “There is no danger to the government. All our MLAs are with us,” said Congress legislator Ashok Chandana, who is considered close to Gehlot. Separately, five Congress lawmakers considered close to Pilot held a press conference at the chief minister’s residence in Jaipur, saying they are soldiers of the Congress even as they ruled out the possibility of leaving the party.“We have full faith in the leadership of CM Ashok Gehlot. Our identity is because of the party and we are committed to it,” said Congress legislator Chetan Singh Choudhary, one of the five MLAs.He was accompanied by Danish Abrar, Rohit Bohra, Pratap Singh Khachariywas (who is also the transport minister) and Harish Choudhary. “We are soldiers of the Congress party and we had gone to Delhi for personal issues,” Abrar said. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has the support of 125 MLAs, including 107 of its own legislators. The party has the backing of 13 independents and five from other parties. The majority mark is 101. The BJP has 72 legislators and has the support of three of Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RPL).Pilot’s supporters said he has raised issues against the functioning of Gehlot over the past fortnight with the party’s state in-charge and general secretary, Avinash Pande, Congress organisation secretary KC Venugopal and senior Congress leader Ahmad Patel in Delhi.“His concerns were not addressed,” said a party leader considered close to Pilot.Another Congress functionary familiar with the developments said Surjewala and Maken have been given the mandate to bring about a “lasting truce” between Gehlot and Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress president.“Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?” former Union minister Kapil Sibal tweeted.His views were echoed by the Congress’s Rajya Sabha member, Vivek Tankha. “Kapil ji your worry is every party member’s concern. It’s time to strengthen the party to fight forces, who have only 1 agenda - weaken Congress and our democratic values and institutions,” he said on Twitter.Also read: Sidelining of Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, too, took a swipe at the Congress, saying talent and capability find “little credence” in the party. “Sad to see my erstwhile colleague Sachin Pilot, too, being sidelined and persecuted by Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. Shows that talent and capability find little credence in the Congress,” Scindia, who quit the Congress earlier this year, tweeted.The ongoing crisis erupted after Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state. Though the Congress said a similar notice was sent to Gehlot as well, leaders close to Pilot called it a “joke” since the chief minister is also in charge of the home department that oversees the police force. Pilot’s camp said the July 10 notice is yet another move to “humiliate” the deputy chief minister and “undermine” his authority.Gehlot alleged on Saturday that the BJP is trying to topple his government, a charge vehemently denied by the opposition party.With Pilot rushing to Delhi on Saturday, some Congress legislators backing him and a few Rajasthan BJP MLAs are said to be staying in a five-star hotel in Manesar on the outskirts of Delhi. For the Congress, the developments in Rajasthan could be reminiscent of what happened in Madhya Pradesh in March, when 24 legislators owing allegiance to Scindia resigned from the party and the state assembly, reducing chief minister Kamal Nath’s government to a minority. Scindia resigned from the Congress and joined the BJP.As the Congress numbers in the Madhya Pradesh assembly dwindled, the BJP regained power with Shivraj Singh Chouhan becoming the chief minister for a record fourth time.Last month, the Congress in Rajasthan had to swing into action just before the Rajya Sabha elections to three seats from the state. At that time too, the ruling party alleged that the BJP was trying to poach its legislators.At that time, Gehlot himself supervised the efforts to guard the party legislators and the independents supporting his government. While the Congress won two seats, including the one by Venugopal, the BJP bagged one seat in the June 19 polls.Pilot is under pressure from his supporters to take his ongoing power tussle with Gehlot to a logical conclusion, people familiar with the developments said.A legislator close to Pilot said the Rajasthan police notice is “actually legitimising the official surveillance” on the deputy chief minister. “This is sheer humiliation and nothing else. Pilot can be called for questioning anytime on one pretext or the other,” said the legislator.Pilot’s supporters said Gehlot has been undermining his deputy’s authority to the extent of not involving him in the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and other important decision-making processes.They also said Pilot’s views are not being considered in political appointments in corporations and boards. Also, the CM has not held any meeting of the coordination committee set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss issues of governance and implementation of manifesto since its constitution in January 2020, they said.Rajasthan Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Satish Poonia said there is intense infighting in the Congress and chief minister Gehlot is trying to hide his failures by blaming the BJP for trying to topple the government. “If government falls, it would be because of infighting in the Congress. We [the BJP] have nothing to do with it,” he said. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said it is a big political setback for any political party if a state president rebels. “I think the chief minister has anticipated this situation ...He might be having a Plan B to deal with this, but as of now the Congress in Rajasthan is in turmoil,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-in-crisis-as-pilot-leads-rebels-out/story-Fd1Yc55EaYM63cuzgLhOnL.html
13-07-2020||India||One-member judicial panel to probe Vikas Dubey case||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday formed a one-member judicial commission to probe the saga of Vikas Dubey, the gangster responsible for an ambush on a police team that was sent to raid his house in which eight policemen were killed and who died in a police encounter on Friday, a state government spokesman said.The commission headed by justice (retd) Shashi Kant Agarwal was mandated to investigate various incidents that took place between the night of July 2-3 and July 10, including encounters between members of Dubey’s gang and the police, the spokesman added. The commission would submit its report within two months, the spokesman said. Agarwal is a retired judge of the Allahabad high court.Also read: UP cop accused of tipping off Vikas Dubey moves SC for security, CBI probeDubey and his men killed eight police personnel in a guerilla-style ambush at Bikru village in Kanpur early on July 3. Dubey and four of his aides were killed in separate encounters between July 3 and 10.The government spokesperson said in a statement that the killing of eight policemen in the ambush and the encounter in which the gangster was killed, after he surrendered on July 9 in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, was a “subject of public importance”. “Hence, its probe is essential,” the spokesperson added.The judicial commission was formed a day after the state government constituted a three-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by senior Indian Administrative Service officer Sanjay Bhoosreddy to probe different aspects of the Kanpur ambush, including Dubey’s alleged links with local policemen.Also read: Vikas Dubey was ready for ‘big action’ day before ambushThe spokesperson said the state government on Sunday issued a notification under Section 3 of the Inquiry Commission Act 1952 to constitute the one-member inquiry commission. The headquarters of the commission will be in Kanpur, he said.Giving details, the spokesman said the commission will probe the ambush on the police team by Dubey and members of his gang on July 3. It will also probe the July 10 encounter between a police team and Dubey. It will also investigate all the encounters between police personnel and members of Dubey gang between July 3 and 10 at various locales, he said.The commission will also inquire into the alleged nexus between Dubey and members of his gang and the police as well as the personnel of other government departments and people, the spokesman added. The commission, in its report, will also make recommendations to the state government on ways to check a repeat of such incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-member-judicial-panel-to-probe-vikas-dubey-case/story-Al1Ir9fcDRyD9WFmN1OQzO.html
13-07-2020||India||State chief post one of many sticking points for Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot||The differences between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot erupted soon after the 2018 assembly elections results that led to the ouster of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the seat of power, according to political experts.Since then, the two leaders have had differences on several issues. The latest trigger was the post of the state Congress chief, said leaders close to both camps, on condition of anonymity.Pilot has been the Rajasthan Congress president since January 2014 and there’s talk of appointing someone else in that position. Leaders close to Pilot said he wants his supporter in the saddle or an important portfolio in the state government.Also read: Rajasthan govt in crisis as Sachin Pilot leads rebels outAt present, Pilot holds the portfolios of Public Works Department. Rural Development & Panchayati Raj., Science & Technology, and StatisticsThe buzz in the state bureaucratic circles is that Pilot has had differences with bureaucrats in his departments, especially in the public works department (PWD), where some key officers are not considered close to Pilot. After the election results, while Pilot’s loyalists credited him for the victory, the party high command made Gehlot the chief minister and Pilot the deputy chief minister .Before the municipal elections in October 2019, the state introduced a rule that even unelected members could stand for the post of mayor and head of municipalities. Pilot spoke against the move on many occasions, saying this will lead to “back-door entry” into civic bodies. Finally, the decision was rolled back.Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meetOn the death of 107 of infants in Kota due to an alleged shortage of beds and lack of facilities in January this year, Pilot put his government in a spot, calling for fixing accountability. The health minister, Raghu Sharma, is considered a Gehlot loyalist.And after the Congress’s rout in the Lok Sabha elections in Rajasthan — the party won none of the 25 seats — Gehlot said Pilot should take responsibility for the defeat of his son, Vaibhav Gehlot, from Jodhpur because he was the party president.Pilot also appeared to be critical of the government after the accused in the Pehlu Khan lynching case were acquitted in August 2019. He said had the Congress government formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) earlier, the outcome would have been different.Also read: Sidelining of Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?The government formed the SIT  to probe the mob lynching of Khan on the suspicion of cow smuggling in April 2017, when the BJP government was in power.Political commentator Prakash Bhandari said the party has long ignored the crisis between its two leaders. Bhandari said the leadership should have sent KC Venugopal, general secretary in charge of organisation, to settle the issue. “He was the one who brokered peace between them earlier and got them on one table. At this time, when differences between its two leaders are threatening to pull down the government, the party should have used him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-chief-post-one-of-many-sticking-points-for-the-leaders/story-U7RhYA1cU3QLWd6jZnZtQL.html
13-07-2020||India||Investigation finds accused tried to contact 6 southern Rajasthan MLAs||The investigation of special operations group (SOG) into the sedition case registered on the basis of interception of two mobile phones has found that the two accused were eyeing six MLAs of southern Rajasthan and began efforts to contact them on June 10, said officials aware of the development.The names of the MLAs have not been disclosed.They also hinted that there could be more arrests in the case.The SOG arrested Bharat Malani of Ajmer and Ashok Singh of Banswara on charges of hatching conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government.Singh, a businessman, is a former member of Rajasthan BJP’s executive committee. Malani has been the state coordinator of one of BJPs state committees.SOG additional director general of police Ashok Rathore said that recording of a conversation over the phone in which Malani and Singh are reportedly talking about offering money to legislators to destabilise the government is the basis of the FIR. “Both the accused are been questioned. They have been booked under section 124 A (sedition), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code,” he said.“During investigation, it was found that between June 10 and June 16, Singh contacted six MLAs from Banswara, Dungarpur and Chittorgarh,” the officials quoted above said.The accused also tried to lure two MLAs of a newly formed party in Dungarpur.Another top police official familiar with the development of this case said that there were four to five more people who were helping the two.“We have got some clues from the investigation so far that there were four more businessmen from different districts of the state who were indirectly helping these accused in arranging money. We are working on the clues and once we get sufficient evidence, we will arrest them too,” added this person who asked not to be named. Interestingly, the state Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday lodged a complaint against three independent MLAs and the charges against them were that they were luring the MLAs of Dungapur, Udaipur and Banswara before Rajya Sabha elections to de-stabilize the government.“The complaint has been registered on the basis of inputs collected by intelligence unit of ACB. The charges against these three MLAs are that they were trying to induce some MLAs in Dungarpur, Banswara and Udaipur by offering money,” said an ACB official on the condition of anonymity.The three MLAs are Suresh Tank from Kishangarh constituency; Khushveer Singh is from Marwar Junction and Omprakash Hudla.“Malviya was cabinet minister in previous Gehlot government and is considered as a prominent leader of the tribal districts of state which Dungapur, Banswara and Udaipur. This tenure he was not given any post and he was dissatisfied with this fact. The rest MLAs are also ambitious as the supported Congress but didn’t get any strong return,” said a senior state Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/investigation-finds-accused-tried-to-contact-6-southern-rajasthan-mlas/story-iqDI6v6CEwrHsdflARmpxJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Another senior IAS officer tests positive for Covid-19 in J-K||Another senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, on his way to Ladakh from Jammu to take charge of his new post, has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Srinagar.The senior IAS officer was recently transferred from Jammu to the Union territory of Ladakh.Sources said the IAS officer had symptoms of the coronavirus disease and was tested on Friday. He tested positive on Saturday and has been hospitalised, they added. “He has been hospitalised in a nursing home in Srinagar. Three to four secretaries of the IAS officer and 16 other staff have also been quarantined. They are also being tested,” a source said. On May 3, a senior IAS officer also tested positive and admitted to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super speciality Hospital in Kakryal. He was later discharged after he tested negative for the infection. Before that, the wife and son of an advisor to Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu were also found Covid-19 positive. They were also taken to the same hospital.According to the Union health ministry, 10,156 people have contracted the coronavirus disease in Jammu and Kashmir and 169 patients have died till date. In Ladakh, 1,077 have tested positive for the viral disease and one person has died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-senior-ias-officer-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-j-k/story-f8Izf504XHAQg566hNb2fO.html
13-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot flagged differences in meet with Ahmed Patel about a fortnight ago||Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot tried to warn the Congress leadership about the trouble brewing in the state government about two weeks ago, according to party insiders aware of the developments.Pilot, who is also the state Congress president, held a one-on-one meeting with senior leader Ahmed Patel in the national capital in June end to discuss his differences with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, leaders from both camps confirmed on condition of anonymity.In the meeting, Pilot told Patel, considered a close aide of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, that his differences with Gehlot had gone too far, according to one of the leaders cited above. “There was a long list of grievances that he spoke about.” It is not clear what emerged at the meeting as both Patel and Pilot were unavailable for comment. It is also unclear if there was any follow-up action by the Congress.Pilot also met other senior leaders such as KC Venugopal, general secretary in charge of organisation.That Pilot and Gehlot had differences was not unknown in the party circles. When the Congress won the 2018 elections, bagging 107 seats in the 200-member assembly, Pilot’s supporters credited him for the victory. But Gehlot dug in his heels. Rahul Gandhi, the then Congress president, made Gehlot the CM and Pilot his deputy. Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meetHowever, as a second leader pointed out, this arrangement was more on paper than in reality. “The deputy chief minister had limited powers and wouldn’t be consulted on any decisions in the state. Most of the times he found out about cabinet decisions from media reports,” this person added, asking not to be named. And while Pilot was the party chief in the state, efforts were on to have him replaced. On Sunday, as the Congress stared at crisis, party MP and former minister Kapil Sibal tweeted: “Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?”Congress leaders say there may be a maximum of 19 legislators, perhaps fewer, supporting Pilot, who visited Delhi over the weekend. His supporters are believed to be in a hotel in Gurugram. According to one of the leaders backing Pilot, the number of legislators supporting him could increase. News agency PTI reported that Pilot claims there are 30 MLAs backing him and that the Gehlot government is already a minority one. Also read: Sidelining of Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?The crisis in Rajasthan surfaced when the state police issued notices to Gehlot, who is also the home minister, and Pilot over an alleged bid to destabilise the government. While the Rajasthan government said notice was also sent to the chief minister, the leader close to Pilot called that a “joke”.“This was taking humiliation to a different level...Is this how a deputy chief minister is treated?” the leader asked. “The chief minister also holds the home portfolio. So how can they question him?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-flagged-differences-in-meet-with-patel-about-a-fortnight-ago/story-RrJ4kVi6278xSTky11h7NL.html
13-07-2020||India||Congress trying to blame us for its failures: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Saturday that it was not trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan but suggested that it would like to keep all options open in the state -- depending on what the Congress does. Senior party leaders in Delhi said the allegations made by the Rajasthan chief minister, pinning the blame on the BJP for engineering defections, were an attempt to deflect attention from the Congress party’s own failings.There is speculation that Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, along with 25 other Congress MLAs, will either join the BJP or start his own party that could seek support from the BJP in the 200- member assembly, in which the BJP has 72 MLAs and the Congress 107. The Congress also has support from 12 independents and five members of other parties.“No meetings have taken place between Pilot and the BJP leadership. Everyone knows there are problems between the CM and the deputy CM; but they are trying to pin the blame on the BJP,” said a BJP leader in Delhi on condition of anonymity.On whether the party will stake its claim to forming the government if a faction of Congress MLAs does break away, the BJP leader said, “The outcome will depend on what decision the Congress high command takes. The BJP will only take whatever decision is required once there is a decision from the Congress’s side.”The leader also said that the party will not “shut its doors to those who want to partner with the BJP” in Rajasthan.Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meetA second leader said the party is willing to consider a tie-up on the condition that the numbers stack up in their favour. The party is wary of a repeat of the Maharashtra situation,wherein a group of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLAs led by Ajit Pawar assured support to the BJP and then pulled back at the last minute. “If there are the required numbers (of MLAs) willing to partner with or join the BJP, we will consider offering support to such a combination,” said the second leader quoted above, asking not to be named. The BJP will need the support of at least 30 MLAs to reach the majority figure, which means it will need the support of not just the Congress rebels but also some independents.However, should the BJP consider partnering with Pilot, it will also have to address the issue of leadership in the state and whether it will have the rebel Congress leader in the chief minister’s seat. In Madhya Pradesh, the party did not change the chief minister even though it accommodated Congress leaders in the cabinet. Also read: Sidelining of Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?“The numbers are critical. The BJP is confident that if re-election happens in the state it will win with a comfortable majority. However, those who will join and seek re-election have to be equally confident of retaining their seats,” a third party functionary said on condition of anonymity.A Rajasthan-based BJP leader said the party was also wary of a Madhya Pradesh-like situation emerging in Rajasthan. Internal bickering has intensified in MP after the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government accommodated former Congress legislators in his cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-trying-to-blame-us-for-its-failures-bjp/story-KcUTXXN4zxCC5ysjWukI0O.html
13-07-2020||India||3 contrasting scenarios in Rajasthan’s political future||The turmoil in Rajasthan’s Congress-led government on Sunday gave rise to contrasting political scenarios with experts and political leaders saying developments and negotiations over the next few days could determine the future of the two-year-old administration. In the 200-member House, where the halfway mark is 101, the ruling alliance currently enjoys the support of 125 legislators. The Congress has 107 legislators, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has two, the Bharatiya Tribal Party two, the Rashtriya Lok Dal one; there are 13 independents also backing the government. In the Opposition benches, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 72 lawmakers and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party has three seats. Also read: Rajasthan govt in crisis as Sachin Pilot leads rebels outTo be sure, there is no clarity on the number of legislators backing Pilot (the range of numbers doing the rounds is a wide one, from nine to 30); while ministers in the Gehlot camp insisted the government was safe. In this backdrop, experts said there were three broad scenarios.One, the Congress central leadership could swing into action, mollifying Pilot and instructing Gehlot to let his deputy work independently and not infringe on his portfolios. Pilot, who is also the Congress state chief, could come back into the fold if allowed to manage his portfolios independently. Already, senior leader Kapil Sibal’s tweet urging the party to wake up hints that efforts are on to mend fences. Key to this resolution would be the party brass convincing Gehlot to budge on some sticking points like appointment of bureaucrats in the four ministries held by Pilot and picking some of the younger leader’s associates to important positions in the party. Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meetConversations with senior leaders in the Congress also threw up an additional compromise scenario that involved a key point of friction between Gehlot and Pilot: the position of the state party unit chief. A senior party leader told HT that over the past few months, leaders close to Gehlot have been pushing for the removal of Pilot, who has held the position for six years. In a compromise scenario brokered by the Congress central leadership, Pilot could vacate the position for a nominee of his choice, thereby retaining influence over election machinery and choice of poll candidates, added the leader quoted above. A central Congress leader confirmed that they were in touch with Pilot and lines of communication were open although another leader said that he had stopped taking their callsStill, this is an unlikely scenario, said people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. It may have worked six, maybe even two months ago, but is perhaps too late now. Two, the rebellion within the Rajasthan Congress could grow with more legislators joining the Pilot camp and quitting the party, thereby reducing Gehlot’s government to a minority. In this case, these leaders could quit – which would bring down the strength, and the halfway mark, of the House – and subsequently join the BJP, . This is what happened in Madhya Pradesh in March. The BJP could step in and form the government with allies and independents, and bypolls to the vacant seats would be held within six months. Also read: Sidelining of Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?Author and political commentator Rasheed Kidwai said, “Perhaps, if a leader makes up mind to desert parent organisation, there is very little that can be done.”Three, negotiations in the Congress could break down with Pilot leaving the party along with his supporters and forming a third front. If Gehlot and his supporters manage to cobble together a majority along with independents and allies, the government might survive but could be weakened and be greatly dependent on smaller players. In this scenario, Pilot could seek to form a government supported by the BJP. But with his numbers, it is unlikely that the BJP will allow him to be chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-contrasting-scenarios-in-raj-s-political-future/story-51I0P0csYaaKxfIeXAbKPM.html
13-07-2020||India||Sidelining of Sachin Pilot in crucial decisions behind the turmoil?||The simmering tension between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot reached a tipping point when Pilot was summoned by the police on July 10 in connection with an investigation into a suspected plot to destabilize the state government, HT has learnt.It underlined, according to a senior Congress leader, the deep distrust Gehlot had of his deputy and was a bid to marginalise Pilot in the party and the government that was formed December 2018. Although a similar notice was sent to Gehlot, asking him to record a statement, a Pilot loyalist said the deputy CM thought the probe was targeting him. Gehlot, after all, has retained the home portfolio and the police report to the home minister. There have been several bids to undercut Pilot in the past two years. The Congress central leadership chose to ignore the warning signals until it , finally, formed a coordination committee for Rajasthan in January but that panel, so far, has held just one meeting.Also read: Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot to skip key party meet“Pilot was not very keen to assume an organizational post in Delhi. So, the party should have secured his position in Rajasthan. But that overt backing was missing for a long time,” said a central leader of the Congress.The Congress’s inability to nip such problems in the bud was articulated by senior party leader Kapil Sibal. Sibal tweeted, “Worried for our party..Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables ?” Just four months ago, the Congress lost its government in Madhya Pradesh in a similar script played out when Jyotiraditya Scindia left the party which similarly ignored both him and the warning signals in the state. On Sunday, Scindia, now a Rajya Sabha MP of the BJP tweeted: “Sad to see my erstwhile colleague @SachinPilot too, being sidelined and persecuted by Rajasthan CM. @ashokgehlot51. Shows that talent and capability find little credence in the @INCIndia.” To be sure, the start of the new Congress government in Rajasthan was not exactly a smooth affair. Pilot, who left his family in Delhi to sweat it out, led the Congress campaign as the president of the party in the state to victory, but Gehlot became chief minister primarily due to caste equations and perhaps because the Congress wanted someone from the old guard. Party insiders added that for the past few months, the Gehlot camp has been demanding a change of guard in the Rajasthan Congress in a bid to remove Pilot from the state party president’s post. They started lobbying with Congress functionaries in Delhi that a new state chief is required (Pilot has been holding the position for six years) before panchayat elections in the state.Another party leader, close to Pilot added, while he had four ministries under him as the deputy CM, Gehlot appointed bureaucrats in some of these ministries.Even as then Congress president Rahul Gandhi met the two leaders over several rounds to hammer out a solution, the uneasy equation between the Congress’s old generation and the new generation came to the fore.Last year, the chief minister’s son Vaibhav Gehlot lost the Lok Sabha election, and the senior Gehlot lost no time in blaming Pilot for the defeat. He publicly stated that “Pilot should take responsibility” even as many party leaders questioned the chief minister’s inability to ensure a victory for his son.Earlier this year, Pilot expressed concern about the deteriorating law and order situation in some areas of the state—seen as a comment on Gehlot who holds the home portfolio. A few months ago, the Rajya Sabha elections too, saw tension rising between the two. Gehlot fielded Neeraj Dangi, a secretary of the Congress party, for the coveted Rajya Sabha seat. Pilot wanted a bigger, well-known name but Gehlot stuck to his choice. And then, ahead of the polls, Gehlot alleged that Congress MLAs were being lured, indicating the party might lose a seat. The results proved to be otherwise and the Congress secured seats for both its candidates.Pilot, who was credited for the victory, said: “Any kind of doubts and suspicions spread around earlier were baseless.”A party insider pointed out that Pilot’s people were not being rewarded. Many posts for political appointment are lying vacant and Gehlot is in no hurry to accommodate Pilot loyalists in these posts.Last month, at a function at party headquarters to observe Sanjay Gandhi’s death anniversary, Pilot announced that as the party president in Rajasthan, he owes it to the Congress grassroots workers who had worked very hard for Congress and needed to be rewarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidelining-of-pilot-in-crucial-decisions-behind-the-turmoil/story-sRqXaQuA40jfbXqQdMZA6K.html
13-07-2020||India||Monsoon likely in northwest, central India this week: IMD||The monsoon trough (a low-pressure line), which had shifted northward to the Himalayan foothills bringing extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm to north-eastern and eastern states has started moving southward, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday.With the moving of the monsoon system, active monsoon rains are likely to resume over northwest and central India between July 14 to 16, the IMD said.The western end of the monsoon trough is presently passing through Ganganagar, Delhi and Bareilly; while the eastern end continues to run close to the foothills of Himalayas, according to IMD. A cyclonic circulation is lying over east Bihar and neighbourhood. This, in addition with the convergence of south-westerly and southerly winds from Bay of Bengal in the lower tropospheric levels, is likely to continue over northeast and adjoining east India during next two days, the Met department said in its forecast. Widespread and very heavy rains will continue over northeast India, West Bengal, Sikkim, Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh for next five days, but the intensity of rainfall is expected to be lower than last week.Moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning is likely over many parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar over the next 12 hours, according to IMD’s Sunday bulletin. The deluge in Arunachal Pradesh (over 50 cm on Friday and Saturday) and Assam is likely to reduce further in the next 24 hours.Since the western end of the monsoon trough is running close to Delhi, light rain in different parts of the national capital is expected on Sunday, followed by more intense rains on July 14 and 15. “As the monsoon trough shifts southwards, rains are expected in Delhi also but it will be in light to moderate category. Overcast skies will continue. Wind direction, which has been largely westerly because of the trough shifting northward, will switch to easterly now,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Since June 1, three subdivisions have received large excess (60% excess or above) rains; 12 have received excess rains; 15 are in normal while six are deficient. According to Central Water Commission as on July 11, 30 stations (one in Arunachal Pradesh, 14 in Assam, one in West Bengal, 10 in Bihar and four in Uttar Pradesh) were flowing in Severe Flood Situation and 20 stations (nine in Assam, five in Bihar, three in Uttar Pradesh, three in West Bengal, one in Daman & Diu and one in Arunachal Pradesh) were flowing in Above Normal Flood Situation. Teesta river in West Bengal, Kosi and Mahananda in Bihar, Siang at Passighat in Arunachal Pradesh and Brahmaputra in Assam continue to be in severe flood category.The country has received 14% excess rain this monsoon season -- 20% excess in central India, 16% excess in south Peninsula, 14% excess in east and northeast India -- and 3% deficient over northwest India. IMD scientists said the distribution of rains have been largely even this year. The standardised precipitation index (an index to measure drought) shows many districts in eastern, central and peninsular India are in severely wet category while others are mildly wet.“The western end of the monsoon trough has started shifting southwards from the foothills. Stations reporting extremely heavy rainfall in northeast India particularly Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have reduced in the last 24 hours. All of these areas were flooding. But we have to watch for one more day as the eastern end of the trough is still in the foothills. One station in Sub Himalayan West Bengal has reported 43 cm rain (extremely heavy) on Saturday. Once the trough shifts southwards, monsoon rains will gradually resume over northwest and central India,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre.“This monsoon, the Arabian Sea has been unusually active starting with cyclone Nisarga which helped with monsoon onset. The moisture feed from Bay of Bengal in comparison is negligible. An intense low-pressure system also over Saurashtra last week which brought extremely heavy rains there. Another feature of this monsoon is that the monsoon trough is mostly north of its normal position this year so the northeast has got a lot of rain. Not many low-pressure systems have formed over Bay of Bengal which is a bit unusual,” he added.Last week, Okha in Gujarat received record 48 cm rainfall on July 7. On July 5, Khambala, Kalyanpur and Porbandar recorded 49 cm, 36 cm and 29 cm, respectively. Thane and Mumbai also recorded extremely heavy rains on July 3, with 17 cm in Mumbai’s Colaba and 38 cm in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-in-northwest-central-india-this-week-imd/story-IPSt9yDr43pw0Lb84xhbrL.html
13-07-2020||India||Supreme Court verdict on Kerala’s Padmanabha Swamy temple today||The Supreme Court will on Monday pronounce verdict on the long-standing dispute over whether the control of the Padmanabha Swamy temple in Kerala will vest with the state government or the Travancore royal family.The verdict, which will be pronounced by the court after nine long years of hearing the case, will decide the correctness of a January 2011 judgment of the Kerala high court which had ruled that the state government should take over the control of the temple from a trust headed by the royal family. The temple located in the state capital of Thirvunanthapuram shot into limelight after the Supreme Court in May 2011 ordered a detailed inventory of the articles in the temple vaults which had long rumoured to be holding immense riches.The verdict of the Supreme Court will be pronounced at 10.30 am by a division bench of justices UU Lalit and Indu Malhotra.When five its six vaults, known as ‘Kallara’ in Malayalam, were opened pursuant to the Supreme Court order, vast treasure of gold and other priceless objects were discovered. It was estimated that the intrinsic value of the treasure amounted to more than Rs. 90,000 crore. One of the vaults, Kallara B could not be opened and the opening of the same was later kept in abeyance by the apex court.The temple was under the control of a trust headed by the royal family until April 2014 when the top court by way of a crucial interim order handed over its management to a four-member administrative committee headed by a district judge.The case dates back to 2009  when TP Sundarrajan, a former IPS officer, filed a public interest litigation petition before the Kerala high court praying that the control of the temple should be handed over to the Kerala government from the royal family.The state government took a stand before the high court that the traditional and customary belief is that the temple belongs to the royal family head of Travancore palace and that the administration of the temple has not broken down nor is there any allegation of a major nature which forces the government to interfere with the administrative affairs of the temple.Despite that, the high court by its judgment rendered in January 2011 ordered the state government to take over the control of the temple. It also restrained the executive officer and the Maharaja of the royal family against opening any of the Kallaras or removing any of the articles of the temple.The Maharaja, Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma, appealed to the Supreme Court against the high court judgment. In August 2012, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium was appointed Amicus Curiae (friend of the court) by the Supreme Court. Subramanium submitted a voluminous report before the court in April 2014 alleging serious mismanagement of the temple by the trust and indicting the royal family on various counts.The court after accepting the report set up an administrative committee on April 24, 2014 to manage the temple in the interim and also ordered a special audit of the temple and its properties by former Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Vinod Rai.Legal genesis of the disputeThe legal genesis of the dispute lies in the agreement of accession (agreement) signed between the Kings of Travancore with the Government of India in 1949 by which the princely state of Travancore became a part of the Indian Union.Article VII of the agreement provided that administration of the Padmanabha Swamy temple shall be conducted, subject to the control and supervision of the ruler of Travancore, by an executive officer appointed by the ruler.The ruler at the time of Independence, Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma passed away in 1991 and Utharadom Thirunal Marthanda Varma assumed charge as trustee of the Temple.The question before the high court was whether the new Maharaja would fall within the definition of the term “ruler” used in the agreement. The agreement itself did not define the term “ruler” and the high court, therefore, relied upon the definition of “ruler” in article 366(22) of the Constitution of India.Article 366(22) states that ruler means any prince or chief who was recognized by the President of India as ruler of an Indian state before 1971, the year in which privy purse (payments made by the Government of India to royal families of erstwhile princely states for joining the Indian union at the time of independence) was abolished.Based on the definition in Article 366(22), the high court held that “ruler” is not a status that can be achieved through succession and after the death of the last ruler in 1991,there is no ruler in the erstwhile state of Travancore.In such a scenario, the present “ruler” is the state of kerala and the administration and control of temple will, therefore, vest with the Kerala government, the high court had ruled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-on-kerala-temple-today/story-AvSSwo9CZzA4L1T9PMLw3M.html
13-07-2020||India||Ease norms for migrant kids’ admissions: HRD||The Union human resource development (HRD) ministry has directed schools across the country to prepare a detailed database of children of migrant workers, who have moved to their home states amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and asked them to admit these children without any documentary formalities.These are among detailed directions that the HRD ministry has sent to states on Friday to ensure that the education of children of migrant labour does not fall prey to the Covid-19 onslaught. A huge number of migrant workers returned to their home states, with their families, after the announcement of a nationwide lockdown that was imposed on March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic. The ministry document, accessed by HT, states, “Some states may see a reduction in numbers of children enrolled in their schools or they will be reported as absent, while others will see a surge in children requiring admissions. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Children of migrants, who have returned to their native villages and towns, should also be provided mid-meals, the document states. In the states, where there is out or reverse migration, a database may be prepared of children who have left the local area for their homes in other areas, the guidelines state.Also read: Russian university successfully completes trials of world’s 1st Covid-19 vaccine“Such a database may be prepared by each school by personally contacting parents or guardians of all children studying in their school, through phone, WhatsApp , neighbours, peer group, etc. Their tentative place of stay during this period may be noted. While all care must be taken to ensure that their names are not struck off the rolls, their numbers may be reported class-wise to Directorate of Education to compensate for any input costs to be incurred by the school such as mid-day meals, distribution of textbooks and uniforms etc,” the HRD ministry has said.Also read: Delhi records 1,573 new coronavirus cases, recovery rate almost 80 per centIn states witnessing influx, the respective state governments may direct all schools to give admission to any child who has recently returned back to the village without asking for any other documents, except some identity proof. They should not ask for transfer certificates or proof of class attended earlier. The guidelines also mention that the data of such students should be shared with states from where they have come..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ease-norms-for-migrant-kids-admissions-hrd/story-4ptW5zMoFH2e6poE0g71cJ.html
13-07-2020||India||Not the time for polls... Prez rule could be stopgap step: Tejashwi Yadav||Leader of Opposition in the Bihar assembly, and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s young face, Tejashwi Yadav will encounter his biggest political challenge in the upcoming state assembly polls he has to contest in the absence of his incarcerated father, Lalu Prasad. He spoke about the political landscape in an interview: Is the ground situation conducive for free and fair polls in Bihar, given the pandemic? On Covid-19, I have been requesting the government since March that testing be done on a larger scale and the capacity of institutional care be enhanced. However, it fell on deaf ears. The abject failure of the Nitish government in handling the pandemic and the migrant workers issue has led to chaos and insecurity among the people. There seems to be no containment and mitigation strategy in place. In my opinion, this is not the appropriate time to conduct elections considering the alarming spread of this disease. I will be the last person to have an election on dead bodies. If Nitish Kumar acknowledges that Covid is still a crisis, elections can be postponed until the situation improves but if he thinks Covid is not a problem, elections must be conducted with traditional means of electioneering. Let there be a fair ground for all parties, and allow rallies, door-to-door and full-fledged campaigns. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (United) are parties of capitalists and have immense resources. (So) restricting the medium of campaign would be antithetical to the very purpose of election in a democracy. President’s Rule could be a stop-gap interim arrangement if constitutional obligation requires it.Is the RJD ready to contest if elections are held on time? How prepared are you to reach out virtually to the electorate?RJD’s campaign will not be about spending big monies. We will enter the election with principled politics that speaks to the marginalised and the poor in a down-to-earth manner. Our campaign will not be a spectacle, it’ll be based on genuine communication of our plans rooted in the aspirations of the people. We shall go to the people with a robust blueprint for transforming Bihar in education, health, agriculture, employment and industrialisation. Also read: Time to fight Covid-19, not polls: Prashant Kishor to Bihar CM Nitish KumarThe political wisdom of the people from my state is unmatched. They are fed up with the ever-rising corruption, crimes, unemployment, inflation and flip-flops of Nitish ji. Yes, it’s going to be a challenge to switch to virtual canvassing. For poor parties like us and others, who don’t have money to pay for such huge expenditures to counter them, it would be unfair and amount to robbery of democracy and mandate. Sensing defeat, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has started tweaking the rulebook of Election Commission (EC). Postal ballots for Covid patients, virtual rallies and all should be seen in that context. The RJD-led alliance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls could win only one seat, and that was in the Congress quota. So there are questions about the combine’s viability. Parliamentary and assembly elections are two different things. Assembly elections are fought on local day-to-day governance issues concerning the people’s basic needs: education, migration, infrastructure development, job creation, and of course, health. Despite the machinations at the BJP-JD(U)’s disposal, our alliance will sweep this election. They have pushed Bihar further into backwardness in their 15 years of rule. Everyone in Bihar knows how the mandate was hijacked in 2017 (when Nitish walked out on RJD). The BJP is in power with Nitish ji without any reason and vision.Some of your smaller allies including Jitan Ram Manjhi have reservations about your projection as the combine’s chief ministerial face. You also have detractors in the Congress’s state unit.This is not the time to be bogged down with such considerations. We must have credible plans for a historical alternative for Bihar. Democratic politics is nothing without such pushes and pulls. Only a delusional person can think that he has no opposition or no detractors. My eyes and mind are all open. In any alliance, it’s a settled principle that the party having a larger presence is chosen its leader.Also read: ‘Preparations for Bihar assembly elections on time’, says CEOHow confident are you of keeping the alliance intact?Consultation and deliberation on seat sharing and common minimum program are underway. I am confident of bringing together a credible, committed and progressive alliance. Anyone familiar with the history of RJD knows that we have a stellar record of building alliances. But it’s important to note that the RJD has been equally comfortable in the opposition. You recently sought forgiveness for mistakes, if any, during the 15 year rule (from 1990-2005) of your father and mother. Is that your way of reaching out to forward caste communities? The question is pertinent as Raghuvansh Prasad Singh recently quit as vice president of RJD.No person or regime can be perfect. Our 15 years took governance to the doorsteps of the poor and marginalised. That’s why the people rewarded us for 15 years. I wasn’t around then, still I don’t hesitate to accept shortfalls if there were any.One needs to understand the history of Bihar which has been a victim of chronic neglect. Laluji and Rabriji privileged social justice in a deeply feudal society. A sense of equality, a possibility of egalitarian governance was communicated to the people.We are committed to reaching out to all sections of the society. Bihar cannot progress if all communities do not participate. Raghuwansh Babu is a senior leader and a fatherly figure to me. He is there in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-the-time-for-polls-prez-rule-could-be-stopgap-step-tejashwi-yadav/story-RPZ7S5DW3BNdmSGGwnI8vN.html
13-07-2020||India||Markets in UP to be closed on weekends||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that markets in the state would be closed on Saturdays and Sundays to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). They would remain open from Monday to Friday, as per a state government statement quoting the CM, after a review meeting of Covid-19 and unlock 2.0 on Sunday.The Uttar Pradesh government, last Thursday, had ordered a 55-hour weekend restriction across the state, directing all establishments — government and private offices, commercial establishments, markets, urban and rural haats and public transport (barring UPSRTC buses ferrying passengers from railway stations) — to stay shut during the period. Only essential services are allowed to operate.“During the weekly closure (on Saturday and Sunday) the government will run cleanliness and sanitisation drives in the markets. Even the industrial establishments would undertake their own sanitisation drives on the two days,” Adityanath said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage State medical education minister, Suresh Khanna, state health minister, Jai Pratap Singh, chief secretary, RK Tiwari, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, Alok Tandon, agriculture production commissioner, Alok Sinha, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi and director-general of police, HC Awasthi, were among those who attended the meeting. He said that the construction work at ongoing projects, such as expressways, dams and flood control constructions, would continue with social distancing on all days. Elaborating on Covid-19 arrangements, the CM called for uninterrupted supply of oxygen to all dedicated hospitals and oxygen backup stock there for at least 48 hours. He also asked the officers concerned to continue extensive publicity and awareness drives for protection from Covid-19. “Tell people to make masks an essential part of life and get into the habit of washing hands with soap frequently,” he said.The CM said that so far, 77,000 revenue villages had undergone cleanliness drives and fogging, besides fogging in 9,000 urban municipal wards . “Establish a dialogue with village heads to guide them about regular cleanliness drives in their respective villages,” Adityanath directed officials. The CM reiterated that the state must scale up its Covid-19 testing capabilities to conduct 50,000 tests per day. He directed the Gorakhpur divisional commissioner to do effective monitoring for Covid-19 as well as prevention of vector-borne diseases in all the districts of Gorakhpur division. He asked the state health minister to establish a dialogue with all chief medical officers and the state medical education minister to stay in touch with medical colleges and institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/markets-in-up-to-be-closed-on-weekends/story-K7v9Uabqy27t4glawOJBXJ.html
13-07-2020||India||JP Nadda takes aim at Kerala govt, Rahul Gandhi at virtual rally||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Sunday launched an attack against the Pinarayi Vijayan government of Kerala, accusing it of corruption and nepotism and messing up data related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. He also attacked former Congress president and Wayanad MP, Rahul Gandhi, for allegedly holding a secret meeting with the Chinese ambassador during the Doklam military standoff in 2017.The BJP president, who was addressing a virtual rally after an online inauguration of the party’s district office in Kasargod, said the Kerala government needed to come clean on the recent gold smuggling that led to the transfer of a senior bureaucrat.scandal. The transfer of M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who was also a secretary to chief minister Vijayan, came after opposition parties in the state stepped up pressure following the seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment. A former information technology consultant to the state government is the prime suspect in the case. “What is the relationship between that IT officer and the personal secretary of the chief minister?We can see the heat in CM’s office also. He wrote to Prime Minister saying no stone should remain unturned as far as the investigation is concerned. We have a saying ‘chor ki daadi mein tinka’, it means the office of CM is also involved somewhere,” the BJP chief said.“Misappropriation of funds, crimes against women, nepotism in political appointments, political patronage and several other things are prevalent under this Pinarayi government,” he said.The BJP leader also criticised the Kerala government for its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, He said the CM had made claims that the state is equipped to cater to over 150,000 people, but when the Vande Bharat flights to bring home stranded Indians from abroad were started, the situation turned out to be different. “They tried to suppress the data. Even when the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said we should increase the tests, the attitude of the state government was negative,” Nadda said.He went on add, “The Kerala house in Delhi was offered to anti-CAA {Citizenship (Amendment) Act} protestors} but not to the brave Malayali nurses who needed help. I also know that during the crisis, the health data of individuals was compromised. Migrant workers in Wayanad had to stage a protest against the government. There is political patronage to private companies,” the BJP leader said.Nadda claimed that the support for BJP in the state had been growing in the last decade, with its vote share rising from 6% to 16% and its membership growing from 1.1 million to 2.5 million. He urged the people to shun the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front, which he said were two sides of the same coin.“To keep BJP out, the Left and the Congress joined hands at the last moment. If the BJP had not protested against the Sabarimala issue (of allowing women of all ages to visit the shrine), they would have destroyed the faith of people,” he said.Shifting his attack to Rahul Gandhi, he said, the Wayand MP had not disclosed his meeting with the Chinese ambassador during the Doklam stand-off.“These days he is asking questions about China and shows desh prem (love for the country), but the people of India know when the Doklam standoff was on he secretly met the Chinese ambassador and did not tell anyone. India got to know only when the Chinese Ambassador broadcast the picture with him online,” he said.On Sunday, Gandhi again attacked the government over the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in eastern Ladakh, alleging that the Chinese have captured Indian territory.“What happened {was} that China took away the sacred land of Mother India during Modi ji’s tenure?” the former Congress president tweeted on Sunday morning.The Kerala government brushed aside the BJP president’s criticism. “The whole world is praising the state’s Covid’s management system and we have the lowest mortality rate: records speak. In gold smuggling case we don’t have anything to hide. Our CM was first to call for a central agency probe. People know truth and that is our strength,” said state industry minister E P Jayarajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-takes-aim-at-kerala-govt-rahul-at-virtual-rally/story-gXieP3iR93rjhMCeiaFxAJ.html
13-07-2020||India||On a strong footing in fight against Covid-19, says Amit Shah||Home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday said that India, despite being densely populated, had coped well with the Covid-19 crisis under Prime Minister Narendra Modi while the health services of most developed nations collapsed because of the pandemic. He added that there was no sense of panic in India over the outbreak. Shah was speaking at an event organised by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), or central paramilitary forces, for a mega plantation drive with a target of planting 13.7 million saplings by end of this month across the country. “The battle against Covid-19 is being carried out under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi with people’s participation. Today India is leading a successful fight in managing the pandemic in the country. At a time when the health services of even the most developed countries were collapsing under its impact, the whole world was concerned how would India, - such a big densely populated country with a federal structure -- fight this pandemic, but today the most successful fight against this pandemic has been fought in India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Shah said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He added: “We are on a strong pedestal in the fight against Covid-19 under the leadership of the Prime Minister with the motto ‘One People, One Thought, One Nation’.”Unlike in other parts of the world, where only the governments are fighting the pandemic,in India, 1.3 billion citizens and state governments in India are united in fighting the threat, Shah said. “Nowhere across the country is there is a state of panic, in fact we are committed in facing this challenge and are resolute in overcoming this pandemic,” Shah added. The home minister lauded CAPFs for the role they were playing in fighting Covid-19. CAPFs have lost 31 troopers to the pandemic so far, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-a-strong-footing-in-fight-against-covid-19-says-shah/story-kduXbSl18NmJ0pr92nvkEL.html
13-07-2020||India||Farmers using cash scheme well: Study||A study of the impact of PM-KISAN, the Modi government’s income transfer scheme for farmers, has found that poor cultivators don’t squander the free money they receive, but invest it “efficiently” in modern farm technologies, apart from education and health.However, the extent to which farmers were likely to invest the free cash in agriculture was influenced by the availability of farm knowledge sessions imparted by the country’s network of institutions called Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK), technically called agricultural extension services, the study found.How farmers utilised the money also depended on the very timing of cash release, according to the study, which is part of a larger project of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI).Also read: After vigorous monsoon rains, crop planting gathers pace in IndiaThe study found that beneficiaries were diverse and there was no “statistical evidence” of any bias in selection of farmers on the basis of caste, community or faith.Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of Rs 6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2,000 — one every four months. It was launched on February 24 last year, when the first instalment was paid.The cash is unconditional, i.e. nearly 80 million recipients are free to spend the money as they want, but it is expected that they utilise some part of the cash on farming.Farmers tend to invest substantially in agricultural technologies, such more productive seed varieties, when the cash release happens close to sowing seasons and KVK field officials are available to tutor farmers on latest methods of farming and use of better seeds, the study found. Also read: PM spotlights economy’s health at global event, says green shoots visible“So, what are the lessons? The lessons are that it is important to synchronise the release of the cash with that of farmer-training activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendras,” said Pramod Kumar Joshi, one of the authors of the study.The researchers studied two instalments for spending patterns. In one instalment, the results showed that 52% of those who received the first instalment spent it on agriculture and 26% on consumption, 7% on education and health and the remaining 15% on other incidental expenses such as festivals and marriages. The study showed that PM-KISAN has increased adoption of modern cultivars (crop varieties) for farmers with access to KVKs by 36 percentage points as compared to those who were not covered by KVK’s field scientists.More than 60% of farmers who received the money in the off-season spent it on consumption, education and medical purposes, suggesting that farmers are most likely to invest larger sums in agriculture when the money is released just before the sowing season.Also read| Cleaners to farmers: Higher risk of knee osteoarthritis linked to certain jobsJoshi collaborated with colleagues Deepak Varshney, Devesh Roy, Anjani Kumar at the IFPRI to sample 1,406 farmer households who got money under PM-KISAN and segregated them as those having access to government training in farm technologies and those who did not. Their findings were published in the IFPRI journal as well as in the EPW journal.In the last instalment of PM KISAN, the government paid nearly Rs 17,000 crore to about 80 million enrolled farmer households in April 2020.“PM-KISAN shows a potential to break the cycle of intergenerational poverty and low income of farmers through investment in modern technology,” the authors said in the study.KR Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Technology, said: “This study essentially demonstrates that it is not enough to give farmers cash, but the government must ramp up the numbers of farmers covered by KVKs, which are present in every district of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-using-cash-scheme-well-study/story-aiNcR3s515IiYHEZxlb03M.html
13-07-2020||India||Rail project gets Karnataka board nod as experts raise concern||A railway line proposed to be built in the Western Ghats, rejected by several statutory bodies in the past amid concerns that it could cause irreparable damage to prime forests and unique biodiversity in the region, received approval on March 20 from the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL), which rejected the project 11 days earlier.The SBWL approval was granted after the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), under the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), started reviewing the project in Karntaka and asked about the reasons behind the delay in implementing it, documents reviewed by HT suggest. SBWL’s approval has resurrected the serious environmental concerns that held up the project for the past two decades.At least 101 scientists have endorsed a letter written by 11 ecologists and wildlife biologists to the NBWL member-secretary and MoEFCC minister Prakash Javadekar on July 2, raising several concerns about the Hubballi Ankola Railway Line Project (HARP) in Karnataka, including irreversible damage it could do to forests, fragmenting wildlife habitats in the Western Ghats, a global biodiversity hotspot and a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) world heritage site.The project is likely to come up for NBWL’s nod before other requisite clearances are sought.The proposed rail track will pass through a wildlife corridor between Bedthi Conservation Reserve (BCR) and Kali Tiger Reserve (KTR), a natural habitat for many species, including tigers and elephants. The project involves entails of felling of around 190,000 trees.The habitat of Great Pied and Malabar Pied Hornbills, both keystone species -- species critical for the survival of other species in the region -- are likely to have a major impact due to the project.It also passes through habitats that host many endemic and endangered species such as the Malabar Tree Toad, said the letter written by ecologists that quoted from various peer-reviewed papers in a bid to bolster their argument.The letter and details of the project have also been published on the Conservation India website that is spearheading a campaign to protect ecology.“No amount of mitigation will compensate for the damage to the ecosystem that will be lost for good. Ultimately, the well-being of local communities will be jeopardised,” the letter said.The Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot has already lost 33,000 square kilometres, or up to 40% of its forest cover, in the last 100 years, according to scientists.A significant proportion of this forest loss is attributed to linear projects such as power transmission lines, highways, and construction of dams.“The existing railway line (Tinai Ghat-Castlerock), located around 50 km north of the proposed site, along with several state roads and power lines have significantly contributed to fragmenting forests of the region and creating edges. Implementing HARP will create many more edges by splitting 10 large forest patches of conservation significance into 15 smaller patches,” said the letter, endorsed by scientists from various research organisations.They have argued that mitigation measures would not be able to counter the ecological impact.The project has in the past been rejected by the Supreme Court (SC)-constituted Central Empowered Committee (CEC) in 2015 and by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in 2018, according to documents seen by HT.The MoEFCC’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) had also raised several issues regarding the project.“The CEC is of the considered view that the project would cause huge and irreparable damage to forests, wildlife and biodiversity of the Western Ghats, which would far outweigh the actual tangible benefits of the project. The CEC report was based on a number of hearings, documents, and meetings with various senior Karnataka government officials,” the CEC had said while rejecting HARP.A MoEFCC letter to principal secretary (forests), Karnataka, dated September 29, 2018, had stated that a site inspection committee of NTCA has rejected the project because out of the six tiger-occupied landscapes in India; Western Ghats tops on habitat connectivity and contiguity counts.The project has come up, pending NBWL and other national-level approvals, despite a spate of rejections in the past.HT has seen the minutes of Karnataka SBWL meeting, which suggests that the project was rejected unanimously by board members and special invitees on March 9.The minutes suggest that a majority of SBWL members had opposed the project.The additional chief secretary (ACS), forests, Karnataka had said that since the rail network had already been strengthened in the Tinnaighat-Castlerock-Caranzol area, HARP was redundant.Karnataka chief secretary (CS), who was a special invitee to the SBWL meeting, cited the Centre’s enquiry regarding the delay in the project’s implementation.In the March 20 meeting, the Board reversed its own decision.The minutes show that a number of special invitees attended the meeting, including the state minister of industries and the CS along with chief minister BS Yediyurappa.The Board recommended the project because of the need for development in the north Karnataka region.Environmentalists have found holes in SBWL’s approval for the project.“The decision taken on March 9 to reject the proposal was in conformity with legal and statutory procedures. However, handpicked special invitees with no expertise in wildlife were allowed to deliberate at a hurriedly convened meeting on March 20, violating all procedural norms. This smacks of arbitrariness. There is no legal provision under the Wildlife Act, 1972, that empowers the State Board to review its own decision taken after completion of a statutory process,” said Praveen Bhargav of the Bengaluru-based Wildlife First, a conservation advocacy group.HT had sent queries on whether Javadekar had received the scientists’ representation on Monday but did not get a response till Tuesday evening.Another NBWL, member, however, said on condition of anonymity that all members had received the representation and it would be deliberated upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-project-gets-k-taka-board-nod-as-experts-raise-concern/story-pjdvMZFTAJIYfwDPduvCeM.html
13-07-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir to open for tourists from July 14 in phased manner, guidelines released||The Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to open the union territory for tourism in a phased manner starting July 14 and has issued a set of guidelines for the same. The first phase will see tourists arriving by air only. “In the view of the Covid related measures, it is felt imperative to put in place a protocol to be followed by the tourists as well the persons/authorities engaged in the hospitality sector,” the release read.  RT-PCR testing of all tourists will be compulsory on their arrival and travellers will need to have a confirmed hotel booking, the J&K government said in its order on Sunday. Tourism in Jammu & Kashmir to open in a phased manner from 14th July; Govt of J&K issues guidelines for entry of tourists. In this phase, tourism limited to those arriving by air only. RTPCR testing of all tourists compulsory on arrival &tourists to have confirmed hotel bookings. pic.twitter.com/YeRmMjVDHH“Till the test result shows a negative result for Covid-19, a tourist will remain in the hotel where the booking has been made and shall not be allowed to move out. A form to this effect shall be signed at the airport,” the release stated. Those tourists coming with a Covid-19 negative report will not be required to remain in their hotel rooms. However, RT-PCR testing will apply to them as well. The incoming tourists must also have a confirmed return air ticket from Jammu and Kashmir. Taxi, transport facility will need to be pre-booked by the travellers through hotels or travel agencies. The procedures for the same will be put in place by the J&K government and mentioned on the official tourism department website. Also read: First time in history, Jammu and Kashmir gives skip to martyrs’ dayThe government has urged the elderly, those ageing 65 years and above, to avoid travelling. The tourists will be asked to produce the booking details of their accommodation upon arrival. All tourists are required to have the Aarogya Setu mobile application installed on their smartphones and make regular updates regarding their health. The hotel administration or travel agents are required to provide the travellers with a pick-up facility from the airport and also drop them on their departure. This comes on a day when authorities on Sunday ordered a partial lockdown in Srinagar by designating over 60 containment zones amid a surge in coronavirus cases over the past week.The lockdown will be imposed in 68 containment zones of the city from Monday and no movement would be allowed in these areas without permission, they said.“In view of the major spike in Covid-19 cases, we will have to carve out containment zones for effective restrictions in different areas of Srinagar. Local cooperation is solicited in best interest of public health,” District Magistrate, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said.Jammu and Kashmir has reported 10,156 coronavirus cases till date of which 5,895 patients have recovered while 169 have succumbed to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-to-open-for-tourists-from-july-14-in-phased-manner-guidelines-released/story-sbtmyE22ALdsm0M2706Y0N.html
