14-07-2020||India||Full scale marriages and functions are ruining Odisha’s war on Covid-19||Even as Odisha’s total Covid-19 cases surged past 14,000 with cases and deaths galloping in July, Odisha government has been at its wit’s end trying to stop mass congregations including marriage ceremonies and religious gatherings.On Tuesday, police in Puri district seized huge cauldrons of variety of food items from a village in Pipili block where a man had thrown a community feast to celebrate his son’s marriage. Ganesh Patra of Nijagadakurukhi Patrasahi village had invited over 500 people for lunch near his home in stark violation of the Covid-19 guidelines on marriage functions. Police and local administration seized the cooked food and distributed it among poor people in the area.“The man not only violated the Covid guideline of having not more than 50 guests in a marriage function, but also didn’t observe any social distancing. Very few people wore masks,” said Pipili tehsildar Sapan Nanda.Though the state government has been emphasising on social distancing and wearing masks as measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, there have been at least a dozen such violations this month. In just 13 days, the state has reported around 7,000 Covid positive cases of which 30.9 % were spread through local contacts.In Kendrapara district, police on Tuesday arrested seven persons for organising a congregation of over 500 people for the marriage of a local contractor, while in Pattamundai block of the district, local police lodged a case against seven persons including the husband of the sarpanch over a religious congregation for installing a new image of the local deity after the existing one was broken.In Ganjam district, where doctors are worried about community transmissions, police on Saturday arrested the Naib Sarpanch Krushna Chandra Jena of Dengapadar gram panchayat in Polasara block of Ganjam district for doing a yagna in gross violation of Covid-19 regulations.Jena had allegedly organized a religious congregation of over 500 people for the installation ceremony of a Hanuman temple at Mardarajpur village on July 6 in violation of Covid-19 guidelines and regulations. A local youth who had objected to the holding of such large gatherings was thrashed by the organisers.In a separate case, police sealed an upscale hotel in Gopalpur town of Ganjam district that allowed a marriage at its premises without adhering to the social distancing norms and wearing of masks. Police arrested the groom, his father, two brothers and an uncle for violating Covid-19 guidelines and levied a fine of Rs 50,000 on hotel Mayfair and sealed it for seven days. The Regional Transport Office also impounded the vehicle in which the groom was going to the hotel.On Sunday, a case was registered against a man in Gajapati district whose wedding was reportedly attended by around 1,000 guests.“We have been running awareness campaigns on the necessity of avoiding any congregations that would lead to more infections. People need to understand that we are in a dangerous phase and any lapse would worsen the situation further,” said Ganjam district collector Vijay S Kulange.Meanwhile, a legislator from Balasore district on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 while a 63-year-old journalist passed away after testing positive for the virus. Earlier, a BJP and BJD MLA had been infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-scale-marriages-and-functions-are-ruining-odisha-s-war-on-covid-19/story-fa3lv8Z3b63MLWznUzggoI.html
14-07-2020||India||Rlys issues fresh tender for thermal cameras after row over specs favouring Chinese firm||Indian railways’ telecom arm RailTel has issued a fresh tender for thermal CCTV cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ changing the specifications following allegations by Indian firms that the earlier tender favoured one Chinese company. It has also made it mandatory for firms to list the country of manufacturing of the equipment.Railways had scrapped the tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that artificial intelligence technology - DeepInMind - which is specified in the tender is a proprietary feature of Chinese firm Hikvision, a company partly owned by the Chinese government, Hindustan Times reported on July 1. In a letter written to RailTel, one of the vendors had said the pre-qualification criteria laid down for the OEM and bidder had some anomalies and ambiguities.Under the specifications mentioned in the tender for temperature screening with facial recognition and mask detection, RailTel mentioned “Special interface in DeepinMind NVR.”According to Hikvision’s technology, Network Video Recorder (NVR) has a “mind” of its own and can analyse and classify human and vehicle targets from video streams.The fresh tender issued on Monday has removed this technical specification as a requirement and has asked vendors to name the country manufacturing the equipment that they supply.“Bidder shall mention country of manufacturing against each item in SOR (schedule of requirement). In case country of manufacturing is not mentioned by the bidder, RailTel Reserves the right to reject his offer. Moreover, GoI’s Present as well as Future Guideline regarding foreign country material will be applicable,” the new tender document said. The PSU has retained one significant specification of the blackbody temperature -- the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has fever or not.It has also listed features of the cameras to include software with simultaneous temperature screening for multiple persons with alarm (indoor), contact-free mask detection, alarms on people without masks, identity verification and stranger alarm, that is confirming identity, even with a mask.This comes at a time when India and China are involved in a tense border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. A brutal brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 led to 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers being killed. India has also decided to ban 59 mobile phone apps, mostly having Chinese links.The apex traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) last week also objected to the bid placed by a Chinese joint venture company for a global tender by the railways for manufacturing Vande Bharat trains. The traders body has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday urging him to not allow the bid placed by the Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited which is one of the six bidders for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-issues-fresh-tender-for-thermal-cameras-after-row-over-specs-favouring-chinese-firm/story-ncY8ItS1a0rZnRa1MXMaBJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot welcome to join, say BJP leaders as party weighs its options||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders held out invites to Sachin Pilot, offering to welcome the Congress leader into the saffron fold after he was stripped off his status as chief of the party unit in Rajasthan and the deputy chief minister earlier in the day.“If anybody with a mass base joins the BJP or any political party, everybody welcomes him. Expressing trust in our ideology, if anybody joins us we will welcome him with open arms. This is a normal procedure,” Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said, according to news agency PTI soon after Pilot was dropped from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet on Tuesday afternoon.Former union minister of state PP Chaudhary said he expected more people from the Congress to join Pilot.“So many people joining Sachin is a big thing, and I believe more will join him. BJP’s doors are open for everybody if he believes in our ideology. If Sachin Pilot joins us, I don’t think there will be any problem. Our national leadership, though, will take the final call,” PTI quoted Chaudhary as saying.Chaudhary, however, added that the national leadership will ultimately decide if such a union was possible.A leader aware of developments said the senior BJP leaders including former chief minister Vasundhara Raje will hold discussions over the current political situation in the state tomorrow after the virtual split in the Congress legislature party following Pilot’s removal.The BJP has indicated that it is adopting a hands-off approach and keenly watching the unfolding of political situation in Rajasthan. The party believes that it is time for the Gehlot government to go after the rebellion led by Sachin Pilot who appears to have the support of nearly 16 MLAs.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has blamed the BJP for ensnaring Pilot to destabilise the government, a charge that the BJP has rejected. The BJP says the entire episode is a “film” that had been in planning for the last 6 months and was “directed, produced, and acted in” by Ashok Gehlot himself, who, it claimed, had “successfully plotted” Sachin Pilot’s “ouster” from the party.Earlier a BJP leader in Delhi, who spoke on condition of anonymity, had said that the party will not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers.BJP leaders have also claimed the party has neither formally contacted Pilot nor had been approached by him.Another BJP leader Baijayant Jay Panda tweeted about “every experienced pilot” being aware of an “alternate air strip to land” in the event of technical problems, triggering a fresh round of speculations.While it has been reported that Sachin has ruled out joining the BJP and could instead be considering floating a regional outfit, he has not made any formal announcement of his plans yet. Pilot is expected to address a Press conference tomorrow morning at 11 when he may outline his next steps.While the Congress currently appears to have enough numbers to save the government, the difference between winning and losing could be wafer thin. In a 200-member house, Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72, with Gehlot claiming support of several independent and other parties’ MLAs as well. However, Pilot’s camp has claimed that he enjoys support of around 30 MLAs and that if true, could prove to be a decisive factor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-welcome-to-join-say-bjp-leaders-as-party-weighs-its-options/story-hbfDIWuUq71i17cUw4badO.html
14-07-2020||India||Tripura announces 7-day lockdown in areas bordering Bangladesh||With rise of Covid-19 cases in the areas falling on the Indo-Bangla border Tripura government on Tuesday announced week-long “ total lockdown” within one km of border in rural areas and 0.5 km in municipal areas on the border with Bangaldesh. The lockdown will begin from July 17.“ It has come to the notice of the State Government that there is some spread of Covid-19 in border areas of the state which has posed as a major threat to public health, hygiene and safety of the people. In the capacity of the chairman of the State Executive Committee of Tripura State Disaster Management Authority, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 ( 2) (h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 direct enforcement of “ Total Lockdown” within 1 km of border in rural areas and 0.5 km in municipal areas from international Bangladesh border of the State of Tripura for 7 days w.e.f. 7 AM of 17th July, 2020,” as stated in a government notification released by chief secretary Manoj Kumar this late evening.During the lockdown, all kinds of individual movements would be prohibited except emergency services. All autonomous/subordinate offices and private offices, business establishments, shops, trades, educational institutions, worship places would remain closed. All political and social activities would be suspended. At least 50 persons in wedding ceremony and 20 persons in the funeral ceremony could be present. Later, Law minister Ratan Lal Nath told the mediapersons, “ We will see the Covid-19 rate in the bordering areas in the weeklong lockdown. Later, we will consider whether lockdown should be extended in the entire state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-announces-7-day-lockdown-in-areas-bordering-bangladesh/story-1J5DEJGJtuTG7SE0YrLjlI.html
14-07-2020||India||Top Indian, Chinese generals hold crucial talks at Chushul to reduce tension at LAC||Complicated negotiations on kicking off the next stage of disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies in eastern Ladakh saw senior military commanders from both sides hold an hours-long meeting at Chushul on Tuesday to discuss the road map for further reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The talks that began at 11.30 am were in progress when this report was filed.The focus of the current round of military talks is to hammer out a consensus on easing tensions in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons and equipment from friction points in other sectors, said one of the officials cited above.“Tricky issues are on the table. Addressing them will take time,” he said.This was the fourth meeting between the corps commander-ranked officers who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the contested border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.The previous two meetings went on for up to 11 hours while the first one was the shortest at 7 hours.Negotiations are expected to be far harder this time as the continued presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point of the talks, as reported by Hindustan Times on Tuesday.In Tuesday’s talks, the agenda included the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from all friction areas along the LAC and thinning the military buildup in the region, a second official said.The military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.The July 14 talks follow a series of steps taken by the two armies at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to implement a complex disengagement plan worked out during the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.The current disengagement process began after the June 30 military dialogue and a subsequent conversation on July 5 between national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in the Finger Area, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The PLA pulled back 2 km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) last week, with the Indian Army also withdrawing proportionately in these areas.The army observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area over the last week but the army doesn’t view it as disengagement, said a third official.The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-indian-chinese-generals-hold-crucial-talks-at-chushul-to-reduce-tension-at-lac/story-Sq0hUak5ECixLN4F8sTKWP.html
14-07-2020||India||BTP MLAs in Rajasthan put decision to support Congress on hold||The two MLAs of Bharatiya Tribal Party in Rajasthan who were supporting Congress till Monday, have now have put their decision on hold.BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat alleged that police chased them, stopped their vehicles and took away their car keys on Tuesday.BTP has two MLAs in Rajasthan – Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad Dhindor.“We had supported Congress government in Rajya Sabha elections, and had assured the CM support in this political crisis but we refused to stay at the hotel,” said Roat.He said, “We were on way to Dungarpur and police misbehaved with us. There is resentment due to today’s incident. The decision to continue our support will be taken in the state level meeting tomorrow.”Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had shepherded loyalist MLAs into a resort on Monday amid a tug of war with his former deputy Sachin Pilot. The development happened a day after, the BTP national leadership’s direction to not support any political group in the ongoing political crisis. BTP National chief Mahesh C Vasava in a letter to the MLAs directed them to support neither the BJP nor the Congress and neither Ashok Gehlot nor Sachin Pilot in the floor test.However, despite the party’s direction, Roat on Monday had spoken about supporting the Congress.On Tuesday, the Congress dropped Pilot and two other ministers from the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/btp-mlas-in-rajasthan-put-decision-to-support-congress-on-hold/story-BZmxHWeEdViaWfO6E0DKQJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Sanjay Jha who faulted Congress for turmoil in Rajasthan suspended from party||Congress leader Sanjay Jha who was removed as the party spokesperson last month for a newspaper article was suspended from the Congress late on Tuesday. A two-line note issued by the Maharashtra unit said Jha was being suspended with immediate effect for what it described as “anti-party activities and breach of discipline”.The Congress statement did not outline the charge against Sanjay Jha. It is not clear if his suspension is linked to the barrage of tweets and statements over the ongoing Ashok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot playing out in Rajasthan.Jha backed Pilot who had been removed as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit president just hours earlier. In tweets and his statements to television channels, Sanjay Jha was critical of how the Congress is being run and spoken of disillusionment within the party.But Sanjay Jha had been tweeting in support of Pilot for a few days, crediting him with rebuilding the party from 2014 when he was inducted as the Rajasthan Congress chief. Jha, a familiar face of the Congress on television debates, was sacked as the party spokesperson’s post after he wrote an article that was severely critical of the party leadership. In this, he has contradicted the party’s claim that the Congress has an internal platform for frank exchange of ideas and counter-ideas to get the party back on track.He has worn the party’s decision to remove him as spokesperson as a badge of honour on his Twitter profile but insisted that he did not intend to jump ship and stay with the Congress. Later, he even tweeted that he would throw his hat in the ring as a candidate for the Congress Working Committee - the highest decision-making body in the grand old party – “as and when there are elections”.To be sure, Sachin Pilot and the two ministers dropped from Ashok Gehlot’s cabinet earlier on Tuesday also continue to remain in the party. The Congress hasn’t suspended or expelled them. But it is clear that their continuation in the party is going to be untenable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-suspends-ex-spokesperson-sanjay-jha-for-anti-party-activities/story-i4jFf4eyCF4jHhg0hjFisO.html
14-07-2020||India||Regulate Covid treatment costs at private hospitals, orders Supreme Court||Concerned at high costs of treatment deterring Covid-19 patients from getting admitted at private hospitals across the country, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to use its vast powers under the Disaster Management Act (DMA) to direct States to regulate this cost.The court’s direction cane while hearing a PIL filed by a lawyer Sachin Jain who flagged the exorbitant costs charged for treatment of Covid-19 at private hospitals.He stated that in such a situation where the country was battling a pandemic, even the private hospitals are duty-bound to provide treatment at subsidized rates.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde which heard the PIL said, “These are matters having far-reaching implications. To what extent cost becomes a prohibiting factor for access to medical care is an issue we are concerned about.”The CJI-led bench directed the Union Health Ministry officials to meet representatives of hospital federations along with the petitioner Sachin Jain on July 16. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and AS Bopanna said, “At the meeting, the Union government may consider what directions are necessary to be passed to States using its power under the DMA. An appropriate decision shall be taken within a week and be placed before this Court for approval.”The issue of subsidized treatment for Covid-19 patients at private hospitals has been engaging the attention of the top court for over two months. Initially, the Court had asked the Centre if private hospitals that got land at cheap rates should be made liable to treat Covid-19 patients for free. The Centre informed the Court that such a direction from the top court is being implemented by reserving beds for economically weak patients in out-patient and in-patient wards. The Court even suggested if private hospitals could charge the same fees from Covid-19 patients as prescribed by the Government under Ayushman Bharat scheme.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre explained that health is a state subject and states can ask private hospitals to regulate cost based on local conditions and availability of resources. As of now, nobody knows how long the pandemic will last and whether hospitals can maintain enough resources till then, Mehta said. Senior advocate Harish Salve representing Healthcare Federation of India said, “It’s not that hospitals are making great money. People are scared to visit hospitals so footfall has dropped. We have signed agreements with state governments for reserving beds for Covid-19 treatment. In Maharashtra 80 per cent beds are taken by the Government. In addition there are several central government health schemes under which private hospitals are providing free or subsidized treatment. Hospital system is reeling under tremendous financial burden.”The petitioner pointed out that some private hospitals charged Rs 30-40 lakh for treating the pandemic which is excessive. Salve said that people who can afford should not mind as insurance companies will foot their bills. The Court asked Salve, “Are you assuming that most people in the country have health insurance policy?”The Court was convinced that a blanket order cannot serve the intended purpose. It was then that the Court felt that a solution should be devised by the Centre after taking a look at the prevailing models of treatment in every state. The bench is expected to take up the matter for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tasks-centre-to-regulate-covid-19-treatment-costs-at-private-hospitals/story-NnK1Xty49R4s3CTAVvqXoL.html
14-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey ordered firing at police team in Bikru village: Arrested aide||Following his arrest on Tuesday, Vikas Dubey’s alleged aide Shashikant alias Sonu Pandey denied killing DSP Devendra Mishra and said the slain gangster had ordered the firing at the police team that raided his house on the night intervening July 2 and 3. Pandey made the claims to a TV news channel while being taken away by the police after his arrest. On being asked who killed DSP Mishra, he told the new channel that he did not kill him.“They (policemen) were killed very brutally (badi berahami se maara gayaa),” Pandey told the channel in a very feeble voice.When asked why did he flee from his house and why did he get his head tonsured, he said, “My mother told me to run away (Maa ne bhagaa diyaa thaa). I got my head tonsured because my father (Prem Kumar Pandey) is no more.” Prem Kumar Pandey was killed in the encounter with the police in Bikru village.Two of Vikas Dubey’s alleged accomplices, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by the police in a shootout in Kanpur.When asked how the firing was started from the rooftop of Dubey’s house, Shashikant said, “It was immediately ordered (on the raid by the police team). Vikas Dubey gave the orders.” In response to a question by the reporter, Pandey said, “He (Dubey) did not spare anyone.” On being asked if “he (Dubey) also used to target girls”, Pandey replied in positive. Pandey was arrested and two rifles of the Uttar Pradesh police, looted during the Kanpur ambush earlier this month, were also recovered, police said on Tuesday. With this, all weapons looted during the ambush have been recovered, they said. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said Dubey’s aide Shashikant alias Sonu Pandey was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest.  “Shashikant Pandey was an accused in the killing of the eight policemen (in the Kanpur ambush). He was arrested from Chaubeypur around 2.50 am,” the police officer told reporters in Kanpur. “During interrogation, he admitted to his involvement in the encounter at Bikru village in Kanpur dehat. It was revealed that the looted AK-47 of police was hidden in Dubey’s house while the INSAS rifle was at Shashikant’s house,” the ADG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-ordered-firing-at-police-team-in-bikru-village-arrested-aide/story-buMIG6qHDftzsgb45xKtwM.html
14-07-2020||India||Kerala reports highest single-day spike of 608 Covid-19 cases; tally at 8,930||Kerala on Tuesday reported its highest single-day spike of 608 virus cases taking the infection tally to 8930 as the death count climbed to 35 with two more fatalities. What is worrying for the state is the number of locally-transmitted cases are going up alarmingly. Out of 608 cases, 398 are locally-transmitted ones.As cases rise steadily the worried government has appointed special IAS officers to each of the 14 districts to find more beds and co-ordninate measures against the pandemic. “It is a real concern as cases are going up steadily. We have to gear up our efforts to check a possible community transmission,” said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.First to report a coronavirus case in the country in January the state was on the verge of flattening the curve in May first week but cases increased after expatriates and people from other states flooded it transmitting many. Still its recovery and mortality rates are lowest in the country. Out of 8930 cases, live are 4454 and recovered 4414, said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-608-covid-19-cases-tally-at-8-930/story-VLKtlqTgijH5hqInJIxuKL.html
14-07-2020||India||Customs question Kerala CM’s former secretary in gold smuggling case||The Customs Department on Tuesday questioned Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar in the gold smuggling case while a minister of state was forced to defend himself after his phone number figured in the call list of key accused Swapna Suresh.Phone call lists of first accused Sarith Kumar and second accused Swapna Suresh were leaked to the media. In Swapna’s list there were many calls to Sivasankar and higher education minister K T Jaleel.On July 5 the Customs had seized 30 kg of gold from an air cargo consignment from the UAE to the country’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Four people have been arrested so far including Swapna Suresh, a former consultant with the state IT department. The CM’s powerful secretary Sivasankar, a senior IAS official, was later removed from the post after reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to Suresh. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).After phone call details surfaced, the minister hurriedly convened a press conference and explained that he called Suresh as directed by the UAE consular office in connection with the distribution of Ramzan food kits on May 27.“I contacted her as the executive secretary of the consular office. It was part of my official duty. It is not the duty of a minister to find out details of any employee of the consulate office,” said Jaleel. He also said that he was not aware of her history.His private secretary’s number also figured in the call list of Sarith Kumar, another accused who has been arrested. When asked about this he said the NIA can investigate all such details and he was not worried. Later the CM also defended his minister.Earlier in the day Customs officials reached the residence of senior IAS officer Sivasankar and issued summons to him. Within half an hour he reached the Customs office in Thiruvananthpuram for questioning. He was still being questioned in the evening.The CM said it was part of the investigation and there was no need to suspend him now. He said the government was not worried as the NIA investigation was going in the right direction.The Customs department detained three more persons on Tuesday. Their details were not disclosed. Meanwhile, the NIA court in Kochi issued an arrest warrant against key suspect Faisal Fareed who is reported to be in the UAE.The NIA will soon move the Interpol for the arrest and extradition of Fareed from the UAE, people familiar with the high-profile probe team said. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Intelligence Bureau, Enforcement Directorate and other agencies are also helping in the probe. In its custody application for those arrested, the NIA said a good amount of money generated through smuggling was pumped in to fund terror activities. It also said 150 kg of gold were smuggled through Thiruvananthapuram airport in last six months in similar fashion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-question-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-59kgo4vxHckT04Ln3xKvCP.html
14-07-2020||India||India, EU sign civil nuclear cooperation agreement on eve of Summit||India and the European Union (EU) on Tuesday signed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement on the eve of a virtual summit, while Europol and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are negotiating a working arrangement to combat organised crime and terrorism.The agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community or Euratom and Indian authorities will focus on cooperation between EU’s research programmes on new ways of using nuclear energy and similar activities on the Indian side, EU officials said during a briefing for journalists.“The agreement is on research and development cooperation for peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which was negotiated for 13 years and finally can be cemented by the summit,” said one of the EU officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.The India-EU Summit, to be co-chaired on Wednesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, is expected to focus on strengthening multilateralism and global institutions in the face of the rise of an increasingly assertive China.The leadership of both sides are expected to reiterate their strong commitment to combat terrorism in all forms during the summit, the EU officials said. The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation or Europol and CBI are negotiating a working arrangement that will support law enforcement authorities of EU member states and India to prevent and combat organised crime and terror, they said.Asked specifically about the India-China border standoff, the EU officials described the recent incidents on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as a matter of considerable concern.“We are pleased to see that since these very deadly clashes took place on the LAC, both sides have committed to show restraint, to engage in military de-escalation and to engage in dialogue,” one of the officials said.Reports showed there has been a withdrawal of troops by both sides in key areas, and diplomatic and military efforts are having a “de-escalatory effect and we trust that both sides will continue dialogue to find a peaceful solution to their differences”, the official added.However, the EU officials said two sides are “quite far apart” on the issue of a Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA), negotiations for which were suspended in 2017. They were also critical of what they described as “protectionist” measures adopted by India and the termination of bilateral investment treaties with 25 EU member states.The trade relationship was far below the potential, with India accounting for less than 3% of EU’s total trade, they said. They added EU wants an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement that brings in strong rules, removes barriers to trade in goods and services and investments and opens up human markets.“India maintains a quite protectionist stance when it comes to negotiations on tariffs and on opening up its services sector, it goes backward in many areas, [such as] reducing access to the Indian procurement market for European companies,” one of the EU officials said. “At the moment, we are quite far apart in agreeing on joint operations we want to see in such an exercise.”EU is looking forward to the launch of a high-level trade dialogue between the EU trade commissioner and India’s comer minister to address these issues, they said.Besides the trade dialogue and a cooperation roadmap for the period till 2025, other deliverables expected from the summit are a joint declaration on circular economy and resource efficiency, the renewal of a science and technology cooperation agreement, the launch of a new maritime security dialogue, and the development of security and defence consultations and military contacts, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-sign-civil-nuclear-cooperation-agreement-on-eve-of-summit/story-EpPnbxaN92LTkYCIiFqnTM.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: On PM Oli’s bizarre Ayodhya claim, Congress and BJP leaders on same page and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Oli roasted in Nepal and India for shocking ‘real Ayodhya’ claimFrom seers in Ayodhya to politicians in Lucknow and New Delhi, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was roasted on Tuesday for his claim that the “real” Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal. PM Oli’s controversial comment came at a time he has been under intense pressure from party leaders to quit the top post in Kathmandu. Read moreAssam flood situation worsens; 33 lakh people in 28 districts affectedThe flood situation in Assam worsened further on Tuesday with nearly 33 lakh people in the 28 of the state’s 33 districts affected. Read moreClinical study of Covid-19 vaccine on human volunteers now in IndiaA clinical study involving human volunteers in India for a vaccine for Covid-19 is currently underway in India, Balram Bhargava, Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said Tuesday. Read more‘Won’t get a better player than him’: Kaif backs youngster for India’s No. 4 spotFormer India batsman Mohammad Kaif has thrown his weight behind Shreyas Iyer and believes the youngster’s hunger to score runs makes him an asset for the Indian cricket team. Read moreAirtel Bluejeans vs Reliance JioMeet: New video conferencing platforms comparedBharti Airtel announced a partnership with Verizon today. As a part of the partnership, the Indian telecom giant is bringing Verizon’s video-conferencing platform to India as BlueJeans. Read moreHas the pandemic made you insecure about your relationship?Among the many damages the pandemic has done, it has also sowed the seed of insecurity among couples who live far away from each other and can’t meet often. So, if you are worried about what your partner would be doing in your absence or if he or she is romantically involved with someone else, here are things that you should do to let go of the doubt that can ruin your relationship. Read moreGlass or cake? Video asks pressing question in the ‘everything is cake’ eraIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, you may have seen a new wave of memes taking over your feed. The trend called ‘everything is cake’ has netizens sharing videos of everyday things which when sliced, turn out to be cake. If you’re feeling baffled after reading that statement, worry not. Here is a video that perfectly encapsulates what this trend is all about. Read more‘China lied, people died’: Tibetans ask WHO to recall Covid probe teamTibetans held a protest against China outside the World Health Organisation office in Delhi. They opposed China’s attitude regarding the scientific team visiting China to investigate the source of the virus which causes the Covid-19 disease. The Tibetans wore apparel with slogans like ‘China lied, people died’ and ‘Free Tibet’. They demanded that the team be recalled by WHO since its aim was being misrepresented by the Chinese state. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-on-pm-oli-s-bizarre-ayodhya-claim-congress-and-bjp-leaders-on-same-page-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5hOGPfyT08dIgoYxxnfoXM.html
14-07-2020||India||BJP MLA’s death a suicide case says Bengal police, BJP demands CBI probe||The West Bengal government on Tuesday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Devendra Nath Roy--whose death has triggered a massive political row in West Bengal with the saffron party alleging he was murdered--had died by suicide. “The police suspect that it was a case of suicide. We will take the investigation to its logical end. There would be no interference,” said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, state home secretary.In Delhi, a delegation comprising top leaders of the BJP, including Kailash Vijayvargiya, Babul Supriyo and Arvind Menon among others, met President Ram Nath Kovind and union home minister Amit Shah and briefed them about the incident and alleged “lawlessness” in the state.The BJP leaders demanded a CBI investigation and alleged that 105 BJP workers have been murdered in the last three years in Bengal by “ruling party goons”. A senior police officer from the district said the preliminary post-mortem report of Roy suggests that he died by suicide. A detailed chemical report is awaited. “The post mortem report suggests that the death was due to the effects of hanging which was ante-mortem in nature. There were no other external injury marks,” said the officer, adding that this negates the allegations levelled by the family and party leaders that Roy was murdered and then hanged.BJP observes 12-hour bandh in North Bengal over death of party MLASenior leaders of the BJP, however, said that they have no faith in the post mortem report as the state is trying to pass off the murder as a suicide. “We have no faith on the report and the CID investigation which has been ordered. The chief minister should order a CBI enquiry or a judicial enquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court. The Trinamool Congress, like before, is trying to cover up a murder case and pass it off as a suicide,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP national secretary.Meanwhile, police claimed that Roy was suffering from depression as he had accumulated a huge debt since he was duped while trying to start a business. “During the left regime, Roy was the manager of a local cooperative bank. He had invested around 1.5 crore to start a business with two other partners. There was a complaint lodged against Roy that he had siphoned off Rs 1.3 crore from the cooperative bank, which had not undergone any auditing for many years. He had also mortgaged his house to get a loan of Rs 25 lakhs and even collected money from locals to start the business. But he was allegedly duped and the business never took off,” said a police officer. He added that one person had been detained for questioning.or Coronavirus Live UpdatesRoy had won the assembly elections from Hemtabad in Uttar Dinajpir district with a CPI(M) ticket in 2016 but had later joined BJP in 2019.“He has named the two persons in his suicide note. There were some financial transactions. Investigation is on. We have handed over the investigation to the state criminal investigation department (CID),” said Sumit Kumar, superintendent of police of Uttar Dinajpur.His family members, including his wife Chadima Roy, said that Roy had been suffering from depression over the past few days. Police also claimed to have found that one of the persons named in the suicide note had called on Chadima’s mobile at least three times on Sunday and spoken to the victim. Roy had lost his own mobile a few days ago. The last call was made around 9:30 pm on Sunday. Meanwhile several BJP supporters were arrested when they allegedly damaged at least three buses and tried to forcibly shut down shops in various districts of north Bengal. Protests were also staged in Kolkata. The party also alleged that some of their workers were attacked by TMC.TMC leaders reacted to the barrage of tweets BJP’s state and national leaders posted since Monday.“BJP’s national president himself is also spreading fake news. He is competing with his IT troll ring leaders. Jumping to conclusions without facts in desperation to score political points. Instead, he would do well to stand by the deceased’s family. Every death is a tragedy. Sad,” tweeted TMC Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien in response to a tweet by BJP president J P Nadda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-s-death-a-suicide-case-says-bengal-police-bjp-demands-cbi-probe/story-RPb0n3poRtMsP8ZsyjTvGP.html
14-07-2020||India||CBDT allows taxpayers to regularise past I-T returns||The government has given an opportunity to taxpayers to regularise their old income-tax returns that they had filed electronically but could not get them validated by sending a duly signed physical copy by post to the Centralized Processing Centre (CPC) in Bengaluru by September 30, 2020.This one-time relaxation is available to those taxpayers who could not get their tax returns validated from the assessment year 2015-16 to 2019-20, a finance ministry official said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Monday issued a circular to this effect allowing validation of past returns either through online methods or by sending their signed copies to the CPC by post till September 30.The circular said a large number of electronically filed income-tax returns (ITRs) are still incomplete pending their validation, without which they could be declared “non-est” (does not exist) in law.“However, this relaxation shall not apply in those cases, where during the intervening period, Income-tax Department has already taken recourse to any other measure as specified in the Act for ensuring filing of tax return by the taxpayer concerned after declaring the return as non-est,” the circular said.Rahul Garg, senior tax partner at consultancy firm PwC India, said this is an opportunity for the taxpayers to regularise their tax returns filed for various past years which had the risk of being considered as non-est for want of verification (signed Form ITR-V). “Once the returns are regularised it would save the taxpayer from penalty and prosecution that arises from non filing of the tax return,” he said.According to Deloitte India partner Sudhakar Sethuraman, instances where taxpayer has missed this step of verification, the return filed is treated as invalid. He said, “Returns pending e-verification (from AY 2015-16 to 2019-2020) can be e-verified by the taxpayers by logging on the e-filing portal. Under the “My Account” tab they can select “e-verify return” and complete the process of e-verification. Alternatively, they can download the ITR-V’s sign the same with blue ink and send the hard copies to CPC Bangalore on or before 30.09.2020,” he said. Pranjal Kamra, the CEO of legal and financial service firm Finology said ITR verification is an important step while filing income tax returns. “Therefore, CBDT’s one time relaxation is an opportunity for those individuals who have by any chance missed the verification previously,” he said.The ITRs can also be verified through the e-verification modes such as using Aadhaar and one time password (OTP), net banking or bank ATM, he added.“Taxpayers who could not verify their returns timely now have a sufficient window to do so. They must use this opportunity to make sure all past returns are duly verified, so they can be processed. If such compliance is not completed by 30th September, a notice may be sent to taxpayers for non-filing,” Archit Gupta, founder and CEO of ClearTax said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbdt-allows-taxpayers-to-regularise-past-i-t-returns/story-ekaxr3wMNM4GtYbmTe6VpN.html
14-07-2020||India||Nagaland Speaker dismisses disqualification proceedings against 7 NPF MLAs||Nagaland assembly Speaker Sharingain Longkumer on Tuesday dismissed a disqualification petition against seven legislators of the opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF).Two NPF MLAs, Imkong L Imchen and Chotisuh Sazo, had filed the petition against the 7 MLAs-EE Pangteang, Eshak Konyak, Kejong Chang, BS Nganglang Phom, Toyang Chang, NT Konyak and CL John.The seven MLAs had been suspended from the party’s membership in April last year for defying the NPF’s decision to support the Congress candidate KL Chisi in the Lok Sabha polls and instead voting for the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) candidate Tokheho Yepthomi.“”It is established beyond any reasonable doubt that there is no sufficient ground for presuming that respondents had voluntarily given up membership of the original political party (NPF). Hence, I decide the respondents are not liable to be disqualified,” Longkumer said in an order dismissing the petition.Despite being the largest party in the 60-member state assembly with 26 MLAs, NPF had not fielded any candidate during last year’s Lok Sabha polls and instead supported the Congress candidate.NDPP, which had secured 18 seats in the 2018 assembly polls, had formed government with support from 12 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs and other smaller parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-speaker-dismisses-disqualification-proceedings-against-7-npf-mlas/story-Ereadr6JZx2toL91IWRIQJ.html
14-07-2020||India||SC to examine Centre’s decision to auction coal blocks in Jharkhand||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by Jharkhand government challenging its decision to auction coal blocks in the state to private players for commercial mining.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde sought the Centre’s response in the plea which alleged that the Union government had unilaterally decided to auctions coal resources in Jharkhand without consulting the state government.“We are inclined to issue notice and hear on the injunction (to stay the auction)”, CJI Bobde said.Senior counsel Fali S Nariman, who represented the Jharkhand government along with senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singh, pointed out that the auction will take place on August 18 and the matter should be heard before that.CJI Bobde said that the Centre can extend the auction date and the Attorney General KK Venugopal, who was representing the Centre, should look into it.The matter is likely to be heard next on August 17.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, on June 18, launched virtual auction process of 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. These coal blocks are situated in the states of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra. Nine of the 41 coal blocks are in Jharkhand.The decision was part of the series of announcements made by the Government of India, under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan aimed at making India a self-reliant country. The Prime Minister said that after the reforms, the coal sector in India will become completely self-reliant and will also make eastern and central India, with substantial tribal population, pillars of development.The Jharkhand government then moved the Supreme Court in June, first by filing a writ petition and then by way of a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, challenging the centre’s decision. Article 131 empowers the Supreme Court to hear disputes between central government and states.Jharkhand submitted that the decision was made unilaterally by the Centre without consulting with the state and it was highly inappropriate.“The state is the owner of the mines and minerals situated within the territory of the plaintiff (Jharkhand). The defendant (Centre) has announced the auction unilaterally without consultation with the plaintiff (Jharkhand),” the suit said.Though there were consultations regarding the same between the Centre and states in February, Jharkhand has contended that fresh consultations should have been held in view of the changed situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to combat the same.“The meetings of February 2020 are meaningless as they do not take into account the materially changed circumstance arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Renewed consultation with the plaintiff state was indeed required due to Covid-19 pandemic which has brought the nation and the entire globe to a standstill, in a manner never seen before,” the plea stated.It also took objection to the fact that centre resorted to such a move during time of Covid-19 pandemic.“The impugned action impinges the rights of the indigenous people of the plaintiff state and will lead to large scale displacement and consequential rehabilitation and re-settlement issues,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-centre-s-decision-to-auction-coal-blocks-in-jharkhand/story-veJDzhXECAGs4l8XplpHnL.html
14-07-2020||India||Andhra deputy CM, wife and daughter are Covid-19 +ve; 99 deaths in 3 days||The Covid-19 pandemic situation is getting grimmer in Andhra Pradesh with a record number of 99 deaths and 5784 positive cases being reported in a span of last three days.State deputy chief minister Amzath Basha Sheik from Kadapa, his wife and daughter have tested positive for Covid-19. After initial treatment at Sri Venkateshwara Institute of Medical Sciences at Tirupati, he and his family members were shifted to Hyderabad on Sunday for better treatment.While 19 deaths and 1933 Covid-19 cases were registered on Sunday, there were 37 deaths and 1935 cases on Monday. In the last 24 hours, a huge number of 43 deaths and 1916 cases were reported in the state, an official bulletin from the state medical and health department said on Tuesday.On Monday, YSR Congress Party MLA from Sullurpeta in Nellore district Kiliveti Sanjeevaiah also tested positive. He was rushed to a corporate hospital in Chennai.Out of the 43 deaths that were reported in the state on Tuesday, as many as 10 deaths were from Anantapur followed by nine from West Godavari, five each from Chittoor, East Godavari and Kadapa, three each from Kurnool and Prakasam, two from Visakhapatnam and one from Vizianagaram.With 1916 positive cases for Covid-19 being reported in the state in the last 24 hours, the cumulative number of positive cases rose to 33019. Kurnool continues to top the list with 3,823 cases, followed by 3651 in Anantapur, 3356 in Guntur, 3115 in East Godavari, 3074 in Chittoor, 2744 in Krishna and 2026 in West Godavari.Except Vizianagaram, which has 832 cases, all the other districts have already crossed the 1,000-mark. As of now, 15144 patients are still in hospitals, whereas 17467 patients have been discharged after being cured.Meanwhile, the state health department issued fresh guidelines with regard to quarantining people coming from other states and also abroad, in the wake of a sharp spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state.“Stringent restrictions have been imposed on people coming from Telangana and Karnataka states, which have been included in the high-risk states,” state nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth said on Tuesday.He said as per the guidelines issued by the Centre, all the foreign returnees would have to undergo institutional quarantine for a period of seven days. Earlier, those coming from the Gulf countries were asked to be in institutional quarantine for 14 days. Now, they, too, have to follow quarantine only for seven days.“On the fifth or seventh day, they would have to undergo a test for Covid-19 and depending on the result, they would be either set free or shifted to hospitals,” he said.For domestic passengers, the authorities would conduct Covid-19 tests randomly for 10 per cent of the passengers, who would be picked up on the basis of their seat numbers. “Those passengers above 60 years and below 10 years would have to give samples for testing in the airport itself. Later, they would have to be in home quarantine for 14 days,” Sreekanth said.Similar random testing would be done for 10 per cent of the train passengers also outside the railway station where they get down. All the others would have to follow self-quarantine for 14-days. For the people travelling by road, random testing would be done at the inter-state borders.“All those coming to Andhra Pradesh, whether it is by road or air, would have to register their names in Spandana portal of the state government and get the electronic pass. They would be allowed to enter the state only after scanning the QR code on their e-pass,” the nodal officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-deputy-cm-wife-and-daughter-are-covid-19-ve-99-deaths-in-3-days/story-gJOEEFu2ppelHmm71vAayK.html
14-07-2020||India||India on fast-track mode to develop Covid-19 vaccine: ICMR||India is considered as the “pharmacy of the world”, about 60 per cent of the drugs uitilised in the United States of America are of Indian origin. So, these are generic drugs produced in India where the country has established itself over the years. This is possibly well known to many people in the world, said (Prof) Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Highlighting an important fact that is not known about Indian vaccines and drugs, Dr Bhargava said --i.e. 60 per cent of the vaccines (like Rubella, measles, polio) supplied in the world, whether it be Africa, Europe, South East Asia or anywhere are of Indian origin.So, India is perceived as an important player in vaccines for supply for the world, he said.“Any vaccine candidate which is being produced or developed in any part of the world will ultimately have to be scaled up by India or by China. Because these two countries are major producers of vaccines in the world and India supplies 60 per cent of vaccines to the world that all developed nations are aware of it. And therefore, they are in communication with India for the vaccine distribution ultimately, if it is developed to the whole world,” Bhargava said.As far as coronavirus pandemic is concerned, the top scientist of the apex medical research body said that in India’s perspective, the country have two indigenous candidate vaccines which scientists are trying their best to fast-track it as their morale duty so that there should not be a delay of a single day for regulatory clearances for these vaccines to break the transmission of the virus as soon as possible.“There are two indigenous candidate vaccines and they have gone successful toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits. These data were submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) following which both these candidate vaccines got clearance to start the early phase of human trials,” informed ICMR Director-General.Recently, ANI reported that DCGI has given its permission to pharma giant Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), who has partnered with ICMR to conduct phase I/II clinical trials on humans for Covid -19 vaccine.“Now, they have got their sites ready and they are doing the clinical study approximately on 1,000 volunteers each at different sites. They are trying to do early clinical testing for these two candidate vaccines. There are pre-clinical experiments as well for other vaccines being done at National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Experts are working day and night to do these experiments and it is their moral duty to develop vaccines as fast as possible as more than half a million people have succumbed to Covid-19 across the world. So “fast-tracking” the development of Covid vaccines is more important,” said Dr Bhargava.“Recently, Russia has fast-tracked a vaccine which has been successful and it is in early phases and they have fast-tracked its development. And the world has applauded it and congratulated them. China has fast-tracked its vaccine programme. Meanwhile, the US and UK are looking for ways to fast track its vaccine development for human use,” added Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pharmacy-of-the-world-on-fast-track-mode-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-icmr/story-by8hH2KeA0Qn8bnLcosJUI.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Not debasing Ayodhya’: Nepal in damage control after Oli’s Ramayana fiasco||Kathmandu has issued a clarification over Nepal prime minister KP Sharma Oli’s controversial claim that Hindu deity Ram was born in the Himalayan country and the real Ayodhya, believed to be his birthplace, was not located in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh but was in Nepal. His claims have been widely condemned both in Nepal and India.A statement from Nepal’s foreign ministry said Oli’s remarks were not political and not meant to disrespect Ayodhya and its significance.“Remarks made by the prime minister are not linked to any political subject and have no intention to hurt the feelings and sentiments of anyone,” the Nepal foreign ministry’s statement said and added that “the remarks were not meant to debasing the significance of Ayodhya and the cultural value it bears”. Relations between New Delhi and Kathmandu have recently worsened due to a territorial claim pressed by Oli, which he got endorsed by the country’s parliament through a constitutional amendment. India has rejected Nepal’s claim as untenable and as without any historical evidence or basis.While Oli’s unexpected territorial claim followed by allegations that India was behind moves to have him dethroned have been rejected by New Delhi, some have looked at it with suspicion even in Nepal, accusing Oli of playing the India card to hide his own government’s alleged failures.Oli’s recent claim about Lord Rama, too, has drawn sharp reactions from both inside India and Nepal.Former Nepal PM Baburam Bhattarai had tweeted yesterday to suggest that Oli’s claim was outlandish. “Let’s listen to the new Ramayana of the half-poet Olikrit Kali Yugin! Let’s travel directly to Baikunthadham!” he had said questioning Oli’s credentials on the subject.He was also slammed by Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who on Tuesday, said that such a statement shows Oli’s “mental bankruptcy”.“Oli Ji should know that Nepal has also been a part of Aryavarta (India) in the past,” he added.Also Read: Angry saints in Ayodhya tell Nepal PM to keep Lord Ram out of politicsCongress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said Oli was “parroting” lines scripted by the “desperate” Chinese. He was referring to Oli’s strong backing by China.The Nepal foreign ministry’s clarification further tried to contain the damage by claiming that Oli was simply trying to highlight the importance of further studies and research to understand the vastness of Ramayana.“As there have been several myths and references about Shri Ram and the places associated with him, the PM was simply highlighting the importance of further studies and research of the vast cultural geography the Ramayana represents, to obtain facts about Shri Ram, Ramayana and the various places linked to this rich civilization,” it said.Oli had not only questioned the geographical references in Ramayana but had also blamed India of alleged cultural encroachment by “creating a fake Ayodhya.”“Although real Ayodhya lies at Thori, a city in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed that Lord Rama was born there. Due to these continuous claims even we have believed that deity Sita got married to Prince Rama of India. However, in reality, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” Oli had said.Going further, he wanted to know if it was even possible for Lord Rama to travel to Janakpur to marry Sita when there were “no means” of communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-debasing-ayodhya-nepal-in-damage-control-after-oli-s-ramayana-fiasco/story-ZxyCEjd7CiciSZj6IMqElK.html
14-07-2020||India||Assam flood situation worsens; 33 lakh people in 28 districts affected||The flood situation in Assam worsened further on Tuesday with nearly 33 lakh people in the 28 of the state’s 33 districts affected.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 3371 villages in 92 revenue circles of the state were affected by floods. Barpeta, Dhubri and Morigaon were the worst affected among all districts.Nine deaths due to drowning were reported during the day taking the number of fatalities this season to 59. Over 44,000 uprooted by flooding are taking shelter in 517 relief camps in the affected districts.Flood waters have submerged 1.28 lakh hectares of crop area in the affected districts. During the day, 7,733 people stranded due to floods were rescued by boats and evacuated to safer locations.On Tuesday, flood waters damaged a total of 160 houses across the state. Besides humans, nearly 33 lakh domestic animals and poultry have also been affected by flooding.Several roads in the affected districts were submerged under water affecting movement of vehicles. Many incidents of damage to embankments, roads and bridges and erosion were also reported from the all over the state.According to a report by Central Water Commission (CWC), most rivers in the state were in spate with Brahmaputra, Burhidihing, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, Kushiyara and Sankosh flowing over the danger mark at several places.Floods continue to ravage KazirangaNearly 95% of the Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve spread over 430 sq km is still inundated, according to a report by the park authorities. Flood waters have inundated 173 of the 223 forest camps inside the park.A total of 51 wild animals of the park-11 due to drowning and 12 due to vehicle hits-have died during this monsoon.On Tuesday, two tigers strayed out of the park to escape flooding and reached Baghmari village near the park’s periphery. While one was driven towards the higher locations in Karbi Anglong hills another spent few hours near the national highway near the park before moving away.A one-year-old female rhino calf that got separated from its mother due to flooding was rescued by forest personnel on Tuesday from Diphalu Pathar from the park’s Agratoli range.On Monday, a sub-adult tiger had come out of the park’s Agratoli range due to flooding and taken shelter in a goat-shed in a nearby village. Later it moved back to the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-worsens-33-lakh-people-in-28-districts-affected/story-bUBBgvZIBJGX2ZMP489c4J.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Gratitude’: Sacked Rajasthan dy CM Sachin Pilot thanks those ‘who supported him’||Sacked Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday evening thanked all those who supported him amid the ongoing crisis in the Congress party in the state.“My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today,” he posted on Twitter. My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today. राम राम सा !This was the second tweet posted by the former Rajasthan state Congress president after being sacked by chief minister Ashok Gehlot along with two other ministers from the state cabinet earlier in the day.Pilot changed Twitter bio in the afternoon and posted a tweet in Hindi.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he tweeted in Hindi after his removal from the dual posts.  सत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं।Justifying his decision, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the party was compelled to take the decision because the “BJP was conspiring”. “The high command was compelled to take the decision because since a long time BJP was conspiring and resorting to horse-trading. We knew it was a huge conspiracy; now some of our friends went astray because of it and went to Delhi,” Gehlot said after meeting Governor Kalraj Mishra and dropping Pilot and two other ministers from his cabinet.The CM has accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. “ I am very sad that horse trading was going on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gratitude-sacked-rajasthan-dy-cm-sachin-pilot-thanks-those-who-supported-him/story-Ax4vYQ7EfOjIKmYnn3b5cM.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot out, Ashok Gehlot convenes his cabinet for late evening meeting||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, having edged out his rebel deputy out of cabinet, drove back from the resort where he was camping with his MLAs to his official residence to preside over a cabinet meet at his residence. After the cabinet meeting, another meeting of the entire council of ministers, including the ministers of state, took place at the chief minister’s residence, reported PTI.The Congress after having sent enough feelers over two days to Sachin Pilot to sit with the party and resolve issues, decided to crack the whip. After the leader skipped the second party meet called today, the party passed a resolution urging action against the rebel leaders. Shortly after that chief Congress spokesperson announced that Sachin Pilot was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and also removed from state party chief post. The development came three days after Pilot mounted a rebellion against his chief minister and boss Ashok Gehlot.Surjewala said Sachin Pilot enjoyed the affection and blessings of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was given political power at a young age. Yet, he and other ministers were trying to topple the state government as part of a BJP conspiracy, he added. He also said that the decision was made with a “heavy heart”.Two cabinet ministers -- Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena -- who are supporting Pilot were also sacked for their alleged involvement in a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state.Pilot’s next move is not immediately clear. However during the run-up to Tuesday’s Congress legislature party meeting, the second in as many days which he again skipped, his supporters insisted that he had no plans to join the Bharatiya Janata Party. They said their aim was a leadership change in Rajasthan.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” Pilot tweeted in Hindi soon after he was sacked. He also changed his profile on Twitter, deleting all references to his positions as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief.Gehlot accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. “I am very sad that horse trading was going on,” he said.However, the mood within the party was sombre with most party leaders describing the turn of events as “unfortunate” and “sad”. Tarun Gogoi, a former Assam chief minister, compared Pilot’s situation as one he faced too and urged him to be patient. Former party MP Priya Dutt said she did not believe that being ambitious is “wrong”. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the development was “disappointing” for the party workers who have reposed faith in the Congress party.The tension between the CM and his deputy, which has been on a slow burner since the 2018 state polls, reached a breaking point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-out-ashok-gehlot-convenes-his-cabinet-for-late-evening-meeting/story-KATMdSE0OlKlwaLdSEZ1WO.html
14-07-2020||India||Angry saints in Ayodhya tell Nepal PM to keep Lord Ram out of politics||Reacting sharply to Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s claim that Ayodhya, the birthplace of Lord Ram, is in Nepal and that he was Nepali, members of the saints’ community have urged him to keep religion out of regional politics.“The PM of Nepal must keep Lord Ram out of regional politics. His comments are unwarranted. He must know that Lord Ram was a ‘chakravarti’ emperor and Nepal was also a part of his kingdom. Ties between India and Nepal are even older than history,” said Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Jamabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust and saints in Ayodhya have strongly condemned Oli’s statement.“The prime minister of Nepal is making baseless and unwarranted statements at the behest of China. Nothing can be more absurd than this statement. All religious scriptures prove that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya in India,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya.Raju Das, priest of Hanuman Garhi, said Oli’s statement as a ploy to divert attention from increasing opposition he is facing in Nepal. “At present, the Nepalese PM is under immense pressure from the opposition to resign from his post. With no option left, he has given this absurd statement just to divert attention of people from ongoing political turmoil in the country,” said Das.“In recently concluded Ram Janmabhoomi case in Supreme Court all historical facts were presented before the court and it was proven without doubt that Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya is the birthplace of Lord Ram,” said Das. “Although real Ayodhya lies at Thori city in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed that Lord Ram was born there. Due to these continuous claims even we have believed that deity Sita got married to Prince Ram of India. However, in reality, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” Prime Minister Oli claimed at an event at his residence in Kathmandu.Oli also accused India of cultural encroachment by “creating a fake Ayodhya.”Oli questioned how Lord Ram could come to Janakpur to marry Sita when there were “no means” of communication.He further said that it would have been impossible for Lord Rama to come to Janakpur from present Ayodhya that lies in India.Every year ‘Ram Barat’ (wedding procession of lord Ram) from Ayodhya leaves for Janakpur in Nepal with much fanfare. A large number of saints accompany ‘Ram Barat’.Oli’s contentious claims came amid worsening relations between New Delhi and Kathmandu. Tensions between the two countries rose after Kathmandu issued a new map incorporating some portions of Indian territories in May.New Delhi has said that the updated map is “not based on historical facts and evidence” and termed the claims by Nepal as artificial enlargement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/angry-saints-in-ayodhya-tell-nepal-pm-to-keep-lord-ram-out-of-politics/story-UrQpv9rYbTzCLER5aeIHnL.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot’s aide responds to sacking, says punished for reminding of forgotten promises||Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked from Rajasthan cabinet along with deputy chief minister Sachin pilot over allegations of being part of an alleged plot to topple Ashok Gehlot led Congress government in the state, has claimed that Pilot and his supporters have been punished for attempting to draw attention to unfulfilled promises made in the election manifesto two years ago.Vishvendra Singh, was the tourism minister in the Gehlot cabinet till this afternoon, before the CM decided to sack him along with Pilot and Ramesh Meena, the state’s food and civil supplies minister, from his team for alleged anti-party activities. Singh suggested he was not satisfied with the explanation.“What anti-party statement did we make? We only wanted to get the (party) high command’s attention to promises in our manifesto as we haven’t been able to deliver them in close to 2 years of being in power. For what fault was action taken?” Vishvendra Singh was reported as asking by ANI.Earlier, Pilot in a terse one line tweet had indicated that he was not going to back out from the stand taken along with his supporters, said to be 16 in number, against the Gehlot government. “Truth can be frustrated, not defeated,” he had tweeted.The developments on Tuesday are being seen in the light of the long-brewing discontent between the two factions after a very public show of disagreement over who should lead the state in the aftermath of a Congress victory in the assembly elections in 2018.Pilot decided it was enough after he was served notice in a case of alleged horse-trading and attempt to topple the state government, by a special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police that reports to Gehlot.Pilot’s followers said it was a direct affront to their leader and sought action against those responsible for the notice. However, the party high command stood by Gehlot.Following the incident, Sachin moved out of the state with his supporters and refused to attend legislative party meetings called by the CM’s group.The legislative party under Gehlot then passed a resolution seeking tough disciplinary action against Pilot and his followers, before they were formally removed from the cabinet.Gehlot has accused the BJP of ‘ensnaring’ Pilot in its alleged grand design to destabilize the state government; however, the saffron party has not made any move so far, except for taking potshots at the internal rift within the Congress.Party’s Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia said the Gehlot government should go away in the interest of the people. Another party leader in Delhi added the party would not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers. Senior BJP functionaries also declined to comment if Pilot was in touch with the party.BJP leaders have also rejected Gehlot’s charge of having a hand in the rebellion in the state Congress.Following the hectic developments today, Rajasthan Police has beefed up security in the Gurjar-dominated areas, considered to be more sympathetic towards Sachin Pilot, anticipating trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-s-aide-responds-to-sacking-says-punished-for-reminding-of-forgotten-promises/story-fWzuyFYkOSgi371qcMrloM.html
14-07-2020||India||Plasma air, foot operated taps in train coaches for post-Covid phase||Plasma air purification, a host of hands-free amenities, like foot-operated soap dispensers, titanium di-oxide coating in railways coaches to kill viruses are among some of the new measures that the ministry plans to bring about as it prepares for travel in the post-Covid phase. The first such prototype has been built by the national carrier’s production unit, Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala. The railways also plans to retrofit all its existing coaches with these amenities, officials aware of the development said.“Post Covid-Coach will have hands-free amenities like foot operated water tap and soap dispenser, foot operated lavatory door (outside), foot operated flush valve, foot operated latches in lavatory door, outside wash basin with foot operated water tap and soap dispenser and forearm operated handle on compartment door,” the railway ministry said in its design note for the coaches.The coaches will also be equipped with copper-coated handrails and latches. “Copper degrades the virus that lands on it within a few hours. Copper has anti-microbial properties. When the virus lands on copper, the ion blasts the pathogen and destroys the DNA and RNA inside the virus,” the ministry said.The first two coaches that rolled out from the unit also have fixtures coated with titanium dioxide and the provision for plasma air equipment in AC ducts to sterilise interiors using ionised air.“This plasma air equipment will sterilise the air and surfaces inside the AC coach using ionised air to make the coach Covid-19 and particulate matter resistant. This provision will also improve the ion concentration from 100 ions/cm3 to more than 6000 ions/cm,” the ministry said.In addition to this, the coaches will also have a Titanium Di-oxide coating. “Nano structured Titanium Dioxide Coating functions as photoactive material. This is eco-friendly water-based coating that kills viruses, bacteria, mould, and fungal growth and most importantly enhances indoor air quality,” the ministry said.“It is non-toxic and approved by the food testing laboratory of the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA), CE certified. TiO2 is considered to be a safe substance and is harmless to humans. This Titanium Di-oxide coating applied on washbasins, lavatory, seats & berths, snack table, glass window, floor, virtually every surface that comes in human contact,” it added. The effective life of this coating is expected to last one year. The railways will also manufacture all new coaches with these technical specifications. “All future coach production will have these features. For existing coaches too we will try to retrofit wherever it is technically possible. The same was also done for bio-toilets which were retrofitted in existing coaches,” the official said.This comes at a time when all regular passenger trains, including express and suburban services, have been suspended till August 12. Passenger train services were halted on March 22, three days before the imposition of a nationwide lockdown on March 25 that was aimed at containing the coronavirus.At present the national carrier that would earlier cater to 23 million passengers aboard 14,000 passenger trains per day, is operating 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-air-foot-operated-taps-in-train-coaches-for-post-covid-phase/story-CIzBJakRr8cXDYIRKa3qFL.html
14-07-2020||India||Public hearings on crucial infrastructure projects compromised due to pandemic||A public hearing, which was conducted by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorities via a video-link last week amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, for a sand mining project in the state’s Vidarbha region is among many such hurriedly-done exercises where local representations, who are critical in making interventions for the adverse environmental impact of a venture, are getting short shrift because of the pandemic. Around 14-15 representatives, mainly from the civil society and industry, took part, but there was no representation from the villages that could be adversely impacted because of the project, according to some of the participants in the public hearing.Another MPCB public hearing is slated to be held on Tuesday to discuss a proposal on sand mining in Bhandara.An MPCB official said locals are being represented by gram panchayats via a video-link, but they are also allowed to submit their objections in writing.“In the July 7 meeting, there was a participant from Hyderabad, who had a pro-sand mining stance. He has nothing to with the villages that are likely to be impacted. We are trying to understand how such public hearings are being conducted. If locals are called, at least 2,000-3,000 people would like their voices to be heard,” said Yash Marwah, a Maharashtra-based environmental activist.Public hearings, which give an opportunity to the community to make objections and suggestions on large infrastructure projects, are suffering because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic.Contentious projects with a large environmental footprint usually have a wide participation of over a thousand people during public hearings.The Union Ministry for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) said respective state pollution control boards could determine the need for public hearings on a case-by-case basis. “Public hearing is decided and conducted by a state pollution control board or a district magistrate (DM). Depending on local conditions and the place of hearing, they may take a call. However, they have to ensure social distancing norms because of the pandemic,” said RP Gupta, secretary, MOEFCC.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) guidelines under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, state that the public must maintain a six-feet distance from each other and large gatherings such as wedding receptions must not exceed 50 guests, and at a funeral, not more than 20 people are allowed to participate.Activists and community members, however, argue that allowing only 50 people to attend a public hearing compromise the rights of villagers to understand the project and make informed submissions.The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) has issued a notice recently about a public hearing on Nayara Energy Limited’s proposal to expand its refinery and petrochemical complex from 20 million metric tonne per annum (MMTPA) to 46 MMTPA to be held on July 28 at Nayara Energy Limited on the Jamnagar-Okha highway.However, the notice doesn’t put a cap on the number of participants, despite the viral outbreak.“Nayara Energy is committed to strictly complying with all the regulations and directives of the public health authorities and government to combat Covid-19. The health and safety of our employees and communities are paramount for us. The upcoming public hearing is being organized by GPCB in consultation with district collectors (DCs). As directed by DCs/GPCB, we are taking appropriate precautionary measures that will enable compliance with Covid-19 norms,” said a Nayara Energy Limited spokesperson while responding to HT’s query on the public hearing.Karnataka and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Boards have also announced a number of public hearings in July and August. Experts warned against these hurriedly conducted public hearings.“Public hearings are not a one-time event, which needs to be managed by the government. They are central to democratic decision-making, which isembedded in the environmental clearance processes,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“Making social distancing norms applicable to a maximum of 50 people to gather is a poor replacement for the process, which requires full access to documents and fair, transparent circumstances under which the public can understand an environmental impact. This is the minimum requirement for ensuring maximum participation during public consultations and consent seeking provisions in any law. However, unfortunately, the Covid-19 outbreak and the attendant restrictions have robbed of the due diligence of public consultations,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-hearings-on-crucial-infrastructure-projects-compromised-due-to-pandemic/story-tNFni2lJU3qXk1X1BIznLL.html
14-07-2020||India||PM Oli roasted in Nepal and India for shocking ‘real Ayodhya’ claim||From seers in Ayodhya to politicians in Lucknow and New Delhi, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was roasted on Tuesday for his claim that the “real” Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal. PM Oli’s controversial comment came at a time he has been under intense pressure from party leaders to quit the top post in Kathmandu.One of the first responses to PM Oli came from Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, who heads the trust set up on the Supreme Court’s orders to build a temple. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das asked PM Oli to keep Lord Ram out of his politics. “PM Oli must know that Lord Ram was a ‘chakravarti’ emperor and Nepal was also a part of his kingdom. Ties between India and Nepal are even older than history,” he said.Sharad Sharma, the spokesperson of Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Ayodhya, suspected that communist China appeared to be prompting PM Oli to make the “absurd” claim. “All religious scriptures prove that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya in India,” he said.PM Oli’s comment did appear to have achieved the rare feat of bringing two Congress and BJP leaders on the same.Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted a sharp attack at PM Oli, saying he seems to have “lost his mental balance or is a puppet and parrot-like mouthing lines scripted by #desperate Chinese”.Singhvi underlined that PM Oli had first claimed territories never earlier claimed by Nepal, a reference to the boundary dispute created by PM Oli. “Now he relocates #Ram #Sita #Ayodhya & #RamRajya a few hundred miles from Ayodhya inside Nepal!” he said.BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya appeared to share Singhvi’s assessment.“Statement by Communist Prime Minister of Nepal Shri KP Sharma Oli regarding the birthplace of Maryada Purushottam Lord Shri Ram Ji shows his mental bankruptcy… Oli Ji should know that Nepal has also been a part of Aryavarta (India) in the past,” the UP deputy chief minister added.PM Oli’s comments on Lord Ram are seen as part of his continuing effort to slight New Delhi. PM Oli, who has been criticised back home for muddling up his government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, had earlier tried to direct the public anger over his inadequate Covid response, telling lawmakers in Parliament that the virus strain that came from India was far more potent and dangerous than the ones that had come from Italy.Back home in Kathmandu, former PM Baburam Bhattarai also took a swipe at PM Oli.“Let’s listen to the new Ramayana of the half-poet Olikrit Kali Yugin! Let’s travel directly to Baikunthadham!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pm-oli-s-bizarre-ayodhya-claim-congress-and-bjp-leaders-on-same-page/story-xxeZzzBhVjALgMEC8kUKFM.html
14-07-2020||India||Bihar bans public transport, mass gatherings during 16-day lockdown, here’s the list of restrictions and exceptions||Bihar has attributed its decision to clamp a 16-day-long lockdown in the state beginning July 16 to an “alarming surge” in Covid-19 positive cases, The total number of positive cases registered so far in the state are nearing the 20,000-mark with 1,432 new cases on Tuesday taking the toll to 18,853, as per the data released by the state government. The crisis management group of the state government today met to take stock of the situation following which the government said it was convinced that the requirement for a lockdown was “inevitable” and “urgent” to contain the further spread of the pandemic in the state.Covid-19: Complete lockdown in Bihar from July 16-31Here are the restrictions notified in government’s release that will remain in force between July 16 and July 31.1. Offices of the government of India its autonomous/subordinate offices and public corporation shall remain closed. Exceptions – Security forces, public utilities, disaster management, power generation and post offices allowed to function with the minimum number of employees.2. Offices of the state government, its autonomous/subordinate officers and public corporation shall remain closed.Exceptions – Security forces, fire and emergency, disaster management, elections, public utilities, food and civil supplies, agriculture, animal husbandry, municipal bodies, forest officers, offices of social welfare.For Coronavirus Live Updates3. Commercial and private establishments shall be closed down.Exceptions – Shops and services related to food, grocery and agriculture inputs along with banks, IT and related services, print and electronic media, internet, telecommunication, e commerce, petrol pumps, power generation etc are exempted.4. Restaurants allowed to open but to only exercise home delivery option.5. All transport services will be suspended.Exceptions- Air and rail transport, taxis, auto rickshaws, private vehicles for permitted activities, essential service providers, business transportation vehicles. 6. Industrial establishments will be allowed to function with strict implementation of necessary precaution and social distancing measures.7. All educational, training, research and coaching institutions etc shall remain closed.8. All places of worship shall be closed for public participation. No religious congregation will be permitted without exception.9. All social, political, academic, entertainment, sports, cultural and religious gatherings and functions will be prohibited. Stadiums will be allowed to open without spectators.10. The district magistrates have been barred from diluting the restrictions but can enforce additional curbs as per their assessment of the situation locally. 11. All medical and essential services will remain out of the purview of restrictions during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bans-public-transport-mass-gatherings-during-16-day-lockdown-here-s-the-list-of-restrictions-and-exceptions/story-LGAQ3VU1Mg59oWgwd8zsAI.html
14-07-2020||India||‘May lord grant him sense’: Rajasthan Congress in-charge on Sachin Pilot’s tweet||Shortly after he was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the pradesh Congress chief on Tuesday, Sachin Pilot fired a ‘truth’ tweet at the Congress.Two other Rajasthan ministers, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, were also sacked from the state cabinet after a meeting of the Congress legislature party, its second in the last two days.“The truth can be harassed but not defeated,” Pilot, camping in Delhi, posted on Twitter. Taking note, Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande turned the meaning on its head, saying that the leader is right and that the people elected by the state have won today. Adding that the lord may grant the rebel leader some “good sense”. “Bilkul sahi keh rahe hai Sachin Pilot, janta ne jinko chuna hai unki jeet hai. Bhagwan unnko sadbudhi de (Sachin Pilot is right. Those elected by the people have won today. May lord grant him some good sense,” Pande was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. As soon as the meeting ended, AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Pilot enjoyed the blessings of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was given political power at a young age. Yet, he and other ministers were trying to topple the state government as part of a “BJP conspiracy”.“This cannot be acceptable to any political party. Therefore, the Congress took the decision with a heavy heart,” he said.Chief minister Gehlot too accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. “I am very sad that horse trading was going on,” he said.During the run-up to Tuesday’s CLP meeting, Pilot supporters insisted that the leader had no plans to join the Bharatiya Janata Party. A video clip circulated by the Pilot camp last evening appeared to show a group of 16 Congress MLAs. In a statement issued Sunday, Pilot had claimed the support of 30 Congress MLAs and “some independents”.The crisis in Rajasthan unit reached a breaking point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-lord-grant-him-sense-rajasthan-congress-in-charge-on-sachin-pilot-s-tweet/story-kJ3HrRWlDehElYUbh29LsJ.html
14-07-2020||India||SC asks UP to file status report on Vikas Dubey encounter by July 16||The Supreme Court on Tuesday posted petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in Kanpur by the Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh Police for July 20.It also asked the UP government to file a status report in the Vikas Dubey case by Thursday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for UP government volunteered to file a report on the steps they have taken so far.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said that it is open to form a judicial committee to probe the incident. An order in this regard has not been passed yet.The Court said that this is something which the Court will do reluctantly. However, since there was a precedent of forming a judicial committee to probe a similar encounter killing in Telangana in December 2019, the Court was willing to pass a similar order in this case too.The Court sought suggestions from petitioners on possible names to head the probe committee.In December 2019, CJI Bobde had asked the Telangana government to suggest the name of a retired Supreme Court judge who could take up the task of probing the killing of four men who allegedly raped and murdered a 26-year-old veterinary doctor on the outskirts of Hyderabad.Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were killed in an ambush in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey on July 3.Dubey was killed in an encounter on the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur toppled over in an accident and he tried to escape from the spot after snatching the revolver of a police officer, the police had saidThe opposition has alleged that Dubey was killed to cover up a gangster-police-politician nexus in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-up-to-file-status-report-on-vikas-dubey-encounter-by-july-16/story-j8H38MG3haIqs9pDyTlq6O.html
14-07-2020||India||NIA seeks Interpol’s blue notice for accused in Kerala gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has moved Interpol seeking a “blue notice” against Faisal Fareed, a Dubai-based person named as key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, officials said. The agency has found that Faisal Fareed had forged the documents - seal and emblem - of the UAE embassy to ensure diplomatic protection for the baggage and the gold was to be used for terror activities. An Interpol “blue notice” is issued to collect additional information about a person’s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime. The blue notice request to Interpol has been sent after procuring a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Fareed who is one of the four people booked by the NIA. ALSO WATCH | ‘Kerala CM Office involved in gold smuggling case’: BJP president JP Nadda Two other accused, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair are already in NIA custody and are being interrogated. On Monday, a special NIA court in Kochi sent the two of them to the agency’s custody for eight days. Sarith PS was the first accused who was arrested by Customs. The gold smuggling racket which came to light on July 5 after the Customs seized an air consignment for the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, has sparked a political firestorm in Kerala with the opposition accusing the state government of being involved in the smuggling. The haul of 30 kg gold is said to be worth Rs 15 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-seeks-interpol-s-blue-notice-for-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-hTbDeDFdBYdRGTVACOhyQO.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sachin Pilot’s one-line message to Congress after being sacked from Rajasthan cabinet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Truth can be harassed, but not defeated’: Sachin Pilot after being sacked as Rajasthan deputy CMSachin Pilot on Tuesday changed his profile on Twitter minutes after he was dropped as the chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit and removed from the state cabinet. “Truth can be harassed, cannot be defeated,” Sachin Pilot also tweeted in Hindi.Read More‘Huge conspiracy’: CM Gehlot after Cong axes Sachin Pilot from cabinetRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for conspiring and resorting to horse-trading in Rajasthan which led to the current crisis. He also said that there is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, it’s the BJP which is running the show.Read MoreWhen Shah Rukh Khan tried to woo Jackie Chan into starring in Ra.One, but failedDid you know that Shah Rukh Khan wanted Jackie Chan to be a part of Ra.One? On Jonathan Ross’ talk show in 2010, while promoting My Name is Khan, the actor spoke about wooing Jackie, but said that he was ‘expensive’. Read More‘Would back Williamson ahead of Kohli’ in tougher batting conditions: Ex-NZ player Glenn TurnerFormer New Zealand captain and batting great Glenn Turner has said that he backs Kiwi captain Williamson over Kohli when it comes to batting on challenging surfaces. Turner explained that Kohli was brought up on pitches that did not seam a lot, while it was the opposite for Williamson.Read MoreAirtel BlueJeans video conferencing app is here, set to take on Reliance’s JioMeet, ZoomAirtel on Tuesday announced a partnership with US-based telecom giant Verizon. As a part of this partnership Verizon is bringing its BlueJeans video-conferencing solution in India.Read MoreLittle girl dances to Ghagra, mum calls her ‘miniature Madhuri Dixit’.One of the latest stories of The Humans of Bombay features a mother-daughter duo who loves dancing. In fact, the post not only details their love for dancing, it also comes with a video of the little girl showcasing her talent.Read MoreHow China persecutes Uighur Muslims & why UN must recognise it as genocideChina’s persecution of Uighur Muslims has been an open secret for many years. Now Uighur activists are urging the United Nations to recognise China’s actions as genocide. Hindustan Times’ senior editor Aditi Prasad spoke to Julie Millsap from Campaign for Uighurs to understand their demands.  Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sachin-pilot-s-one-line-message-to-congress-after-being-sacked-from-rajasthan-cabinet-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NDiW5ln89ozGYsmEpPBCFO.html
14-07-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 growth rate has declined around 28% since March: Govt||The Centre on Tuesday presented a slew of data to highlight the positive aspects of India’s measures to contain the coronavirus pandemic since its outbreak. The government pointed out that the daily rate of growth of the disease was declining in India and that the high infection rate was restricted to a few states in the country.“If you look, the daily growth rate in March was around 31%, it reduced to 9% in May and around 5 % by the end of May and if you look at the figures as on July 12, it has come down to 3,24%. There has been a progressive decline in the daily growth rate of new cases,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health.He added that this important statistic often gets missed due to the tendency to focus on the total number of positive cases reported daily.He argued that even in terms of absolute numbers, the difference between the recovered cases and the active cases was increasing with each passing day.Highlighting another important aspect, Bhushan underlined that 86% of all positive cases registered so far in India are limited only to 10 states.“Two of these 10 states—Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu alone account for 50% of the total number of cases reported together by the group. The remaining 36% of cases come from eight states including Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Gujarat and Assam,” he added.Building further on his argument, the official said that the situation in several large states like Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh was relatively much better and this indicated that the spread of the disease in the country was not even.On cases per million, the official cited that the world average of 1,638 cases per million was significantly higher than India’s 657 cases per million, which, when compared with eight worst affected countries, was even more impressive.“Cases per million of the population in Russia and USA are 7 and 14 times respectively more than the corresponding figure in India,” the senior health ministry official said.Similarly, he added that India had recorded 17.2 deaths per million compared to a world average of 73 casualties per million.“Again advanced countries such as the UK, Spain and Russia had fared much worse with 660, 607 and 78 deaths per million respectively,” Bhusan said, adding, “There are some countries that have 35 times more than India’s rate”.India is currently the world’s third worst affected country by numbers of Covid-19 cases registered so far. Its tally on Tuesday crossed the 9 lakh-mark with a total of 906,752 coronavirus patients registered till date since the outbreak. 571,459 of these patients have recovered while 23,727 have succumbed to death. The number of active cases stands at 311,565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-growth-rate-has-declined-around-28-since-march-govt/story-bGwIYcV2EJVlhJnHqQaLGJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Union minister in quarantine after meeting BJP J-K chief who tested Covid +ve||Union minister of state Dr Jitendra Singh on Tuesday went into self quarantine with “immediate effect” after he got to know that the Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief whom he met on July 12 has tested positive for coronavirus. “Have gone into Self-Quarantine with immediate effect from 4 PM today, after receiving the news about Corona positive test of J&K BJP President Sh Ravinder Raina who had accompanied us from Srinagar to Bandipora on 12th July,” Dr Jitendra Singh said in a Twitter post.Sources confided to HT that Ravinder Raina, the “vociferous” BJP leader, has been hospitalised in Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district.“For five days I was in Bandipora where our party leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father were martyred. Covid infection rate is more in Kashmir and this morning I had a mild fever. My first report tested me positive, though I am asymptomatic. I am going for a second test and will follow all the guidelines of the health ministry and the J&K administration,” he told HT.It may be stated here that Raina had been staying back in Bandipora following the killing of Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father.Raina had met several people during the funeral of the deceased party leader and other members.The administration has now started contact tracing.“All the top BJP leaders, including party general secretary Ram Madhav, union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and vice president Avinash Rai Khanna and workers, will be quarantined and tested as per contact tracing protocol due to contact with party president Ravinder Raina who has tested positive,” said a party leader.On July 12, accompanied by Raina, BJP’s national general secretary Ram Madhav, union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and BJP’s national vice president Avinash Rai Khanna had visited the residence of Bari to express their condolences to the family.The virus has started witnessing a sudden spike in Jammu and Kashmir where the wife and son of an adviser to lieutenant governor and two senior IAS officers have tested positive.Ram Madhav’s personal secretary, who picked up his cellphone, informed that he was busy in a meeting and will get back about his status and whether he will undergo a Covid-19 test.BJP vice president Avinash Rai Khanna said that he has been tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-in-quarantine-after-meeting-bjp-j-k-chief-who-tested-covid-ve/story-9hTdBTSXgPmsjdF3OoHX3N.html
14-07-2020||India||Vasco da Gama city emerges as epicentre of Covid-19 cases in Goa||Vasco da Gama, a city on the Mormugao peninsula in coastal Goa, has emerged as the epicentre for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).On June 2, a man from Mangor Hill, a densely populated Vasco suburb, was the first local case of the viral infection in Goa since Covid-19 was first reported in the country in March.The Mangor Hill resident, a fish truck driver, was rushed to Goa Medical College and Hospital amid difficulty in breathing. Later, he tested Covid-19 positive.Soon, his family members and neighbours found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and the state healthcare authorities marked Mangor Hill as Goa’s first containment zone. A little over a month later, Vasco and its neighbouring areas have reported 562 Covid-19 positive cases, which work out to around 25% of the total viral load of the state, and 11 of the 18 deaths recorded in Goa.On the contrary, Panaji, which sees maximum movement because it is Goa’s administrative capital, has recorded six Covid-19 positive cases to date.“Mangor Hill is the epicentre of Covid-19 positive cases in Goa, as people from that area is more mobile. Besides, Mangor Hill is linked to several slums in and around Vasco and that’s how many Covid-19 clusters were formed in the area,” said Dr. Utkarsh Betodka, an epidemiologist. He pointed out that in other parts of the state, only isolated Covid-19 positive cases have been reported so far.However, there has been not been any community transmission in Vasco, he added.Vasco is a mercantile town and many of the Covid-19 patients do odd jobs such as private taxi drivers, who hang around at the Goa International Airport in Dabolim or at the cruise ship terminal in Mormugao. There are people from other walks of life such as welders at shipyards, mechanics, etc; for whom maintaining social distancing is a daily struggle because they live cheek-by-jowl.Vasco and its neighbourhood also host the Indian Navy airbase, the Coast Guard headquarters, Goa Shipyard Ltd, a defence public sector undertaking (PSU) company and several other government installations.“It’s a densely populated area, where social distancing is not always possible to be maintained,” said a doctor, requesting anonymity.At present, Vasco has two containment and micro-containment zones, respectively.Mangor Hill and Zuari Nagar are the largest containment zones in the state since June.Dr Jose D’Sa, director, health services, Goa, said that more senior citizens are now susceptible to contract the viral infection than youngsters. “Epidemiologically, viral outbreak cases usually start with a younger generation and when the virus gets into a home, people, who are on the sick bed and are suffering from comorbid conditions, t get infected. This is how the viral load and the virulence go up, as it affects many elderly people,” said Dr D’Sa while explaining Vasco’s Covid-19-related death toll, which is 11 to date.However, he sought to reassure that Goa’s case fatality rate (CFR) is less than 1% and most of the Covid-19 patients have died due to comorbid conditions. “Goa’s CFR is 0.61%. Besides, most Covid-19 victims were suffering from severe comorbid conditions such as uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension, renal ailments, and malignancy (cancer),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-vasco-da-gama-emerges-as-epicentre-of-covid-19-cases/story-348Z4vBtUgFrO4H9vFY5KN.html
14-07-2020||India||In Uttarakhand, three weddings spark a chain of Covid-19 cases||Three weddings spread across Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri Garhwal districts of Uttarakhand that led to a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state have forced authorities to clamp lockdown in three areas of Kumaon division for three days.In Tehri Garhwal district, over 40 people have been quarantined after a driver who was part of a marriage procession tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.“The marriage procession was going to Anjanisain area of the district from Punjab on Monday when our officials at the district border took samples of everyone as a precautionary measure. We are conducting the tests through the True-Nat machine so that results can be declared the same day. After taking the samples, we asked the people to wait till the results are declared, but they said they were getting late for the auspicious time for the wedding and they left,” said Mangesh Ghidiyal, district magistrate of Tehri Garhwal districtLater, the driver tested positive after which all members of the bride and groom’s family were quarantined.“Rigorous contact tracing is still underway in the district. Those who attended the wedding will be monitored closely. As per the latest guidelines, people coming to the state for a wedding or short stay need not be quarantined, but must follow all norms of social distancing. However, the risk always remains because in a wedding, the family members meet a lot of people,” the district magistrate.Over 70 cases have been reported from Udham Singh Nagar district over Sunday and Monday with most cases being traced back to a wedding that took place in Kashipur.Due to the increasing cases, a lockdown has been imposed in three urban local bodies of US Nagar district. After Kashipur, the lockdown was imposed in Rudrapur and Bazpur for the next three days from Monday night. On Tuesday, the lockdown in Kashipur was extended till July 17“Lockdown has been imposed for three days in the urban area of Rudrapur from Monday night. Bazpur urban and rural area both will be under lockdown for next three days,” said Neeraj Khairwal, district magistrate, US Nagar.Earlier, Omaxe colony in Rudrapur was declared a containment zone on Sunday as some persons were tested Covid-19 infected but on Monday evening district administration imposed a complete lockdown in urban areas of Rudrapur. No business or commercial activities apart from essential services are allowed in these areas.Apart from this, a doctor, an employee of the government hospital in Rudrapur and his wife tested positive on Sunday, officials said.Traders in the Bazpur had been demanding a lockdown to curb Covid-19 after some traders also tested positive for the virus.Earlier, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Devendra Pincha inspected barriers set up on route along Uttar Pradesh border and instructed police staff to keep vigil strictly and let not to cross the border who have no valid pass, said an official.In Dehradun, days after a groom tested positive for Covid-19, the bride and 15 other wedding guests tested positive for the virus on Sunday.“After the groom tested positive on July 8, the bride and 15 other people who were wedding guests had been quarantined and tested. They all tested positive on Sunday. We are expecting that more people who attended are likely to test positive as they were close contacts of those infected,” said Dr. Rajiv Dixit, nodal surveillance officer for Covid-19 in Dehradun district. Under the latest guidelines of Unlock 2.0, the state government had said that asymptomatic bride/groom and their relatives traveling from high load Covid-19 infected cities shall be exempted from being quarantined. However, they shall not be permitted to visit any public places, except the banquet hall or community hall concerned.Asymptomatic persons traveling to the state for a maximum period of three-days will be exempted from quarantine.Uttarakhand has so far reported 3, 608 Covid-19 cases out of which with 2,856 people have recovered .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-three-weddings-spark-a-chain-of-covid-19-cases/story-nIOOlpjdpHRWPecRyEhLbP.html
14-07-2020||India||Fighting locusts: Govt carries out operation covering 3 lakh hectare area across states||In a bid to fight back crop-munching locusts, the government of India has carried out locust control operations across various states on July 11 and 12. As per a press release issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, locust control operations were carried out in around 3 lakh hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar.During July 12 and 13, the operations were carried out at 26 places in 7 districts of Rajasthan as well as in Sitapur and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh, and Mahendragarh and Bhiwani districts of Haryana. The operation is being carried out with the help of 60 control teams with spray vehicles in states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.Also read: Locusts devour crops in six Haryana districtsOver 200 central government personnel are engaged in locust control operations across various states. In addition to this, 20 spray equipments have been received and are deployed for locust control. “To strengthen the control capacity, 55 additional vehicles have also been purchased and deployed for locust control,” the release stated.The government is also deploying drones for locust fighting operations. “5 companies with 15 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides”. The Indian Air Force has also conducted trials in anti-locust operation by using a Mi-17 helicopter.Also read: Locust swarm reach central UP, damage crops in Lucknow, SitapurAccording to the government, no significant crop losses have been reported in the Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan“Swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts were active in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar, Alwar and Churu districts of Rajasthan; Bhiwani, and Mahendragarh districts of Haryana and Sitapur and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh,” the release read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighting-crop-munching-locusts-govt-carries-out-operations-in-around-3-lakh-hectare-of-land-across-states/story-dxHtoHoAMvY2n0SUnV2wcM.html
14-07-2020||India||Bihar clamps 16-day lockdown amid rising Covid numbers||With Bihar’s coronavirus tally within the touching distance of 20,000-mark, the state government decided on Tuesday to extend lockdown from July 16 to 31 hoping to contain the spread of the disease. The decision was taken in a meeting held by the crisis management group of the state government, officials said.Guidelines governing the 16-day long lockdown period were being prepared, said deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi. The fresh restrictions are likely to include curb on public transport within the state and hosting of mass activities that are conducive to the spread of the disease, reported PTI.Bihar currently has 17,959 Covid positive cases as on Tuesday according to the union health ministry’s data. 1,432 new cases were reported on Tuesday. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesPatna, Bhagalpur and Begusarai are the worst affected districts in the state.Patna is already under increase restrictions, to prevent conditions including crowding that are leading to a spurt in the disease. District authorities have warned of cracking the whip against errant individuals and traders defying social distancing norms.ALSO WATCH | ‘Bihar govt is concerned about elections, not Covid’: Tejashwi Yadav Bihar, with 69.09 percent recovery rate, remains among states with a higher percentage than the national recovery rate of 63.02 as of Tuesday.Bihar floods: Watch school building collapses into Koshi riverIndia’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday crossed 9 lakh with a total of 906,752 coronavirus patients registered till date since the outbreak. 571,459 of these patients have recovered while 23,727 have succumbed to death. The number of active cases stands at 311,565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-clamps-16-day-lockdown-amid-rising-covid-numbers-detailed-guidelines-soon/story-HkAIzJjMDKEgZS7VP3Dv1L.html
14-07-2020||India||3 demands that likely got Sachin Pilot axed from Rajasthan cabinet||From Rahul Gandhi’s office declaring on Monday that Sachin Pilot is “always in his heart”, to multiple requests by the party for him to come back and resolve issues, the 42-year-old leader was dropped as Rajasthan deputy chief minister from Ashok Gehlot cabinet on Tuesday. All within 24 hours.Hindustan Times spoke to several key Congress leaders to piece together the events that led to Pilot’s exit also as the Rajasthan Congress unit president.According to a senior leader privy to the decision making process, Pilot placed three conditions before the party leadership that they simply couldn’t fulfil.The first being that Congress should declare a year before the next state polls, to be held in 2022, that Pilot would be the chief ministerial face.ALSO WATCH | Sachin Pilot sacked: Watch Congress’ charge & Pilot’s response l Key details “He wanted a public commitment right away that in the last year, he would be declared the Congress face for the CM post. He wanted us to announce it to all,’’ said a Congress leader on condition of anonymity.The second demand was that all those who had rebelled with Pilot, for instance tourism minister Vishwendra Singh and all other legislators would be accommodated. This didn’t mean that they would all be ministers, but “they should all be rewarded. For instance, made heads of corporations or any other bodies”.The third and final demand put across to the Congress’s mediators was that Avinash Pande, general secretary and Rajasthan Congress in-charge, should also be removed from his post. Pilot believes that Pandey tilts towards chief minister Ashok Gehlot and so felt that the situation could only be normalised if another person was brought in his place.“We really tried to bring him around but we couldn’t accept his conditions as this was blackmail. What if other states started using the same ruse?’’ said the senior leader.While Pilot is yet to comment, a person part of his team told HT, “But the Congress is not in power in other states. So why do they have this fear?’’Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s brief to the mediators was simple - try to keep him back in the party.When asked about Rahul Gandhi’s efforts to reach out to Pilot, Gandhi’s office said: “He’s always in his heart. And they speak often and directly. They have great respect and affection for each other.”“Even till this morning, right before the Congress legislature party meeting began, we kept talking to him. All of us spoke to him - his well wishers within and outside the party, but he wouldn’t listen,’’ said the leader.Hindustan Times has confirmed that while Rahul Gandhi did not speak to him, Priyanka Gandhi did make a call to him. But according to the Pilot’s camp, this wasn’t on behalf of the GandhisWhen the last call was made at around 10:30 am and Pilot still wouldn’t budge, the party went ahead with its meeting and passed a resolution against him.The senior leader said that Pilot had been promised outside BJP support in six months, if he was able to get 30 MLAs to leave the party with him. That’s when Randeep Surjewala announced, “We are sorry that Sachin Pilot and some of his ministers have gotten involved in a BJP conspiracy to bring down a democratically elected government.’’“I have never said or done anything in my life against the Congress party,’’ Sachin Pilot’s aide quoted him as saying soon after the decision was made to drop him.“All I wanted was that the public humiliation that Ashok Gehlot had put me through should also be publicly acknowledged and set right,’’ Pilot’s aide added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-enquiry-into-sachin-pilot-s-exit-from-ashok-gehlot-cabinet/story-41OgcU2xjfB2GHuXfkFVvK.html
14-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot changes his Twitter bio after Congress sacks him, says truth cannot be defeated||Sachin Pilot changed his Twitter bio soon after he was sacked as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and the state Congress president on Tuesday.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he tweeted in Hindi after his removal from the dual posts.Now, Pilot’s Twitter bio reads: MLA (member of legislative assembly) Tonk and a former Minister of IT, Telecom & Corporate Affairs, Government of India. He has removed all references to the recently held posts in the party and government in his home state, Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-changes-his-twitter-bio-after-congress-sacks-him-says-truth-cannot-be-defeated/story-ZvPXHLvzUFos5W8aWnkmcN.html
14-07-2020||India||BJP continues to watch Rajasthan Cong crisis, does not push for floor test||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday continued to watch from the sidelines the high-voltage drama unfold in Rajasthan, where deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot was removed from his post, and also refrained from seeking a floor test.State unit president Satish Poonia told news agencies: “At present, we are not demanding anything. It is a corrupt government and it mismanaged the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis. It has become a weak government. This government should go away in the interests of the people.”A BJP leader in Delhi said the party would not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both the CM Ashok Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers.ALSO WATCH | ‘Not happy but..’: Ashok Gehlot reacts to Sachin Pilot’s sacking, targets BJPOn Tuesday, Gehlot claimed to have the support of 109 members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs).The half-way mark in the 200-member assembly is 101. Main opposition BJP has 72 MLAs, and it also enjoys the support of three lawmakers, who belong to Nagaur Member of Parliament’s (MP) Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP).The BJP has maintained that it would keep its option open, should the Gehlot-led government topple in the wake of defections to the Pilot camp.So far, the party has made no overt attempts to initiate an alliance with the Congress rebels.The BJP functionaries aware of the details said leaders, including general secretary Anil Jain and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, have been at the helm of tracking fast-paced developments in the desert state.They, however, declined to comment on whether there was a meeting between BJP leaders and Pilot. The saffron party also dismissed speculation of a meeting between Pilot and BJP chief JP Nadda.When asked about the speculation that the BJP could support Pilot if he floats his own party and stakes a claim to form a government, a second party leader said the BJP would rather watch from the sidelines until the time it would become abundantly clear that the Gehlot faction would fall short of the required number to cling to power.“A clear situation has to emerge for the party to take the next steps. We are watching the Congress collapse because of its vicious infighting. The inability of the Congress leadership in keeping the flock together is evident, and if the government falls, naturally we will explore all options that are open to us,” said the second senior leader in Delhi.On whether Pilot would be welcomed into the party fold as because he has made public comments about not joining the BJP, the leader quoted above said, the party would not offer him an invitation to join, but would consider should he makes a conciliatory move.“If anyone wants to join the BJP, we don’t stop them. However, we have not reached out to anyone yet,” the leader said.Over the past two days, BJP leaders have asserted that they have had no role in engineering defections in the faction-ridden Rajasthan Congress lawmakers, whose allegiance is split between CM Gehlot and his challenger, Pilot.However, the party has continued to target the Congress top brass, especially the Gandhi family for their inability to resolve factionalism within the grand old party amid its dwindling electoral fortunes.Reacting to the Congress’s allegations that the saffron party was trying to engineer defection, Om Mathur, BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan, tweeted on Tuesday afternoon, “Dear @ashokgehlot51, by shutting the eyes one does not erase the sun … the structure of your house is weak and you are accusing the @BJP4India national leadership for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-bjp-continues-to-watch-does-not-push-for-floor-test/story-nEQmmCy7Z2M30F7wEgtHZP.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Compelled to take decision, it was a huge conspiracy’: CM Gehlot after Cong axes Sachin Pilot from cabinet||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for conspiring and resorting to horse-trading in Rajasthan which led to the current crisis. He also said that there is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, it’s the BJP which is running the show.“The high command was compelled to take the decision because since a long time BJP was conspiring and resorting to horse-trading. We knew it was a huge conspiracy; now some of our friends went astray because of it and went to Delhi,” Gehlot said after meeting Governor Kalraj Mishra and dropping Pilot and two other ministers from his cabinet.“There is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, it is the BJP which is running the show. BJP has arranged that resort and they are managing everything. The same team which worked in Madhya Pradesh is at work here,” he added.ALSO WATCH | Rajasthan resort race: Hotel videos from Gehlot & Pilot camps to show strength The crisis in Rajasthan came to the fore after the state police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) sent notices to Pilot and other leaders in connection with an alleged plot to topple the Congress government in the state.Pilot’s supporters called the move humiliating and the young Congress leader left the state along with his 16 MLAs. He further claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority and sought a floor test in the Assembly.Gehlot too gathered his supporters and took them to a resort near Jaipur. The Congress deputed two leaders from Delhi to pacify the rebels and keep the flock together.Those leaders urged Pilot and his supporters to come back, but those appeals went unanswered. The Congress party also held two meetings of the legislature party (CLP) in two days and various leaders sent public messages to Pilot to attend. But the 42-year-old skipped both the meetings.At Tuesday’s meeting, party leaders asked for action against the rebels “to send a tough message”. Immediately after the meeting, Pilot was removed as state unit chief.Pilot, meanwhile, changed his profile on Twitter deleting all references to his position as deputy CM and Rajasthan Congress chief. He only described himself as MLA of Tonk and a former Minister of IT, Telecom & Corporate affairs, Government of India.“Truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compelled-to-take-decision-it-was-a-big-conspiracy-ashok-gehlot-after-congress-axes-sachin-pilot-from-state-cabinet/story-LWIY9sbdX3vtoBqbYabrSP.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Governor accepts CM Gehlot’s proposal to remove Sachin Pilot as Deputy CM||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Tuesday accepted chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s proposal to remove Sachin Pilot as state deputy chief minister. Governor Mishra also gave a nod to the sacking of two cabinet ministers Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena. Sachin Pilot has also been removed as the chief of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) and has been succeeded by Govind Singh Dotasra who is the state minister of education and tourism.Soon after his removal, Pilot changed his bio on Twitter and posted “truth cannot be defeated”. Also read: ‘Never acted or spoke against party’ - Sachin Pilot camp deplores his sackingसत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं।Pilot skipped the Congress legislature meetings in Jaipur on Monday and on Tuesday that recommended action against him and sought to discuss his political fallout with CM Gehlot. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday said that the party regrets that Pilot and his supporting camp of lawmakers have fallen to the BJP’s trap of destabilising the Gehlot government. “I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by the BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Gehlot government elected by 8 crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” Surjewala said during a press briefing. He said that the party had always promoted Pilot from a very young age. “He became an MP at 26, Union minister in his thirties, a State unit president at 34 and deputy chief minister at 40,” Surjewala said.On Monday, the party tried to pacify the Pilot camp and said its “doors are open” to him or any other party member. Late in the evening, in a show of strength, Pilot’s official WhatsApp group shared a short video clip showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-acceps-cm-gehlot-s-proposal-to-remove-sachin-pilot-as-deputy-cm/story-V3ErXsdGlnCEBzT5OS6q7J.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Truth can be harassed, but not defeated’: Sachin Pilot after he was sacked as Rajasthan deputy CM||Sachin Pilot on Tuesday changed his profile on Twitter minutes after he was dropped as the chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit and removed from the state cabinet.Pilot was the deputy chief minister and also held the portfolios of public works department as well as the panchayati raj ministry.The 42-year-old leader’s profile now describes him as MLA from Tonk and former minister of IT, telecom and corporate affairs in the government of India. “Truth can be harassed, cannot be defeated,” Sachin Pilot also tweeted in Hindi. सत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं।Pilot, Ramesh Meena, the state’s food and civil supplies minister, and tourism minister Vishvendra Singh were dropped after they along with others kept away from the Congress’ Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in Jaipur on Monday as well as Tuesday. Congress’ members of legislative assembly (MLAs) recommended action against him and other members of his camp during both the meetings. ALSO WATCH | Sachin Pilot sacked: Watch Congress’ charge & Pilot’s response l Key details After Tuesday’s CLP meeting, senior party leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced Rajasthan’s education minister Govind Singh Dotasra will replace Sachin Pilot as chief of the Congress’ Rajasthan unit.“The Congress party has taken some decisions with a heavy heart,” he said.The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of the party’s frontal organisations--Youth Congress and Sewa Dal. Ganesh Ghoghra, an MLA from Dungarpur, and Hem Singh Shekhawat were given the posts.After Pilot’s removal, the police has increased security in the Gurjar dominated areas of the state.“The removal of Pilot may disturb law and order situation in some parts of the state, especially eastern Rajasthan. Hence, the security has been increased and we are doing strict patrolling in selected areas,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truth-can-be-harrassed-but-cannot-be-defeated-sachin-pilot-tweets-after-congress-sacks-him/story-dFB7hwnQh3WSoS2WIbhMTI.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan: After Sachin Pilot’s sacking, police beefs up security in Gurjar-dominated areas||Rajasthan Police has beefed up security in the Gurjar-dominated areas in the desert state after Sachin Pilot was sacked as the state Congress president and deputy Chief Minister on Tuesday following his revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in a wake of protracted differences of opinion.Pilot belongs to the Gurjar caste.Security has been intensified in the following parts of the state: Neem Ka Thana in Sikar district; Bansur town (Alwar). Kotputli and Viratnagar (Jaipur); Udaipurwati (Jhunjhunu); Mahua, Sikandara, Bandikui town (Dausa), and some regions of Karauli, Bharatpur and Sawai Madhopur districts, said a police official.“The removal of Pilot may disturb law and order situation in some parts of the state, especially in eastern Rajasthan. Security has been increased in select areas of the state,” he added.Meanwhile Pilot put out a tell-tale tweet shortly after he was sacked.“Truth can be harassed, not defeated,” he tweeted in an oblique reference to the prevailing political drama surrounding the Gehlot-led government’s fate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-after-sachin-pilot-s-sacking-police-beefs-up-security-in-gurjar-dominated-areas/story-J9uVJ71qtZ2pgpmuuMV2BO.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Never acted or spoke against party’: Sachin Pilot camp deplores his sacking||Moments after Sachin Pilot was sacked as the chief of Congress party in Rajasthan and also as the deputy minister of the state, his camp expressed its disappointment at the development stating that Pilot “has never done anything against the party or spoken against it”.Congress earlier said it had acted against the young leader with a “heavy heart” after he remained unmoved by several invitations to discuss differences within the party forum even as the threat of disciplinary action hung over him.The day has seen hectic political developments including fresh appeals asking Pilot to reconsider his position in the light of the Congress ideology and the values represented by the party and its leaders like Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.  However, with Pilot saying away from the second legislative party meet called in two days, it became clear that his differences with chief minister Ashok Gehlot had reached a point of no return.While, the party announced his sacking from the two key posts alleging he and his supporters had fallen into a trap allegedly laid out by opposition BJP, chief minister Ashok Gehlot met the governor asking him to drop Pilot and two of his supporters from state cabinet.Pilot, too, put out a line adage on his twitter account which said, “while truth can be frustrated, it can’t be defeated’ to signal there was little room left for any possible reconciliation.While the Congress has claimed that Pilot had been sucked into “deep rooted” conspiracy against the Gehlot government, his supporters have maintained that they are fighting to protect their dignity.A WhatsApp message circulated by Pilot’s supporting MLAs, said “their leader is threatened with notices from the Special Operation Group (SOG) under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy”.They have alleged that their leader has been humiliated by the Gehlot faction. The party, however, is standing with Gehlot. “We have toiled with sweat and blood for the Congress party. Under the leadership of Shri Sachin Pilot we have made every effort in the past six years to strengthen the party and bring it to power in Rajasthan at a time when it had been reduced to an insignificant number in the state assembly,” the WhatsApp post, signed by Vishvender Singh, Ramesh Meena, and former speaker Deepender Shekhawat said.Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister’s post after the December 2018 assembly elections. His differences with CM Ashok Gehlot reached a tipping point after a probe into alleged horse-trading to topple the Rajasthan government, constituted by the police that reports directly to the CM, saw a notice being sent to Sachin Pilot. A miffed pilot has since made it clear that he and his supporters do not back Gehlot-run government any longer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-acted-or-spoke-against-party-sachin-pilot-camp-deplores-his-sacking/story-3s6zaG7BGxJR23ArImR96H.html
14-07-2020||India||We changed notion that ‘potholed roads meant it’s UP’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that his government has changed the perception of the state by developing a robust network of quality roads.“The public works department has been successful in improving 1.20 lakh kilometre potholed roads in the state. Before 2017, it was said that UP meant pothold roads. Today, the place from where good roads start means you’ve entered Uttar Pradesh,” the chief minister said.He inaugurated projects worth Rs 2,250 crore to the people of the state. Adityanath said the money has been given by the World Bank and Asian Development Bank (ADB).Adityanath also said that Uttar Pradesh shares its borders with seven states and Nepal. “The PWD department has started work on widening 54 such roads into four-lane,” the chief minister said.The state is now known for good roads, power supply and law and order situation, said Adityanath.He also said that development work hasn’t stopped in the state even during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-changed-notion-that-potholed-roads-meant-it-s-up-yogi-adityanath/story-7iwvdUlgRnUfR5rkfVtgUP.html
14-07-2020||India||Five Indians stranded in Pak due to Covid-19 lockdown repatriated: MEA tells NHRC||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has informed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) that five Indian citizens, who were stranded in Pakistan due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, have returned to India.The MEA’s submission in the NHRC comes on a complaint filed by advocate Vishnu Kumar Gupta seeking repatriation of one Satbir Singh and four others, who were stranded in Pakistan due to coronavirus lockdown.“Subsequent to Pakistan conveying its concurrence for repatriation of the stranded Indian nationals, the five Indians, referred by the complainant, have returned to India on June 27, 2020, through Attari-Wagah border crossing,” the MEA said in its reply filed on Monday.The Ministry said that the High Commission of India in Islamabad was in regular touch with the Indian nationals stranded in the neighbouring, as well as with the concerned authorities in Pakistan, over the repatriation matter.Gupta had filed a complaint in the NHRC, wherein, he requested the urgent intervention of the commission and requested to direct the MEA to take immediate steps for the safe and secure return of Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-indians-stranded-in-pak-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-repatriated-mea-tells-nhrc/story-rmufFta0JiUYF26lZKoZhL.html
14-07-2020||India||Congress sacks Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan Deputy CM, PCC chief||Sachin Pilot has been removed as Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan PCC Chief, announced Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday.“Sachin Pilot, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena have been removed from the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and Ministerial posts respectively. Sachin Pilot has also been removed as the Rajasthan PCC Chief,” said Surjewala. Govind Singh Dotasra has been appointed as the new PCC chief, he added. “Sachin Pilot, few Congress Ministers and MLAs got involved in the conspiracy to topple the Congress government by getting entangled within the trap of BJP,” he added. The decision was taken after a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at the Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur, Rajasthan earlier today.The Rajasthan Congress is in turmoil over the past few days. While Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has blamed the BJP for attempting to destabilise the State government by poaching MLAs, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot has been camping in Delhi.A controversy broke out in Rajasthan after Special Operation Group (SOG) sent a notice to Pilot to record his statement in the case registered by SOG in the alleged poaching of Congress MLAs in the State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sacks-sachin-pilot-as-rajasthan-deputy-cm-pcc-chief/story-gb5X7e9vjfPW8PMvf5jJ7M.html
14-07-2020||India||Govind Singh Dotasra replaces Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan Congress president||Rajasthan’s education minister Govind Singh Dotasra was on Tuesday named as the new chief of the Congress’ Rajasthan unit in place of Sachin Pilot, senior party leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced in Jaipur.Sachin Pilot was also sacked as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister along with two other ministers, amid the face-off with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Surjewala said.Ramesh Meena, the state’s food and civil supplies minister, and tourism minister Vishvendra Singh have also been sacked.“The Congress party has taken some decisions with a heavy heart,” he said.The senior party leader said it is unfortunate that Sachin Pilot and some MLAs were misguided and became the part of the conspiracy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to topple the government in Rajasthan.The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of frontal organisations Youth Congress and Sewa Dal. Ganesh Ghoghra, an MLA from Dungarpur, and Hem Singh Shekhawat were given the posts.The announcements came after the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in the state capital of Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govind-singh-dotasra-appointed-as-rajasthan-congress-president-in-place-of-sachin-pilot/story-EbA7nxS47H6K3k20wRAP2L.html
14-07-2020||India||After Sachin Pilot’s sacking, CM Gehlot meets Governor Kalraj Mishra||Soon after the Congress party announced Sachin Pilot’s removal as deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot reached Raj Bawan in Jaipur to meet Governor Kalraj Mishra. The Congress on Tuesday also sacked two other state cabinet members after the party passed a resolution at the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting in Jaipur to remove Pilot from his currently held positions in Rajasthan. Pilot has also been removed as the chief of Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC). Govind Singh Dotasra, state minister of education and tourism, has been appointed in his place. As per reports, as many as 102 MLAs were present during the Congress legislature meeting and unanimously demanded Sachin Pilot’s removal from the party.“I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by the BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Gehlot government elected by 8 crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said during a press briefing, adding that Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena have been removed as state cabinet ministers.Pilot skipped the Congress legislature meeting in Jaipur on Monday that recommended action against him and supporting lawmakers. Tuesday’s meet was party’s second consecutive meeting to discuss the political fallout between Pilot and CM Gehlot. Pilot and his supporting camp of lawmakers skipped both the meetings. The Congress on Monday tried sending out messages for Pilot to stay put in party but all in vain. During a press briefing on Monday, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that Congress’ doors are always to Sachin Pilot and other party members. “If anyone is upset in family, they should find a solution by sitting with members of the family. On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member,” Surjewala said on Monday.“If anyone, be at any post or profile, has any problem, they must come forward and mention the issue on the party forum. We will work to resolve it together and keep our government intact in the state,” he added.As a sign of defiance and show of strength, Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp on Monday released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together. The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group. Pilot, however, was not seen in the video clip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-meets-governor-kalraj-mishra/story-RNAXfrVqUeIqhbVrtmDWUK.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Unprecedented’: Sachin Pilot’s supporters demand action against those who ‘humiliated our leader’||The ongoing political battle between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot intensified on Tuesday.While the party is standing with Gehlot and even passed a resolution seeking action against the rebels, Pilot’s supporters have said they are fighting to protect their dignity.In a message circulated by the Pilot camp on WhatsApp, his supporters said “their leader is threatened with notices from the SOG under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy”.Calling it unprecedented in Indian democracy and the Congress party, the supporters further demanded that people who humiliated Pilot should be held responsible.“We have toiled with sweat and blood for the Congress party. Under the leadership of Shri Sachin Pilot we have made every effort in the past sixyears to strengthen the party and bring it to power in Rajasthan at a time when it had been reduced to an insignificant number in the state assembly,” the WhatsApp post said. It has been signed by cabinet ministers Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena, and former speaker Deepender Shekhawat.Gehlot, meanwhile, removed Pilot, Meena and Singh from the cabinet, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced after the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP).While Pilot held PWD and Panchayat Raj portfolios, Meena was the food and civil supplies minister and Singh the tourism minister. Pilot has also been removed as the chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit.The second CLP meeting was held on Tuesday, and Pilot skipped it again. A resolution was passed in the CLP meeting to take action against Pilot and other rebel legislators who did not attend the meeting.The Congress leaders reasoned that if the party does not act against the rebels, it would send a wrong signal and demoralise loyal party workers.The face-off between Pilot and Gehlot came to the fore after Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) sent notices to the former and other leaders in connection with alleged attempts to topple Congress government in the state.The notices stated that the SOG had urged the leaders to provide a suitable date and time for recording their respective statements.Pilot then left the state along with his 16 MLAs. He has claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority as 30 lawmakers are with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-sachin-pilot-s-supporters-demand-action-against-those-who-humiliated-our-leader/story-feV5mwm9l4iScggz2m7b5K.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Decision taken with a heavy heart’: Congress after Sachin Pilot gets the sack||In a move to stamp out the rebellion in its Rajasthan unit, the Congress on Tuesday sacked Sachin Pilot and two more ministers from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, underlining that the party does not revolve around people but is based on policy and principles.Chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, sent as Central observer to the state, said the party had to make some decisions today with a “heavy heart”, referring to the dropping of Sachin Pilot as deputy chief minister and also as the party’s Rajasthan unit president. Govind Singh Dotasra was appointed Rajasthan Congress chief in place of Pilot, announced Surjewala. “I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Congress government elected by eight crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” RS Surjewala told journalists. “Truth can be disturbed, not defeated,” tweeted Pilot, who has been camping in Delhi, as news travelled that the Congress has stripped him of his portfolios and even removed him from the post of Rajasthan Congress chief. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot drove down to Raj Bhavan to make a formal request to the governor to drop Pilot and the two ministers from his cabinet. The Congress legislature party, that met today for the second straight day, passed a resolution seeking action against the rebel leaders to send a “strong message” and prevent any such future trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-3-ministers-sacked-from-ashok-gehlot-cabinet-says-cong/story-htOGomSagyEdU632pxA7WL.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political turmoil: Congress sacks Sachin Pilot, 2 ministers from Gehlot cabinet||Sachin Pilot, the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and two ministers in his camp have been dropped from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, the Congress announced on Tuesday afternoon after the 42-year-old leader credited with leading the party’s successful campaign in the last elections refused to stand down.Pilot had stayed away from the Congress legislature meeting in Jaipur on Monday that recommended action against him and other lawmakers of his camp. They had argued that if the party didn’t act against the rebels, it would send a wrong message.Also read: ‘Unprecedented’ - Pilot supporters’ sharp message on Rajasthan developmentChief Minister Ashok Gehlot drove down to Raj Bhavan to make a formal request to the governor to drop Pilot and two ministers from his cabinet as soon as the meeting of lawmakers was over. Governor Kalraj Mishra accepted Gehlot’s recommendation. The two ministers who have been sacked are Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala stayed back to make the announcement. The Congress party regrets that deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and some of his supporting MLAs fell into the opposition BJP’s trap to destabilise the Gehlot government, he told the news conference before announcing Pilot’s sacking.ALSO WATCH | Sachin Pilot sacked: Watch Congress’ charge & Pilot’s response l Key details Pilot has also been sacked as Rajasthan Congress chief. He has been replaced by Govind Singh Dotasara, the minister of education and tourism in Gehlot’s cabinet.Congress lawmaker Ganesh Ghogra has been appointed to head the state’s youth Congress unit, replacing Mukesh Bhakar.It is unfortunate that Sachin Pilot and some MLAs supporting him were misguided and became part of the conspiracy of the BJP to topple the Gehlot government. The Congress leader also listed the many posts that Pilot had been appointed to by the Congress, a reference to suggestions that he wanted the party to edge out Ashok Gehlot and appoint him as Rajasthan chief minister.“The party always promoted Pilot from a very young age. He became an MP at 26, Union minister at 30-32, a State unit president at 34 and deputy chief minister at 40,” Surjewala said.The Congress said Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and other senior party leaders had tried to touch base with Sachin Pilot but in vain.Sachin Pilot responded to news of his sacking delivered via the media with a one-line tweet. “The truth can be rattled, not defeated,” he said.Minutes before the Congress legislators started their meeting, the two ministers who lost their cabinet posts for standing with Pilot put out a statement to counter the perception that they were fighting for a plum posts.“We are taking a stand to protect our dignity and self respect at a time when our leader is threatened with notices from the SOG (Special Operations Group) under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy,” said a joint statement circulated by Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena.A notice to the deputy chief minister was “unprecedented in India democracy and the Congress party”“Public humiliation of our leader Mr. Pilot is something that is totally unacceptable to us, and those responsible for meeting out this treatment need to be made accountable. We are seeking to restore our self respect and are not clamouring for any posts,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-removed-from-deputy-cm/story-tHAc7l9myrIHbumG47fYXI.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Delhi’s education model has made history’: Kejriwal lauds govt schools’ performance in Class 12 CBSE exams||Delhi chief minister expressed happiness over government schools’ performance in Class 12 CBSE exams and said that the education model in the national capital has scripted history today. Kejriwal’s comments came after 98 percent of students (97.92 percent) across Delhi government schools passed the Class 12 CBSE exams.“Amid the pandemic, I have good news for you. Delhi’s kids have done a wonderful job by achieving 98 percent pass percent in CBSE Class 12 exams,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister said he believes this is an unprecedented feat. “I don’t think the combined CBSE Class 12 result of states across India could have ever matched this figure in our history,” he stated. The chief minister said that of total 916 government schools in Delhi, over 300 schools have reported 100 percent pass results in CBSE Class 12 exams this year. Also read: Delhi’s second plasma bank inaugurated at LNJP hospital“Ever since the Aam Admi Party has formed the government in the national capital, the results have been improving constantly,” Kejriwal said.The chief minister described the results as a proud moment for Delhi government and said that the students studying in Delhi’s government schools have shown that they are no less intelligent than anyone. “These changes were not just the outcome of work done on our part but also by the teachers, students and their parents. We changed the environment and provided facilities for kids to learn and teachers to teach,” he added.Also read: CBSE Board to announce 10th result tomorrow Kejriwal said that students from Delhi’s government schools have entered India’s mainstream and are doing exceptionally well across various fields. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday declared the results for Class 12 examinations 2020. As per the CBSE, with 88.78 per cent pass percentage this year for Class 12, the pass percentage has jumped by 5.38 percent as opposed to last year’s 83.40 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-education-model-has-made-history-kejriwal-lauds-govt-schools-performance-in-class-12-cbse-exams/story-nGDpzqynb1Q4zoFfnqeedL.html
14-07-2020||India||Kerala nun rape accused Franco Mulakkal tests positive for coronavirus||Former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, against whom a court issued a non-bailable warrant yesterday in connection with the alleged rape of a Kerala nun, has tested positive for Covid-19, confirmed an officer. Mulakkal’s PRO Father Peter said the health of the bishop is not so good.On Monday, Mulakkal’s counsel informed the Kerala court that his client could not appear as he had been in self quarantine due to his primary contact with a Covid-19 infected person.During the previous hearing on July 1 also he had failed to appear before the Court.His counsel had then submitted that the priest could not appear as he was stuck in a Covid-19 containment zone at Jalandhar in Punjab.However, the prosecution on Monday refuted the claim by the accused saying, the place where he lived in Jalandhar was not a containment zone on July 1.The Court cancelled his bail, considering the prosecution argument that the accused was trying to delay the trial, and posted the case to August 13.The Kerala High Court on July 7 had dismissed a petition seeking to discharge Mulakkal from the sexual assault case filed against him by the nun.It had directed the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese to stand for trial in the rape case, which was registered on a complaint filed by the nun of same diocese in Kerala.The court dismissed the plea by the bishop, admitting the prosecution argument that there was prima facie evidence against Mulakkal in the rape case.The senior priest of the Roman Catholic Church had filed the revision petition following the dismissal of his discharge plea by the trial court in Kottayam in March this year.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district.In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the Bishop between 2014 and 2016.Arrested by the Special Investigation team, the bishop has been charged with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-nun-rape-accused-franco-mulakkal-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-IPvKzaYdtGMw8fF8BcMvxI.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Have not made any requests for extension, will vacate Lutyens’ bungalow on time, says Priyanka Gandhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra denies seeking more time to vacate Lutyens’ bungalowCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on Tuesday said that she would vacate her government bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in Lutyens’ Delhi within the stipulated one-month deadline and rubbished claims that she requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an extension of the tenure beyond August 1. Read moreKejriwal launches Delhi’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at LNJP HospitalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the national capital’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. “After huge success of our first plasma bank, we are launching Delhi’s 2nd plasma bank today at LNJP Hospital,” Kejriwal tweeted. Read moreComing to Punjab for less than 72 hours? No quarantine, only undertaking neededThose coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours are now exempt from the mandatory home quarantine, and only need to submit a formal undertaking at the border check post. Read moreRajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot ignores appeals, skips key Congress meetingThe Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting began in Rajasthan capital Jaipur shortly before noon on Tuesday. This is the second CLP meeting in two days to discuss the crisis in the state as the political face-off between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot intensified. Read moreGlobal coronavirus vaccine plan may allow rich countries to buy morePoliticians and public health leaders have publicly committed to equitably sharing any coronavirus vaccine that works, but the top global initiative to make that happen may allow rich countries to reinforce their own stockpiles while making fewer doses available for poor ones. Read moreLa Liga: Barcelona strong enough to cope without Antoine Griezmann in final two games, says Luis GarciaReal Madrid have cemented themselves as the favourites to win the La Liga title this year. With a 2-1 win over Granada on Monday, the Zinedine Zidane led team has gone one step further in winning the tournament and need just one more win to do so. Read moreDeer family crosses IAS officer’s road to work, leaves netizens mesmerized. WatchFor most of us, the road to office is riddled with crowded streets, sweaty people and a lot of traffic jams. But the scenario is completely different for some. A video shared by IAS officer Supriya Sahu shows her route to work which may make you miss the sight of a lush, green forest. Read moreFree Britney 2020: Here’s why Britney Spears’ fans are petitioning to end her conservatorshipSinger, musician and performer Britney Spears left her 24.9 million Instagram followers confused and concerned with her posts, many worried that the Toxic singer seemed out of sorts. Several wrote that she wasn’t behaving ‘normally’ and that someone should do a wellness check on her. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: BCG vaccine can prevent deaths, severe infections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-priyanka-gandhi-rubbishes-claims-seeking-more-time-to-vacate-lutyens-bungalow-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qwTgXQsSwXScP5uM38FETM.html
14-07-2020||India||Priyanka calls out ‘fake news’ on bungalow request, minister tweets his rebuttal||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on Tuesday said that she would vacate her government bungalow at 35 Lodhi Estate in Lutyens’ Delhi within the stipulated one-month deadline and rubbished claims that she requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an extension of the tenure beyond August 1.On July 1, the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had cancelled the government accommodation allocated to Gandhi on the ground that she is ineligible for the entitlement, as she no longer enjoys the security cover of the Special Protection Group (SPG).On Tuesday, she reacted to reports claiming she had requested PM Modi seeking to stay on at her official accommodation beyond August 1.“This is FAKE NEWS. I have not made any such request to the government. As per the eviction letter handed to me on July 1, I will be vacating the government accommodation at 35 Lodhi Estate by August 1,” she tweeted. Gandhi’s husband Robert Vadra also reiterated that the family had not asked for an extension and would vacate the bungalow a week before the deadline expires amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“This is completely incorrect!! We have not asked for any extension of stay. We were sent a notice on July 1 to leave in 30 days. We at a time of Covid-19 have packed our entire household, and will leave a week before time,” he tweeted.However, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri has punctured holes in Gandhi’s claims a while after she tweeted to set the record straight.Puri referred to “facts” such as a powerful Congress leader’s move to let her stay on at 35 Lodhi Estate on July 4, three days after the eviction notice was served on her.“Facts speak for themselves! A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the party called me on July 4 at 12.05pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another Congress MP so that Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra can stay on. Let’s not sensationalise everything please,” Puri tweeted shortly after Gandhi took to social media to clarify her stand.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra promptly responded, distancing herself from the request. “If someone called you Mr Puri, I thank them for their concern, and thank you for your consideration as well but it still does not change the facts: I have made no such request, and I am making no such request,” she said.The ministry has already allotted her bungalow to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson, Anil Baluni.Officials familiar with the development told HT that the ministry has allotted the type 6B bungalow to Baluni.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Rules, 2017, of the directorate of estates.She was allotted the Lodhi Estate bungalow on February 21, 1997, as an SPG protectee.Hours after the notice was served to her on July 1, she paid off all her pending dues, amounting to 3,46,677, until June 30, the ministry had said.She is planning to move to the house of late Sheila Kaul, her grand-mother Indira Gandhi’s maternal aunt, in Lucknow. The Congress said that the house was renovated a few months ago. Gandhi’s relocation to Lucknow is being seen as a bid to enthuse party workers ahead of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly polls slated to be held in 2022 amid the party’s dwindling electoral fortunes in the country’s most populous state for over three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-denies-seeking-more-time-to-vacate-lutyens-bungalow/story-fI6vlWNkrMoFdezH3YCcfO.html
14-07-2020||India||Kejriwal launches Delhi’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at LNJP Hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the national capital’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. “After huge success of our first plasma bank, we are launching Delhi’s 2nd plasma bank today at LNJP Hospital,” Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister was accompanied by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia among other officials on the occasion. The Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) was the first centre in the national capital to start the facility for Covid-19. The hospital has hired three expert counsellors who will encourage Covid-19 patients to donate plasma and tell them it is a safe process, an official told news agency PTI, adding that these counsellors will call up patients who have recovered from coronavirus and explain them about the therapy.  Also read: India’s recovery-to-death ratio for Covid-19 at 96:4, says governmentAfter India's first Plasma bank by Delhi Govt Hon'ble CM shri @Arvindkejriwal with Hon'ble Dy CM shri @msisodia visited LNJP hospital to inaugurate the second plasma bank of Delhi. pic.twitter.com/VJBeHIXc2r“We already have a database of patients in our hospital and these counsellors will be calling them. However, patients who have recovered after treatment from other hospitals can also come and donate plasma to the bank,” he said. The national capital on Monday recorded 1,246 fresh coronavirus cases, authorities said, the lowest in the last 35 days. The Covid-19 tally in the national capital stands at 113,740.  After huge success of our first plasma bank, we launched Delhi's 2nd plasma bank today at LNJP Hospital#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/vmHuCZv7iZAccording to state health department figures, Delhi’s Covid-19 recovery rate stands at over 80 percent. So far, 91,312 patients across Delhi have recovered from the infection. The death toll stands at 3,411 while the active number cases is slightly over 19,000.Of 15,253 beds in hospitals, 10,944 are vacant; of 9,217 beds at dedicated Covid care centre, 7,069 beds are vacant for Covid-19 patients. The number of containment zones in the national capital stands at 658.From July 1-13, Delhi recorded 26,380 cases, while 32,984 people recovered. Barring July 1 and July 6, Delhi reported more Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-launches-delhi-s-second-plasma-bank-for-covid-19-patients-at-lnjp-hospital/story-PA4uZiMToAAYWWsx0P7LEP.html
14-07-2020||India||Female elephant found dead in Betla National Park in Latehar district||Latehar: A wild elephant was found dead in Betla National Park in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Tuesday morning.The park is located in the tourist zone of the Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR), the only natural habitat for big cats in the state.Forest department employees, who were out on patrol duty, found the elephant’s carcass in Betla-2 compartment of the national park, which is adjacent to Betla-Mahuadand road that passes through the reserve forest.The forest officials have been informed about the pachyderm’s death and they are expected to arrive at the spot soon.The reason for the animal’s death has not been ascertained yet, and a team of veterinarians has been directed to conduct an autopsy.“A female elephant, aged between 20 and 25 years, was found dead between Betla and Buxa More on Tuesday morning. The reasons for the death could be ascertained after the autopsy is done,” said YK Das, PTR.“Mahouts suspect that the elephant died of snake bite. We need to wait for the post-mortem examination report,” he added.Forest employees have fenced the spot, where the elephant was found dead, and maintaining a strict vigil.The park was in the news recently after a tigress and three bison were found dead within four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/female-elephant-found-dead-in-betla-national-park-in-latehar-district/story-5RkT4GnRBbqLLjjTvFF00K.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot ignores appeals, skips key Congress meeting||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting began in Rajasthan capital Jaipur shortly before noon on Tuesday. This is the second CLP meeting in two days to discuss the crisis in the state as the political face-off between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot intensified.Pilot, who has been leading rebellion against Gehlot, did not attend the meeting ignoring calls from various leaders.Pilot and 16 other MLAs had skipped the first CLP meeting on Monday too.Tuesday’s meeting is being held at a resort where Gehlot and other MLAs are camping since Monday. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala had announced the second CLP meeting as the top leadership expressed the desire to woo back dissidents led by Pilot, who is also the state unit chief.“I appeal to @SachinPilot and all his fellow MLAs to join today’s Legislature Party meeting. While expressing your faith in the ideology and values ​​of the Congress, please make your presence felt and strengthen the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” party general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande had tweeted just before the meeting began.Monday’s meeting, held at Gehlot’s official residence, saw the presence of 102 MLAs, according to multiple Congress leaders present there. These included 88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs, and one legislator each of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The national leadership of BTP, based in Gujarat, later asked its legislators not to take sides in the battle - but the MLAs have said they will stick to the government. The legislators were then taken to a private resort, Fairmont Jaipur.The Congress has 107 MLAs in the house, out of whom 105 could attend Monday’s meeting in principle (barring the speaker and an ailing minister). This meant that 17 legislators from the party, including Pilot, did not attend the meeting. Three other independents were reported to have joined the legislators who pledged their support to the government, on the way to the hotel. This, along with an additional CPI(M) legislator’s support, appeared to take Gehlot’s count to 106 on Monday. Pilot’s camp, however, dismissed the numbers.The majority mark in the 200-member assembly in Rajasthan is 101.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-sachin-pilot-ignores-appeals-skips-key-congress-meeting/story-t1XE9ymWcliTJUy4UHOYQL.html
14-07-2020||India||Ahead of party meet, Congress puts out yet another appeal to Sachin Pilot||The Congress on Tuesday issued yet another appeal to Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters to attend the meeting of party legislators in Jaipur amid the turf war between the young leader and chief minister Ashok Gehlot.This time as well, the Congress invoked its president Sonia Gandhi, senior leader Rahul Gandhi and the “ideology and values” of the party to placate Sachin Pilot.Avinash Pande, the state in-charge of Rajasthan, tweeted his request to Sachin Pilot and the members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) who have sided with him in the political crisis.“I appeal to @SachinPilot and to all his fellow MLAs to attend today’s meeting of the legislature party. Please make your presence known and strengthen the position of Mrs Sonia Gandhi and Mr Rahul Gandhi expressing your faith in the ideology and values of the Congress,” Pande posted in Hindi. Before this, senior Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken had called on Pilot to come back and attend the second legislative party meeting on Tuesday multiple times throughout the day on Monday. Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan unit chief, turned down the invitation for the meeting at a resort late on Monday night.Both sides have claimed they have the numbers. There were 102 MLAs—88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs, and one legislator each of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal—present at the legislative party meeting held at the CM’s official residence.The majority mark in the 200-member assembly in Rajasthan is 101.However, the BTP later asked its legislators not to take sides in the battle but the MLAs have said they will stick to the government.On their part, Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together late on Monday. The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group in what is being seen a show of strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-party-meet-congress-puts-out-yet-another-appeal-to-sachin-pilot/story-tFZbysZr1y03QASC3gpjKK.html
14-07-2020||India||Elghar Parishad case: Telugu poet P Varavara Rao admitted to JJ Hospital||The family members of Dr. P Varavara Rao (81), a Telugu writer and poet, who is lodged at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Jail in connection with the 2018 Elgar Parishad case, has expressed concern about his worsening health condition and the authorities’ bid to scuttle his bail plea again.They are apprehensive that JJ Hospital, where he was taken for a battery of medical tests owing to his advanced age on Monday afternoon, might hurriedly release him before his bail plea comes up for hearing on Friday to reinforce that his health condition is not as worse as it made out to be.They released a statement on Tuesday morning, pleading to the hospital authorities to ensure that he is not released until he recovers and no attempt should be made to discharge him hurriedly.“Dr. Rao was shifted to JJ Hospital from Taloja Jail on Monday afternoon. He was undergoing various tests until midnight. Hospital officials reportedly said that he was brought in for an evaluation and did not confirm whether he was going to be admitted. He may be kept in the hospital until the results are made available in a couple of days,” the statement read.Dr. Rao’s family members have alleged that the authorities did not provide any information to them about his health condition, including when he was taken to the hospital on Monday afternoon.“Though it was mandatory to inform the family about these developments, neither government nor jail, police, hospital authorities provided any information to us,” the statement added.On May 28, Dr. Rao was taken to the hospital after he had lost consciousness. Later, he was discharged on June 1.At that time, the family members had alleged that he was hurriedly discharged in a bid to obstruct his bail plea before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, which was rejected on June 26.The NIA, which had taken over the Elgar Parishad case from Pune Police in February, had opposed the bail plea, as Dr. Rao was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, where there is no provision to grant him temporary bail.NIA had submitted that the jail authorities could be directed to ensure that Dr. Rao was provided proper medical attention, whenever required.Earlier, on January 1, 2018, violence erupted between Dalits and Marathas near the village of Bhima Koregaon in Pune district, where thousands of Dalits had gathered to mark the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Koregaon.In that battle, the British Army’s Dalit Mahar soldiers had defeated the Brahmin Peshwa rulers of the Maratha empire.The commemoration took place a day after an event in Pune called the Elgar Parishad was held.The Pune Police conducted a preliminary probe and claimed that the violence in Bhima Koregaon was the result of speeches made at the Elgar Parishad event.They alleged that banned Maoist groups organised the event, and a first information report (FIR) was also filed.In June 2018, the Pune Police arrested five activists and lawyers from Pune, Nagpur, and Delhi – Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, and Shoma Sen – for their alleged links to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), and also for organising the Elgar Parishad event.In August 2018, the police arrested four more activists – Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, and Dr. Rao.While Gautam Navlakha and Dr. Anand Teltumbde were arrested on April 14 this year, taking the total number of the accused in the case to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elghar-parishad-case-telugu-poet-p-varavara-rao-admitted-to-jj-hospital/story-Dq8muC9NtitQ87FVKoJhVM.html
14-07-2020||India||India’s recovery-to-death ratio for Covid-19 at 96:4, says government||India has been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, but the rate of recovery has also been improving rapidly in the country, the government has said.On Tuesday, when India recorded over 28,000 new cases, the government said that the recovery-to-death ratio stands at 96 to nearly four per cent.“The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has increased to 63.02 per cent. The recoveries/deaths ratio is 96.01% and 3.99% now,” the government said after the Union health ministry released the daily figure of Covid-19 infection.The country’s Covid-19 case tally crosses nine lakh-mark with 28,498 new cases and 553 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed. The number of active cases stand at 3,11,565, while 5,71,460 patients have been cured/discharged, according to the health ministry. The number of Covid-19 fatalities stand at 23,727 deaths, it further said.As per the ministry, Maharashtra - the worst-affected state from the infection - has a total of 2,60,924 Covid-19 cases and 10,482 fatalities. Tamil Nadu, the second worst-affected state, has recorded 1,42,798 cases and 2,032 deaths due to Covid-19.Delhi has reported a total of 1,13,740 cases and 3,411 deaths due to Covid-19.As per the information provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) 1,20,92,503 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till July 13, of these 2,86,247 samples were tested on Monday.India’s fatality rate has declined this month despite a huge surge in positive cases reported daily, which has taken the country to third spot globally with a high concentration of coronavirus patients.States that have a fatality rate lower than the national average are the north-eastern states of Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-recovery-to-death-ratio-for-covid-19-at-96-4-says-government/story-OsYeGSDzs1mDoEnGnxXZyL.html
14-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh crosses 30,000-mark, over 40,000 cases in Karnataka: Covid-19 state tally||Coronavirus cases in South Indian states are witnessing a surge with Karnataka, the fifth worst-affected state, reporting over 40,000 total cases and Andhra Pradesh crossing the 31,000-mark. Tamil Nadu stands second on the national Covid-19 tally with over 1.4 lakh Covid-19 cases. Telangana also sees its coronavirus cases rising with state tally jumping beyond 36,000. Kerala is the only state with considerable low numbers of coronavirus cases. So far, the state has reported over 8,000 Covid-19 cases. India’s Covid-19 tally on Tuesday crossed 9 lakh. As per the data shared by the Ministry of Health, India has reported a total of 906,752 coronavirus patients till date of which 571,459 patients have recovered while 23,727 have succumbed to death. India’s active coronavirus cases stand at 311,565.  Here’s taking a look at the statewise situation of Covid-19 infections across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 260,924 on Tuesday. Over 144,507 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 10482 have died.Tamil NaduWith 142,798 coronavirus cases, Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 2,032 coronavirus fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the state stands at 92,567.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally at 9.06 lakh with more than 23,700 deathsDelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 113,740 on Tuesday. As many as 91,312 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital while 3,411 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 42,722 on Tuesday. The state has seen 29,770 people recover from coronavirus while 2,055 people have died.Karnataka The South Indian state has witnessed 41,581 coronavirus cases till date. While 757 have lost their lives to the deadly contagion in the state. Nearly 16,248 patients have recovered from the disease in Karnataka. Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 38,130 while the number of recoveries has touched 24,203. The state’s death toll stands at 955.TelanganaThe state’s Covid-19 tally stands at 36,221 coronavirus cases. While 23,679 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 365 in the state.West BengalAs many as 31,448 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 19213 recover from coronavirus while 956 people have been killed.Andhra Pradesh The state has reported 31,103 Covid-19 patients till date. While 16,464 people have recovered from the virus across the state, the death toll stands at 365.RajasthanThe state has reported 24,936 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 525 while 18,630 patients have recovered.Other statesThe coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 21,894. Some 18,207 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar has stands at 17,959, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 10,000. In Odisha, cases have crossed 13,000 while Assam has reported over 16,000 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 8,178, and the number of cases in Kerala stands at 8,322. Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand is over 3,600 cases. In Jharkhand, coronavirus cases inch toward 4,000-mark. Chandigarh, Tripura, Nagaland, Ladakh, Manipur, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases.Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less.  Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-crosses-30-000-mark-over-40-000-cases-in-karnataka-covid-19-state-tally/story-pRS8Oo11bvWrgb9YtJbbBI.html
14-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey earned Rs 1 crore a month, ED probes how it was spent: Report||Gangster Vikas Dubey, who was killed in an encounter on July 10, earned Rs 1 crore a month, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported quoting Enforcement Directorate officials.Dubey, however, led a simple life - he was a teetotaller and didn’t like splurging on a lavish lifestyle. So, it is becoming difficult for the ED to trace Dubey’s money, Hindustan reported.The slain gangster wore simple clothes and his bank accounts also do not have huge sums, according to Hindustan.The ED is now investigating the bank accounts of Dubey’s close aides and some other transactions.According to sources in the ED, Dubey earned somewhere between Rs 90 lakh and Rs 1.20 crore. But he never splurged money on trips abroad, or bought expensive goods.It is also trying to find out “silent investors”, who used to manage Dubey’s funds. A list is being prepared of those people - including businessmen - who were close to the gangster, said sources.Dubey was the main accused in a case in which eight policemen were gunned down in Bikru village in Kanpur on July 3. These cops were part of a team which had gone to arrest Dubey after a kidnap and attempt to murder complaint.The gangster had fled the village immediately after the shootout, and kept evading the police for five days. He was finally captured in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on July 9.Dubey was handed over to Uttar Pradesh Police who started by road from Ujjain towards Kanpur. On the morning of July 10, as the police team was close to Kanpur, one of the vehicles in the convoy overturned due to rain.The police said that Dubey used the opportunity to escape after snatching a policeman’s gun. A warning was issued, but the gangster fired at the police team and was killed in retaliatory fire.On July 3 - the day eight policemen were killed - two of Dubey’s associates, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by the police in an encounter in Kanpur. On July 8, the police killed another aide, Amar Dubey, who carried a reward of Rs 50,000, in Maudaha village in Hamirpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-earned-rs-1-crore-a-month-ed-probes-how-it-was-spent-report/story-IjH5VrNVM2aWj0wRl6TgrK.html
14-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally at 9.06 lakh with more than 23,700 deaths||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stands at 906,752 and the death toll at 23,727 on Tuesday, nearly six months after the first case was reported late in January in Kerala, according to Union health ministry.The health ministry’s dashboard showed there were 28,498 fresh cases and 553 fatalities in the last 24 hours as the country’s recorded more than 3.21 lakh infections in a fortnight.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia’s recovery rate was 63.02% as the number of recoveries exceeded the active cases by more than 259,894. In the last 24 hours, 17,989 people have been cured of the viral disease, taking the number of recovered patients to 571,459. There are 311,565 actives cases of the coronavirus disease in the country, data showed.The Centre said on Monday 19 states across the country have logged a recovery rate higher than that of the national average.Among the 19 states, which have registered a recovery rate significantly higher than the national average, are Ladakh with 85.45%, closely followed by Delhi at a healthy 79.98% with Uttarakhand in the third spot with a recovery rate of 78.77%.The country’s fatality rate has also declined to 2.64% this month despite a huge surge in positive cases reported daily, which has taken the country to third spot globally with a high concentration of coronavirus patients.States that have a fatality rate lower than the national average are the north-eastern states of Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.Last week, the Union health ministry had also indicated that the country’s Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population still remain among the lowest in the world, despite India being a country with 1.3 billion people.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been adding to the country’s infection tally consistently. The number of Covid-19 cases has also shot up in states like Assam and Bihar promoting the state governments to clamp new rules amid a renewed phase of lockdown in several areas.Globally, the coronavirus infections rose above 13 million on Monday, climbing by one million in just five days in a pandemic that has killed more than half a million people. The United States and Brazil have reported more cases than India.World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said there would be no return to the old normal for the foreseeable future, with too many countries headed in the wrong direction.“The virus remains public enemy number one,” he said during a virtual briefing from WHO headquarters in Geneva.“If basics are not followed, the only way this pandemic is going to go, it is going to get worse and worse and worse. But it does not have to be this way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-at-9-06-lakh-with-more-than-23-700-deaths/story-5twmor0P5aoM0GjFHJ910K.html
14-07-2020||India||Centre gives in-principle approval for tunnel under the Brahmaputra amid tension with China: Report||The Centre has given in-principle approval to construct a strategic tunnel under the Brahmaputra river, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported. The four-lane tunnel will link Gohpur and Numaligarh towns in Assam.This is the first time that India will be constructing an under-river tunnel, Hindustan reported and it will close to the Chinese border. It will be longer than the under water tunnel being built by China below the Taihu Lake in Jiangsu province, it further reported.The proposed tunnel in India is going to be very important strategically as it will provide year-long connectivity between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. It will also help in transporting military supplies and ammunition as vehicles will be able to zoom past the tunnel at 80 kmph, Hindustan reported.The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHAIDCL) has roped in America’s Louis Berger company; in fact, the central government had approved its detailed project report in March, reported Hindustan.It quoted a senior official of NHAIDCL to say that the construction of the 14.85 km long tunnel will begin in December. It will be built in three phases, Hindustan further reported.The official further told Hindustan that the tunnel in China’s Jiangsu province will be 10.79 km long. He also said that various strong safety measures have been put in place in the design to stop water from entering the tunnel.It will also have ventilation system, fire-fighting mechanism, footpath, drainage system, emergency exit etc, according to Hindustan. It will also be equipped with crash barriers.The Army had asked the government to consider building tunnels akin to the English Channel under the Brahmaputra because bridges can be targeted by enemy forces.This comes amid the tension between India and China along with Line of Actual Control (LAC) after a face-off between the soldiers of the two countries in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. India had lost 20 soldiers in the skirmish; China officially did not announce the number of casualties.Efforts have been on by both the countries since the June 15 clash to ease tensions. A fourth round of meeting between the Lieutenant Generals of the two countries is scheduled to take place today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gives-in-principle-approval-for-tunnel-under-the-brahmaputra-amid-tension-with-china-report/story-aA9pwE331qA5SUjVcmUOJN.html
14-07-2020||India||A notice, series of meetings and snubs: How Rajasthan crisis has come out in the open||The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a crisis after the long-standing differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot have tumbled out.Sachin Pilot has also been miffed over a police notice to him over a probe concerning an alleged attempt to topple the Ashok Gehlot government.Pilot, who is also the chief of the Congress’ state unit, has been camping in Delhi and has met senior leaders of the party over the weekend.The 42-year-old leader along with his supporters did not attend the meeting of Congress legislators on Monday in Jaipur. He has also turned down his party’s invitation to attend the next meeting on Tuesday.Here is how the crisis in Rajasthan has boiled over:* It started with a July 10 notice of the special operations group (SOG) of the state police’s anti-terror squad to Sachin Pilot and others. It asked them to appear for questioning in connection with the case registered by the ATS that there was a plot to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government started the current crisis.* The SOG had said on Saturday that it has arrested BJP members Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh for allegedly trying to topple the government by offering Rs 20-25 crore bribe each to unspecified legislators - a charge levelled by Gehlot. A First Information Report (FIR) was filed against the two under Indian Penal Code’s sections related to sedition and criminal conspiracy on Friday.* Gehlot had on Saturday accused the BJP of trying to “buy legislators like goats” and later said at a virtual press conference that the BJP’s “brazen attempt” was thwarted by the Congress. The charge has been vehemently denied by the BJP.* Pilot came to Delhi on Saturday and met senior leader Ahmed Patel to discuss the issue. He told the senior leader known to be a close aide of party president, Sonia Gandhi, during the special one-on-one meeting that his differences with Ashok Gehlot had gone too far. Along with him were at least 19 Congress legislators who were lodged in various resorts, including an ITC Grand Bharat in Gurugram. * On Sunday, several legislators and ministers met Ashok Gehlot at his residence to convey that they were with the chief minister in the hour of crisis.* Late on Sunday, the Congress party rushed two central observers – Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken – to Jaipur in a bid to iron out differences between Pilot and Ashok Gehlot, who have sparred on a number of issues since the formation of the party’s government in 2018.* After a meeting which went late into the night, state in-charge Avinash Pandey said that 109 MLAs have signed their letters of support related to Ashok Gehlot.* Ashok Gehlot then called a meeting of Congress legislators on Monday morning and the party issued a whip to mandate the presence of all the its MLAs.* Pilot’s camp also said in a late-night statement released on WhatsApp that the deputy chief minister has the backing of about 30 legislators in the 200-member assembly, saying Gehlot government is in minority.* Ahead of the the Congress Legislature Party meeting, Randeep Singh Surjewala extended a public appeal by party leaders to talk things out with an “open mind”. Pilot turned that down too. * Ashok Gehlot showed off a number of legislators supporting his government, smiled for the cameras and even flashed the victory sign. The MLAs were then herded off to a resort on Delhi-Jaipur highway.* Sachin Pilot’s side too released a video late on Monday of his supporters at a hotel on the outskirts of Delhi.* He has also snubbed the Congress party’s request to attend the second meeting of the legislature party on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-notice-series-of-meetings-and-snubs-how-rajasthan-crisis-has-come-out-in-the-open/story-r2sSD669QMW2qQwl6DtdDP.html
14-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bengaluru readies for a week-long lockdown starting at 8pm tonight and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengaluru braces for week-long lockdown, Deve Gowda wants state shutEven as urban and rural Bengaluru readied itself for a week-long lockdown starting Tuesday 8pm, former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda demanded that the Karnataka government announce a statewide lockdown as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to spiral. Read moreTTD wants Centre to monetise Rs 51 crore worth of old currency notes offered by devoteesThe Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the country’s richest temple of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala, wants an exchange of old currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 worth nearly Rs 51 crore more than three-and-a-half years after the Centre had demonetised them. Read moreCovid-19 test, confirmed tickets mandatory as J-K opens for tourists from todayTravellers planning to visit Jammu and Kashmir will have to follow a set of guidelines after the administration opened the Union Territory for tourism in a phased manner from Tuesday. The outbreak of disease and the subsequent measures put further burden on Kashmir’s tourism industry, the backbone of J-K’s economy, which had been witnessing a downturn since August last year. Read moreMassive explosion in chemical plant in Visakhapatnam pharma city; 4 injuredAt least four people were injured, one of them seriously, when a fire broke out in a chemical plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam leading to a massive explosion of one of its reactors late on Monday, in the third such accident in the district in two months, the police said. Read moreProtests erupt against police brutality in PennsylvaniaActivists against police brutality expressed outrage and demanded accountability Monday after video emerged over the weekend of an officer placing his knee on a man’s head and neck area outside a Pennsylvania hospital. Read more‘MS Dhoni didn’t give enough quality players to Virat Kohli, like Sourav Ganguly gave to India’: Gautam GambhirMahendra Singh Dhoni is arguably one of the greatest captains in the history of Indian cricket. He is the only skipper to win the World T20, Champions Trophy and the 50-over World Cup in world cricket. Dhoni also took Team India to the top of the ICC Test rankings in 2013. Read moreSara Ali Khan’s driver tests positive for Covid-19, actor informs her family and other staff have tested negativeSara Ali Khan has said she and her family members have tested negative for Covid-19 after her driver tested positive for it. The actor shared a note to inform her followers on Instagram. In her Instagram post, she said that Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was promptly alerted about it and the driver has been moved to the quarantine centre. Read more5 effective fat burning exercises you can do at homeHome workouts have become are the new normal. While most of us have got gym equipments home and working out with the help of these equipments. You don’t really need to burn a hole in your pocket by investing in those expensive treadmill and weightlifting machines. Read moreBaby elephant blows bubbles in water with trunk, clip is too cute to miss. WatchIt won’t be wrong if we say that baby elephants hold one of the top positions in the animal kingdom when it comes to being goofy or derpy. Taking a cue from the numerous videos the Internet has to provide, one might also find some similarities between a human child and a baby jumbo. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bengaluru-readies-for-a-week-long-lockdown-starting-at-8pm-tonight-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VRvGb5E0gX8X4Vdmsf13tN.html
14-07-2020||India||Covid-19 test, confirmed tickets must as J-K opens for tourists from today||Travellers planning to visit Jammu and Kashmir will have to follow a set of guidelines after the administration opened the Union Territory for tourism in a phased manner from Tuesday.The outbreak of disease and the subsequent measures put further burden on Kashmir’s tourism industry, the backbone of J-K’s economy, which had been witnessing a downturn since August last year.Authorities had banned the entry of foreign tourists into the region as a precautionary measure in view of the outbreak of coronavirus disease around the world.Here are things you need to keep in mind if you plan to visit J-K:* Only those coming by air would be permitted to enter J-K in the first phase, according to guidelines and Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).* All tourists will have to install the Aarogya Setu mobile application and make regular updates regarding their health. * Tourists above the age of 65 should avoid coming to J-K, the guidelines say.* It will be mandatory for tourists to pre-book their accommodation online in hotels, houseboats or guesthouses etc. “The proof of the same shall be checked on arrival,” according to the guidelines. * They must have confirmed hotel bookings for the duration of their stay as well as confirmed return tickets to any place outside J-K, either to their departure point or any other destination. * The hotel administration or travel agents will have to provide the travellers with a pick-up facility from the airport and also drop them on their departure.* Taxis or transport facility have to be pre-booked through hotel or travel agency for which procedure will be put in place by the tourism department. * A Real-Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RTPCR test to detect Sars-Cov-2 or coronavirus will be compulsory for visitors when they arrive.* “Till the test result shows a negative result of Covid-19, a tourist will remain in the hotel where the booking has been made and shall not be permitted to move out. A form in this regard shall have to be signed at the airport,” the guidelines said. * “Test results will normally arrive within 24 hours except in special circumstances. The hotel management shall be required to ensure compliance with the protocol,” the guidelines said. * Visitors with Covid-19 negative reports from their departure points would not be required to remain isolated in hotels, the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-confirmed-tickets-mandatory-as-j-k-opens-for-tourists-from-today/story-raK2WujyUEBW6Zq2S0v04L.html
14-07-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases spike in Odisha’s Ganjam, experts say community transmission has started, govt maintains no such signs||Weeks after the influx of migrant workers stopped, Odisha’s Covid-19 epicentre Ganjam district continues to be a hotspot, accounting for 30 per cent of the total cases. Ganjam has reported 64 per cent of the total 4,147 cases in the month of July, forcing the local administration to resort to unprecedented shutdowns and sealing of its border.Yet, the district continues to post high Covid-19 numbers for the last 15 days in a row. The government’s own statistics now reveal that community transmission may have begun in Ganjam due to the incoming migrant workers. Of the 2,674 cases reported in the district in the last 12 days, at least 98 per cent of the cases were local infection caused by incoming migrant workers.Listed under the headline of “active contact positive cases” in the government’s Covid-19 records, the statistics show the actual number of people who were infected by the 2.2 lakh migrant workers who stayed in over 3,000 quarantine centres of the district. While in the month of May and early June, most of the positive cases were being reported from quarantine centres, in late June and July, majority of the positive cases were reported from outside the quarantine centres.“Had it not been community transmission in Ganjam, the numbers would not have been so high. It shows that the so-called quarantine model of the government has failed. The numbers would continue to rise for quite some time,” said a senior government doctor working in MKCG medical college and hospital in Ganjam district. Renowned epidemiologist Jayprakash Muliyil, former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore too said that community transmission has happened in Ganjam and the rest of Odisha too. “It has happened in almost all the states though the ICMR may not admit it. The quarantine centre model may delay the onset of transmission, but it can’t contain the virus. If any state government thought of collecting a gold medal by containing the virus, it is ridiculous,” said Mulyil.Mulyil also came down heavily on the state government’s frequent lockdowns and decision by district administrations to seal the border to contain the pandemic. “The virus would get transmitted. The lockdown would have no effect on it,” he said, referring to the weekend shutdown in 23 of the 30 districts of Odisha this month.Many in Ganjam said community transmission was inevitable due to the way migrant workers jumped quarantine periods and mingled with their family and neighbourhood. During the first few days, more than 150 people jumped quarantine in Beguniapada block while in other centres, people milled around handing mobile phone chargers, eatables, tobacco and other items to the inmates violating social distance norms. In a few centres there were reports of migrant workers sneaking into their homes at night and coming back to the quarantine centre in the morning.Ganjam district collector Vijay Kulange, however, said that community transmission may not have happened. “Had we not built the quarantine centres, by now Ganjam would have recorded five lakh cases. As of now, 81 per cent of rural Ganjam is free from coronavirus and the cases that we are seeing are mostly in urban Ganjam. It’s true that some of the migrant workers violated the quarantine conditions and mingled with their family and that’s why we are seeing higher numbers. But with shutdowns we would be able to reach a plateau soon and the number will decline thereafter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-spike-in-odisha-s-ganjam-experts-say-community-transmission-has-started-govt-maintains-no-such-signs/story-CaK2EOJMcsWsBfHRgdE6bM.html
14-07-2020||India||FIR against Jabalpur official for organising wedding, violating Covid guidelines||An FIR has been registered against the Additional Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation for organising a wedding function at a city based hotel on June 30, the district magistrate said.Bharat Yadav, Jabalpur District Magistrate said, “Strict action will be taken against anyone who violates the norms of social distancing, and Covid-19 guidelines, whosoever be it. Acting against people who violate these guidelines, an FIR has been registered against the officer for organising wedding function at hotel Gulzar here on June 30.”The Jabalpur DM further said that the administration has reduced the number of attendees of wedding function from 50 to 40.“For wedding functions, the number of attendees have been reduced to 40, twenty each from the groom’s and bride’s side. Action will be taken against those who flout the guidelines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-jabalpur-official-for-organising-wedding-violating-covid-guidelines/story-5lAeBG17o18SMhLU5YE2gJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Odisha: Doctors, paramedics engaged in Covid duty to get daily diet allowance||The Odisha government on Monday approved daily diet allowance of Rs 240 for doctors and paramedics engaged in government-run Covid-19 hospitals, Covid Health Centres and Covid Care Centres.Collector and controlling authorities have been directed to ensure the implementation of the diet allowance, which will be met out of Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF).“After careful consideration have decided to allow daily diet allowance for the doctors and paramedical staffs engaged in the government-run Covid Care Centres, Covid Health Centres and Covid Hospitals at Rs 240 per doctor and paramedical staff per day. The above diet cost will be met out of CMRF,” the health department said in a letter.“The daily diet allowance for doctors and paramedical staffs shall be implemented immediately with prospective effect. The controlling Authorities will ensure to provide quality diet to the doctors and paramedical staffs engaged in the above three institutions,” it further read.The said allowance will be extended in the form of food and no financial incentives in this regard will be claimed/provided, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-doctors-paramedics-engaged-in-covid-duty-to-get-daily-diet-allowance/story-NrsPUlupkqlPaBuncGLjPN.html
14-07-2020||India||PM Modi takes stock of financial sector, reviews progress of Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took stock of the financial sector which has been hit hard by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. He also reviewed the progress of a host of measures announced under the Rs 20-lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package to stimulate the economy and help the MSME sector and poor sections of society. According to sources, the Prime Minister has been taking review meetings on various aspects of the economy. As part of this exercise, sources said, he had a meeting on the financial sector of the economy which is an important pillar in reviving growth and demand.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today All the secretaries, including the Finance Secretary, were part of the meeting and more such meetings will take place during the week, sources said. Banks and other financial institutions are implementing the bulk of the measures announced under the Rs 20-lakh crore package. To deal with the Covid-19 crisis, the government announced one of the world’s biggest stimulus packages with a focus on the survival of the business and setting a roadmap for the revival of the economy. The five-part stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman beginning May 13 comprised Rs 5.94 lakh crore in the first tranche that provided credit line to small businesses and support to shadow banks and electricity distribution companies. The second tranche included free foodgrain to stranded migrant workers for two months and credit to farmers, totalling Rs 3.10 lakh crore. Spending on agri infrastructure and other measures for agriculture and allied sectors in the third tranche totalled to Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The fourth and fifth tranches that dealt mostly with structural reforms including relaxation of foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in defence, privatisation of six more airports, and fully opening up coal mining to the private sector. As a result of all these measures, green shoots are visible in the economy which is expected to contract by 4.5 per cent during the current fiscal. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the economy is showing “green shoots” as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown and underscored the importance of being focussed on both life and livelihood. While addressing chief ministers and Lt Governors of 21 states and union territories, Modi had said the danger of the virus is not over yet, and there was a need to remain vigilant while opening up the economy.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Although a pickup in economic activity has been seen, full recovery remains a major challenge as industries are functioning with lower capacities. Fresh lockdown measures announced by some states due to spurt in COVID cases have thrown up new challenges. The government has already rationalised its expenditure for the first two-quarters of this fiscal, compressing all non-essential expenditures of ministries and asking departments and ministries not to initiate any new scheme in the current financial year stating that there is a need to use resources prudently in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. The revenue collections have also been lower, with GST collections for the April-June quarter declining by 41 per cent compared to the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-takes-stock-of-financial-sector-reviews-progress-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-stimulus-package/story-NhJmj1b65Nc8Bih2mXFLwN.html
14-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||My current obsession, in tracking the spread of the coronavirus disease pandemic around the world, is curves and waves — and readers of this column will likely encounter both this week, as well as some hypotheses about them.Several experts including Dr Anthony Fauci, the US immunologist who is the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, believe that countries such as the US are not seeing a second wave of infections, just a continuation of the first. They are right — at the country level.At the regional level, I have a different opinion. I believe that the first wave is over in at least some US states (New York is one, for sure), just as it is in continental Europe. As the infection has picked up in other US states, the plateauing and dip in the curve of daily new infections at an aggregate level — very evident in the middle of June — has been offset to an extent that it is no longer visible. But New York, for instance, is showing a curve that has flattened. It peaked in mid-April, and is now perfectly flat (the seven-day average for new cases, on July 11, according to the NYT, was 634, way off its peaks of nearly 10,000 in mid-April). If the state sees a consistent increase in cases — one hopes it doesn’t — it will definitely be a second wave of infections. The state has clearly fought off the first.Also read: Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse, says WHO chiefA similar curve, mapping daily new cases and the weekly average of new cases for the three Indian states that have seen the most cases — and which, on Sunday evening, accounted for 58% of all Covid-19 cases and 67% of all deaths in the country — throws up some interesting conclusions.  Delhi has definitely flattened the curve, although the peak is a little too narrow for my liking (in general, the peaks of many distributions, including infections, are more rounded and gradual).Tamil Nadu appears to be in the very early stages of flattening the curve.And Maharashtra is still seeing an increase in cases — although HT’s reporting has shown that Mumbai itself may have flattened the curve a bit.Also read| 10 million children may never return to school after Covid-19 pandemic: CharityAt an aggregate level, starting the last week of June, the curve of infections (new cases) in these three states is beginning to plateau. Sure, this may be just an aberration — but if it is, we will know soon enough. The reason it finds mention here is because it is in keeping with the trend of how the infection has waxed and waned globally. For a little over two months, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have driven India’s Covid-19 numbers. That may be changing.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage For the first time since early May, on July 10, the total number of new cases in the rest of the country exceeded the aggregate number of new cases in the three states. This, too, fits in with what we know of how the pandemic spreads through a population. Much like the US — this column has pointed out that the US can be compared to India because both countries are large in terms of geographical area (the US is much larger) and population (India has a much higher population) — India is beginning to see a significant proportion of the new cases coming from states outside Delhi, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu.Purely in numerical terms, this could mean an increase in the number of new cases, perhaps to hitherto unseen levels. The good news from Delhi and, perhaps, Tamil Nadu, has to be tempered by the bad news from the rest of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-sngFTflmPSeT1oCPKbbKcL.html
14-07-2020||India||Centre asks PTI to pay dues of over Rs84 crore for its office||The union ministry of housing and urban affairs has sent a notice to news agency Press Trust of India seeking payment of dues worth Rs 84.48 crore for its headquarter at Parliament Street in New Delhi.The notice sent on July 7 by the Land and Development Office, which comes under the ministry, stated that the news agency has to clear its dues within a month.“Further action to execute the lease deed shall be subject to complete payment and putting the premises to use as per permissible under the master plan,” the notice said. The notice added that if PTI did not comply with its terms, the concession of limiting the penalty will be withdrawn.The notice comes two weeks after national broadcaster Prasar Bharati threatened to cancel its subscription to the news agency for its coverage.The state broadcaster, under the ministry of information and broadcasting, had last month written a letter to the news agency over its coverage pertaining to an interview with the Chinese ambassador amid a tense border stand-off with the country along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-pti-to-pay-dues-of-over-84-cr-for-its-office/story-I9QRqnPFfwkOCkHFzE82MI.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Sachin Pilot-led Congress camp releases video showing 16 MLAs sitting together||In a show of strength, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp on Monday released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together.This comes hours after the Congress held a legislature party meeting. Party leaders said 106 of 122 MLAs attended, a claim contested by the Pilot camp.The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot’s official WhatsApp group. Haryana: Rajasthan Congress MLAs Inder Raj Gurjar, PR Meena, GR Khatana, and Harish Meena among others, at a hotel in Manesar. (Video released from Sachin Pilot's office of MLAs supporting him) pic.twitter.com/IHToT5tkiRIn the video, at least 16 MLAs are seen sitting together in a close circle. Pilot is not seen in the video.Six other people can be seen in the video but they could not be identified.Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2Some of the MLAs seen in the video are Indraraj Gurjar, Mukesh Bhakar, Harish Meena.Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted the video with the caption “Family”.Ladnun MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, “...Loyalty in Congress means Ashok Gehlot’s slavery. That is not acceptable to us.” Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister’s post after the December 2018 assembly elections.On Sunday, he claimed to have the backing of 30 Congress MLAs and “some independents”.Those close to him disputed Gehlot’s claim that his government had a majority, and said this is proven in the assembly and not at the CM’s house.Also read: Sachin Pilot always in Rahul Gandhi’s heart, says Congress leader’s officeSources close to him have also ruled out the possibility of Pilot joining the BJP.In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the Bharatiya Tribal Party, and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-sachin-pilot-led-congress-camp-releases-video-showing-16-mlas-sitting-together/story-WIcmIqCv8MzbaEyoiVN8nM.html
14-07-2020||India||Fire breaks out at pharmaceutical unit near Visakhapatnam||A major fire broke out following an explosion at a pharmaceutical unit near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh on Monday night, police sources said. The incident triggered panic among the residents in the Paravada area as it came just a couple of months after styrene vapour leak in the LG Polymers plant in the region. An explosion was first heard at the Pharma City, following which there was a huge fire, according to sources. No casualties have been reported so far, and the fire and emergency services personnel could not immediately reach the spot as the blaze has engulfed the area, police sources said. The explosion is said to have occurred in the unit of Ramky Solvents and the cause of the incident is not yet known, according to sources. Further details are awaited. Last month, a gas leak incident in one of the companies in Pharma City left two workers dead and four injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-pharmaceutical-unit-near-visakhapatnam/story-6YXKD4RMNtZbsbXj7P1cDK.html
14-07-2020||India||Supreme Court upholds royals’ rights on Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the Travancore royal family has rights to maintain and manage the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala, allowing the appeal filed by the Maharajah of the royal family challenging a 2011 Kerala high court judgment that had given these rights to the Kerala government.A two-judge bench of justices UU Lalit and Indu Malhotra held that the royal family’s Shebaitship — the right to maintain and manage the temple and the deity — does not come to an end with the death of the ruler, who signed the instrument of accession with the Indian government in 1949 by which the erstwhile princely state of Travancore merged with the Indian union.“We hold that the death of Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, who had signed the covenant, would not in any way affect the Shebaitship of the temple held by the royal family of Travancore,” the court ruled. Also read: Little impact on other religion cases, say experts after Kerala temple verdictThe court also accepted the suggestion made by the royal family on the constitution of a five-member administrative committee which shall administer the temple from now on. The administrative committee will consist of the district judge of Thiruvananthapuram, one nominee of the Maharajah of the royal family, one nominee of the Kerala government, one member nominated by the ministry of culture (Government of India), and the chief thantri (priest) of the temple. All the members of the committee will be Hindus. The Kerala high court held in January 2011 that after Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, the ruler who signed agreement of the accession with the Indian government, died in 1991, the temple stood vested with the Kerala government. The agreement of accession provided that the administration of the Padmanabhaswamy temple shall be conducted, subject to the control and supervision of the ruler of Travancore, by an executive officer appointed by the ruler.The high court, in its order, held that “ruler” is not a status that can be achieved through succession.But the Supreme Court’s ruling on Monday means that the 1949 agreement between the ruler of the princely state and the Government of India on the Shebait rights of the temple would be enforceable, though payments and other privileges accorded by the Government of India to royal families of erstwhile princely states for joining the Indian union at the time of Independence were abolished in 1971.The court arrived at this conclusion based on the existence of another law, the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act (TC Act), which was enacted in 1950 by the state government to make a provision for the administration, supervision and control of Hindu Religious Endowments. Section 18 of the TC Act provides that the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple stands vested in the ruler of Travancore. As long as the TC Act exists, the Shebait rights of the royal family will continue and abolition of the rights and privileges of the royal family by the 26th amendment of the Constitution will not impact the same, the court held. “Broadly the court has said that as long as the TC Act is valid, under Section 18(2), the rights of a ruler in Kerala are preserved despite the 26th constitutional amendment, which had abolished privy purse in India,” said Supreme Court advocate Vipin Nair.“It is the victory of devotees and people, not the victory of royals,” said Aditya Varma, scion of Travancore royal family. “The Kerala government welcomes the verdict...We [have] always followed apex court verdict in letter and spirit,” said state Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran.In the new arrangement, as prescribed by the court, on all policy matters related to the temple, the trustee (the Maharajah) will be guided by a three-member advisory committee headed by a retired judge of the Kerala high court. This committee will have an eminent person nominated by the Maharaja and a reputed chartered accountant as its members. The two committees should ensure that all treasures and properties endowed to Padmanabhaswamy and those belonging to the temple are preserved, the court said. They should also ensure that all rituals and religious practices are performed in accordance with the instructions and guidance of the chief thantri of the temple and according to custom and traditions. The court said that the income accruing to the temple, as well as the offerings made by the worshippers, should be expended to improve the facilities for the worshippers and or such religious and charitable purposes as the advisory committee may consider appropriate. It also asked for an audit of the temple for the last 25 years.The temple, located in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, came under media glare in 2011 when a vast treasure was discovered in its vaults, known as “Kallara” in Malayalam. The vaults were opened pursuant to a May 2011 order of the apex court.It was estimated that the intrinsic value of the treasure in five of the six vaults which were opened amounted to more than ~90,000 crore. One of the vaults, Kallara B, was not opened on various grounds, including a superstition that there was a curse on it. During the hearing of the case before the Supreme Court, the Travancore royal family opposed the opening of Kallara B stating that it is a “secret and sacred” place and its sanctity needs to be preserved. The opening was later kept in abeyance by the apex court.The court on Monday directed that the administrative and advisory committees shall decide whether Kallara B should be opened to make an inventory. The original construction date of the temple is disputed but most historians agree that it was reconstructed and a new idol installed by Anizham Thirunal Marthandavarma, who established the modern Travancore state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-royals-rights-on-sri-padmanabhaswamy-temple/story-wJeARrUuJazpfAmgsEiJxI.html
14-07-2020||India||6 more dead as floods worsen across Assam||Six more people died in rain-related incidents in Assam on Monday even as the flooding submerged 95% of the Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve, an official bulletin said. Flooding has, so far, killed nearly 50 people in the state.According to the daily flood report of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the worsening the flood situation has so far affected over 2.1 million people in 27 of the state’s 33 districts. Over 60,000 people uprooted by floods are taking shelter in 480 relief camps, the bulletin added.On Monday morning, a sub-adult male tiger came out of the Kaziranga park’s Agratoli range and took shelter in a goat shed in Kandolimari village located in the periphery of the world’s largest habitat for one-horned rhinos.“Due to rise of water and to find a safe escape, a sub-adult tiger has entered inside a goat shed in Kandolimari village, Agratoli. Utmost care is being taken to ensure safety of both people and tiger,” P Sivakumar, director of the national park, informed.Meanwhile, floods continue to wreak havoc in North Bihar districts as most of the rivers originating from Himalayan regions of Nepal have been maintaining rising trends. After Bagmati, crossing the highest flood level (HFL) at Belsund in Sheohar, Kosi is also threatening to overtop the extreme water level at Baltara in Khagaria.WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said round the clock vigil was being maintaining by engineers and supporting staff of the department to keep the embankments safe. “All officials and engineers have been put on high alert in view of likely rains in Nepal region,” said the minister.Officials said that Bagmati, which had wreaked havoc in Sitamarhi and Sheohar districts by snapping vehicular traffic on the connecting highway, is rising menacingly at Benibad in Muzaffarpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-more-dead-as-floods-worsen-across-assam/story-1HeAX4GovO8jWdDFOINn7L.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heels||The political face-off between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot persisted on Monday — with the CM mobilising legislators to claim he has a majority, the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) seeking “action” against the rebels, and Pilot and his loyalists dismissing the projected numbers while asking for a change in leadership. Observers sent by the party’s central leadership to Jaipur, while contending that the Rajasthan government was stable, made a public appeal to Pilot, who is also the state unit chief, to return to the fold and attend a second CLP meeting on Tuesday. The invitation was turned down by Pilot late on Monday night. Monday witnessed dramatic political developments in both Jaipur and Delhi as the situation remained fluid due to three factors -- the shifting arithmetic in the assembly; the lack of clarity about steps Congress would take against Pilot and the nature his next move; and uncertainty about the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) plan of action.One key area of contestation on Monday was the arithmetic. In Jaipur, the Congress general secretary in-charge of the state, Avinash Pande, first claimed that the government had the support of 109 legislators in the assembly of 200 (the majority mark is 101). Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2But a meeting of the legislative party, held at the CM’s official residence, saw the presence of 102 MLAs, according to multiple Congress leaders present there. These included 88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs, and one legislator each of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The national leadership of BTP, based in Gujarat, later asked its legislators not to take sides in the battle — but the MLAs have said they will stick to the government. The legislators were then taken to a private resort, Fairmont Jaipur. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the house, out of whom 105 could have attended the meeting in principle (barring the speaker and an ailing minister). This meant that 17 legislators from the party, including Pilot, did not attend the meeting. Out of these 17, three were reported to have joined the legislators who pledged their support to the government, on the way to the hotel. This, along with an additional CPI(M) legislator’s support, appeared to take Gehlot’s count to 106 on Monday. Pilot’s camp, however, dismissed the numbers. Also read: Sachin Pilot-led Congress camp releases video showing 16 MLAs sitting togetherPilot loyalist and Ladnun MLA, Mukesh Bhakar, claimed that over 30 legislators were still with them. He said their only demand was to replace Gehlot with Pilot, who was instrumental in the party’s victory in the 2018 assembly elections. “We will not budge from that demand,” Bhakar said. He added that the CM’s garden isn’t the place to prove the majority.A second leader close to Pilot said: “If they have the numbers, then why are they after Pilot? Why were these legislators not taken to the governor’s house? If they have 109 MLAs, why are only 84 rooms booked in the hotel? And if you have counted them, why are you holding them back? Let them go back to their constituencies. This is false bravado.”A Congress leader, backing Gehlot, said the option of proving legislative majority in other ways was being considered. Political experts, however, saw this as a thin majority in a volatile situation. “It is not over, till it is over,” said Jaipur-based political commentator Prakash Bhandari. “Many of the legislators present in the meeting today have the reputation of jumping ship. So one should not be sure of the numbers until the last word on the crisis is written.” The second area of contestation was the Congress’s mixed approach to Pilot and his defiant stance. The party’s legislative wing in Rajasthan, in a strong resolution, while supporting the Gehlot-led government, recommended strong disciplinary action against any Congress MLA and office-bearer who conspires against the government.“This meeting urges that strict disciplinary action be taken against any office bearer or member of the legislature party who indulge in activities against the Congress government, party or gets involved in any conspiracy,” read the resolution. While the resolution did not mention Pilot, it is being seen as a reference and warning to him. The resolution also blamed the BJP for perpetuating the “political crisis” in the state. The central Congress functionary said the strongly worded resolution is an indication that Gehlot wants tough action against Pilot and his supporters. At the same time, the party also sent out reconciliatory signals. When asked if former party president Rahul Gandhi had been in touch with Pilot, Gandhi’s office responded, “He (Sachin Pilot) is always in his heart. And they speak often and directly. They have great respect and affection for each other.” Other reports suggested that party general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi, too had reached out to Pilot.But a legislator close to the deputy CM insisted that no one spoke to him. “There has been no conversation between Pilot and the Congress high command,” he said.Both on Monday morning and late at night, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and leader Ajay Maken reached out to Pilot. In the morning, ahead of the meeting, Surjewala said: “On behalf of Congress leadership, including Sonia ji and Rahul ji, I convey that doors of Congress party are always open for Sachin ji or any member.”At night, Surjewala said that another CLP meeting was scheduled for Tuesday morning at 10am, and invited all legislators, including Pilot, to attend it. “We in writing have urged deputy CM Sachin Pilot and others to come and discuss the political status-quo and how to strengthen Rajasthan. I am hopeful that all MLAs, CM, deputy CM and ministers will participate.” He added that if there were “some differences with someone”, then they could say that with an open mind. “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are ready to listen to everyone and find a solution.”But Pilot, a person associated with the deputy CM and familiar with his decision said, rejected the invite and will not attend the meeting unless issues raised by him are addressed.He also refuted reports suggesting that a compromise formula is being worked out to iron out the differences, maintaining that they will not agree on anything less than change of guard in the state. He also ruled out the possibility of Pilot joining the BJP. “That is not in his DNA. He cannot join the BJP,” added the legislator quoted above.However, the central Congress functionary cited above insisted that the CLP meeting has been called to give Pilot and his supporters another chance to explain their position.Asked if the party will take any action if he and his supporters again do not attend the CLP meeting, the functionary said, “We will take that call tomorrow. Pilot will then not be in a position to say that he had not been given a chance to be heard.”The third variable in the equation remains the BJP. The party has officially kept a distance from developments in the state. Talking to the media, party leader and Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP), Om Mathur, dubbed the fallout between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy, Sachin Pilot, as an “internal issue” of the Congress. He added that the discomfort between the two was evident from the day of the government taking oath. A second BJP functionary said that this caution was driven by the uncertainty over whether Pilot had the numbers, and the party would prefer to wait and see a clean break in the Congress first.But on Monday, there were Income-Tax raids on three groups assumed to be close to the CM -- this, the Congress alleged, was a part of the BJP “conspiracy” to destabilise the government. The IT department said, in a statement, that it carried search and survey operations and found “incriminating evidence”. The BJP declined that action was connected to the turmoil in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-turmoil-continues-as-gehlot-pilot-dig-in-heels/story-TeOah2xIWISRPfBsFHkJLL.html
14-07-2020||India||Rift internal issue of Congress, tracking developments: BJP||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) maintained that it was only watching the Rajasthan developments and had no role in the intra-Congress crisis, it used the opportunity to criticise the Congress leadership, particularly the Gandhi family.Talking to the media, party leader and Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP), Om Mathur, distanced the BJP from the rumblings in the state and dubbed the fallout between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy, Sachin Pilot, as an “internal issue” of the Congress. He added that the discomfort between the two was evident from the day of the government taking oath. Also read: Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heelsThe BJP has refrained from making any statements to imply its keenness in staking claim to forming government in the state for two reasons, according to a person familiar with the development. For one, the party does not have the required numbers to do so. In the 200-member assembly, it only has 72 MLAs and needs 101 to reach the half-way mark, and is not sure if Sachin Pilot has the numbers — and whether he will indeed make a switch or is negotiating for more space within the Congress. “We are tracking the developments, but there are no plans underway to stake claim to form the government, unless there is a clean break in the Congress unit in the state and the CM falls short of majority,” said a senior party functionary.Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2Second, it is treading cautiously to avoid a repeat of how things unfurled in Uttarakhand in 2016 and in Maharashtra late last year.In 2016, the BJP’s attempts to form a government in Uttarakhand after dislodging the Congress government came undone, when the then Congress CM Harish Rawat not only won the floor test but the courts set aside President’s Rule.In Maharashtra, the BJP failed to sustain its government, formed with the support of Nationalist Congress Party leader Ajit Pawar, when the faction of NCP rebels pulled back at the last minute, and Pawar returned to his home party.This caution, however, did not preclude the party from criticising the Congress and placing the onus on the party to resolve the crisis. Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat took a dig at Rahul Gandhi, the former Congress president, and tweeted, “Those who offered knowledge to the Prime Minister on the India-China stand-off have failed to resolve their dispute today!”Amit Malviya, the IT cell head of the BJP, tweeted that Gehlot should call for a floor test to prove his majority, even though senior party leaders said it was his individual comment and not the party’s position. “..Ashok Gehlot must immediately call for a floor test, prove his majority, save Rajasthan the drama and get on with the business of governance. But if he is herding his MLAs to a resort, then clearly he doesn’t have the numbers and is merely delaying the inevitable,” Malviya had tweeted. Party spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain put out a short video blaming the Congress leadership. He said the fallout was an internal matter of the Congress, but also a direct result of keeping the interest of one family over the interests of the party. “All grassroot youth leaders who are seen as a threat to Rahul Gandhi are being ignored and insulted regularly,” he said in the video.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the BJP needed to introspect about its own behaviour rather than critique the Congress. “The BJP leaders rather than passing remarks at Congress internal affairs should first understand the meaning of “ignoring & insulting’ from LK Advani, MM Joshi, Vasundhara Raje, Keshubhai Patel and then, give lecture on grassroot leaders. The Congress is standing on the basis of strength of all its workers and BJP is standing on basis of strength of investigating agencies. Rather than working on ‘congressisation of BJP’, the top leadership of BJP should give importance to their own flock who feel neglected and ignored due to the BJP’s obsession with poaching the Congress talent pool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rift-internal-issue-of-cong-tracking-developments-bjp/story-TQVDYzGXuKChG5Oa2pO6WK.html
14-07-2020||India||ITC Grand Bharat hotel becomes a playground for political parleys||Tucked away in the foothills of Aravallis, the ITC Grand Bharat is a relatively new hotel that came up next to the company’s iconic golf course designed by American golfing great Jack Nicklaus. It is in Haryana, a few hours from Rajasthan’s capital by road, less than an hour from Delhi, and just aboutd 40 minutes from the international airport in the capital. It is quiet, private, secluded, and the approach is through one road off NH8 (the Delhi-Jaipur expressway) -- all features that have endeared it in recent years to politicians and political parties wanting to safeguard their legislators from others who want to poach them -- or, housing and protecting legislators they have poached from other parties. The area is sparsely populated, and the hotel is surrounded mostly by wasteland or farmland. The local population in this area of Mewat, in villages such as Bar Gujjar, Hassanpur, Naurangpur and Mohammadpur (all in the Tauru block) like to keep to themselves. Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2The hotel is also a popular weekend getaway and corporate off-site destination , but it has largely made the news for political reasons. Haryana is governed by a Bharatiya Janata Party government and Jitender Bhardwaj, a spokesperson for Congress in Haryana and also a local politician from adjoining Sohna claimed that “MLAs from Karnataka, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh” have been housed at the hotel and in other hotels in Gurugram. “Local police and administrative machinery is actively used to protect the rebel MLAs from other parties.” In both Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the BJP came to power after some Congress legislators resigned from their party , bringing down the coalition government in Karnataka in July 2019 and the Congress one in Madhya Pradesh in March.Over the weekend, around 11-12 Congress MLAs from Rajasthan were housed in the hotel as their leader Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot, worked out his political future. Also read: Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heelsA large posse of Haryana police was stationed outside the hotel to prevent the media or anyone else from entering the hotel , although the BJP has said it has nothing to do with the goings-on in Rajasthan. A large group of bouncers was also deployed outside the hotel to discourage reporters from getting close to the property. “This resort is difficult to access for normal people. Outsiders can be spotted immediately as this area has a very thin population,” said Manish Khatana, a youth Congress leader, who forcefully entered the hotel when Congress MLAs from Madhya Pradesh were lodged in the hotel between March 7 to 11. “There was a three-tier security at the main gate so we crossed fields, jumped over the gate and entered the hotel,” he recollects. Also read: Rift internal issue of Cong, tracking developments, says BJPResponding to allegations leveled by Congress leaders regarding use of government machinery to achieve political ends, Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson, Haryana, said that the party was not into resort politics and if the Congress MLAs had come to the city, it was on their own accord. HT tried to reach out and get a response from ITC Hotels through email to senior executive, company website and social media but could not elicit a reply on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itc-grand-bharat-hotel-becomes-a-playground-for-political-parleys/story-KcPhIEEfuTG6eM8bbYCsfI.html
14-07-2020||India||I-T raids trigger fresh political storm in Rajasthan||As the political drama in Rajasthan played out on Monday, following deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s revolt against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the Union government seemed to deal itself a hand in the game with the Income Tax (IT) department and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducting raids on several companies and individuals linked to Gehlot and his associates or the Congress itself.While the finance ministry denied that the raids were politically motivated, people familiar with the matter said everyone raided has links with the CM. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has said it is not involved in the drama playing out in Rajasthan.The I-T department carried out “search and survey operations on three groups” at 20 premises in Jaipur, six in Kota, eight in Delhi and nine in Mumbai, according to the government.One of the groups is involved in business activities such as hotel, hydro power projects, metal and auto sectors. “It is suspected to have invested unaccounted income generated from these activities into real estate,” a government statement said.It added that the second group is engaged in the business of trading of silver/gold jewellery and antique silver articles, and has associate enterprises in other countries. The third group is involved in hotel business, it said.Among those raided were Rajiv Arora of Amrapali Jewels, who is also the vice president of the Congress in the state; the Om Kothari Group, which has interests in engineering, construction, real estate, automotive dealerships, and manufacturing; and Mayank Sharma Enterprises.A tax official said on condition of anonymity that the “department received information of tax evasion worth crores of rupees. At present, a team of 100 officials are carrying out searches at more than 22 locations linked to Dharmendera Singh Rathore and Rajiv Arora.” “Rathore is All India Congress Committee Member and former chairman of Rajasthan Seeds Corporation,” said a Congress functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, ED raided Jaipur’s Fairmont Hotel in the afternoon; Gehlot has housed around 100 MLAs loyal to him at the hotel. “The raids were initiated after it received information about violations of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, rules. It is alleged that Ravikant Sharma received foreign funding worth Rs 96.7 crores from Mauritius,” said an ED official who asked not to be named. People familiar with the matter said the Mumbai-based Mayank Sharma Enterprises owns the hotel and alleged that one of its main investors, Sharma, is associated with Vaibhav Gehlot, son of Ashok Gehlot. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya claimed in 2013 that a Mauritius-based company purchased the shares, having a value of Rs 100, of Trion Hotels and Resorts of Sharma, at an absurd amount of Rs 40,000 each while seeking a probe into the involvement of Vaibhav Gehlot in the affair.The probe, IT officials said, pertains to tax evasion and some benami (proxy) transactions; raids were conducted after examining several documents over a period of time, they added.A finance ministry official said: “Raids are being conducted by the income-tax department’s field formations based on inputs related to tax evasion. Such raids take place only after prolonged investigations and after finding discrepancies in the company or individuals tax returns. So, allegations of politically motivated raids hold no ground. In fact, those indulging in tax evasion often term such raids as motivated to cover up their illegal activities.”The Congress questioned the timing of the raids. “The frontal departments of the BJP – IT and ED -- have come out in the field. When will CBI come?” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.Om Kothari group’s flagship, Om Metals Infraprojects Ltd, the IT officials added, was raided in connection with transactions related to a contract given to it to build a dam in Rajasthan.Interestingly, Om Metals’ joint managing director Sunil Kothari was raided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in November 2017 in connection with the AgustaWestland case.When contacted, a representative at Om Metals’ main office in Pushp Vihar, Saket, said: “IT officials are still here” and added that he isn’t authorised to talk to the media.State BJP president Satish Poonia said it was “mere coincidence that the IT raids took place today. These agencies are independent and an extensive exercise is done before. These things (raids) don’t happen on a whim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-raids-trigger-fresh-political-storm-in-raj/story-pHFKvk3F7QCATNcnA4d0JJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Of 107 Rajasthan Congress MLAs, 88 turn up for key meet amid crisis||Despite claiming majority, the Ashok Gehlot led Congress government in Rajasthan is walking on a tight rope with only 102 legislators, including 14 independents and legislators from smaller parties, attending the meeting at Gehlot’s official residence on Monday, party leaders said.Of the 107 Congress legislators in the 200 member Rajasthan assembly, only 105 could have attended the meeting as minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal is in the hospital and Speaker CP Joshi cannot attend such meetings to maintain neutrality of the position he holds. Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2Several Congress leaders said on condition of anonymity that of the 105, 17 Congress legislators including deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot skipped the meeting. Three independent legislators, who did not attend the meeting, later joined the other legislators at a hotel in Jaipur, taking the number of lawmakers supporting the government to 105.  “It is not over, till it is over,” said Jaipur based political commentator, Prakash Bhandari. “Many of the legislators present in the meeting today have the reputation of jumping ship. So one should not be sure of the numbers until the last word on the crisis is written.” The Congress leaders said that of the 17 legislators who did not attend the meeting, seven are in Delhi and the other 10 are in Rajasthan. Many of them have pledged support to Pilot. When all the action was happening at the CM’s residence in Civil Lines, some overenthusiastic supporters of the Congress pulled down posters of Sachin Pilot from the party office on Sansar Chand Road. However, the posters were later re-installed even as Congress leaders sought to pacify Pilot.Congress leaders who conducted a headcount at the legislators’ meeting, said there were 88 Congress MLAs, including CM Ashok Gehlot. Apart from them, there were 10 Independent MLAs, two Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) legislators, and one MLA each from the CPM and RLD. The total, 102, was seven short of the 109 MLAs whose support Congress general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, claimed in press conference in the early hours of Monday. The number was also reiterated by functionaries at Gehlot’s office during the legislators meeting.Also read: Focus back on young-old divide in CongressIn a related development, the national leadership of BTP based in Gujarat asked its two MLAs to stay neutral in this ongoing political crisis. However, the two legislators later told reporters that they were with the Congress and would speak to party leadership about their stand.The thing going for Gehlot, political experts said, was the fact that tthere weren’t too many MLAs in Delhi with Pilot and all of them were first timers. But, the negative thing was that some of the heavyweights – such as former Speaker Dipendra Singh Shekhawat, former minister Hemaram Choudhary and Ramnarain Meena – were also conspicuous by their absence in the CLP. People close to them said they were not in touch with Pilot.Before the Rajya Sabha elections too, Gehlot housed his legislators in a hotel fearing they could be poached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-107-cong-mlas-88-turn-up-for-key-meet-amid-crisis/story-lraHBqrc2OyeUqBsHUzFOL.html
14-07-2020||India||Odisha Corona Warrior’s body cremated after 3 hrs as neighbours object||The body of a woman working in a Covid-19 quarantine centre could not be cremated for almost three hours in Odisha’s Ganjam district, as the neighbours shunned it over fears of Covid-19 infection, her husband has claimed. K Asanta Patra, a 55-year-old anganwadi supervisor who worked in a quarantine centre in Kankarada village of Sanakhemundi block, had come home on June 28 after she developed symptoms of Covid-19 and was advised home quarantine. On Saturday afternoon, she complained of breathing problems after which her husband Dukhishyam Patra rushed her to a government hospital in Berhampur town. However, she died in on the way to the hospital. Failing to get a hearse van or ambulance to take the body back to the village, Patra brought the body back in an autorickshaw.However, his neighbours put up a stiff resistance asking him to take back the body. “Many of them verbally abused me saying my wife must have died of Corona while others threatened to beat me up for bringing my wife’s body to my home. Seeing the anger of my neighbours, I ran away with the body,” he said. Dukhishyam and his mentally-challenged sister took the body to the cremation ground in the autorickshaw. He left his sister there to arrange for wood and other material needed for cremation. A team of officials soon arrived on the spot and took swab samples from the body after which they were sent to another place for cremation.Though the deceased woman’s test report is yet to come, two of her sisters have tested positive for Covid-19. Her husband, sister-in-law, mother-in-law’s reports are yet to come but they have been admitted in a Covid hospital in Ganjam as precaution.Patra, who runs a grocery shop in Shriramnagar area of Berhampur town, said he was shocked at the way the neighbours behaved. “It’s all very well to hail the Corona warriors like my wife. But in reality, Corona warriors get no dignity,” he said.Refuting the claims of the dead woman’s husband, Ganjam district collector Vijay Kulange later tweeted that the woman’s body was cremated with dignity.In May, lakhs of Odias in and outside the state had sung ‘Bande Utkala Janani’, Odisha’s state song to show gratitude to ‘Covid warriors’ like doctors, nurses and other frontline workers. On Sunday too, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had appreciated them for their work. In Ganjam district, at least 600 Covid Warriors have been infected with the virus of whom about half a dozen have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-corona-warrior-s-body-cremated-after-3-hrs-as-neighbours-object/story-rWcMko0ZCFLKjnrcL2ngDK.html
14-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Focus back on young-old divide in Congress||Not so long ago, one of the back rows of the Lok Sabha used tobe occupied by young and enthusiastic Congress leaders —men like Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada, Sandeep Dikshit and of course, Rahul Gandhi.It was a new-age Congress that brandished youth power alongside its veterans. Cut to 2020: Scindia, 49, has joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with his followers in Madhya Pradesh, Pilot, 42, is feeling sidelined and restive. Deora, 43, stepped down as Mumbai Congress chief, and some other young leaders are missing the political limelight., and some other young leaders are missing the political limelight.Also read: Sachin Pilot hardens stand after setback in Jaipur, preps for Round 2In Madhya Pradesh, Scindia was credited with scripting the victory of the Congress in the 2018 state polls, but for two years, he was not made state president. In March, he ended his association with the party. In Rajasthan, Pilot was credited with the party’s assembly poll victory only for his rivals to start lobbying with some central leaders for a new state Congress chief.On Monday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot called a meeting of MLAs at his house which Pilot skipped. The Congress also rushed two senior leaders in the desert state.In the recent Rajya Sabha elections, a young leader—who did a creditable job as a spokesperson and chaired a key cell of the Congress—was overlooked to accommodate a veteran. In April 2019, Priyanka Chaturvedi, 40, quit the party, upset with the Congress leadership for bringing back leaders who once misbehaved with her. Chaturvedi has joined the Shiv Sena. In Assam, Himanta Biswa Sharma quit the Congress over his differences with Cong veteran Tarun Gogoi.Also read: Rajasthan turmoil continues as Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot dig in heels“There are several instances of veterans not treating young leaders with due respect,” said a party strategist. “In the run-up to the 2014 election, a powerful general secretary—considered close to Rahul Gandhi—earned a reputation of not behaving well with young leaders,” said a party insider who asked not to be named.But a section of the Congress also pointed out how some young leaders have failed to boost the party’s prospects. “Ashok Tanwar was in charge of Haryana; under him, the Congress failed to win any major elections. Similarly, Milind Deora was the Mumbai Congress president but the party lost all seats in the city,” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity. A senior functionary maintained, “Party has promoted young leaders. Pilot became an MP when he was 26, union minister at 34, PCC president at 35 and deputy CM when he was 40 years old.”In the past too, the Congress has seen an exodus of prominent young leaders who were sidelined. Mamata Banerjee left the Congress in 1998 due to a tussle with the party’s old guard and went on to become chief minister of West Bengal. Similarly, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy left the Congress and formed his own party after being sidelined in the Andhra Pradesh Congress following his father YS Rajasekhara Reddy’s death in a helicopter crash in 2009.Also read: Rift internal issue of Cong, tracking developments, says BJPTo be sure, there are members of the old guard who are open to young leaders and workers, who acknowledge their role. “When the Congress organized the first major rally in Delhi in 2015 against the proposed amendments to the UPA {United Progressive Alliance}-era land acquisition act, many young leaders were in the forefront of the show, but it was three-four veterans who provided the resources and manpower to make the show successful,” said a young Congress leader who handles legal affairs for the party ans who asked not to be named. Many party leaders believe that the uncertainty in the central leadership, especially in the aftermath of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has led to factional feuds in the Congress. With Rahul Gandhi resigning as party chief after the Lok Sabha poll debacle, regional leaders tried to enlarge their own political space at the expense of young rivals, maintained two Delhi-based party functionaries, requesting anonymity.“It’s not just a matter of old vs young problem. It’s inability of leaders on what they want. Jyotiraditya was not the first one, and Sachin is not the last one to have issues with senior leadership. I also think that after UPA-2, the party has not been managed well. It looks like they have lost heart for politics,” said political analyst Nilanjan Mukherjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-back-on-young-old-divide-in-congress/story-beEIApVMtJfSo5mn5X9poJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Inflation rises, food prices ease: Data||India’s benchmark inflation measure Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew at 6.1% in the month of June. The June inflation numbers are slightly higher than 5.8% figure for March 2020. The National Statistical Office (NSO) has released full inflation statistics after a gap of two months. Because there is no headline CPI number for the months of April and May, it is difficult to infer whether the lockdown and subsequent unlocking of the economy has led to a rise or crash in prices. To be sure, imputed inflation numbers released for the months of April and May yesterday show that inflation has been declining from May.Yesterday’s data does show some signs of disruption in non-food supply chains due to the lockdown. Core inflation, which is the non-food non-fuel component of CPI, grew at 5% in June, 2020 compared to 3.8% in March 2020.Retail inflation data released by the government after a two-month gap showed prices in June surged to 6.09%, just above the Reserve Bank’s “tolerance limit” of 4% (+/-2%), while food inflation eased to a nine-month low of 7.87%. The most important take away from the June numbers is a continuous deceleration in food prices. Food inflation growth in June was 7.9%, a nine month low. To be sure, different components of the food inflation basket show divergent trends. Perishables show a weakness in prices. Fruit prices went down by 0.7% on a year on year basis. Vegetable price inflation grew at 1.9%, the lowest in fifteen months according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy database.See Chart 1: Food inflation for different groupsThe government’s inflation surveys were disrupted by April and May because of the nationwide lockdown. During the lockdown, officials tasked with monitoring prices collected price data through telephonic surveys at designated markets. This was supplemented by information from personal purchases of field staff, the CSO said in a statement.On Monday, the statistics office also released “imputed” or inferred inflation data for April and May using a methodology recommended in the “Business Continuity Guidelines” of the Inter-Secretariat Working Group on Price Statistics, a global norm. Based on this, consumer prices rose 7.22% in April. They eased to 6.27% in May, according to the imputed index compiled by CSO.“As the various pandemic related restrictions were gradually lifted and non-essential activities started resuming operations, NSO (National Statistics Office) collected prices from 1030 urban markets and 998 villages for commodities that were available and transacted during the month of June, 2020. The data collected, however, did not meet the adequacy criteria for generating robust estimates of CPIs at the State-level,” the Central Statistics Office said in its statement.“Expect inflation to remain elevated in the next months due to excess rains impacting supply of fresh vegetables and fiscal pressure pulling up prices of fuel and intoxicants and higher gold prices,” said Prithviraj Srinivas, chief economist of the Mumbai-based Axis Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inflation-rises-food-prices-ease-data/story-WylCNO1NazRUS2ZlIV1ArJ.html
14-07-2020||India||Lt Col moves Delhi high court against apps ban||A Lieutenant Colonel of the Indian Army on Monday approached the Delhi high court to challenge a move that bans armed forces officials from using social networking platforms such as Facebook and Instagram.The petition, which is likely to be heard on Tuesday, sought the court’s direction to the Director General of Military Intelligence to withdraw the June 6 policy which ordered all members of the army to delete their accounts from Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications.Lieutenant Colonel PK Choudhary, who is currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir, said in the plea that he is an active user of Facebook and uses the platform to connect with his friends and family, as most of them are settled abroad, including his daughter.In the petition, filed through advocates Shivank Pratap Singh and Sanandika Pratap Singh, the officer sought a direction to the central government through the defence ministry to withdraw its June 6 policy to “ensure that the fundamental rights of armed forces personnel are not abrogated amended or modified by arbitrary executive action which is not backed by the mandate of law, offends the provisions of the Army Act and Rules made thereunder and is unconstitutional”.The plea said Choudhary found out through a July 9 news report about the army’s order requiring him and other personnel to delete Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications by July 15.On July 10, he received a letter titled “Policy On Use Of Social Media Platforms And Mobile Phones In IA” issued by the Director General of Military Intelligence, banning the use of 89 applications and websites and directed deletion the accounts, the plea said, adding that as the policy is classified as restricted, he was not reproducing any part of it in the plea.Other than social networking websites, the banned services included dating apps such as Tinder, OkCupid and Couch Surfing. The social media apps that are a no-go area for soldiers include messaging platforms, video-hosting sites, gaming and dating apps, and also some e-commerce options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-col-moves-hc-against-apps-ban/story-oHxx1fO9sc9fVvko0HKRrL.html
14-07-2020||India||Little impact on other religion cases: Experts after Kerala temple verdict||The impact of the Supreme Court judgment in the Padmanabhaswamy temple case on other cases relating to Shebait or religious rights may be limited because the ruling is based on the existence of a 1950 law enacted by the state of Travancore-Cochin, which was the precursor to the Kerala state, legal experts told HT.The Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act (TC Act), more specifically Section 18 (2) of the act, provides that the administration of the Padmanabhaswamy temple and all other properties and funds of the temple be vested with the ruler of Travancore.“The right under Section 18 (2) of the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act, 1950, is specific to the covenants entered in this particular case. The question was whether it extended to the ‘ruler’ alone or his successors as well, for which the high court answered in the negative while the Supreme Court in the affirmative. No proposition of law in rem (applicable in general) was laid down in either of the judgments,” Supreme Court advocate Sriram Parakkat said.“The impact of this judgment would be limited to such cases where there are specific laws providing for religious/ shebait rights,” he added.The repeal of that law from the statute book by the state legislature, however, can lead to the termination of Shebait rights of the royal family. The rights will be operative “as long as appropriate steps are not taken by the concerned legislature”, the court made it clear in paragraph 90 of its judgment.Besides this law, agreement of accession or the covenant signed between the ruler of Travancore and Government of India in 1949 by which Travancore became a part of the Indian union, also provided that the administration of the temple will be vested with the ruler of Travancore.Article 362 of the Constitution stipulated that such covenants and agreements should be given due consideration by the central and state legislatures while making laws. However, Article 362 was repealed in 1971 by Parliament through the 26th Amendment, putting a question mark on whether the rights of the ruler under the covenant would still be valid.The court held that since there is a law, TC Act, specifically backing the Shebait rights, the Shebait rights would continue with the royal family even though Article 362 was repealed.This is because the source for enjoyment of personal rights, privileges and dignities referred to in Article 362 would be in the statutory provisions enacted in terms of the obligation spelt out in Article 362 – in this case the TC Act -- the court said.“The court has held that vested rights under a succession treaty remains preserved if protected under a state law, notwithstanding the 26th Amendment,” Supreme Court advocate Vipin Nair who represented a few devotees before the Supreme Court said.However, advocate V Shyamohan, who represented the royal family, argued that the judgment recognises the centuries-old rights of “Padmanabha Dasa” as the hereditary trustee of the temple and protects the faith and beliefs of millions of devotees.“Every ruler of Travancore is engaged in the service of Sri Padmanabhaswamy, and are known as Padmanabha Dasas. Under Hindu Law, the property stands vested in the idol and not shebait. Shebaitship is inherent in the founder and unless a contrary custom exists, it is a heritable right,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-impact-on-other-religion-cases-experts/story-2efgFKaCZdWbHQRuHOUlEO.html
14-07-2020||India||Royal family welcomes Kerala temple verdict||The erstwhile royal family of Travancore, whose rights on the administration of the ancient Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple in Thiruvananthapuram were upheld by the Supreme Court on Monday, welcomed the verdict, thanking those who stood by them during the nine-year legal battle.The Kerala government made it clear that it has no plan to go in for a review or appeal and it will respect the verdict of the apex court. Devotees of the deity celebrated the ruling by distributing sweets. Because a lockdown is in place in the state capital, they took care to avoid big gatherings outside the temple.“It is not the victory of royal family. It is the victory of people and devotees. Finally, the will of the Lord Padmanabhaswamy prevailed. We dedicate this to the presiding deity,” said Aswathi Tirunal Lakshmi Bayi, a member of the royal family.“It is a landmark judgment which upholds devotees’ rights. Under Article 25 &26, devotees enjoy every right to manage their places of worship. But in some communities, the government holds this power. Let it be a pluralistic and uniform status,” said Rahul Iswar, an activist belonging to the tantri (head priest) family of Sabarimala hill temple. He said the verdict will have its bearing on similar cases relating to faith, including Sabarimala.In 2018, a five-member bench of the Supreme Court had allowed women of all ages to worship at the hill temple which led to a series of violent protests-- women of child-bearing age were barred from entering Sabarimala on grounds that the presiding deity, Lord Ayyappa, was celibate.The Supreme Court had decided on a relook at the verdict and referred it to a larger bench.“The temple and its huge wealth existed because of the royal family. Had it been in the hands of politicians it should have been looted long back,” said a devotee, Saradha M Thampi. “It is a welcome verdict. With this, uncertainty over the custody of the shrine will be over,” said historian M G Sasibushan.Like in Sabarimala, the Congress-led United Democratic Front favoured status quo on the Padmanabhaswamiy temple, but the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI)-led government of Kerala wanted a government-controlled body to manage the temple affairs on the lines of Guruvayur and Travancore Devasom boards where chairmen are appointed by the government, always politicians. Former chief minister V S Achuthanandan had once said that scions of the royal family were in a race to loot the Padmanabhaswamy temple, inviting enough criticism from many quarters. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also lauded the verdict.“It is another slap on face of the government. It should apologize to devotees for trampling on their rights,” said BJP state president K Surendran. “With his verdict we hope the government will respect age-old beliefs and customs of people,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/royal-family-welcomes-kerala-temple-verdict/story-ZLX4pdiZvaFZb2T89qPpZI.html
14-07-2020||India||Complainant against Vikas Dubey goes missing||The man, whose FIR against gangster Vikas Dubey prompted the police to conduct a raid at Bikru village early on July 3, is missing, according to his family members and the police. The raid led to an ambush in which Dubey and his men killed eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra.Rahul Tiwari, besides being a complainant, is a key witness to the case related to events that led to the ambush, the police said.Kanpur’s senior superintendent of police, Dinesh Kumar P, said he also faced a grave threat to his life. A team led by deputy SP (LIU) Sookshm Prakash is searching for him.Also read: UP Police takes custody of slain gangster’s aidesHis mother Suman Devi said Tiwari last spoke to her on the night of July 2. “He sounded scared over the phone; then he disappeared with his wife, children and his sister-in-law. I haven’t heard from him since,” she said.According to the police investigation, Tiwari, who lives in Jadepur Nivada village adjoining Bikru, wanted to dispose of the land belonging to his in-laws at Monica Nivada village, which is also located in the vicinity. His sisters-in-law (wife’s sisters) opposed the proposed sale. One of the them, who lives in Bikru, sought Dubey’s intervention in the matter.Tiwari was threatened and beaten up publicly by Dubey on July 1, according to the police investigation. The next day, he gave a written complaint to Vinay Tiwari, the then station officer at Chaubeypur.Also read: Singhvi moves SC for mechanism to probe encounter killings, custodial deathsAccording to the police, the station officer, instead of lodging a complaint, had asked Tiwari to accompany him and met with Dubey for reconciliation. However, they were both beaten up by the gangster.Following the incident, the FIR was lodged on the intervention of DSP Devendra Mishra, who was the Bilhaur circle officer, on July 2 evening.A few hours later, Mishra assembled a team comprising 25 policemen, including three police station officers, for a raid on Bikru where the gangster and his men ambushed the police team and killed eight of them. Five policemen, a homeguard and a civilian were injured in the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complainant-against-dubey-goes-missing/story-nYELWeW9ca0p3lOgngnhII.html
14-07-2020||India||Glenmark Pharma cuts price of its Covid-19 drug FabiFlu||Drugmaker Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited said on Monday that it had reduced the price of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) drug Favipiravir from Rs103 to Rs75 per tablet, which could reduce the treatment cost of a 14-day regimen to Rs10,200 from Rs14,000. The antiviral oral drug is marketed under the brand name FabiFlu and was launched in the Indian market on June 21.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted FabifFlu approval for Covid-19 treatment under emergency use authorization, which means that since limited data is available on the drug’s performance on cases of the disease, doctors prescribing the drug will have to obtain written informed consent of patients.Also read: Coronavirus pandemic is going to get worse and worse and worse, says WHO chief“The price reduction has been made possible through benefits gained from higher yields and better scale, as both the API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) and formulations are made at Glenmark’s facilities in India, the benefits of which are being passed on to patients in the country,” the company said in a statement.“Glenmark has successfully developed the API and the formulation for FabiFlu® through its own in-house R&D [research and development] team within the country, ensuring self-reliance with regard to long-term production and manufacturing. The API is manufactured at the Gujarat production facility which is USFDA & MHRA–UK approved. The formulation product is manufactured at the facility in Himachal Pradesh, which is also USFDA and MHRA-UK approved.”USFDA is short for the US Food and Drug Administration and MHRA stands for Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Glenmark also announced that it had started a Post Marketing Surveillance (PMS) study on FabiFlu to closely monitor the efficacy and safety of the drug on 1,000 patients who are prescribed it.“We expect this post marketing surveillance study to shed more light on the drug’s clinical effectiveness and safety in a large cohort of patients prescribed FabiFlu. Our priority from the start of this pandemic has been to offer patients in India an effective treatment for COVID-19, while also ensuring accessibility to the masses. Our internal research shows us that we launched FabiFlu in India at the lowest market cost as compared to the cost of Favipiravir in other countries where it is approved. And now we hope that this further price reduction will make it even more accessible for patients across the country,” said Alok Malik, senior vice president and head – India business, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals.FabiFlu in India was originally launched at Rs103/tab. Its price is Rs600 per tablet in Russia, Rs378 in Japan, Rs350 in Bangladesh and Rs215 in China.“Most patients exhibiting mild to moderate symptoms can benefit from FabiFlu use. Glenmark has also completed the phase 3 clinical trial with Favipiravir (FabiFlu) in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients in India. The trial results will be available shortly,” the company said in its statement.Also read: TB vaccine averts severe infections, deaths from Covid-19, says studyGlenmark is also conducting another phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a combination therapy in hospitalised adult Covid-19 patients in India with moderate symptoms of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-pharma-cuts-price-of-its-covid-19-drug-fabiflu/story-fQuRMvJ2TlilXQACQEoAHL.html
14-07-2020||India||Covid-19 drug Itolizumab best used pre-ventilator: Data||Biocon’s anti-psoriasis injection Itolizumab, which was approved to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday works best before a patient is put on ventilator, according to trial data released on Monday.Older patients and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension also recovered well after four weeks of therapy, concluded the open-label, two-arm randomized pivotal trial conducted on 30 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at four hospitals in Delhi and Mumbai. The median age was 51 years for patients on itolizumab and 50 years for those in the control group.Of the 30 patients enrolled for the trial around May, 20 were on itolizumab and 10 were provided best supportive care. All 20 on the itolizumab arm recovered well; and of the 10 patients in the control group, three succumbed to the disease.Hospitals where trials were conducted are KEM and Nair Hospitals in Mumbai, and Lok Nayak and All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi.The drug is being marketed under the name of Alzumab since 2013 for psoriasis, an autoimmune skin disorder. It is not a biosimilar but an original biologic therapy innovated in India for treating moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19. The drug is a monoclonal antibody, in this case, a man-made protein acting like human antibodies in the immune system. “Why we are excited about the trial results is because this pandemic has plunged us into a humanitarian and economic crisis. This drug has a proven safety record through seven years of use. It follows an immuno-modulatory action mechanism that downgrades the cytokine storm (the body’s hyper immune response to a disease). This virus is hyperactivating our immune system that leads to organ damage, and the drug in trials has shown to start slowing down the immune response thus saving lives,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon.“30 may seem like a small number but it the minimum requirement to establish proof of concept that the drug works. We must realise that there’s an emergency situation at hand and there’s no time for conducting large trials, which is a reason why approvals are given under emergency use. But the regulatory approval is very robust,” she added.There are three stages to Covid-19, and experts say itolisumab will have maximum benefits if it is administered in stage II when the lungs start getting affected.“Apart from those on trial the drug has saved about 150 lives in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi,” said Mazumdar-Shaw.Doctors investigating the safety and efficacy of the drug say that some of their other frontline staff that was down with Covid-19 were given the drug as part of off-label use because of the encouraging results.“At least 20 more people took the injection with good results in our hospital. This drug is working well and has benefited almost all patients who took it,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital.A maximum of six doses are required for treating a patient, but most patients do not need more than four. The cost per dosage (vial) is around ₹8,000. “The price may seem on a steeper side but what one doesn’t realise is that this drug will save the patient the cost of a ventilator bed in the ICU. Even if about three days of ICU stay is reduced it will be cost effective in totality,” said Sandeep Athalye, chief medical officer, Biocon.Dr Rosemary D’souza, from Mumbai’s Nair Hospital, which was one of the trial sites confirmed that the drug “ definitely decreases mortality, and also reduces time to recovery.”Biocon is likely to conduct more trials later on a larger sample. “Our US partners are also trying to conduct larger clinical trials based in the US which will take care of US regulatory approvals. Our first priority will be Indian market and later foreign markets. The sale will be done through a closed channel so as to ensure there’s no black-marketing of the drug.,” said Mazumdar-Shaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itolizumab-best-used-pre-ventilator-data/story-ATbODyqjFmjINxbBp3iZeN.html
14-07-2020||India||Babri demolition case: Kalyan Singh blames Congress||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kalyan Singh told a court on Monday that the then Congress-led government at the Centre fabricated charges against him in the Babri Masjid demolition case and that his government at the state provided adequate security to the disputed structure. Singh, who was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the 16th century mosque was demolished by a mob on December 6, 1992, was recording his statement in the special Central Bureau of Investigation court, which is currently recording the statements of 32 people accused in the case. Other accused, including former deputy prime minister L K Advani and senior BJP leader M M Joshi, are yet to be examined at this stage.“As chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, my government and I had made three-tier security arrangements for the disputed Babri structure,” he said. “At regular intervals, officials concerned were also instructed to review security arrangements of the structure (Babri Masjid),” he added. The court is conducting day-to-day hearings to complete the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court.The court also ordered the CBI to file a status report on the whereabouts of Om Prakash Pandey, who belongs to Uttarakhand and is one of the 32 accused in the case. The court had issued a non- bailable warrant against Pandey on July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-kalyan-singh-blames-congress/story-aGa8VNXKjhhyNPC50hZW1I.html
14-07-2020||India||‘Lord Ram born in Nepal’: PM Oli ignites new row with stunning claim on Ayodhya||Stoking a potential controversy, embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli on Monday claimed that the “real” Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal.Condemning Oli for his remarks, BJP national spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri said that the Left parties even in India played with people’s faith, and the Communists in Nepal will be rejected by the masses in the same way they have been here.“Lord Ram is a matter of faith for us, and people will not allow anybody, be it prime minister of Nepal or anyone, to play with this,” he said in New Delhi. Speaking at an event on the birth anniversary of Nepalese poet Bhanubhakta at the Prime Minister’s residence in Kathmandu, Oli said that Nepal “has become a victim of cultural encroachment and its history has been manipulated.” Bhanubhakta was born in 1814 in Tanhu of western Nepal and is credited for translating Valmiki’s Ramayan into Nepali language. He died in 1868.“Although the real Ayodhya lies at Thori in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed the Indian site as the birthplace of Lord Ram,” Oli said.“We also believe that deity Sita got married to Prince Ram of India. Actually, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” he said, adding that the marriage between bride and bridegroom at such a distance was not possible at the time when there was no communication and transportation system.“The place called Thori, near Birgunj is the real Ayodhya, where Lord Ram was born. In India there is great dispute on Ayodhya. But, there is no dispute in our Ayodhya,” Prime Minister Oli was quoted as saying by his press advisor Surya Thapa.“Valmiki Ashram is also in Nepal and the holy place where King Dasharath had executed the rites to get the son is in Ridi, which is in Nepal,” he said.As Dasharath was the ruler of Nepal, it is natural that his son Ram was also born in Nepal, Oli argued. Therefore, real Ayodhya lies in Nepal, he claimed.Many scientific inventions and knowledge originated in Nepal, but unfortunately such a rich tradition could not continue later, Oli said.Prime Minister Oli, under growing pressure to resign amidst a rift in the ruling Nepal Communist Party over his style of functioning, has alleged that some of the ruling party leaders are aligning with the southern neighbour to remove him from power after his government issued a new political map incorporating three Indian territories of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. His allegations have been criticised by senior NCP leaders, including former prime minister ‘Prachanda’, who demanded Prime Minister Oli’s resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were “neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate.” The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.Later, Nepal updated the country’s political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas.India termed as “untenable” the “artificial enlargement” of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-s-ayodhya-in-nepal-pm-oli-makes-a-stunning-claim-to-needle-india/story-Osw6gdQDb8TckQc0a9GhXN.html
14-07-2020||India||Abdullahs move Jammu and Kashmir high court for leaders’ release||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (NC) president and Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah and his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday filed petitions challenging the detention of 16 senior leaders, of the party, many among whom were former ministers and legislators.The habeas corpus petition was filed by the two senior NC leaders in the Jammu and Kashmir high court. They said the detention of NC leaders was “unconstitutional and illegal.”According to NC, party president Farooq Abdullah filed a petition for the release of Ali Mohammad Sager, Abdul Rahim Rather, Nasir Aslam Wani, Aga Sayeed Mehmood, Mohammad Khalil Band, Irfan Shah and Sheemama Firdous.Omar Abdullah challenged the detention of Mohammad Shafi Uri, Aga Ruhullah, Chaudhary Mohammad Ramzan, Mubarak Gul, Basher Veeri, Abdul Majeed Larmi, Bashaarat Bukhari, Saifudin Bhat and Mohammad Shafi. Both the leaders challenged the detentions through their counsel Shariq Reyaz.An NC spokesman said the decision to move to court had been taken to seek relief for party leaders who had been kept under house detention after being shifted from detention centres. ‘Shifting of the detainees from the detention centres to their homes only characterized revolving door detention practice,’’ he spokesman said.‘’The house detentions without any administrative order are unlawful, undermining due respect to human rights and individual liberty,’’ the NC spokesman said, adding that the party hoped the court will come to the rescue of political leaders who had been suffering ever since article 370, which granted special status to J&K, was effectively revoked in August last year. ‘’Most of the leaders are suffering from various ailments.’’The NC leaders were arrested a day before the abrogation of article 370 along with Omar Abdullah and Farooq Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdullahs-move-hc-for-leaders-release/story-8vUPBAyNhOBCAPCqDdtOSM.html
14-07-2020||India||Zero tolerance for ceasefire violations: Army chief to Pakistan||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday reaffirmed India’s “zero tolerance” policy against ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops and attempts by terrorists to infiltrate into Kashmir from across the border. Ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir have increased, and the Indian Army has said it had recorded as many as 2,542 breaches until June 30 this year. On Sunday, Pakistan initiated cross-border firing in the Nowshera sector of Rajouri and Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch.As many as 3,289 violations of a truce deal reached in November 2003 were recorded last year, the highest in 16 years.“The COAS (chief of army staff) reinstated the fact of zero tolerance against the ceasefire violations by Pakistan and infiltration attempts by terrorists,” Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand, the defence ministry spokesperson, said in a statement.“He further highlighted that all agencies of the services and government are working together relentlessly and will continue to do the same to defeat the nefarious design of proxy war being fuelled by our adversaries,” he added.Gen Naravane visited the forward areas along India’s 198 kilometre-long international border with Pakistan to review the security scenario and preparedness of troops deployed in the Jammu-Pathankot region.He interacted with the field formation commanders and troops during his visit. He also visited the forward areas of Gurj Division and was briefed by Major General YP Khanduri, general officer commanding (GOC), Gurj Division.“The Army Chief addressed all ranks of Western Command through video conferencing and lauded the morale of the troops. He expressed complete confidence in Indian Army’s capabilities to thwart any misadventure by the enemies of our country and handle any situation,” the spokesperson said.The army chief arrived in a fixed-wing aircraft at the technical airport in Jammu and then visited the Tiger Division from where he flew in a helicopter to forward areas.The international border in the Jammu region is manned by the Border Security Force (BSF) on the Indian side and Pakistani Rangers on the neighbour’s side.“Though there is no heightened activity across the IB, the army chief had to see the prevailing security scenario and readiness of the troops deployed on the ground in Jammu-Pathankot region,” said Col Anand.The Army Chief was received in Jammu by Lt Gen RP Singh, GOC-in-C Western Command, Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, GOC Rising Star Corps, Maj Gen VB Nair, GOC Tiger Division and Air Commodore AS Pathania, AOC, Air Force Station Jammu .Gen Naravane was briefed by Lt Gen Dwivedi on the operational preparedness, upgrading of security infrastructure and internal security matters.The Army Chief addressed all ranks of Western Command through video conferencing and lauded the morale of the troops. He expressed complete confidence in Indian army’s capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-tolerance-for-ceasefire-violations-army-chief-to-pak/story-wtguyi0d6wwbL8ey3P26uO.html
14-07-2020||India||New ministers in Shivraj Singh Chouhan govt allotted portfolios||Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan allocated portfolios on Monday morning among 28 new ministers, who were inducted in the cabinet on July 2 , and five others inducted earlier, with senior BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia’s imprint being visible in the exercise.The current strength of the Chouhan cabinet is 34, including the CM, while one ministerial berth is still vacant. In the first cabinet expansion exercise carried out on April 21, almost a month after Chouhan assumed office for a fourth term, five ministers were inducted including two Scindia loyalists, Tulsiram Silavat and Govind Singh Rajput. The others inducted were Narottam Mishra, Kamal Patel and Meena Singh.Silavat and Rajput are among six leaders who were ministers in the Congress government that governed the state till March. The others are Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyumn Singh Tomar and Imrati Devi. These ministers resigned from the state assembly along with 16 other MLAs, all loyalists of Scindia, in March in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath and thus, paved way for formation of the BJP government headed by Shviraj Singh Chouhan. Of the 16, 12 got ministerial berths in the July 2 cabinet expansion.Also read: Narottam Mishra is MP home minister, Yashodhara Raje Scindia gets sports. Check full listWhile Silavat retained the water resources portfolio, he was also assigned an additional department, fisheries welfare and development. Similarly, Rajput was allocated transport and revenue, the same portfolios he had in the then Nath cabinet. Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary who has an MBBS degree will be the new health minister of the state. Mahendra Singh Sisodia was minister for Labour in the then Congress government, is now minister for rural development and Panchayi Raj. And Imrati Devi has retained the women and child development department. Narottam Mishra from Gwalior-Chambal region continues to maintain his No. 2 position in the cabinet , with home and also being allocated Jail, Parliamentary affairs and Law and Legislative affairs. His name appears in the list of ministers immediately after the CM. Another BJP heavyweight Gopal Bhargava who is the senior most lawmaker in the state assembly was given PWD and Cottage and village industries. His name appears at No. 3 in the list. BA senior leader in the BJP Jagdish Devda is the new finance minister. Vijay Shah from a tribal royal family in Nimad region is the new forest minister in the government.Reacting to the portfolio allocation state Congress spokesperson Abhay Dubey said, “This was not portfolio allocation but an exercise to distribute lucrative departments among certain top leaders.”Urban administration and development minister Bhupendra Singh said, “There is nothing like a lucrative department in the government. There has been a delay but the chief minister allocated the portfolios having looked into all the aspects. There is no outsider in the cabinet. We are all from the same family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-ministers-in-shivraj-govt-allotted-portfolios/story-zgl13STTgL8XIUV5ukDhbK.html
14-07-2020||India||2 Jaish terrorists killed in Anantnag encounter, one woman injured||Security forces on Monday killed two Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists, one of them a foreigner, in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district.The terrorists were killed after an encounter broke out at Srigufwara village, 60 kms from Srinagar, soon after security forces launched cordon and search operation in the village.“During the search operation as the presence of terrorists got ascertained, they were given opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately on the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,’’ police spokesman said adding that in the indiscriminate firing by militants, one woman received gunshot injuries who was shifted to hospital for treatment where her condition is stated to be stable.‘In the encounter, two terrorists affiliated with proscribed terror outfit JeM were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter. One of the killed terrorists has been identified as Nasir alias Shahbaz alias Baz Bai,a Pakistan resident, ‘A’ category terrorist, while as the identification of the other killed terrorist is being ascertained,’’ the spokesman said.Police spokesman said that on a specific input generated by Anantnag Police about militant presence in Srigufwara a joint cordon and search operation was launched by J&K Police, 3 Rashtriya Rifles and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in the area.On Sunday, three militants were killed in a day-long encounter with security forces in Sopore in the northern district of Baramulla.Meanwhile, forces have arrested four associates of terrorists on Sunday evening during two separate search operations at Chandargeer and Sadhunara areas of Bandipora.Bandipora Police along with 13 Rashtriya Rifles and 45th Battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), acting on a specific input, arrested a terrorist associate during a search operation in Chandargeer. ‘He has been identified as Shafat Ahmad Dar resident of Chandargeer. Incriminating materials including a live grenade has been recovered from his possession,’’ the officials said.Similarly, during another search operation in Sadhunara, security forces arrested three more militant associates identified as Mudasir Ahmad Khawaja, Abdul Qayoom Margo and Ishfaq Ahmad Dar all residents of Sadhunara.‘’Incriminating material, including two live grenades, a AK magazine, 25 live rounds of AK-47 rifle and a UBGL, has been recovered from their possession.’’Officials said all the four associates are actively involved in providing logistic support and shelter to active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Suspected militants also attempted to attack a deployment of central armed forces with grenades at Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama late last evening.“Terrorist attempted an attack on CAPF at 1645 hours today at Chersoo, Awantipora. Suspects moving on a bike threw two grenades on CAPF (who were) deploying without taking out pins. Grenades did not explode. Efforts are on to nab the terrorists,” a spokesperson of the Indian Army said.Officials have said around 134 militants have been killed in Kashmir so far this year with 48 of them in June, the highest monthly toll in recent years. Majority of these militants have been killed in south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-jaish-terrorists-killed-in-anantnag-encounter-one-woman-injured/story-b4J8M5LIixDaSYq9Do09cJ.html
14-07-2020||India||4th round of India-China Lt Gen-level talks today||Senior Indian and Chinese military commanders are set to meet at Chushul in eastern Ladakh on Tuesday to negotiate the next stage of disengagement between the two armies along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with the talks expected to focus on reducing tensions in the Finger Area and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons from friction points, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.This will be the fourth round of talks between the corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the disputed border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.Negotiations are expected to be far harder this time as the continued presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point in the talks, said one of the officials cited above. The meeting is expected to begin at 11.30am.In Tuesday’s talks, the two commanders are expected to discuss the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from friction areas along the LAC and thinning the overall military buildup in the region, said a second official.Also read| HT Editorial: What does China want?This military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while WMCC monitors the process.The July 14 dialogue will be crucial as it will take up the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and the Depsang plains where there is Chinese intrusion across India’s perception of the LAC, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“In both these locations, the Indian side should insist on restoration of status quo ante as anything less than this could leave us with a territorial disadvantage,” Hooda added.The military talks follow a series of steps taken by the two armies at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to implement a complex disengagement plan hammered out at the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.Also read: Forces have ‘full possession’ of all our country’s land, says ITBP chiefThe current disengagement process began after the June 30 military dialogue and a subsequent conversation on July 5 between national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. Even as uncertainty persists in the Finger Area and Depsang plains, the army is monitoring the withdrawal of the PLA from Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra, where 4-km buffer zones have come up.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in the Finger Area, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military buildup in the region.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The creation of buffer zones has temporarily restricted the patrolling activities of both armies in the region. While some experts saw this as a necessary step, others cautioned that the temporary curtailing of patrolling rights should not become a long-term feature undermining Indian presence and control.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The PLA pulled back 2 km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) last week, with the Indian Army withdrawing proportionately in these areas.The army observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area over the last week but it can’t be seen as disengagement, said a third official.The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and hardest part of the disengagement process, as reported by HT last week.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are 8km apart.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4 where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps over the last two months.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4th-round-of-india-china-lt-gen-level-talks-today/story-LMbMtAGmkvHhcWRimCBqNL.html
