15-07-2020||India||Tribal leader Jagdeo Ram Oraon dies, PM Modi expresses grief||Tribal leader and national president of Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram Jagdeo Ram Oraon died in Jashpur district on Wednesday.Oraon was a known leader from Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram, a key affiliate of Rashtriya Swayam Sewak Sangh (RSS) and a resident of Kommado village of Jashpur district. He took charge as the national president of the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram in 1994.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed his grief over the death of Oraon.“Anguished by the passing away of Shri Jagdeoram Oran Ji, President of the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram. His was a life devoted to serving the tribal communities. He was known for his kind and hardworking nature. Om Shanti,” PM tweeted.“The sudden demise of Oraon due to heart attack is a setback for us. He has done tremendous work for the tribals of the country,” said a senior functionary of RSS in Chhattisgarh. Senior leaders of RSS and BJP are likely to attend the last rites of Oraon, expected to take place on Thursday from 12 noon to 1 pm.Ashram is recognised for its work towards bringing the forest dwellers to the mainstream of development. The organisation works among remote tribal villagers and operates in 36 states across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-leader-jagdeo-ram-oraon-dies-pm-modi-expresses-grief/story-1D2999bN2efCKPOHClhtKN.html
15-07-2020||India||Ex-priest, in jail for raping minor, moves HC for nod to marry victim||Thiruvananthapuram: Father Robin Vadakkumchery, a former priest of north Kerala’s Mananthavady diocese, who was sentenced in 2019 for raping and impregnating a minor girl, moved the Kerala high court on Wednesday to allow him to marry the survivor in a petition jointly signed by the woman who is now a major, and her parents.Vadakkumchery, who was sentenced to a double life term by the Thalassery POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court in February last year, said in his petition that he needed parole to solemnise the wedding, and expressed his wish to look after his child and establish his parenthood. The court is expected to take up his plea on July 24.Vadakkumcherry, a priest of the Syro-Malabar church, was convicted of raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl in 2016. The girl gave birth to her child in 2017, and a genetic test confirmed the former vicar’s crime. He was later defrocked by Pope Francis. The girl, who was a student of a church-run institute where 54-year-old Vadakkumchery taught, was declared a hostile witness for claiming that she was 18 at the time of the rape. However, her birth certificate proved her age. Her father too claimed responsibility for the crime during the investigation but eventually broke down and named the accused. The scientific evidence against the priest was irrefutable.During the 2018 trial, Vadakkumchery and the survivor’s parents made a similar suggestion of marriage, which the court rejected it before sentencing him to 20 years of concurrent rigorous imprisonment. The trial court had also directed the police to register a case against parents for retracting their statements. Reformists in the church said it was a ploy by Vadakkumchery to have his sentence commuted. “We are sure the judiciary will see through his designs,” said Shyju Antony, joint convenor of Save Our Sisters, a reformist body floated in the wake of protest against former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal, who is accused of raping a nun.The case surfaced in 2017 after the rape survivor gave birth to a baby in the church-run Christu Raja Hospital in Koothuparambha of Kannur district. Attempts were made to hush the matter up, and the child was even put up for adoption. Investigations also revealed that the priest was protected by several Church-run institutions. However, six other persons, including the doctors who helped deliver the child and the superintendent of a Wayanad orphanage were acquitted for a lack of evidence. Vadakkumchery, who was once tipped to become bishop of Mananthavady was arrested near Kochi airport while trying to flee to Canada.During the trial, the church itself came under criticism as special prayers were conducted in some churches to seek his release on the day the verdict was delivered.When asked about the latest petition, a spokesperson of the Mananthavady Diocese refused to comment stating that Vadakkumchery was no longer a member of the clergy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-priest-in-jail-for-raping-minor-moves-hc-for-nod-to-marry-victim/story-RtAxIRWi4e465Wla5AGW9O.html
15-07-2020||India||Assam floods claim six more lives, death toll climbs to 66||Guwahati: The death toll from floods in Assam went up to 66 on Wednesday as six more people drowned while the situation remained grim in the state, where the deluge has affected over 3.5 million people and submerged around 90% area of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve.The latest deaths were reported from Sonitpur, Barpeta, Golaghat and Morigaon districts. Another 26 have died in the state due to landslides caused by heavy rains since late May.Nearly 4,000 people stranded due to floodwaters were rescued on Wednesday and evacuated to safety. The floods have displaced over 36,000 people across the state’s 19 districts and they have been sheltered in 629 relief camps. “The flood situation seems to have peaked and is expected to improve in the next few days unless there is unexpected heavy rainfall. This is the second wave of floods this season after the first one in May,” said Pankaj Chakravarty, state project coordinator, Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA)Assam witnesses 3-4 waves of floods between May and August each year and almost all parts of the state barring few stretches in the two hills districts of Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao are affected. Over 200 people were killed due to floods last year. The state is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases with 18,666 cases reported till Wednesday. A safety protocol has been prepared by ASDMA to maintain safety and social distancing in the relief camps set up for flood affected and district administrations are following it strictly. Rescue personnel are evacuating stranded people wearing personal protective equipment kits.Till Wednesday, 66 animals at the reserve were reported to have died during the ongoing monsoon season, according to a bulletin issued by reserve authorities. As many as 23 of them have drowned while vehicle hits have killed 12 others. A total of 45 animals (all hog deer) have been injured—44 due to floods and 1 due to vehicle hit. Forest personnel have rescued 117 animals, including a one-year-old female rhino calf, to date, according to the bulletin. “We rescued a one-year-old female rhino calf on Tuesday and on Wednesday a two-year-old tigress which had strayed out of the park’s Bagori range due to floods was tranquillised and rescued after an operation lasting nearly 30 hours,” said the reserve director, P Sivakumar.The reserve is spread over 430 sq km and is the biggest habitat for one-horned rhinos in the world.ASDMA said the affected people live in 3,376 flood-hit villages in 26 of the state’s 33 districts. Floodwaters continued to cause damage to the infrastructure. On Wednesday, three bridges were damaged in Barpeta district and one in Dhubri. Several instances of land erosion were reported from Nalbari, Baksa, Bongaigaon, and Kokrajhar districts.Water levels in most Assam rivers continued to rise, according to a Central Water Commission bulletin.The Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, and Kushiyara rivers were flowing over the danger mark at several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-floods-claim-six-more-lives-death-toll-climbs-to-66/story-iUHWucDsue40bAKimG7ZcI.html
15-07-2020||India||Only God can save us from Covid-19: K’taka health minister||BengaluruKarnataka health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday said that “only God has to save us from Corona”, even as the state edged past Gujarat to report the fourth-highest number of coronavirus disease cases in the country. Addressing reporters in Chitradurga, the minister said, “Worldwide the number of Corona cases is increasing. All of us should be alert. Whether you are ruling or in opposition, rich or poor, the virus doesn’t discriminate. Cases - I am sure one hundred percent - will only go up in the next two months. One can keep claiming government negligence or irresponsibility of ministers or that cases are going up because of a lack of coordination among ministers. All of these allegations made are far from the truth. Only God can save us from Corona.”On Wednesday, the state recorded its biggest single day spike of over 3000 cases. As many as 3176 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the state tally to 47,253. Of these, 18,466 have been discharged from the hospitals after recovery, and 928 deaths. Bangalore continued to account for the bulk of new cases, with 1975 fresh infections on Wednesday. The city currently has 17051 active Covid-19 cases. Bengaluru is under a week-long lockdown till July 22. Meanwhile, Karnataka medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar announced that a Rs 5000 incentive would be provided to plasma donors in the state. Plasma therapy is seen as one of the more promising cures for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-god-can-save-us-from-covid-19-k-taka-health-minister/story-jacQjyqvq0NW3NPUZAIdtJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Over 1,300 infections, 99 deaths among doctors so far: IMA data||MEERUTAs many as 99 doctors have died and 1,302 have been infected with the Sars-Cov-2, the pathogen that causes the coronavirus disease, across the country, the National Covid Registry released by the Indian Medical Association on Wednesday revealed. The case fatality rate (CFR) among doctors is 7.6%, an analysis of the data reveals, which is much higher than the national average of about 2.5%. Of the 99, about 73 doctors were above the age of 50. The voluntary organisation of doctors with chapters across India said that the data showed both young and old doctors were equally infected, but the mortality was higher among the old. “While this is on expected lines there is scope for lessening deaths across the age spectrum. Covid death amongst doctors is of great concern,” said Dr Ranjan Sharma, national president of IMA.Citing the data, Indian Medical Association (IMA) declared a red alert for doctors and medical administration. A letter signed by Dr Sharma and Honorary Secretary General Dr R V Asokan said that best practices must be followed to reduce fatalities among doctors. “Working hours to be tempered by concerns of safety. Providing PPE, triaging, physical distancing and sanitisers should be monitored. Operation theatres, labour rooms, laboratories and casualty require special care. ICU and critical care units deserve close scrutiny for adherence to best practices and protocols,” the letter suggested.Any gap in providing safety of doctors, nurses and staff needs to be closed, the organisation said. A feedback system from doctors, employees and public must be put in place, it added.The letter also called for meticulous adherence to cleaning and sanitizing protocols in healthcare facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-300-infections-99-deaths-among-doctors-so-far-ima-data/story-VTgYshrFibZnajIcQrvPEN.html
15-07-2020||India||Visakha Solvents’ explosion was result of negligence by chemists on shift, rules expert panel||The explosion of a solvent recovery reactor in Visakha Solvents Limited at Parawada on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam on Monday night was due to negligence in rectifying a technical snag on time by the chemists on duty, a five-member inquiry committee reported on Wednesday.A 44-year old chemist Kandregula Srinivasa Rao was charred to death and another chemist T Malleshwar Rao (34) sustained severe burn injuries while three others escaped with minor injuries in the explosion of the reactor in the chemical plant.The committee led by a senior engineer from Visakhapatnam Steel Plant J S S Reddy conducted an inquiry into the accident and submitted its preliminary report to Visakhapatnam district collector Vinay Chand.According to the report, the accident occurred on the first floor of the solvent recovery plant in Reactor No. 102, under the process of distillation of Dimethyl Sulfoxide (DMSO), which was supplied by Hyderabad-based company Pratik industries.During the distillation, steam was being supplied into the reactor tank. At about 9 pm during shift change, it was observed that the intensity of vacuum in the tank had gone up and Malleswara Rao had cut off the steam supply to reactor and gone to the second floor to check the vacuum pumps.Also Read: Andhra Pradesh to reorganise its 13 districts into 25 for optimal use of resourcesWhen he came down to the first floor, he found smoke coming out from the shaft seal of agitator of reactor 102. He immediately alerted Srinivasa Rao asking him to run out of the block, but by that time, the reactor had exploded, the report said.While Malleshwar Rao sustained burn injuries on the body, Srinivasa Rao was found dead at the incident spot the next morning.The committee observed that the chemists on shift had failed to maintain the required vacuum pressure in the reactor. “With the increase in intensity of vacuum the boiling point of the above chemical mixture obviously decreased and it reached the flash point resulting in explosion,” the committee said.Minister for industries Mekapati Gautam Reddy said the company management had agreed to extend ex gratia of Rs 35 lakh to the family of the deceased chemist Srinivasa Rao, while the state government would release another Rs 15 lakh from the chief minister’s relief fund.“Similarly, an amount of Rs 20 lakh would be paid to the family of Malleshwar Rao who sustained burn injuries,” he said.Main opposition Telugu Desam Party on Wednesday demanded that the state government should pay ex gratia of Rs 1 crore to the family of the deceased chemist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visakha-solvents-explosion-was-result-of-negligence-by-chemists-on-shift-rules-expert-panel/story-PowwvHbNqbH62XKIVjTyrL.html
15-07-2020||India||Post-Brexit trade with India to focus on 5 sectors||Information and communications technology (ICT) and services are among five sectors identified as key areas for closer cooperation in trade arrangements after the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union is completed on December 31.The Boris Johnson government has been keen on a free trade agreement with India. Formal talks on such a pact can only begin after December 31, but some talks on exploring ‘building blocks’ have begun. Other sectors identified are food and drink, life sciences and chemicals to address non-tariff barriers to trade.Official sources here said the 14th Joint Economic and Trade Committee (Jetco) – the annual mechanism for government-to-government negotiations – is scheduled for July 24 between Commerce minister Piyush Goyal and International trade secretary Elizabeth Truss virtually.Minister of state for Commerce Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday held a virtual bilateral meeting with Ranil Jayawardena, the UK’s minister for International Trade, to discuss market access and other bilateral trade issues as a prelude to the Jetco meeting.British ministers have emphasised to Indian interlocutors that the country would not become protectionist, but more open after leaving the EU. The Brexit process is currently in the one-year transition phase that ends on December 31, when the UK’s exit will be complete.The UK’s eagerness for an FTA with India has been met with a wait-and-watch approach in New Delhi, where a review of FTAs with various countries is envisaged by Goyal to protect the interests of Indian industry and traders.In the long-stalled EU-India free trade talks, easier mobility of Indian professionals (the so-called Mode 4) is one of the key areas New Delhi has been insisting on. Brussels believes that there will be better chances of reaching the agreement with India after Britain leaves the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-brexit-trade-with-india-to-focus-on-5-sectors/story-ljexiVDTCpopXL0aS173OL.html
15-07-2020||India||Former Kerala priest, a rape convict moves court to marry survivor||Robin Vadakkumchery, a former Christian priest in north Kerala who is serving a life term for raping and impregnating a minor girl, moved the Kerala High Court on Wednesday with a plea to allow him to marry the survivor who is a major now.Surprisingly, the survivor and her parents also signed the petition and moved it jointly with the convict. In the petition, Vadakkumchery (54) said he will have to look after his child and establish his parenthood and needs parole to solemnize his marriage. The High Court is expected to take up his plea on July 24.During the trial in 2018 he and the survivor’s parents also came out with the same suggestion but the court rejected it and sentenced him to 20 years rigorous of imprisonment. The trial court had also directed the police to register a case against parents for retracting their earlier statements. A year after his conviction, in February 2019 he was defrocked by Pope Francis.Reformists in the church said the marriage proposal was another ploy by Vadakkumchery to get his sentence commuted. “We are sure the judiciary will see through his designs,” said Shyju Antony, joint convener of Save Our Sisters, a reformist body floated in the wake of protests against former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mullakal for alleged rape.Vadakkumchery was also sentenced to imprisonment for impregnating the survivor who was then 17 years old. The case in Mananthavady diocese surfaced in early 2017 after the rape survivor, a higher secondary student, gave birth to a baby in the church-run Christu Raja Hospital in Koothuparambha of Kannur district. She was a student of a school run by the church. it is one of the many educational institutions that Vadakkumchery managed. Vadakkumchery tried to cover up his crime. Initially, the survivor’s father owned up the crime of raping his daughter and was arrested. However, police found discrepancies in his statements and during sustained interrogation he broke down and named Vadakkumchery as the culprit. He said he was forced by church authorities to own up a crime he did not commit. Vadakkumchery, who was once tipped to become Mananthawady Bishop, was arrested near Kochi airport while trying to flee to Canada.The trial which began in 2018 in the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court in Thalassery in north Kerala saw many twists and turns. The survivor, who had crossed 18 then, had told the court that she had consensual sex and they should be allowed to live together. Later, her parents and many other witnesses also turned hostile.In February 2019 Vadakkumchery was sentenced to a total of 60 years of rigorous imprisonment and slapped Rs 3 lakh fine under various offences. Since the sentences are running concurrently he has to spend 20 years in jail. When asked about Vadakkumchery latest move a spokesman of the Mananthawady Diocese refused any comment saying he was no longer a member of the clergy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-priest-a-rape-convict-moves-court-to-marry-survivor/story-3yl9Jo9LwRwhNv7CQzM5wL.html
15-07-2020||India||Dubai hospital waives Rs 1.52 crore bill of Telangana Covid-19 patient, volunteers help him return to Hyderabad||A hospital in Dubai waived the bill of Rs 1.52 crore in Indian currency of a Covid-19 patient from Telangana on humanitarian grounds and discharged him from hospital after 80 days of treatment without charging him a penny.According to E Chitti Babu, senior official of the NRI cell in the Telangana government, 42-year old Odnala Rajesh, a native of Venugumatla village in Gollapalli mandal of Jagitial district, landed in Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad in the early hours of Wednesday.“We, along with his family members received him in the airport. We granted him permission to a 14-day home quarantine and sent him to his native village,” Chitti Babu told HT.Rajesh’s wife Laxmi is a washerwoman by profession and also works as an agriculture labourer on daily wages. His daughter Mounika (18) is a student of B. Com student and his son Madhu (16) is studying in Class 12 (Intermediate).Rajesh who had been to Dubai as a construction worker a couple of years ago, was admitted to Dubai Hospital in Dubai on April 23 with fever and cough and he tested positive later. After 80 days of treatment, he recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged on Monday.“The hospital authorities handed over a bill of 7,62,555 Dirhams (Rs 1.52 crore) to Rajesh, but he had no money to pay the amount. A local Telugu NRI Gundelli Narasimha came to the rescue of Rajesh,” Chitti Babu said.Narasimha, president of the Gulf Workers Protection Society in Dubai who had been monitoring Rajesh’s health right from the beginning brought the matter to the attention of Sumanth Reddy, a volunteer in Indian Consulate in Dubai.Reddy, along with another social worker Ashok Kotecha of BAPS Swaminarayan Trust, requested Harjeet Singh, Consul (Labour) of Indian Consulate in Dubai to help the poor worker. Singh wrote a letter to Dubai Hospital management asking them to waive the bill on humanitarian grounds and they responded positively and waived the bill and discharged the patient.Kotecha provided free flight tickets to Rajesh and his escort Dyavara Kankaiah and paid Rs 10,000 for pocket expenses. “Both of them reached Hyderabad in the early hours of Wednesday,” Chitti Babu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-hospital-waives-rs-1-52-crore-bill-of-telangana-covid-19-patient-volunteers-help-him-return-to-hyderabad/story-LQDlmBXT6Omt3IDubqssWO.html
15-07-2020||India||MP: Six including 2 minors killed in clash; villagers lynch one of accused||As many as six persons including two minors from a family were killed and six were injured by two brothers on Wednesday in a village in Mandala district of Madhya Pradesh. One accused was arrested after a police team fired at him which hit one of his legs when he allegedly attacked the police team which was trying to arrest him. The other accused was lynched by enraged villagers while they were hiding in a house after committing the crime.As per the preliminary investigation by police, a dispute over ancestral land was said to be the reason behind the attack. An investigation in the case was going on.The incident took place at Maneri village, 63 kilometres away Mandla district headquarters. The accused Harish Soni, 36, and Santosh Soni, 34, both are residents of Maneri village. The accused first attacked their cousins Rajendra Soni, who is a BJP worker, and Vinod Soni’s families mercilessly with swords and later attacked other relatives and villagers.The accused, who was in an intoxicated state, threw chilli powder in the eyes of the victims before attacking them with swords, said V Rao, inspector general of police (IGP), Balaghat.Police arrested Harish Soni while Santosh Soni was beaten to death by villagers, Rao also said.The deceased include Rajendra Soni, 47, his daughter Priyanka Soni, 25, his brother Vinod Soni, 45; Vinod Soni’s five-year-old son Om and his three-year-old daughter Shreyansh Soni and also their relative Dinesh Soni, 49. The injured include Rajendra’s son Nitin Soni, Vinod’s wife Rinki Soni and villagers Sunil Tiwari, Shanu Tiwari, Jhanki Lal Chakraborty and Dukhiya. All the injured have been referred to Jabalpur medical college. Condition of two of the injured was stated to be serious, said police. Rao said, “Harish and Santosh barged into the house of Rajendra Soni in Maneri village at around 12.30 PM and attacked him with a sword after throwing chilli powder in his eyes. Rajendra’s daughter Priyanka and son Nitin tried to save their father but Harish hit them with the sword. A relative Dinesh Soni, villager Sunil and Shanu Tiwari tried to stop them but they hit them too and later entered the house of Rajendra’s brother Vinod, which is located in the neighbourhood, and attacked Vinod, his wife Rinki and two sons, Om and Shreyansh.”“Later, villagers gathered in large number and overpowered them. The villagers caught Santosh while Harish locked himself in a house of one of the villagers, Jhanki Lal Chakraborty by attacking him and his wife. Police personnel of Bijadandi police station in Mandala district arrested him from Jhanki Lal’s home after shooting at him at his legs as he attacked them,” said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-six-including-2-minors-killed-in-clash-villagers-lynch-one-of-accused/story-pfn51iH2Vr6zmTUj1aLLvK.html
15-07-2020||India||99 doctors have died fighting Covid 19, IMA sounds ‘Red Alert’||Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday issued a ‘red alert’ for medicos and medical administrators involved in coronavirus containment efforts and asked them to raise their guard while announcing that a total of 99 doctors have succumbed to Covid 19 so far.According to IMA National COVID registry data, 1,302 doctors have contracted the disease so far including the 99, who eventually fell to the disease. 73 of the deceased doctors were above the age of 50 years, while 19 were in the age-group of 35-50 and the remaining seven were below 35 years, as per the registry data cited by PTI.“IMA declares RED ALERT to doctors and medical administrators to raise their guard. If COVID-19 mortality has to be lessened, it has to start with doctors and hospitals,” the doctors’ body said in a statement on Wednesday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMajority of the casualties among the doctors are among the general practitioners. The IMA appealed to the leadership of doctors to adopt all scientific best practices to reduce the spectre of death hanging over the heads of medical professionals engaged in saving the lives of hundreds of thousands infected by the disease.This requires intense review and updating of all administrative set ups in the hospitals, including infection control protocols. Any gap in providing for the safety of doctors, nurses and staff have to be plugged, it said in the statement.IMA also stressed on the need to put in place a feedback system from the doctors, employees and public apart from a meticulous adherence to cleaning and sanitising protocols inside treatment facilities.“Analysis of data shows that while senior and young doctors are equally infected with COVID-19, mortality is higher among elders. While this is on expected lines, there is scope for lessening deaths across the age spectrum. Meticulous adherence to norms and discipline inside hospitals will have a salutary effect,” the statement said.National President of IMA Dr Rajan Sharma said that while the medical profession remains the beacon of hope for the nation in its fight against the pandemic, COVID-19 death among doctors has become a matter of great concern.“IMA strongly advocates the leadership of doctors in adopting all scientific best practices. Doctors need to take charge of the situation and ensure the safety of themselves, their families, their colleagues and staff,” said Sharma.He added that senior doctors in decision making positions have enhanced responsibility of taking care of their flock.Among other measures, the medical body advised implementing a friendly and scientific batch posting method along with tempering the number of working hours guided by concerns of safety. It added that operation theaters, labour rooms, laboratories and casualties require special care and ICUs and Critical Care units needed close scrutiny for adherence to best practices and protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/99-doctors-have-died-fighting-covid-19-ima-sounds-red-alert/story-biwJIkaUVfRPejhJYEj8DK.html
15-07-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s brother-in-law appointed state MP Congress vice-president||Madhya Pradesh Congress unit president Kamal Nath nominated chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s brother-in-law Sanjay Singh Masani as the vice-president of the grand old party’s state unit on Wednesday, party functionaries said.But there was confusion over Masani’s role in the party after he initially claimed that he would also act as a coordinator for the publicity campaign for all the 25 assembly constituencies in the state where bye elections are to be held.However, Kamal Nath’s office denied that Masani was given any responsibility other than that of the party’s state unit vice-president.Masani who originally belongs to Gondia in Maharashtra joined the Congress from the BJP ahead of 2018 assembly elections. He contested the assembly elections from Wareseoni assembly constituency in Balaghat district, the neighbouring district of Gondia, unsuccessfully while securing the third position with 7.59% of polled votes.Outside politics, he has also dabbled in films and has done cameos. One of those roles was in the 2018 Bollywood movie Padman.“The state Congress president told me over the phone that I have to take care of the responsibility of the bypolls. After assuming office I will have meetings with leaders in charge of all the constituencies and then other leaders up to the block level before going ahead with my work,” Masani said.He described his relationship with chief minister Chouhan as one made by God but said that was not a hurdle to working as a Congressman.“There is no denying the fact that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan happens to be my brother-in-law. This relationship was made by God and it will remain forever but as a Congressman I will do my best to ensure the party’s victory on all the 25 seats. For us, various decisions and its implementation by the then Kamal Nath government during its 15-month rule for farmers, youth, women and other sections of society will be the main issue and also how the government was toppled by the BJP under a conspiracy,” he said.Kamal Nath’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Sanjay Singh Masani has been appointed as the vice-president of the state unit of the party. He has not been given any other responsibility in the party so far.”BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai dismissed Masani’s appointment as immaterial.“Appointment of any individual in the Congress on any post is its internal matter but it will hardly have any effect on the BJP’s prospects in the bypolls. Of course, the state Congress will try a lot of permutations and combinations till the elections as the Congress leaders know the results of the bypolls and the party’s imminent defeat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-brother-in-law-appointed-state-mp-congress-vice-president/story-HuD14qgxFOPapojvjNun8N.html
15-07-2020||India||Opposition to India’s biggest hydrocarbon complex in Odisha brews||A Rs 78,225 crore project which involves setting up a mega hydrocarbon complex in coastal Odisha district of Balasore and likely to give employment to about 10,000 youths is facing public opposition over land acquisition.The hydrocarbon complex near the proposed port at Subarnarekha river in Balasore to be developed by Haldia Petrochemicals Limited and it would comprise a 1.08 million tonnes per annum of polyethylene plant, a 1.6 million tonnes of paraxylene per annum and 1.25 million tonnes of purified purified terepthalic acid per annum. The first phase of the project involving an amount of Rs 28,700 crore was sanctioned by the state last year. Kolkata-based HPL had promised to rope in a global oil and petrochemicals company as a strategic partner to provide the feedstock supply. Odisha industry department officials described it as the biggest domestic investment project in the country.However, the project seems to have hit a roadblock with people in Baliapal block, the project site, now opposing land acquisition. On June 9 and June 12, the local administration tried to conduct a public hearing over the project at Aladiha and Jambhirai villages respectively but met with strong public resistance over govt move to remove encroachers of government land.Of the 3,520 acres of land needed for the project, 2,979 acres of land belongs to the government while the rest are private. However, hundreds of people in 6 grampanchayats of Baliapal block of Balasore are doing farming and have set up betel vines over government land. In Jambhirai grampanchayat, one of the project-affected grampanchayat, people are up against the project, saying it would snatch their livelihood.Kartik Nayak, sarpanch of Jambhirai grampanchayat said people would not allow their land to be used for any industrial purpose as it is a highly fertile land. “Our people have been eking out a livelihood for decades. Many villagers don’t have any land which they can call their own and are tilling government land. They are unlikely to find employment in the industrial project due to low literacy level. We are going to oppose this,” said Nayak.Nayak said a couple of days ago, hundreds of women in the affected grampanchayat of Jambhirai had blown conch to show their opposition to the project.Arun Jena, who is leading the protest under the banner of Upakula Bhitamati Suraksha Committee, said people in the affected grampanchayats make at least Rs 7 lakh a year by cultivating paddy, groundnut and betel. “In the name of an industrial project, the government is out to make paupers out of farmers. The government should not forget that people here in the 90s had opposed DRDO’s plan of establishing its missile test range. The hydrocarbon project would meet the same fate,” said Jena.Sambit Kumar Nayak, additional district magistrate of Balasore admitted that the opposition to the project was growing, but added that efforts are on to persuade the villagers. “We are trying to reach out to the people in batches to make them understand about the all-round development that the project would bring to the region. Odisha should not miss out on such a project,” said Nayak.Haldia Petrochemical Limited officials refused to comment on the developments.Meanwhile, business leaders of Odisha said contrary to what some people are trying to portray, the opposition is not widespread. “Some people who have made a career out of opposing any big-ticket project are inciting people against it. The kind of development the project would bring is unimaginable and may change the face of Balasore for all time to come. The government should give a good rehabilitation package to villagers and ensure that land is acquired at the quickest,” said Amit Behera of North Odisha Chamber of Commerce and Industry.Another business leader said the opposition to the project may have been fuelled by popular mistrust over lack of progress in the proposed port project at Chumukh over Subarnarekha river in Baliapal block at a cost of Rs 5,000 crore. Though the foundation stone for the port project was laid over a year and a half ago, no work has started yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/opposition-to-india-s-biggest-hydrocarbon-complex-in-odisha-brews/story-rwLZMLNFu93xUYJw1JrjvN.html
15-07-2020||India||Soon, a virtual tour of 60 ancient Kashi temples hidden for a long time||A virtual museum-cum-web repository of 60 ancient temples and sculptures found among the buildings acquired for the development of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, will be created to preserve and showcase the history and art of these structures and artefacts. On account of their historical importance and magnificent architecture, these ancient temples will also be renovated and preserved.An initiative by the Kashi Vishwanath Temple administration, the museum will be set up with the help of the department of history of Arts, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and the National Museum of Archives. An ambitious project backed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is being constructed in around 5 lakh square feet area. To meet the requirement of land for the corridor, around 300 buildings, including houses, were acquired and demolished. This led to the discovery of about 60 temples and several sculptures in the area. Some of the temples were among the buildings, while others were inside the houses.PM Modi reviews plan to enhance Kedarnath’s divinity, make 16-km trek comfortableGaurang Rathi, chief executive of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple, said, “Architecture of about a dozen of these temples is amazing and carving on stones is magnificent and very special. In addition, 30 (out of 60) of these temples are mentioned in Kashi Khand (section) of the Skanda Puran. So it is very important to renovate and preserve these temples in Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham area. We are going to do the preservation with the help of BHU and the National Museum of Archives.”The temple administration has also started working on a project to create a virtual museum of the ancient temples. It will showcase the history and the art of the ancient temples along with the style of architecture used in these ancient temples.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said, “A joint team of BHU and National Museum of Archives will together collect information about the temples, like how old they are, which style of architecture was used in their construction and which ruler built them.”He added that each temple’s high resolution picture with 3- D effect, along with information, would be available in the virtual museum which would also showcase the scenic view of river Ganga and Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The virtual museum will be made available on the Kashi Vishwanath Temple for a virtual tour, which will recreate temples’ actual physical locations on the corridor premises.The first part of the museum is likely to be ready by September end.Prof Pradosh Mishra, head of the department of history of Arts, BHU, said, “The project intends to bring out the temples unearthed from the complex and promote research. The web repository will help to reconstruct the history of the site as well as safeguard the cultural heritage of Varanasi.”“All the temples unearthed are of historical importance,” Prof Mishra said and added that the work on the web repository project had already begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-a-virtual-tour-of-60-ancient-kashi-temples-hidden-for-a-long-time/story-HM6xs4DR6LFhadLB7VIFvM.html
15-07-2020||India||Now, BJP accused of ‘luring’ Jharkhand MLAs, saffron party says govt hiding failures||Rameshwar Oraon, Jharkhand Congress president and the finance minister in the incumbent coalition government led by chief minister Hemant Soren, has alleged that the BJP is trying to topple the state government by luring some of its legislators but it would not succeed. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Oraon claimed that the saffron party tried to entice a few Congress MLAs during the recently-held Rajya Sabha elections in a bid to form a BJP government, following the example of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. “The BJP has been regularly violating the democratic values. The BJP crossed all limits in Madhya Pradesh and everyone saw how they formed a government there. While there is a provision for appointing non-elected members as ministers as an exception, they have made dozen such appointments. The BJP tried to topple the government in Rajasthan as well by using one person, but has failed,” said Oraon. He tried to draw a parallel by claiming Congress MLAs were offered money and posts during the RS elections to jump ship.“They tried to topple the government by offering money and post to our MLAs during the Rajya Sabha elections. But the legislators of our party and alliance parties are intact. The BJP will never succeed in Jharkhand as our legislators got elected after fighting the BJP on the street for the people,” he added. The coalition government currently has a comfortable majority in the 81-member Jharkhand assembly. Two seats in the assembly are vacant as chief minister Hemant Soren vacated Dumka seat while retaining Barhait after the assembly polls in December last. The Bermo assembly seat fell vacant after senior Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May. While the JMM has 29 legislators in the current assembly, the BJP has 26 members including former chief minister Babulal Marandi, who merged his party, JVM (P), with the saffron party after the assembly polls. The Congress currently has 17 representatives in the legislature, including two members of JVM (P) who joined the party after a spilt in the party. The RJD is the third partner in the alliance with a single legislator in the House. Requiring 27 first preference votes, both JMM and BJP managed to send one party candidate each to Rajya Sabha in the RS election held for two seats in June by bagging 30 and 31 votes, respectively. The Congress candidate could however, secure only 18 votes. Reacting to the allegations, Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash said Oraon’s statement was an attempt to divert attention from the failures of the state government in handling the Corona crisis. “His statement is objectionable. He should instead put their house in order. They do not trust their own legislators and he is trying to be in the news by making such allegations. The truth is that it’s an attempt to divert attention of people from the failure of the Hemant Soren government in handling the Corona crisis,” Prakash said. The senior partner in the ruling alliance, the JMM said while the BJP might try such tricks, it won’t succeed in Jharkhand. “BJP will try to destabilise the Hemant Soren government but it wouldn’t succeed. JMM is a solid wall and it would not collapse,” said JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-bjp-accused-of-luring-jharkhand-mlas-saffron-party-says-govt-hiding-failures/story-vylgF3YmKrRMoCbIypyLDJ.html
15-07-2020||India||TMC leader injured in shooting in BJP stronghold in Bengal, parties trade charges||A local Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader in the Kankinara industrial area of Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district survived an assassination bid after he was shot in the head by two motorcycle-borne men on Wednesday morning, police said.The incident took place in a busy area outside a factory where Dharmendra Singh was waiting for some of his associates. He was rushed to the local Bhatpara state general hospital and later shifted to a private hospital in Kolkata.Since Kankinara, which is part of the Bhatpara assembly constituency, is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stronghold, the ruling party accused the BJP of carrying out the attack.Arjun Singh, a former four-time TMC legislator from Bhatpara and former chairman of the local civic body, joined BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and defeated TMC’s two-time MP Dinesh Trivedi from Barrackpore, the Lok Sabha seat under which Bhatpara falls. There have been several clashes in different parts of the constituency, including Bhatpara, during and after the election. Singh’s son is a legislator from Bhatpara.The area has a sizeable Hindi-speaking population comprising jute mill and factory workers hailing mostly from Bihar.“Arjun Singh has established a reign of terror. He has brought shooters from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to carry out attacks on our men. Dharmendra Singh is an active local leader,” said TMC’s district unit president and food minister Jyotipriyo Mullick.“It is BJP that is coming under attack every day. These are baseless allegations. The attack is a fallout of the TMC’s interval dispute over collection of protection money from local factory owners,” said Arjun Singh.Officers from Barrackpore police district rushed to the spot and started an investigation. “We are trying to get a description of the motorcycle and the two riders from local people,” said an officer who spoke on condition of anonymity.In June last year, Arjun Singh sustained head injury when the police resorted to baton charge to stop a clash between his followers and TMC workers in the Jagaddal area of North 24 Parganas district over control of party offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-injured-in-shooting-in-bjp-stronghold-in-bengal-parties-trade-charges/story-fSV4csI6jXR4LbxnfTsLrM.html
15-07-2020||India||Punjab police 1st to employ field experts to give cutting edge to investigations||In a bid to add technical muscle to the police force, Punjab government announced its decision to recruit nearly 800 domain experts from the field of information and digital technology, legal forensics and finance in the state’s police force to ensure that investigations and prosecutions keep pace with the changing nature of crime in the state.Punjab top cop tweeted to claim that this would make Punjab Police the first in the country with domain experts on its muster rolls.“Thanks to support of CM Punjab, Punjab Police set to become the 1st Police force in the country to recruit domain experts. 240 Forensic technicians, 157 Law officers, 247 IT specialists, 153 Finance and Accounting analysts will assist complex & new age crime investigations,” a tweet by DGP Dinkar Gupta said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAs part of the new strategy, a total of 798 experts will be recruited directly as plain clothes civilian support staff for the Punjab Investigation Bureau, confirmed an official statement. The PBI has planned to induct a total of 4,251 personnel as part of the police department’s restructuring. The restructuring was approved by the Punjab cabinet, said the statement.“The Amarinder Singh-led council of Ministers on Wednesday paved the way for Punjab police to become India’s first police force to draw civilians as domain experts in IT/Digital, Legal Forensics and Finance to give a high quality cutting edge to its investigation functions,” claimed the statement.As per provisional plans, direct recruitment of 1,481 police officers will be undertaken across ranks --297 Sub Inspectors, 811 Head Constables and 373 Constables-- which is touted to be a game changer as it will infuse the requisite skill-set, expertise and experience to carry out specialised investigations, such as cyber investigations, financial investigations for economic crimes, etc. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The move is expected to bring about a qualitative change in the investigation process, which is currently in the purview of the general cops in the Punjab Investigation Bureau, that was set up in 2015. It would help improve the quality of investigations in NDPS cases against drug smugglers and suppliers. Punjab is one of the worst-affected states in terms of illegal trade and consumption of drugs. Such recruitments of graduates in law, forensics and commerce & other domains would also give an opportunity to the educated youth of Punjab in getting jobs and making careers in the Punjab Police service.  The new positions, however, are unlikely to add any additional wage burden on the force since it will be created through restructuring of the force. The bureau is abolishing 4,849 existing posts to ensure the hiring remains “revenue-neutral”, said the statement.The fresh recruitments would be done after taking out these posts from the purview of the Subordinate Service Selection Board through Police Recruitment Board.The remaining posts of subordinate ranks ranging from Inspectors to Constables out of the total 4,521 sanctioned posts in Punjab Bureau of Investigation would initially be filled up by deputation from Punjab Police and, thereafter, by promotion from the ranks of Punjab Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-1st-to-employ-field-experts-to-give-cutting-edge-to-investigations/story-Ho0NhRZgCB676muHL5d9WO.html
15-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At India-EU summit, trade deal remains elusive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At India-EU summit, trade deal remains elusiveA free trade deal that India and the European Union have been planning since 2007 remained elusive at the 15th India-EU summit on Wednesday. Read morePompeo amps up pitch, says will use all tools to support countries over South China SeaThe United States will use all available tools to support countries that believe China has violated their sovereignty in the South China Sea, said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput elevated standards of Hindi film industry, says brother-in-lawVishal Kirti, brother-in-law of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, heaped praise on him and credited him with raising the standards of Bollywood. Sharing the Dil Bechara title track, Vishal correctly guessed that Sushant nailed the song in a single take. Read moreGoogle-Jio partnership to 5G in India: Top announcements from Reliance’s AGM 2020Reliance Industries 43rd Annual General Meeting took place earlier today. There were some major announcements made on Jio in areas like Jio Platforms, 5G and digital services. Read more‘Congress suspended me for backing Sachin Pilot’: Sanjay Jha lashes outCongress seems to be taking a tough approach towards leaders who fail to toe the party line. Sanjay Jha has been sacked from the party for ‘anti-party’ activities and breach of discipline. Watch to know moreFace masks are now a form of expressionFace masks have become a very integral part of our lives during the pandemic. And what is being noticed now is that apart from being used as a form of protection, they are also becoming a way to express our feelings and put forth our views on pressing issues going around in our society. Read moreHe fell into freezing water while saving a coyote pup. Kept going till it was rescuedThis is a heartwarming tale of how a man, despite facing difficulties, pursued his endeavours of rescuing a coyote pup. This is a story of compassion and some may say it’s also an incident which perfectly captures the true spirit of humanity. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-india-eu-summit-trade-deal-remains-elusive-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PIYUTfNqq0Un5jDB1d3MDL.html
15-07-2020||India||PM congratulates students, says those unhappy must remember one exam doesn’t define them||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated his “young friends” for clearing the class 10 and 12 CBSE board examinations and said those not happy with the outcome should remember that one exam does not define who they are.“Congratulations to all my young friends who have successfully passed their Class X and XII CBSE examinations. Wishing them the very best for their future endeavours,” the prime minister tweeted.Modi said for those who “aren’t happy” with their CBSE Class 10 and 12 results, “I want to tell them -- one exam doesn’t define who you are”.“Each of you is blessed with numerous talents. Live life to the fullest. Never lose hope, always look ahead. You will do wonders,” he said.For class 12, the pass percentage went up from 83.40 last year to 88.78 this year.In class 10 results announced Wednesday, there has been a marginal increase of 0.36 per cent in the pass percentage against last year.The overall pass percentage recorded was 91.46.However, the number of students scoring above 90 per cent and 95 per cent have reduced this year by 3 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-congratulates-students-says-those-unhappy-must-remember-one-exam-doesn-t-define-them/story-dvKtbzHmUhs1EPgKZLpt0O.html
15-07-2020||India||Forest officials rescue tigress which strayed out of flood-hit Kaziranga national park||Ending a nearly 30-hour long operation, forest officials and veterinarians on Wednesday successfully tranqulised and rescued a two-year-old tigress that had strayed out of the flood-affected Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve (KNPTR).The tigress is among the 117 wild animals that have been rescued from inside and around the park spread over 430 sq km of which 90% area has been flooded.“Due to rising flood waters, the tigress had strayed out of the park on Tuesday morning. It had spent a few hours resting near the national highway 37 that passes close to the park before it took shelter in the kitchen of a thatched hut in a nearby Baghmari village,” informed KNPTR director P. Sivakumar.“We kept observing the tigress the entire time hoping that it would move out on its own. In the meantime, the family was shifted to a forest guest house. As we were worried about the animal’s health, it was tranquilised at 2:30 pm on Wednesday and rescued,” he added.A team comprising veterinarian Shamsul Ali and forest personnel who carried out the rescue operation took the tigress to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) located at Borjuri near the national park where it is recuperating.“The tigress has recovered from anaesthesia and is out of danger. She doesn’t appear to have suffered any injuries. We will keep her under observation for 2-3 days before releasing her in the park,” head of CWRC Rathin Barman said.The rescued tigress is one of the two tigers that had strayed out of the park on Tuesday to escape flood waters. While the other tiger was successfully driven out of the area and reached the higher locations in nearby Karbi Anglong district safely, the tigress had moved into a hut.On Monday, a sub-adult male tiger had come out of the Agratoli range of the park to escape flood waters and took shelter in a goat shed in Kandolimari village for several hours before moving back to the park.Floods, which ravage Kaziranga, the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world, annually affects its inhabitants who try to find safety in higher locations or cross the nearby NH 37 and head to the hills in Karbi Anglong district.On Tuesday, an adult rhino had come out of the park’s Kohora range and spent some time on the national highway before heading back to the park. Videos of the rhinos running on the highway are circulating on social media. Till Wednesday, 66 animals of the Kaziranga national park had died during this monsoon. Twenty-three of the animals (two rhinos, five wild boars, one swamp deer, 14 hog deer and a porcupine) had drowned while 12 (all hog deer) died due to vehicle hits.A total of 45 animals (all hog deer) have been injured—44 due to floods and one due to vehicle hit. Forest personnel have so far rescued 117 animals including a one-year-old female rhino calf which got separated from its mother. The rescued animals include 2 rhinos, 98 hog deer, one wild buffalo, 11 pythons, one tiger, one swamp deer and three turtles. While 14 of the rescued animals have died, 98 have been released into the wild and five others are under treatment at the CWRC facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-officials-rescue-tigress-which-strayed-out-of-flood-hit-kaziranga-national-park/story-V916zwZcaraQFihbwWlf8J.html
15-07-2020||India||Kerala records 623 new Covid-19 positive cases, one death||Kerala on Wednesday reported one death and 626 fresh coronavirus cases as steep surge in local transmission continues to worry the state. Last two consecutive days the state has been reporting more than 600 cases and majority of them are locally-transmitted cases.As cases rise steadily the government has decided to ramp up its medical facilities, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He said the Green Field Stadium in the state capital, a cricket ground, will be converted as the Covid hospital. Thiruvananthapuram saw a massive surge in local transmission with 157 new cases.“We have launched a fresh campaign, ‘Vigilance Worth Life’, to create more awareness among people. We have made 2-metre distance mandatory at all places. Now experts say at least 60% of patients are asymptomatic. So we need more care,” said the CM.With 626 new cases, total went up to 9,553; live cases are 4,880 and recovered 4,610. The state reported 36 deaths so far. Currently 1,84, 0601 people are under observation and there are 234 hotspots, said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-623-new-covid-19-positive-cases-one-death/story-rcRbdxpclaL5wnSsdymCEK.html
15-07-2020||India||Maharashtra past 2.75 lakh mark with nearly 8k new Covid cases, Mumbai dashes hopes by posting over 1,000||Maharashtra has recorded nearly 8,000 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall state Coved tally to 2,75,640 including 10,928 deaths of which 233 casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. The data released by the state health department also notes that 3,606 patients were discharged in the corresponding period to take the total number of recorded recoveries to 1,52,613.The state’s recovery rate is also reported to have reached 55.37%, while the case fatality rate is at 3.96%, according to the latest figures.Currently, the state had a total of 1,11, 801 active cases of coronavirus and 7,08,373 people were in home quarantine apart from 43,315 people who were in institutional quarantine, the official data added.Out of Mahrashtra’s 7,975 fresh cases, Mumbai recorded 1,374, dashing the hopes triggered by reporting of less than 1000 cases in the metropolis on Tuesday. The city also recorded 62 new fatalities to take the death toll to 5,467.Also Read: Unused ventilators sign of Mumbai’s improving Covid 19 situation, claims BMCMumbai, with an updated tally of 96,474 cases on Wednesday, continues to be the worst-affected district in the state, followed by Thane—67,360, Pune--44,202, Palghar—10,462, Raigad--9604, Aurangabad—8821, Nashik—7932 and Jalgaon—6576.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-past-2-75-lakh-mark-with-nearly-8k-new-covid-cases-mumbai-dashes-hopes-by-posting-over-1-000/story-jE7hTBxein6K7NMOeRsRXK.html
15-07-2020||India||Odisha: 7,000 unemployed health workers to be engaged at Covid Care Homes||The Odisha government has decided to engage around 7,000 trained health professionals, mainly auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), temporarily to run Covid Care Homes being set up in 6,798 gram panchayats across the state, an official said on Wednesday.Trained workforce will be required for smooth management of the Covid Care Homes (CCHs) where mild and symptomatic cases will be lodged for observation, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, PK Mohapatra, said.“About 7,000 trained health workforce will be appointed temporarily for three months or till operation of the CCHs,” Mohapatra said.The decision was taken on Tuesday, in view of the detection of a large number of Covid positive cases in the state, he said.Odisha has 4,933 active cases on Wednesday.Mohapatra said that the base-level health activity in these CCHs will be managed by unemployed trained and registered ANMs, and each of them will be given Rs 850 per day as remuneration, he said.However, if so many ANMs are not available, unemployed registered staff nurses or pharmacists can be engaged and they will be paid 1,000 per day as remuneration, Mohapatra said.The state government has also made it clear that the engagement is for three months or till the CCHs are functional, whichever is earlier.The government has decided that each CCHs will have about 20 beds to house suspected Covid-19 cases, the senior officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-7-000-unemployed-health-workers-to-be-engaged-at-covid-care-homes/story-bMlbrPRRuFzinlpDASvZfJ.html
15-07-2020||India||At India-EU summit, trade deal remains elusive||A free trade deal that India and the European Union have been planning since 2007 remained elusive at the 15th India-EU summit on Wednesday.At the end of the virtual summit, India said there is no deadline for the free trade agreement, officially called the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement.“There is no time frame set for the conclusion of the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) but both sides have agreed that the two ministers mandated to take the discussions forward should meet as early as possible,” Vikas Swarup, Secy (West), Ministry of External Affairs said.“EU is our largest trading partner for goods with trade exceeding $100 billion. We also have a large services trade of approximately $40 billion,” Swarup said.The EU is also one of the largest investors in India with cumulative investment of over $91 billion.Trade and investment were the main focus of the 15th India-EU summit. India was represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the EU by Charles Michel — president of the European Council and Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission.In the India-EU summit in Delhi two years ago, the two sides could not close the gaps either.In his inaugural remarks at the summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for adopting a long-term strategic perspective with regards to India’s cooperation with the EU, through an action-oriented agenda that can be fulfilled within a stipulated time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-india-eu-summit-trade-deal-remains-elusive/story-SKQruUnonqupd8O91vc8QJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Congress asks Pilot to vacate Haryana hotel to delink with BJP, Khattar says hotels welcome everyone||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday denied any role in hosting Congress rebel and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and several of his followers in a hotel in Manesar amid suggestions that its location indicated Pilot’s move had the blessings of the BJP leadership, which leads the ruling coalition in Haryana.Khattar denied the connection and said private hotels welcome everyone.“Private hotels are open for everyone, anyone can stay there. The Haryana government has no role in it.” Khattar was reported as saying on being asked about the rebel MLAs staying at a hotel in Haryana’s Manesar, also not far from the national capital of Delhi.Earlier today, Pilot, too, scorched speculations and stated that he was not considering joining the BJP, the principal opposition party in Rajasthan.Following his statement, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked Pilot to not accept the “hospitality” of BJP-ruled Haryana, if he was not joining the BJP.“Come back to your family, sit with your family and place your view before the family,” Surjewala was quoted as saying by ANI in Jaipur, where MLAs loyal to CM Ashok Gehlot are camping.Sachin Pilot and 18 of his followers were earlier served with disqualification notices from the state assembly on the request of the party chief. They have been given time till Friday to reply.While the party is asking Pilot to return and sort things out, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on the other hand sought to set the record straight by accusing his former deputy of direct involvement in the alleged horse-trading of ruling party MLAs in connivance with BJP to bring down his government.How the Rajasthan impasse is different from Madhya Pradesh sagaWhile Gehlot didn’t take Pilot’s name, he also left little doubt over the identity of the person he was targeting.“Our deputy chief minister and PCC president himself was doing the deal and was giving statements that no horse-trading was taking place. What clarification are you giving when you yourself were involved?” he asked.Pilot was sacked as the deputy CM and party’s Rajasthan unit chief on Tuesday.Pilot had earlier indirectly accused Gehlot of conspiring to defame him and lower his image in the eyes of the Gandhi family. He had also denied any truck with the BJP with an aim to topple the Rajasthan government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-asks-pilot-to-vacate-haryana-hotel-to-delink-with-bjp-khattar-says-hotels-welcome-everyone/story-VjOd7gb2vqU4cQsCdtdH8H.html
15-07-2020||India||Mulayam biopic trailer goes online||The trailer of a biopic on Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav has been released online by the film’s producer Meena Sethi Mondal. The film, titled Main Mulayam Singh Yadav, would probably be released in October if the theatres were allowed to reopen by then, said its director Suvendu Raj Ghosh on the phone from Mumbai.“There is no point in releasing the movie online because it is related with Dhartiputra (son of the soil) and most of the audience that we are expecting would be from the rural pockets. The movie carries the aspirations of labourers, villagers and farmers. They are the ones who would come to watch the movie about their hero. We can’t expect the rural folks to watch the movie online,” Ghosh added.“Netaji (Mulayam) was happy when he saw the trailer (which released on Monday). He knows what it takes for a farmer’s son to work hard for bringing about a change in the society,” he said.Ghosh also said, “If things don’t improve by October, I will release the movie near the state assembly elections, that means at the end of 2021.” The state assembly elections are due in early 2022.Amyth Sethi features in the title role as Mulayam Singh Yadav. Mimoh, son of film star Mithun Chakraborty, has essayed the character of Mulayam’s brother Shivpal Singh Yadav. Prerna Mondal appears as Mulayam Singh Yadav’s wife. Prakash Balbeto has played the role of Ram Manohar Lohia and Govind Namdeo appears as Chaudhary Charan Singh. Noted actress Zareena Wahab and Anupam Shyam have played the roles of Mulayam’s mother and father respectively. While Toshi and Sharib have composed the music, Saleem Shaikh has penned the lyrics.Suvendu Raj Ghosh said, “I met him many times to study his character. He was very down to earth .This film is a must for anyone in the Samajwadi Party as it would enable to know the struggle of their leader. I have highlighted some unknown facts about his life.”“What Mulayam Singh Yadav did for his state and people is astonishing. I am honoured to bring his journey to the 70mm screen,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mulayam-biopic-trailer-goes-online/story-9LSmjbGuKPv7WQyvK62RAP.html
15-07-2020||India||Assam flood situation continues to remain grim; over 35 lakh affected, 66 dead||The flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim on Wednesday with over 35 lakh people affected and the death toll rising to 66 with 6 new deaths reported during the day.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), over 35.73 lakh residents of 3,376 villages in 26 of the state’s 33 districts are affected by floods.With six deaths due to drowning reported from Sonitpur, Barpeta, Golaghat and Morigaon districts on Wednesday, the death toll in this year’s floods rose to 66. Another 26 have died in the state due to landslides caused by heavy rains.Over 36,000 persons uprooted due to flooding in 19 of the affected districts are taking shelter in 629 relief camps. Nearly 4,000 people stranded due to flood waters were rescued by boats during the day and evacuated to safety.Flood waters continued to damage and submerge roads, embankments and bridges in the affected districts. On Wednesday, three bridges were damaged in Barpeta district and one in Dhubri. Several instances of erosion were reported from Nalbari, Baksa, Bongaigaon and Kokrajhar districts.According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, most rivers in the state continued to witness rise in water levels. The Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki and Kushiyara flew over the danger mark at several places.Flooding has also affected Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR), the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world. According to the park authorities, around 90% area of the park spread over 430 sq km is now submerged under flood waters.Till Wednesday, 66 animals from the park had died during this monsoon. They include 23 deaths (rhino-2, wild boar-5, swamp deer-1, hog deer-14 and porcupine-1) due to drowning and 12 (all hog deer) due to vehicle hits.A total of 45 animals (all hog deer) have been injured—44 due to floods and 1 due to vehicle hit. Forest personnel have rescued 117 animals including a one-year-old female rhino calf which got separated from its mother till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-continues-to-remain-grim-over-35-lakh-affected-66-dead/story-fWvoCQ3jFJrZyoKbzWtTtO.html
15-07-2020||India||Baseless, says Congress on reports of Rahul Gandhi’s purported comment on Sachin Pilot||The Congress on Wednesday rubbished reports that its former president Rahul Gandhi had a made an oblique reference to Sachin Pilot at a meeting of the party’s students’ wing national Students’ Union of India (NSUI). “There have been some media reports about the NSUI meeting with Rahul Gandhi ji today. I want to categorically state that those reports are baseless. This was an internal NSUI meeting and we only discussed students and youth issues,” All India Congress Committee (AICC) joint secretary and national in-charge of NSUI, Ruchi Gupta tweeted.Gupta’s rebuttal came after a news agency tweeted citing sources who quoted Gandhi as saying at the NSUI meeting, “If anybody wants to leave the party they will. It opens the door for young leaders like you.” Rahul Gandhi has not commented on the crisis in Rajasthan that the Congress party has been grappling with this week. On Monday, the former Congress chief’s office said “Sachin Pilot is always in his heart. And they speak often and directly. They have great respect and affection for each other.”This response came when HT asked for Rahul Gandhi’s rejoinder to whether he had been in touch with Pilot, Although Pilot has been dropped as deputy chief minister in the Ashok Gehlot cabinet sacked as the party chief in Rajasthan, the Congress party has not yet shut the door on him.On Wednesday, the party asked Pilot to “stop all conversation with the BJP and return to Jaipur”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baseless-says-congress-on-reports-of-rahul-gandhi-s-purported-comment-on-sachin-pilot/story-NTeSO1eeDlbNuktjwP7PHJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Unused ventilators sign of Mumbai’s improving Covid 19 situation, claims BMC||The BMC or the Brihanmumbai municipal corporation has cited over hundred unused ventilators in Mumbai hospitals to claim that the Covid situation in the metropolis was improving, according to a news agency. Mumbai had reported 954 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday and the total number of registered cases there has reached 95,100. The state of Maharashtra, on the other hand, totals 2,67,665 cases including 6,741 fresh cases recorded on Tuesday.“Covid facilities presently have 1,053 ventilators in active condition and out of these 125 are not in use because Mumbai doesn’t have that many patients who are to be put on ventilators so these are installed but are not in use,” ANI quoted Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation as saying.Clarifying its statement even further, the municipal body said that this was an indicator that the situation in the maximum city was getting better.“This doesn’t mean that these ventilators are left to get dusted but this is an indicator that Mumbai’s Covid situation is getting better and not even total available ventilators are needed,” the BMC official quoted above said. He added that Mumbai “has 70% recovery rate” of Covid patients and this was a “good sign”.The number of recovered coronavirus patients in Mumbai stood at 66,633 as of Tuesday after 1,011 more persons were discharged from city hospitals over a duration of 24 hours. This would mean that only 22,828 cases in the capital city were active on Tuesday. The civic body had put the number of suspected patients currently admitted to hospitals at 932.Watch: Photos: Mumbai’s elderly comprise over half of city’s Covid-19 deathBMC has recently received international recognition for its contagion containment programme in Dharavi, considered to be Asia’s largest slum. It reported 23 fresh cases on Wednesday taking its Covid-19 tally to 2,415.The Tuesday figures were indeed positive for Mumbai since it was only the second instance since July 7 when the daily number of cases had dropped under the 1000-mark. On July 7, 806 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the metropolis.Also Read: Mumbai wakes up to heavy showers; city surpasses July average rainfall target However, the number of single-day deaths had risen once again to reach 70 on Tuesday after having dropped below 50 in the previous three days.The BMC had yesterday claimed that the average doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in the city had improved to 52 days, while the average growth rate had dipped to 1.34 per cent.Over four lakh tests to identify cases have been conducted in Mumbai till Tuesday, BMC claimed yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unused-ventilators-sign-of-mumbai-s-improving-covid-19-situation-claims-bmc/story-1h3UELmtqlbZchev5pnSnM.html
15-07-2020||India||HC refuses temporary bail to police officer sentenced to life imprisonment for kidnapping||An Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) last week rejected an application for an interim bail filed by former Maharashtra service police officer Manoj Prabhakar Lohar, who was convicted last year for kidnapping for ransom and sentenced to life imprisonment.Lohar had sought an interim bail on health grounds.He contended that he is a cancer survivor and also recently underwent a heart surgery, which requires follow-up treatment in Mumbai.It was also argued on his behalf that since several inmates at Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai were found to have tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, Lohar, a heart patient, is apprehensive of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.The two-member division HC bench, comprising Justices TV Nalawade and Shrikant Kulkarni, was not impressed with the argument.The judges found the period of follow-up treatment after the heart surgery had lapsed and a fresh report by jail authorities stated that the petitioner was in sound health condition and leading a normal life.Besides the court noted that on April 3, 2019, another HC bench, also headed by Justice Nalawade, had rejected the applications filed by Lohar for suspension of the substantive sentence handed down to him and his purported agent, Dhiraj Yeole, and grant of bail.Lohar, who was working as additional superintendent (ASP) of police at Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district, and Yeole, a local resident, were convicted by Jalgaon sessions court last year.They were convicted for kidnapping for ransom a local politician, Uttamrao Mahajan, the principal of an Ayurvedic medical college at Chalisgaon, in June 2009, and demanding a ransom of Rs 60 lakh for his release.Mahajan, according to the prosecution, was detained illegally and let off only after the Jalgaon SP intervened in the matter.The HC noted that there was no change in circumstances after the order dated April 3, 2019, when the bench headed by justice Nalawade rejected his bail plea.The court had said that releasing them on bail would send a wrong signal to the public at large and such persons need to be kept behind bars in a bid to send a strong message to others indulging in similar offences.“These days police officers like the accused No.1 (Lohar) are virtually acting as leaders of gangs of dacoit,” the HC had said in its April 3, 2019 order. “It can be said that public is afraid of police like the accused No.1 more than the dacoits, who commit robberies or burglaries,” the order had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-temporary-bail-to-police-officer-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-kidnapping/story-MFD3ZTFh0zy4QMhnApKIlM.html
15-07-2020||India||Amid border row, India allows military to speed up weapon purchases worth Rs 300 crore||Amid the border row in Ladakh and worst tensions there since the 1962 India-China war, the government on Wednesday authorised the Armed Forces to process cases for buying urgently-needed weapons and equipment worth up to Rs 300 crore to meet their critical operational requirements, a defence ministry spokesperson said.“This will shrink the procurement timelines and ensure placement of orders within six months and commencement of deliveries within one year,” the ministry said in a statement.The decision was taken at a special meeting of the defence acquisition council (DAC), headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh. The ministry said the special meeting was convened “considering the security environment due to the prevailing situation along the northern borders and the need to strengthen the armed forces for the defence of our borders.”The DAC on July 2 Thursday approved the purchase of weapons and ammunition worth Rs 38,900 crore. The purchases include 33 new fighter jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF) that is grappling with a shortage of warplanes.The proposals green-lighted by the DAC included buying of 21 MiG-29s from Russia, 12 new Sukhoi-30 fighters from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), home-grown Astra BVR air-to-air missiles, locally-developed land-attack cruise missile (LACM) systems with a range of 1,000 km, indigenous rocket systems, and the upgrade of 59 MiG-29 jets.The cost of military hardware cleared for purchase on July 2 from the domestic industry is pegged at Rs 31,130 crore and the orders are expected to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Movement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-india-allows-armed-forces-to-speed-up-weapon-purchases-worth-rs-300-crore/story-IpOpM5AiJeBz2w9PyhWncO.html
15-07-2020||India||BJP says Ashok Gehlot govt in minority, accuses it of intimidating MLAs||The Rajasthan unit of the BJP is in a wait and watch mode not wanting to muddy its hands in the ongoing political crisis that has rocked the Congress government of Ashok Gehlot in the state. The BJP claims that the government is in a minority but says it will not seek a floor test.Leader of opposition in the assembly Gulab Chand Kataria said Wednesday it was for the Congress government or the rebel MLAs who are supporting former deputy CM Sachin Pilot to seek a floor test.On the notice issued by the assembly Speaker to the 19 MLAs who are supporting Pilot, Kataria said the assembly secretariat had no locus standi in the matter.“Who attends or does not attend a party meet is not in the assembly secretariat. It is for the party to decide. The assembly cannot issue notices to MLAs. Such notices will be struck down by the courts,” he said.He also played down the absence of former CM Vasundhara Raje from meetings of the BJP. “I am in touch with her. She was supposed to come today for a meeting. But since Sachin Pilot cancelled his press conference, we also put off our meeting. After Pilot clears his future course of action, we will hold a meeting,” Kataria said.Earlier in the day, Pilot ruled out joining the BJPKataria said all MLAs have been asked to be available on phone as they could be called to Jaipur on short notice.State BJP president Satish Poonia said the government is trying to intimidate MLAs and the notice is an attempt to put the MLAs under pressure.“The notice is laughable... If some action takes place within the house then a whip is issued. But if some MLAs skip a party meeting but are held in a resort that cannot be the basis for a notice by the Speaker,” he said.He said the Congress’s aim was to get these MLAs disqualified and then call for an assembly session. “The government and the Speaker are working in tandem and the effort is to kill democratic traditions.”Poonia said the government was resorting to strong-arm tactics to scare the legislators. “They talk of democracy but they are threatening MLAs using the SOG and ACB and the notice shows that their intentions are suspect.”Poonia cited a video circulated by a BTP MLA who said he was stopped by police who snatched his car keys and held him hostage for several hours.“If they have the numbers then why are all these actions being taken? Why are the MLAs under lockdown in a resort?” he asked.Poonia said Congress has 107 MLAs of which about 20 are with Pilot which brings down the figure to 87 which is short of the majority mark of 101. He said smaller parties which supported Congress in the Rajya Sabha are not with them any longer.“BTP has said it will remain neutral, one of two CPI (M) MLAs is not supporting Congress. They had made 13 independents as associate members of which three have jumped ship. So they are still short of majority.”Poonia said the BJP has also given a petition to the Speaker some months back challenging the merger of the six BSP MLAs with the Congress. Poonia said the Speaker has not taken a decision on that.“The petition is pending with the Speaker but no decision has been taken yet. If he had given a decision, we would have appealed in court, if required,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-says-ashok-gehlot-govt-in-minority-accuses-it-of-intimidating-mlas/story-978hWwGixxKJ0qZgHRr1wO.html
15-07-2020||India||Follow all agreed protocols for border management: India’s clear message to China in marathon military talks, says report||The Indian military conveyed a “very clear” message to the Chinese army during a nearly 15-hour-long talks that status quo ante must be restored in eastern Ladakh and it will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control, government sources said on Wednesday. During the course of the intense and complex negotiations between senior commanders of the two armies that ended at 2 am on Wednesday, the Indian delegation also apprised the Chinese PLA about the “red lines” and conveyed that the onus was largely on China to improve the overall situation in the region, the sources said. The two sides agreed on certain modalities for rolling out the next phase of disengagement and are expected to get in touch with each other after discussing agreed points with the higher authorities of both sides, the sources said. The fourth round of Lt General-level talks began around 11 AM on Tuesday at a designated meeting point in Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC, they said. There was no official word on the outcome of the talks. The Indian delegation was led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, while the Chinese side was headed by Major General Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang military region. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane was apprised about the details of the negotiations following which he held discussions with senior military officers. He is scheduled to hold another meeting with a number of senior military officers later in the day. Tuesday’s discussions were the longest negotiations between the two armies after the tense standoff that began on May 5. The third round of Lt General-level talks on June 30 lasted 12 hours. During this round, both sides agreed on an “expeditious, phased and step wise” de-escalation as a “priority” to end the standoff. The sources said the main focus of the latest round was on finalising a framework for a “time-bound and verifiable” disengagement process from all the friction points like Pangong Tso and Depsang and pulling back large numbers of troops and weapons from rear bases along the LAC as part of modalities for further de-esalation. “It was clearly conveyed to China that it must follow all the relevant provisions of agreements and protocols that govern management of the border by both the sides,” they said. The Indian side insisted on “total restoration” of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the troops of the two countries in Pangong Tso, they said. The Indian delegation also conveyed concerns over China’s “new claim lines” in the region, and insisted that Beijing must adhere to earlier framework on carrying out patrolling in the areas, the sources said. The talks took place days after implementation of the first phase of the disengagement process from the friction points. China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has already completed pulling back troops from Gogra, Hot Springs and Galwan Valley and significantly thinned down its presence in the ridgeline of Finger Four in the Pangong Tso area in the last one week as demanded by India. In line with a mutually agreed decision, the two sides created a minimum buffer zone of three kilometres in most of the friction points where they were locked in a standoff. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on June 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tension in the area. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. The second round of talks took place on June 22. The Indian and Chinese armies were locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for over eight weeks since May 5. The tension escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government has given the armed forces “full freedom” to give a “befitting” response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-all-agreed-protocols-for-border-management-india-s-clear-message-to-china-in-marathon-military-talks-report/story-xFG2EE3Qk9XDNalEzLqinL.html
15-07-2020||India||Air India ends work-from-home for most employees from July 20||National carrier Air India on Wednesday announced that all its offices will operate at full strength from July 20, adding that those not reporting to work will be marked absent. However, it made an exception for employees residing in containment zones, but asked them to keep the office posted about the status of the containment.“It has now been decided that Air India offices will function at full strength from July 20 and no separate roster for functioning under Covid situation is to be operated. Employees who do not attend office will have to apply for leave or shall be marked absent,” said the airline.It further advised all department heads to ensure that norms of social distancing and proper sanitisation and other related measures are strictly followed through.  “Work from home option can be considered for employees who are at higher risk due to medical conditions, pregnant women and employees staying in containment zones,” it said.In another order, the airline said it has begun the process of sending some employees on leave without pay ranging from six months or two years that can also be extended up to five years, it said in an official staff order issued on Tuesday. The scheme is being introduced for some employees to opt on a voluntary basis as well and can be availed for “personal reasons”.“This Scheme (LWP) is being introduced for grant of leave without pay and allowances for permanent- employees, for a period of six months (extendable upto 5 years) or for a period of two years (extendable upto 5 years) at the discretion of the Management,” the order said.This Scheme shall be applicable to permanent employees of the company.“Board of Directors in its l02nd meeting held on 7th July,2020 has approved a Scheme whereby employees can opt to take Leave Without Pay ranging from six months or for two years and the same can be extendable upto five years,” the order said.“The Scheme also authorises CMD to pass an order on behalf and in the name of the Company whereby an employee would be sent on leave for six months or for a period of two years extendable upto five years, depending upon...suitability, efficiency, competence, quality of performance, health of the employee, instance of non-availability of the employee for duty in the past, as a result of ill health or otherwise and redundancy,” it added.The policy approved by the board states that departmental heads at headquarters and regional directors of the region are required to assess each individual on the above mentioned factors and identity the cases where option of compulsory leave without pay can be exercised. To streamline the process of identification of redundant manpower who would be told to proceed on compulsory leave without pay a committee of The respective Regional Directors will be constituted comprising General Manager (Personnel), General Manager(Finance) and concerned Departmental Head. The Committee would go through the records, based on the above factors and will recommend the individuals whose names will be forwarded to headquarters with due recommendations of Regional Director for obtaining approval of CMD, for compulsory leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-send-some-employees-on-leave-without-pay-for-upto-5-years/story-JpWC5udeZTlP2nno1tIH1K.html
15-07-2020||India||Air India to send certain employees on leave without pay for up to five years||Air India has started the process of identifying employees, based on various factors like efficiency, health and redundancy, who will be sent on compulsory leave without pay (LWP) for up to five years, according to an official order. The airline’s board of directors have authorised its Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal to send employees on LWP “for six months or for a period of two years extendable upto five years, depending upon the following factors - suitability, efficiency, competence, quality of performance, health of the employee, instance of non-availability of the employee for duty in the past as a result of ill health or otherwise and redundancy”, the order said on Tuesday. The departmental heads in the headquarter as well as regional directors are required to assess each employee “on the above mentioned factors and identify the cases where option of compulsory LWP can be exercised”, stated the order dated July 14. “Names of such employees need to be forwarded to the General Manager (Personnel) in headquarter for obtaining necessary approval of CMD,” the order added. In response to queries regarding this matter, Air India spokesperson said,”We would not like to make any comment on the issue.” Aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries due to the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, LWP and firings of employees in order to conserve cash flow. For example, GoAir has put most of its employees on compulsory LWP since April. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, the airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. Occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around 50-60 per cent since May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23. The passenger demand for air travel will contract by 49 per cent in 2020 for Indian carriers in comparison to 2019 due to Covid-19 crisis, said global airlines body IATA on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-send-certain-employees-on-leave-without-pay-for-up-to-five-years/story-Ky4YEkucIt4Df3O79vPQxL.html
15-07-2020||India||PM Modi reminds EU of common values, seeks deeper ties as the China factor looms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that India and the European Union were natural partners with shared values and common goals as evidenced in the cooperation demonstrated by the two sides in tackling the coronavirus pandemic. He also invited European investments for the further development of environment friendly technologies in India.The prime minister also underlined India’s demonstration of its policy of global cooperation through supply of emergency medicine to around 150 countries across the world, with an aim to strengthen efforts to defeat the coronavirus pandemic.“India has taken care of the interests of other countries apart from its own citizens by sending medicines to almost 150 countries and has also initiated a joint response to the pandemic in the region,” PM said, while addressing the delegates at the 15th India-EU virtual summit.He added that Indian researchers and pharmaceutical companies were ready to make even greater contributions to global efforts to contain the pandemic.Earlier in his address, the prime minister said that India’s partnership with the EU can play an important role in maintaining peace and stability in the world. He added that this reality had become starker in the global situation today.“Several types of pressures are being exerted on rules-based international order. In a situation like this India-EU partnership, can play an important role in economic rebuilding, a human centric and also humanity-centric globalization,” said the PM.Underlining that India and EU were “natural” partners, Modi said, “Our partnership is significant for peace and stability of the world.” The India-EU summit comes amid a protracted border conflict with China that was followed by the Indian government’s decision to cancel a few contracts awarded to Chinese companies and to ban several popular Chinese mobile applications like TikTok.Yesterday, Britain decided to oust Chinese company Huwaei from its 5G project in line with the stand taken by the United States against the company. The US had recently warned Europe against cozying up to China and ignoring Beijing’s perceived expansionist tendencies including use of bullying of its trade partners as a tactic to advance its territorial ambition.Modi said India’s relationship with the EU needed to be deeper, wider and more strategic given the overlapping of values and goals.“For this, we need to adopt a long-term strategic perspective. We also need an action-oriented agenda, which can be implemented in a set time frame,” the PM said underlining the shared values of democracy, pluralism, inclusivity, respect for international institutions, multilateralism, freedom and transparency, which, he said, made the scaling up of ties to the next level a natural process. “Apart from current challenges, long-term challenges like climate change are also a priority for India and the EU. In our efforts to increase the use of renewable energy in India, we invite investment and technology from Europe,” the PM said at the summit.At the outset, the European Council President Charles Michel thanked India for the “cooperation” shown with the EU, especially in fighting the pandemic.“I would like to thank India for the cooperation your country has shown with the EU. I would like to pay tribute to your role nationally and internationally, multilaterally in combating Covid 19 pandemic,” Michel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reminds-eu-of-common-values-seeks-deeper-ties-as-the-china-factor-looms/story-ZJiKR4bg2fm9SsmVcfUVfP.html
15-07-2020||India||Congress considers anti-defection law against Sachin Pilot, experts weigh in||The Congress has taken a wider view of the anti-defection law inked under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution in its bid to disqualify the ousted Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot from the assembly.Congress leaders involved in the strategy maintained that Pilot’s conduct, statement of his close aides and his absence from two meetings of the Congress legislature party in Rajasthan make a strong case against him.But a section of constitutional experts also feels that Pilot may take a legal route and even seek removal of CP Joshi as the Rajasthan assembly speaker to buy more. While the Congress aims to remove team Pilot to command a stronger foothold in the Rajasthan assembly, Pilot may aim to complete his term in the House and continue to prick the ruling party.The Tenth Schedule says that a lawmaker can be disqualified from the House “if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party” or “if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs or by any person or authority authorised by it in this behalf without obtaining prior permission of such political party.”Two Congress leaders involved in the strategy argued that it is a conservative view to look at what is happening inside the House. “An elected lawmaker’s conduct, his speeches, his hobnobbing with rivals too can be counted as ground for disqualification,” said a senior party leader.“He skipped two meetings of Congress legislature party, his loyalists gave three interviews demanding trust vote is proof of his intention. There are several examples of how the Supreme Court considered such an issue in the Ravi Nayak and the BS Yeddiyurappa case,” said another leader.But P Sreedharan, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, thinks otherwise. “Disqualification on ground of defection is mentioned clearly in the para 2 of the Tenth Schedule: If he has voluntarily given up his membership or if he votes against the party or abstains from voting. The issue of not following the direction of the party is connected to the House only. So any whip issued for non-House activities can’t be a sufficient ground,” said Sreedharan.For Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi, too, these are testing times. In the recent past, Joshi had advocated that speaker’s powers vis-a-vis the Tenth Schedule should be curtailed and the decision to expel a member should be given to political parties.In two conferences of presiding officers, he spearheaded the campaign to de-link speakers from the anti-defection issues as he felt that speakers come under unnecessary political pressure and courts have often tarnished the image of the speakers in their judgments on defection issues. But now, Joshi himself has a high-profile defection issue — the first in 2020 — on his table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-considers-anti-defection-law-against-sachin-pilot-experts-weigh-in/story-34UpMclWrJ2EYTOQChILhO.html
15-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh to reorganise its 13 districts into 25 for optimal use of resources||The Andhra Pradesh cabinet on Wednesday decided to reorganise its 13 districts into 25 districts by March 31 in such a way that each of the 25 parliamentary constituencies will represent a new district.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s cabinet which met at Amaravati, approved the decision to form a committee to look into reorganisation of existing 13 districts into 25.The committee headed by the chief secretary comprises chief commissioner of land administration (CCLA), secretary (services) of general administration department, secretary of planning department and an official from the chief minister’s office as members. Principal secretary (finance) will be its convener.The committee will look into various issues concerning the reorganisation of districts, including controlling the administrative expenditure. The committee has been asked to submit the report at the earliest. “In all probability, the formation of new districts would be completed by March 31,” state minister for information and public relations Perni Venkatramaiah alias Nani said.The whole objective of the reorganisation of districts was to make optimum and effective utilisation of human resources and infrastructure facilities. The cabinet felt that the existing districts are very large with huge population making them difficult for administration.“The smaller districts would be administratively convenient. Moreover, there is already a system of village and ward secretariats at the grassroots level to take the benefits of the government schemes to the people,” Nani said.It was decided that the geographical boundary of each district would cover each parliamentary constituency. As such, there would be one district for each of 25 parliamentary constituencies in the state.The cabinet also decided to extend monthly pensions to the extent of Rs 3,000 per month to physically challenged women as well under YSR Cheyutha programme. Already, the government has been providing pensions to widows and also single women.“The latest decision will benefit another 8.21 lakh women,” the minister said.The cabinet also approved the decision to set up a mega 10,000 MW solar power plant and also renewable energy export policy to encourage the private sector in the generation of non-conventional energy. The cabinet decided that long-term power purchase agreements would be signed to ensure that the cost of power would be affordable and the burden on the government would be lesser.The cabinet further approved the creation of a special purpose vehicle in the name of Andhra Pradesh Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Development Corporation (APRSDMPCL) with an outlay of Rs 40,000 crore. The SPV is aimed at raising funds for enhancement of the capacity of Rayalaseema projects and expansion of the existing canals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-reorganise-its-13-districts-into-25-for-optimal-use-of-resources/story-bALZViBhm1kZ4Ozs4EoIJO.html
15-07-2020||India||A day after Corbett’s rogue elephant was radio-collared, carcass spotted in jungles||A day after Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) landscape’s most aggressive elephant was radio-collared, its carcass was found near Mohan range of Almora forest division on Tuesday, said forest officials.The carcass of the wild tusker (25) was spotted in jungles near a factory under the Mohan range of Almora forest division, which is adjacent to the CTR, on Tuesday.Forest officials rushed to the spot along with a veterinary team from CTR, which had radio-collared the elephant on Monday.RK Tiwari, warden, CTR, said that even though the elephant died in Almora forest division, officials were monitoring its movement, as the animal had created panic among the public in Corbett landscape and Ramnagar region.“The jumbo was very aggressive and had attacked many people in the past two years. A team of doctors from CTR had radio-collared it on Monday. The animal had a habit of vandalising moving vehicles on the Ramnagar-Almora highway, which lies on the border between Corbett and Ramnagar forest division. It had also killed a person in Mohan range area near Ramnagar,” he said.Tiwari ruled out the cause of the elephant’s death due to an overdose of a tranquiliser.“We were monitoring the elephant after it was radio-collared around 11 am on Monday. It was found to be moving during the afternoon hours. There is no question of an overdose from tranquilisation, as it had kept moving the whole day,” he said.JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, said, “A team of doctors along with the CTR director is at the site inspecting the matter. Prima facie, it appears that the elephant died due to in-fighting with another male elephant.”The viscera sample of the wild tusker has been taken and it would be sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, for further investigation, a forest official said.This is the fourth death of an elephant in Corbett landscape this year.Earlier, pachyderms were found dead in CTR’s Dhela, Jhirna range and the Kalagarh area. On June 14, the carcass of a female elephant (7) was found in CTR’s Dhela range.Uttarakhand government recently reported that the elephant population in the state stands at 2,206, a 29.9% spike since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-corbett-s-rogue-elephant-was-radio-collared-carcass-spotted-in-jungles/story-Q9iVVw6SVR12Zq0Go0vNcN.html
15-07-2020||India||PM Modi says India and EU ‘natural partners’, committed to deepen relations||The India-European Union (EU) partnership can play a key role in economic reconstruction and building human-centric globalisation in the post-Covid-19 world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday.Addressing the virtual India-EU Summit, he said the two sides are natural partners because of their shared values, such as democracy, pluralism, inclusivity, respect for international institutions, multilateralism and transparency, at a time when there are “different types of pressures on the rules-based international order”.Modi co-chaired the summit along with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. On the eve of the summit, the two sides signed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement on Tuesday while Europol and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are negotiating a mechanism to jointly combat organised crime and terrorism.The summit is expected to focus on strengthening multilateralism and global institutions in the face of the rise of an increasingly assertive China.Speaking in Hindi, Modi noted that the summit was postponed in March because of the Covid-19 pandemic and expressed his condolences for the damage caused by the Coronavirus in Europe.“Like you, I am also committed to deepen relations between India and the EU. For this, we must adopt a long-term strategic perspective. Along with this, an action-oriented agenda should be implemented within a stipulated timeframe,” he said.“India and EU are natural partners. Our partnership is also useful for peace and stability in the world. This reality has become even clearer in today’s global situation,” he added.The health and prosperity of people in India and Europe are facing challenges and there are “different types of pressures on the rules-based international order”, Modi said.“In such a situation, the India-EU partnership can play an important role in economic reconstruction and in building human-centric globalisation,” he said. “Apart from the current challenges, long-term challenges such as climate change are also a priority for both of us.”Modi sought investment and technology from Europe for India’s efforts to increase the use of renewable energy.The agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community or Euratom and Indian authorities signed on Tuesday will focus on cooperation between EU’s research programmes on new ways of using nuclear energy and similar activities on the Indian side.The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation or Europol and CBI are negotiating a working arrangement to support law enforcement authorities of EU member states and India to prevent and combat organised crime and terror.The two sides are also set to launch a high-level trade dialogue to address issues such as stalled negotiations on a trade and investment agreement and a maritime security dialogue, and develop security and defence consultations and military contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-india-and-eu-natural-partners-committed-to-deepen-relations/story-8hfqsVIQrgraRGDjFpXW1I.html
15-07-2020||India||Three-day lockdown in Goa from Friday to curb Covid-19 spread||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawat has announced fresh lockdown restrictions, starting Thursday at 8 pm and until Monday at 6 am, in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the tiny coastal state.Besides, a fresh daily night curfew from 8 pm to 6 pm, starting Wednesday and until August 10, would also be enforced, the CM added.Sawant made this announcement at a press conference on Wednesday and justified the fresh lockdown restrictions in a bid to strictly enforce hygiene amid the heavy monsoon rains that Goa has been receiving, leading to a growing fear of the spread of the viral infection.“We are in mid-July, when the state receives the highest rainfall. On Tuesday, the state reported 170 Covid-19 positive cases, which is the highest single-day spike so far. The figure could rise in the coming days. There is a lack of seriousness to contain the viral outbreak. The need of the hour is to create more awareness among the public and stricter compliance with all standard operating procedures (SOPs). A section of the public has started holding parties while flouting all social distancing norms with impunity,” the CM said.“The public only understands the language of the law. The state has reported over 1,000 active Covid-19 positive cases and 18 deaths,” he added.The decision to enforce fresh lockdown restrictions was taken at a cabinet meeting that was held after Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik had expressed concerns about the worsening Covid-19 situation in the state. Of the 18 deaths, at least half of them were reported in the past three days and there are still 1,128 active Covid-19 positive cases.On Tuesday, the state reported a surge with 170 Covid-19 positive cases largely owing to a pharmaceutical company, whose 136 employees tested positive.“We are at peak monsoon and it could be a peak for Covid-19 positive cases as well,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-day-lockdown-in-goa-from-friday-to-curb-covid-19-spread/story-eg6ixC4S4y3GnhtXboaWiI.html
15-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: In outreach attempt, Congress works peace talks between Gehlot and Pilot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress employs KC Venugopal to broker peace between Ashok Gehlot, Sachin PilotSachin Pilot’s firm and clear message this morning that he is “not joining the BJP” has got the Congress working behind the scenes to bring about a possible rapprochement between Ashok Gehlot and him. Read moreGalwan clash: On border row, China says military talks with India made further progress without giving detailsChina on Wednesday said the fourth round of Sino-India military talks held on Tuesday to reduce tension at the border had made progress in disengaging troops in the western section of the disputed boundary. Read moreGive a healthy twist to your favourite burgerA burger with an extra slice of cheese and deep fried patty killing you with guilt? Now give a healthy spin and turn the comfort food into a wholesome meal. Packed with nutrition and fresh flavours, here are some smart tips and tweaks from chefs for you to prepare a healthy burger without the guilt. Read more‘It’s very, very tough’: Why Sangakkara prefers Dhoni over Ganguly as a batsman in ODIsFormer Sri Lanka wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara has chosen MS Dhoni ahead of Sourav Ganguly as his pick for the better ODI batsman among the two. Dhoni and Ganguly, two of India’s finest captains have led the country to numerous triumphs but Sangakkara, who has played against both, went with Dhoni purely for his ability to finish matches for the team. Read moreArmy of yellow-coloured frogs spotted in Madhya Pradesh. WatchA video involving an army of rare yellow-coloured bullfrogs has left people surprised and mesmerised. It won’t be wrong to say that it’s an incredible sight. Read moreReliance RIL AGM 2020: Google invests ₹33,737 crore for 7.7% stake in Jio PlatformsReliance Industries Limited chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani at the company’s 43rd annual general meeting (AGM) announced that Google has invested a sum of ₹33,737 crore in Jio Platforms. Read moreBihar businessman buys land on the moon, find out how much it cost A Gaya based businessman has bought an acre of land on the moon on his birthday. Neeraj Kumar said that he had heard about Sushant Singh Rajput, Shah Rukh Khan and others owning land on the moon and he also wanted to have land on the moon. He said that while the price was not very high the process was very long. Watch this video for all the updates. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-in-outreach-attempt-congress-works-peace-talks-between-gehlot-and-pilot-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DawISFSpSZPgijDp56Kx1O.html
15-07-2020||India||Supreme Court will hear in-person petitions on Mahadayi river, says Goa CM||The Supreme Court has agreed to an in-person hearing on the Mahadayi interstate water dispute, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters on Wednesday.A virtual hearing to fix a date for the in-person hearing will be held on August 14, he said. Goa had requested the Supreme Court that in view of the “serious” nature of the case, it should not be taken forward through online hearings. “Today the matter has come before the Supreme Court. We had demanded that this be a personal hearing. The SC has agreed to our demand and the matter has been fixed on August 14 to finalise a fresh date when the personal hearing can be held. Since this is a very serious issue between three states Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra we wanted a personal hearing,” he said. Goa has opposed any diversion of waters of the River Mahadayi which originates in the Western Ghats in Karnataka takes a detour via Maharashtra and enters Goa as the Mandovi. The Mahadayi river basin drains an area of 2032 sq km, out of which an area of 375 sq km lies in Karnataka, 77 sq km in Maharashtra and rest in Goa.Both the Goa and Karnataka governments have, for very different reasons, challenged the final award granted by the Mahadayi Interstate Water Disputes Tribunal which in a verdict in August 2018 granted Karnataka a total of 13.42 Thousand Million Cubic Feet (TMC) of water out of their demand for from their total claims of 36.558 TMC of water.While Goa has approached the Supreme Court arguing that Karnataka shouldn’t be allowed to divert any water owing to the fact that the Mahadayi river is a water deficient river, Karnataka had approached the Supreme Court arguing that the tribunal erred in granting it only 13.42 TMC of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-will-hear-in-person-petitions-on-mahadayi-river-says-goa-cm/story-xbdKBlGjpoOKtpUn1Zh4jM.html
15-07-2020||India||PM Modi reviews plan to enhance Kedarnath’s divinity, make 16-km trek comfortable||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reviewed the development work going on in Kedarnath dham through video conferencing, while focusing on furthering the divinity of the Kedarnath temple and Hindu spiritual guru Adi Shankaracharya’s resting place nearby through maintenance of cleanliness at the holy pilgrimages and extensive development, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.The review meet also discussed the need to ensure that pilgrims headed to the holy shrine, considered to be the abode of Lord Shiva, get all facilities on the Gaurikund-Kedarnath route. The project to use technology to showcase the historical and cultural significance of the pilgrimage also came up for discussion.This was the second such review chaired by the Prime Minister in the last two months. The Kedarnath pilgrimage is considered to be one of the toughest among the four religious sites that form part of the Uttarakhand Char Dham pilgrimage circuit comprising Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath.The journey to Badrinath, nestled in the Himalayas, involves a 16-km trek through snow-clad mountains. It is Prime Minister Modi’s one of the most regularly frequented destinations. He had even spent a night in one of the caves near the Kedarnath temple after the general elections in 2019.The development project also involves developing more such caves for the purpose of meditation along with development of ghats.Another Central project to improve and develop 889 km of national highway linking the famed circuit at a cost of over Rs 11,700 crore is also in the progress. It was originally scheduled to get completed by March 2020.Earlier today, while addressing the digital conclave on the occasion of World Youth Skills Day, the prime minister said India has the potential to capitalise the skilling opportunities, which in-turn can supplement the global demand.The Prime Minister stressed on the need to map this demand and align Indian standards with those of other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-plan-to-enhance-kedarnath-s-divinity-make-16-km-trek-comfortable/story-veLCwuOynr1tJbDDrdRv8M.html
15-07-2020||India||India and EU share universal values like democracy, pluralism: PM Modi at India-EU Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday addressed India-EU Summit via video conferencing. Taking to Twitter, the prime minister had earlier tweeted saying, “I am confident this Summit will further strengthen our economic as well as cultural linkages with Europe”.The Summit is aimed at further broad basing ties on a range of areas including trade, investment and defence, officials of the 27-nation bloc said.Here’s what PM Modi said in his address at the summit:• India and EU are natural partners. Our partnership is also useful for peace and stability in the world. This reality has become even more clear in today’s global situation: PM Modi• Both India and EU share universal values like democracy, pluralism, inclusivity, respect for international institutions, multilaterism, freedom and transparency: PM Modi• In the post-Covid world, there have been new challenges in the economic world globally. To solve this, democratic countries must come together: PM Modi• We’ve till date sent medicines to nearly 150 countries. We have also taken the initiative to create a joint operation against COVID in our region: PM ModiAlso read: PM Modi participates in India-EU Summit today: All you need to know• We invite the initiative of ‘accelerating the access to COVID tools’ taken by EU and its countries. India’s pharma companies are ready to contribute to this global attempt: PM Modi• Today, both the health and prosperity of our citizens are facing challenges. In such a situation, the India-EU partnership can play an important role in economic reconstruction and in building a human-centric and human-centric globalization: PM Modi• Apart from the current challenges, long-term challenges like climate change are also a priority for both of us. In our efforts to increase the use of renewable energy in India, we invite the investment and technology of Europe: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-india-eu-summit-via-video-conferencing/story-AxUThpMmkxu1bNt4dHNfrO.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Come back to your home in Jaipur’: Congress to Sachin Pilot after his ‘not joining BJP’ remark||Stop all conversation with the BJP and head back to your home in Jaipur, the Congress urged Sachin Pilot in yet another outreach attempt. The state has been teetering on the edge since Pilot made his differences with chief minister Ashok Gehlot public. It was only yesterday that the party sacked Pilot as deputy chief minister and also from the post of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress chief.The latest peace offering follows the leader’s statement this morning where he categorically ruled out joining hands with the BJP. Pilot, 42, said the attempt to connect him to the opposition party was being done to malign his reputation in the eyes of the Gandhis. He further underlined that he fought against the BJP to bring the Congress to power in the state. “We’ve seen Sachin Pilot’s statement that he won’t join BJP. I’d like to tell him that if you don’t want that, then immediately come out of the security cover of BJP’s Haryana government, stop all conversations with them and come back to your home in Jaipur,” said Randeep S Surjewala at a press briefing this afternoon.Pilot, along with his MLAs, has been camping in Delhi since Saturday.Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande also tweeted saying that the party doors were not closed on the leader.“The Congress doors haven’t been shut on Sachin Pilot, may lord grant him good sense and may he understand his mistake. I hope he gets out of the BJP’s deceptive ways,” tweeted Avinash Pande.Hindustan Times has learnt that KC Venugopal, general secretary, organisation, is trying to convince chief minister Ashok Gehlot to try to bury differences with his former Number 2. Gehlot, however, does not appear too keen and wants his detractor to be expelled immediately for “anti-party” activities. The CM today claimed that horse trading was being done in Jaipur, and said he has the proof as well. Gehlot, in a swipe at Sachin Pilot, claimed that the “new generation” in politics was impatient.“I have been in politics for 40 years, we love the new generation, the future will be theirs. This new generation, they have become central ministers, state presidents. if they had gone through what we did in our time, they would have understood,” Gehlot was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-back-to-your-home-in-jaipur-congress-to-sachin-pilot-after-his-not-joining-bjp-remark/story-XafsBaEGxr8MqS5rqlsFsI.html
15-07-2020||India||Galwan clash: On border row, China says military talks with India made further progress without giving details||China on Wednesday said the fourth round of Sino-India military talks held on Tuesday to reduce tension at the border had made progress in disengaging troops in the western section of the disputed boundary.The Chinese foreign ministry said it hoped New Delhi would work with Beijing to safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas. The talks, aimed at de-escalation, have taken place in a phased manner weeks after after Indian and Chinese troops clashed along the Line of Actual Control in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The violent brawl between troops of both sides on June 15 claimed the lives of 20 Indian army personnel and an unspecified number of Chinese were also reportedly killed.Responding to a query on the talks, foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said: “As I know on July the 14, border troops of China and India held the fourth round of commander-level talks building on the consensus of the previous three rounds and the implementation of relevant work have reached progress on promoting further disengagement between troops at the western section of the boundary and de-escalating tensions.”“We hope India can work with China to implement our consensus with real actions and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas,” she said in her short response without sharing details or elaborating on the exact agenda of the talks.Hua was referring to the fourth round of talks held between 14 Corps commander Lt General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin.China has so far not shared any detail of the parametres of disengagement the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is following; no detail has been forthcoming from Beijing about how far back its troops have pulled back given the differing perceptions that New Delhi and Beijing have on LAC transgressions.The two sides had held previous talks to reduce tension along the disputed boundary on June 6, June 22 and June 30.India is moving forward with great caution in the disengagement process after the worst crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in decades, officials in New Delhi told HT last week. Troops from both sides have pulled back in a limited manner at key friction points along the LAC since the Special Representatives on the border issue – India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s state councilor foreign minister Wang Yi – held a phone conversation earlier this month and agreed peace and tranquillity along the border is essential for overall development of bilateral ties.Last week, India again rejected China’s claim on Galwan Valley and said the LAC must be strictly respected.Following a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs last Friday – the third since the Sino-India standoff began in early May -- both sides issued similarly worded statements focused on progress in the disengagement and de-escalation process that began last weekend after a phone conversation between the Special Representatives on the boundary issue.The WMCC meeting was co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and director general Hong Liang of the boundary and oceanic affairs department of China’s foreign ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-clash-on-border-row-china-says-military-talks-with-india-made-further-progress-without-giving-details/story-y0N9Ztgv8dHSKpQOnzImfP.html
15-07-2020||India||Congress employs KC Venugopal to broker peace between Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot||Sachin Pilot’s firm and clear message this morning that he is “not joining the BJP” has got the Congress working behind the scenes to bring about a possible rapprochement between Ashok Gehlot and him.It may appear that the party went too far when it sacked him as deputy chief minister and the Rajasthan party chief, but KC Venugopal, the key general secretary, organisation, is making a last-ditch attempt at fixing things.Hindustan Times has learnt that Venugopal is trying to convince chief minister Ashok Gehlot to try to bury differences with his former Number 2.Gehlot, however, does not appear too keen and wants his detractor to be expelled immediately for “anti-party” activities. Venugopal arrived in Jaipur on Monday and is at the moment locked in meetings at the Fairmont hotel, the site of the second Congress legislature party meeting. He is also, one Congressman said, in touch with the Pilot’s side.The former deputy chief minister also struck a conciliatory note this morning when he told Hindustan Times that he is not going to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“I am not joining BJP. Those saying that are just trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes,” he told Hindustan Times. ``There are various people who want to do that and they have a motive to do that and it’s just not true.’’Sachin Pilot also cancelled a press conference scheduled for today, setting off speculation that things may have changed since last night when the party charged him with being a part of BJP’s conspiracy to bring down the Congress government in Rajasthan. Pilot’s only response was “Truth may be harassed, but can’t be defeated.’’The Congress had removed Pilot as Rajasthan Congress chief on Tuesday. He was also dropped by chief minister Ashok Gehlot from the cabinet after a meeting of the Congress’ legislature party meeting(CLP). Two more of his loyalists were expelled from the cabinet: Ramesh Meena and Vishvendra Singh.Rajasthan education minister Govind Singh Dotasra was named the new Congress chief in the desert state. The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of frontal organisations Youth Congress and Sewa Dal, respectively.The crisis in Rajasthan unit reached a breaking point when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in the state. He, along with his MLAs, has been campin in Delhi since Saturday.And alleged that the Gehlot government does not have the numbers.Swinging into action, the grand old party immediately deputed two senior leaders to resolve the crisis and bring Pilot and the other rebels back into the fold. But the efforts did not bear fruit as Pilot stayed away from the two CLP meetings called by the party on Monday and Tuesday.Then came his dismissal from the cabinet and the charge that he was “conspiring” with the BJP to destabilise the government.On Tuesday, 101 legislators - in a 200-member strong assembly - attended the CLP meeting at the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur, which included 10 independent legislators and two from Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and one from the Communist Party of India (Marxist); the other CPIM legislator was unwell. However, in the afternoon, the two BTP legislators left the hotel, and went home, saying they would take a call on supporting a political party at an “appropriate” time.It remains to be seen how the next chapter in this drama unfolds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-another-push-congress-works-peace-talks-between-ashok-gehlot-sachin-pilot/story-nKjs9OqGKB5R3BGZQaX75M.html
15-07-2020||India||Gehlot says he has proof, after Sachin Pilot denies plotting against govt with the BJP||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday claimed that his team had proof that Congress MLAs were being lured into a rebellion against the state government. He said the attempts to topple his government have been going on since some time, forcing the party to sequester all party MLAs in a Jaipur hotel on multiple occasions. He added that the current crisis would have unfolded before had the party not been on guard. “Horse trading was being done in Jaipur, we have the proof. We had to keep people at a hotel for 10 days, if we had not done that, the same thing that is happening in Manesar now would have happened back then,” Ashok Gehlot was reported as saying by a news agency.Gehlot’s statement follows his former deputy Sachin Pilot’s denial of planning the Congress government’s downfall in conjunction with the opposition party, the BJP. Sachin, who is camping with several of his loyal party MLAs at a Manesar hotel, also declared that he was not joining the BJP. His statement was a counter to Gehlot camp’s persistent claims that Pilot had fallen trap to a BJP plot to overthrow the Rajasthan government. Gehlot, also in a broad swipe at Sachin Pilot, claimed that the “new generation” in politics didn’t have the patience to wait for their turn.“I have been in politics for 40 years, we love the new generation, the future will be theirs. This new generation, they have become central ministers, state presidents. if they had gone through what we did in our time, they would have understood,” Gehlot was quoted as saying.Gehlot’s statement is a reflection of an opinion gaining ground among the old guard in the Congress that the young leaders ought to wait for their turn in the pecking order, bringing to fore the friction between the young and the old guard in the party. While yesterday, a few party young guns including Priya Dutt, Jitin Prasada and Shashi Tharoor had expressed sympathy for Pilot, several senior party leaders, including Digvijaya Singh, Veerappa Moily, have come out today hitting out at the young generation for being in a hurry at the expense of the party.Pilot, however, had alleged a counter-plot to weaken his position within the party, especially before the Gandhis-- a reference to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, her son and former party president Rahul Gandhi and her daughter and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. He didn’t specifically name Gehlot for plotting his downfall but the opposition BJP has not been mincing words while accusing Gehlot of “having produced, scripted, directed and acted in a film” aimed at ousting his challenger Sachin Pilot from the party.While party national general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande suggested it was still not the end of the road for Pilot in the party, the sword of disqualification from the state assembly hangs over Pilot and his 18 followers, who have been asked to explain their position by Friday. Party chief whip Mahesh Joshi has asked the assembly speaker to disqualify Pilot and his supporters claiming they have been plotting against the party and deliberately disobeyed a whip to attend legislative council meetings in Jaipur over the past two days.Among those sent notices are Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, who were sacked along with Pilot from the state cabinet after their rebellion against CM Gehlot. Deepender Singh Shekhawat, Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Harish Chandra Meena, who had given statements against the Gehlot government, are others on the chopping block.On Tuesday, Sachin Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the state Congress president after he did not attend the Congress legislature party (CLP) meetings, held over Monday and Tuesday. Two other ministers loyal to him were also given the boot from the Cabinet.In another important move, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) has dissolved all district and block party committees in the state, said Avinash Pande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-says-he-has-proof-after-sachin-pilot-denies-plotting-against-govt-with-the-bjp/story-objJpSBajnLz113x00GXYP.html
15-07-2020||India||BJP distorting facts about MLA’s suspected suicide, Mamata Banerjee tells President||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was “distorting facts” about the death of Debendranath Roy, MLA from Hemtabad in North Dinajpur district who won the reserved seat on a CPI (M) ticket in 2016 before joining the BJP in 2019.Hours after her letter, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the state police charged Niloy Singh, an acquaintance of Roy, with murder. Singh was picked up from Malda district on Tuesday and interrogated for hours.The 63-year-old legislator’s body was found hanging on Monday morning outside a roadside shop about two kilometers away from his home. He left home around 1 am in the night with an unidentified person. Roy’s family and the BJP have alleged that he was murdered. The BJP has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and met Kovind on Tuesday. Bengal BJP leaders led agitations outside police stations across the state on Wednesday. Roy’s body was found hanging outside a mobile phone shop that he used to visit to meet local people, Banerjee said in the letter that was handed to the President by Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien. “I am constrained to invite your kind and personal attention to a particular fact. This is in context of your meeting with a delegation of BJP who might have apprised with some distorted facts” says the letter’s opening lines.“On receipt of post mortem report and on primary investigation West Bengal police has reported that it is a cause of suspected suicide and could be related to some local money transfer activities. The note found in a pocket of the deceased also names two persons who are allegedly found to be related to such money transfer activities in the locality,” Banerjee wrote.“Therefore, I am sorry to say that it does not appear to be a political case as being projected by BJP,” she said.She said her government has taken all necessary actions immediately for a comprehensive investigation and has handed over the case to CID for proper investigation.“I would like to assure that West Bengal is a state where we always respect all political parties, their leaders and workers,” the letter said.“The death of one of our compatriots in the West Bengal legislative assembly is very unfortunate. Let his soul rest in peace and let the truth unravel,” Banerjee’s letter said.The BJP reacted by saying that the letter is proof of the ruling the TMC’s guilty consciousness.“In the past, several murders were passed off as suicides by the police in Bengal. In none of those occasions the chief minister felt the urge to rush letters to the President. This proves that dal main kuchh kala hai (something is fishy),” BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha told HT.Till Wednesday afternoon, state CID officers made no comment on the investigation. Nilay Sinha, one of the two men mentioned in the note found in Roy’s pocket, is being questioned by the police. Roy’s wife told the police that he was trying to get into the rice trade and had taken a huge loan from banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-distorting-facts-about-mla-s-suspected-suicide-mamata-banerjee-tells-president/story-bYfzoS1QdBekgZCi5VSgiJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: 112 blocks of 25 districts in red zone||Chhattisgarh health department on Tuesday issued a fresh list of red, orange, green zones, spanning 112 blocks in 25 districts, amid a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the state. Only Sukma, Gaurella-Pendra-Marwahi and Dhamtari districts do not feature in the state health department’s latest advisory.On Tuesday, Chhattisgarh crossed over a thousand active Covid-19 positive cases, as the tally stands at 1,084.“Rajnandgaon district is the worst affected in the state, as nine blocks have been declared red zones. The revised list shows that Chhattisgarh has 32 blocks in orange zones,” said a senior health official.Chhattisgarh’s latest Covid-19 count is 4,379, including 105 fresh cases and the death toll has risen to 20. The following is the district-wise break-up of fresh Covid-19 positive cases in the state: Bilaspur (18), Sukma (18), Narayanpur (18), Surguja (12), Raipur (9), Balrampur (8), Rajnandgaon (7), Kondagaon (3), Raigarh (2), Korba (2), and Kanker (2).The health department has also decided to establish swab sample collection centres in urban and rural areas for early detection of Covid--19 positive cases.State health department authorities have directed the Chief Medical and Health Officers of all the districts to establish these swab sample collection centres.Meanwhile, a senior citizen, who had tested Covid-19 positive and was undergoing treatment at Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Memorial Hospital in Raipur since July 11, died on Monday evening. He was suffering from pneumonia, acute renal ailments, and septic shock, the hospital authorities said.So far, 3,275 Covid-19 patients have recovered from their viral infection in the state, the official said.However, the viral outbreak has spread its footprint to all 28 districts of the state.Raipur district has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases at 841, followed by Rajnandgaon (385), Korba (344), Bilaspur (309), Janjgir-Champa (299), Balodabazar (296), Durg (230), Jashpur (192), Balrampur (162), Raigarh (150), Mungeli (132), Kabirdham (118), Narayanpur (116), and Surguja (107), the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-112-blocks-of-25-districts-in-red-zone/story-is93CfzdFj9YC0B8N37dfP.html
15-07-2020||India||At IT panel’s first meet since Covid-19, MPs ask if they could attend Parliament online||The first meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, chaired by Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Shashi Tharoor, on Tuesday, after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak was reported in the country, centred on the members’ keenness to know about the government’s contact-tracing Aarogya Setu mobile application (app), the recent ban on 59 Chinese apps and whether MPs could attend the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, which is likely to begin after August 15, online because of the pandemic.Around eight members of Parliament, including Tharoor, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Tejaswi Surya, Rajyavardhan Rathore, Nishikant Dubey, Sanjay Seth, and Anil Aggarwal were present at the meeting, which was also attended by officials from the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY).The panel has 29 members, including 21 and eight from the Lok Sabha (LS) and the Rajya Sabha (RS), respectively.Typically, a House panel meeting lasts for an hour, but on Tuesday it went on for about two hours and 15 minutes, as the MPs dissected the government’s decisions amid the pandemic.The last meeting was held in mid-March ahead of the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. Later, Thiruvananthapuram MP Tharoor put out a tweet about the meeting.“The Parliamentary Standing Committee in Information Technology met on Tuesday. The eight MPs, who braved quarantine restrictions to attend, heard briefings from MeitY & the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on recent developments including the Aarogya Setu app and cybersecurity,” Tharoor tweeted. “Due social distancing norms were observed and attendees came masked. This could well be the new normal for a long time to come. Still, it was a useful meeting, where serious questions were asked and constructive discussions took place,” he further tweeted. According to officials present at the meeting and familiar with the matter, some MPs sought to know whether they could be allowed to virtually attend the monsoon session of Parliament.“Our response was simple, we can do it tomorrow,” said a MeitY official on the condition of anonymity. “We just need the go-ahead to conduct it. Parliament, in any case, is telecast live so it is not much of an issue.” However, the standing committee members need to meet in person, as these are confidential matters, said the official.Derek O’Brien, Trinamool Congress’s RS MP and a member of the panel, also raised the issue of virtual presence during Tuesday’s meeting. “The Meeting of the Parliamentary Select Committee examining the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, has called a meeting on Friday (July 17). Amid these Covid-19 times, a three-day notice was given to members. This is strange. A virtual presence is still not allowed. Strange methods are playing out in Parliament,” O’Brien tweeted.However, the official quoted above said that the notification for the standing committee for IT was done over a week ago. According to another official present at the meeting, Surya, the BJP’s Bengaluru South MP, was among those, who wanted to know about the ban on 59 Chinese apps and Aarogya Setu. “Everyone praised the move to ban the apps. Some even asked whether there are other apps that are likely to be banned soon,” said the second official.“The MPs were keen to know about the new features of Aarogya Setu and also about the government’s move to protect data,” he added.An MP, who was present at the meeting, the thrust of the discussion was about cybersecurity, Aarogya Setu and the ban on 59 Chinese apps. “It was a productive discussion,” said the MP, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-it-panel-s-first-meet-since-covid-19-mps-ask-if-they-could-attend-parliament-online/story-yAhc3MhVNeUmeROVsDaJ6K.html
15-07-2020||India||As multi-agency probe takes speed in Kerala, smugglers and hawala operators feel heat||As the multi-agency probe in Kerala gold smuggling case took up speed, smugglers and hawala operators have started feeling the heat even as the Customs Department grilled chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar for nine long hours.Arrived for questioning at 5.30 pm at the customs office on Tuesday, Sivasankar’s grilling went on till 2.30 am till the early hours on Wednesday. Officials said he will be summoned again after cross-examining information provided by him.Kerala gold smuggling drama unfolded after the customs seized 30 kilograms of gold from an air cargo consignment from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to the country’s consular office in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Later it arrested four persons including Swapna Suresh, a consultant with the state IT department. CM’s powerful secretary Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was later removed from his post after reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to Suresh. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).As the multi-agency investigation progressed, customs commissioner in-charge of Kerala and Lakshadweep Sumit Kumar, known for his tough stance, gave out an ultimatum to smugglers to either surrender or face action. There are reports that at least six of them have already surrendered and more are in touch with the officials.Also read: Customs question Kerala CM’s former secretary in gold smuggling case“We have told them to surrender or face music. We have a list of regular offenders and we are out to break their syndicate. The multi-agency probe is going as planned. Since the investigation is on, I can’t say more at this juncture,” he said.Meanwhile, the NIA has approached the Interpol, international criminal/police organisation, for the extradition of Faisal Fareed, the third person accused in the case, who is reported to be in the UAE. A court in Kochi had issued an arrest warrant against him. Reports from Dubai also suggest he was absconding fearing arrest and extradition.The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Intelligence Bureau, Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax and other agencies are also helping the ongoing probe. People familiar with central agencies also said this is the strongest ever probe conducted by central agencies being supervised by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. This is the first time the NIA is taking up a smuggling case, said an official familiar with the probe.In the custody application for those arrested, the NIA said a good amount of money generated through smuggling was pumped in to funding terror activities. It also said 150 kilograms of gold was smuggled through Thiruvananthapuram airport in last six months in a similar fashion.Four persons had been named in NIA FIR and include, Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate; Swapna Suresh, Fareed and Suresh’s friend Sandeep Nair. The customs department has arrested three others and detained many, some of them will soon figure in the FIR after a detailed questioning, said the official.There are also reports that at least two dozen smugglers and hawala operators, including some living abroad, have expressed their willingness to surrender.“After we tightened the grip they are running for cover. We will net them. If it goes unchecked it will take the proportion of notorious cartels of Columbia. Their roots are very strong in south India, especially in Kerala. They are posing a big threat to the economy and national security,” said the senior official.There are reports that the customs department has prepared a list of 100 known offenders from south India and some people from Mangaluru in Karnataka and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu figure in this. There are also reports that the Union Finance Ministry will amend some of the gold and money laundering laws to give them more teeth and plug loopholes. Usually, carriers get away after coughing up fine and only small fries get netted and now the multi-agency probe is after elusive kingpins, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-multi-agency-probe-takes-speed-in-kerala-smugglers-and-hawala-operators-feel-heat/story-x3BXQgUbpB96nQZf0J32kK.html
15-07-2020||India||Congress dissolves all party panels in Rajasthan, aims for fresh start||The Congress has decided to dissolve the party’s district and block committees in Rajasthan with immediate effect, Avinash Pande, the party’s in-charge in Rajasthan said Wednesday.“AICC has decided to dissolve all the District Congress Committees and Block Congress Committees of Rajasthan Pradesh with immediate effect. The process of formation of new committees will begin soon,” Pande tweeted hours after deposed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said he was not going to join the BJP.In an earlier tweet on Wednesday, Pande said that the Congress’ doors have not been shut on Pilot and hoped that good sense would prevail upon him.On Tuesday night, Pande had announced the dissolution the State Executive unit, all other departments and cells of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee. Earlier Tuesday, the Congress had also removed Pilot as chief of the Rajasthan unit of the party while chief minister Ashok Gehlot dropped him as deputy CM.Two of Pilot’s supporters - food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena and tourism minister Vishvendra Singh – were also dropped from the cabinet..Pilot had skipped two Congress legislature party (CLP) meetings on Monday and Tuesday following which was dropped from the cabinet as removed as party chief in the state.Pilot had been upset since the Congress picked Gehlot as the chief minister after the 2018 assembly polls but matters came to a head after he was summoned last week by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan Police for questioning after reports that the BJP was trying to lure away Congress MLAs by offering bribes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-dissolves-all-party-panels-in-rajasthan-aims-for-fresh-start/story-nMGn2iJai61mSlmEKGED0L.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Winning a national award was numbing moment…’||Young actor Chandrachoor Rai dreamt big and wished to work in best of films. But, never in his wildest dream had he thought that in a career spanning just seven years he will receive a special mention at 66th National Film Awards (2019). “I was shocked instead of being surprised. I vividly remember when I got a call from actor Vinay Pathak to inform about the award that I had won for my role in Rajat Kapoor’s directorial ‘Kadakh,’ I was all numb and emotional at the same time. It was difficult for me to believe till I read it in the newspaper myself,” he said over phone.Talking about his early days, Chandrachoor said, “I come from a non-filmi background was asked to take up a career in journalism by my parents. But I was well aware with my penchant for acting. I had made up my mind to give it a shot because during my mass communication course I had understood what the craft of acting was all about and I simply enjoyed the process. The only condition laid by my father was to train myself in acting.”He joined Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) and completed two-year of acting course. Chandrachoor has been part of films like ‘Ankhon Dekhi,’ ‘Dum Laga Ke Haisha,’ Meri Pyaari Bindu,’ ‘Meeruthiya Gangsters’ and web series ‘Upstarts.’ “When I came Mumbai, I called up Saurabh (Shukla) sir as he and Rajat (Kapoor) sir had come to FTII for workshops. They were like my gurus so when I reached Mumbai, I called them. When I spoke to Saurabh sir he was like ‘office aa jao’. He was writing some plays and I assisted him in writing my version of scenes and stories and then we used to jam over them. It was there only when I got to know that Rajat sir was casting for his film ‘Ankhon Dekhi’ and one of his friends asked me to go for its auditions and rest is history,” he said.His mother hails from UP and he has many of his relatives and school bestie living in the state capital. “I have also shot one of my films here. With relatives and my best friend from school living here, I have visited Lucknow umpteen number times during my younger days. Hanging around in Chowk and Gomti Nagar was our favourite pastime then.”His latest release ‘Kadakh’, that won appreciation across globe, is being well received on OTT platform. Chandrachoor hopes to be back to work soon, “My career is going well but finding work as per your choice is not that easy but it’s gradually happening. My next film to release will be ‘Fairyfolk’ with actor Rasika Duggal. It’s in post-production followed by film ‘Rk rk’ and ‘Sir’. The latter went to Cannes Film Fest,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/winning-a-national-award-was-numbing-moment/story-xDVy0XvV3vymTrK7rJ4q2K.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Keep Lord Ram out of regional politics’: Ayodhya saints lash out at Nepal PM Oli||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust and saints in Ayodhya have strongly condemned Nepalese PM KP Sharma Oli’s statement that real Ayodhya was in Nepal and Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal.Chairman of Sri Ram Jamabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das on Tuesday urged Nepalese PM to keep lord Ram out of regional politics.Oli had made the remarks while speaking at an event to mark birth anniversary of Nepalese poet Bhanubhakta.“Nepalese PM must keep Lord Ram out of regional politics. His comments on Lord Ram are unwarranted,” said Mahant Nritya Gopal Das.“Lord Ram was a ‘Chakravarti’ emperor and Nepal was also part of his kingdom. Ties between India and Nepal are even older than history. His (Nepalese PM) comments are unfortunate,” added the chief priest.It may be pointed out that every year ‘Ram Baraat’ (wedding procession of Lord Ram) from Ayodhya leaves for Janakpur in Nepal with much fanfare. Large number of saints take part in the much-awaited annual event.Commenting on Oli’s remark, Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson of the VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram in Ayodhya, said: “It is at the behest of China that PM of Nepal has given such baseless and unwarranted statement.”“Nothing can be more absurd than this. All religious scriptures prove that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya here in India,” added Sharma.Raju Das, priest of Hanuman Garhi, dubbed Oli’s statement as another ploy to divert attention from increasing opposition he is facing in Nepal.“At present Nepalese PM is under immense pressure from the Opposition to resign from his post. As there is no option left, he has given this absurd statement just to divert attention of people from ongoing political turmoil in the country,” said Das.“In recently concluded decades’ old Ram Janmabhoomi case in Supreme Court all historical facts were present before the court to prove Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya is birth place of Lord Ram,” said Das. This is second controversy created by Oli in connection with India.Last month, Nepal cleared a constitution amendment bill to reflect new map in the national emblem kicking off boundary dispute with India.This map shows Indian territories Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-lord-ram-out-of-regional-politics-ayodhya-saints-lash-out-at-nepal-pm-oli/story-ygZ8z3VZLdMSyqL1CygTSL.html
15-07-2020||India||Ashok Lavasa to quit Election Commission, appointed ADB vice president||Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa, who was next in the line to head the poll panel, has been appointed as vice president for Private Sector Operations and Public-Private Partnerships at the Asian Development Bank. The surprise announcement was made by the regional development bank on Wednesday.Lavasa would be only the second election commissioner to step down from the poll panel before completion of his term. The last time an election commissioner put in his papers was in 1973 when chief election commissioner Nagendra Singh was appointed a judge in the International Court of Justice at The Hague.The ADB statement said Lavasa succeeds Diwakar Gupta whose term ends on August 31.Lavasa, a retired IAS officer, was appointed as election commissioner in January 2018 and would be in line to be appointed as the chief election commissioner when Sunil Arora completes his term if the government sticks to the tradition of appointing the senior-most commissioner to the top post. There is, however, no rule that requires the President to stick to this convention.The retired 1980 batch IAS officer did not agree with the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) decisions to clear Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then BJP president Amit Shah of charges of violating Model Code of Conduct (MCC) during the 2019 general elections.Lavasa later told Hindustan Times that he had no axe to grind. “My concern is to have a system of disposal of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) violation cases in a time bound, transparent, and non-discriminatory manner,” Lavasa told HT in an interview.The rift within the three-member commission had come into the open after reports emerged that Lavasa recused himself from meetings to discuss MCC issues unless his dissent was recorded.The spotlight remained on the election commissioner later when the income tax department issued notices to his wife Novel Singhal Lavasa for alleged tax evasion.Prior to his appointment as election commissioner, Lavasa played a critical role in running of several ministries at varying points of time in his career. Among other highlights, he was also held the union finance secretary job. Lavasa has an MBA degree from Southern Cross University in Australia, and MPhil in Defense and Strategic Studies degree from the University of Madras. He completed his Bachelor of Arts Degree with English Honors and a Master of Arts in English Literature from Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commissioner-ashok-lavasa-appointed-vice-president-of-asian-development-bank/story-zQzCuPMNGCtN8Rjoz1wapI.html
15-07-2020||India||Sheena Bora murder: CBI court denies bail to Indrani Mukerjea||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected the 45-day interim bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, one of the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case and lodged at Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail, which has emerged as one of the hotspots of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Mukherjea had moved an interim bail plea owing to the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak among the jail inmates.She had drawn the special judge’s attention in end-June that SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, is spreading inside the jail premises and expressed concern about her health condition.Though the court rejected her interim bail plea, it will issue a detailed order later explaining the reasons for it.Mukherjea had stated in her plea that she is suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries, which require constant healthcare and monitoring.She had also referred to the minutes of the High Power Committee (HPC) of the Bombay high court (HC), which had ruled that undertrials facing a murder charge, are eligible for interim bail.However, special public prosecutor Manoj Chaladan opposed the interim bail plea, arguing that Mukherjea is a foreign national and not entitled to interim bail as per the recommendations of the HC’s HPC.He argued that Mukherjea is not suffering from any major ailment that would put her at risk of contracting the viral infection.He also assured the court that jail authorities would ensure that inmates get proper healthcare facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheena-bora-murder-cbi-court-denies-bail-to-indrani-mukerjea/story-Y1QzFbIWpt8MJS3EypPxxJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political turmoil: How Congress legal experts joined Gehlot to ground Pilot||As the war between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot intensified over the last three days, the Congress dialled prominent legal brains to join the battle and guide team Gehlot at every step even as legal eagles held the young Pilot in high regards.A six-pronged legal strategy was evolved to counter Pilot and his loyalists, which culminated in state assembly speaker PC Joshi sending a show-cause notice to them.The decision to hold two Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meetings - one at CM’s residence and another a hotel - keeping the doors open for Pilot even as he was incommunicado, stripping him of his portfolios but retaining him in the party, preparing drafts of letters, were all done in close consultations with Abhishek Singhvi, senior party leader and its key legal brain.Also read: ‘Party doors not shut’ - Congress leader after Sachin Pilot denies joining BJPFive Congress leaders, including CM Gehlot, Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Avinash Pandey, held frequent consultation with Singhvi. They clubbed the Rajasthan’s state anti-defection law with the Tenth Schedule of the Indian Constitution to make a case of disqualification of Sachin Pilot and his loyal MLAs.“As the shadow of the BJP loomed large, we realized that we have to try our best to protect the Congress government. We decided to ask for disqualification of Pilot and his loyalists from the assembly as it would reduce the numbers in the House and brighten the prospect of the Congress’ majority,” said a leader involved in the strategy.They also decided not to sack Pilot from the Congress as it would benefit him. Under the legislative laws, if a lawmaker is sacked from the party, he or she will remain an independent member of the House. Such a move could have benefited Pilot and spoiled the Congress’ objectives. Also read: I’m not joining BJP, those saying so are trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes, says Sachin PilotFor Gehlot, the advisors suggested, it was a chance to kill 3 birds with one stone. He can minimize the prospects of the BJP toppling his government, oust his arch-rival Pilot and raise his stocks with the party in this crisis as he can show how he is confronting attacks from different fronts, said a senior Congress leader. To be sure, Singhvi and many other central leaders of the Congress enjoyed great rapport with Pilot. While some senior leaders even considered him a possible face of the Congress in the future, many Pilot admirers felt that he miscalculated his strength and Gehlot’s weight in the organisation.“We also felt that Pilot carried his rebellion too far. He refused to meet emissaries and didn’t allow the party to find a middle ground. When Gehlot realized that Pilot has stretched his limits, he moved swiftly to throw him out of the cabinet,” said another leader who was involved in the discussions. The decision to remove him from the party’s state president’s post was taken in New Delhi. The legal team invoked several Supreme Court judgments including the Rajiv Nair and the BS Yeddyurappa cases. They maintained that defection should not be seen only if an MLA or an MP defies party whip in the House but his utterances, conduct can also lead to a case for disqualification.Even as they planned to nail Pilot, the personal equations didn’t end. On Tuesday, Pilot called Singhvi and requested him to fight his legal battle, oblivious of the fact that he is actually helping the other side. “Singhvi revealed his role and told Pilot that the honourable thing for him would be not to take his case,” said a Singhvi aide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-turmoil-how-congress-legal-experts-joined-gehlot-to-ground-pilot/story-NNToLvtgz2ArYtHEP1mBSM.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Laughable’: Shiv Sena on Nepal PM Oli’s claims on Lord Ram||The Shiv Sena has criticised Nepal prime minister KP Sharma Oli over his statement that the real Ayodhya - birth place of Lord Ram - lies in Nepal, and not in India.Calling the statement “laughable”, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana termed Oli a “puppet” of China, who has been “spewing venom” against India lately.“Nepal prime minister KP Sharma Oli is the puppet of China. He has been speaking against India daily on the instructions of China. First he created controversy on maps now he’s directly dragged Lord Ram in the Nepal-India conflict... He has said that India’s Ayodhya is fake, the real Ayodhya is in Nepal; Lord Ram was Nepalese. These statements of Oli are laughable,” the editorial said on Tuesday. The editorial referred to the Puranas and said that River Saryu flows near Ayodhya but there is no such river in Nepal. It added that thousands of Karsevaks have spilled their blood on the river turning it red during the struggle. The editorial further asked why Oli did not come forward to make his claim as the Ram Janmabhoomi movement has been on for 70-75 years.The Sena further ridiculed Oli’s statement and said, “Today, he has claimed Ayodhya and Lord Ram are Nepalese. Tomorrow, he will claim even Babur was from Nepal. Lord Ram belongs to the whole world, but Ram Janmabhoomi belongs to only India and there is no need for a controversy on this.”In another sarcastic remark, the editorial said Oli’s ancestors hoodwinked even Babur, who wanted to bring down the Ram temple to build a mosque in place of it, by diverting the Mughal emperor to North India instead of Nepal.“Ayodhya was in Nepal and Oli’s ancestors hoodwinked Babur and diverted him towards India (instead). Oli fooled Babur. This is in a way insult of Islam and will Oli’s junior father Pakistan punish him as per Islamic laws?” it asked.The editorial further said that Oli has forgotten the cultural and religious ties between the two countries and is speaking against India as his chair is under a threat. “Therefore, the Chinese ambassadors are fighting to save his chair. Oli has become a slave of China and has decided to convert his countries culture into Chinese,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/laughable-shiv-sena-on-nepal-pm-oli-s-claims-on-lord-ram/story-WOjEiUgATgzRp315oq9K7N.html
15-07-2020||India||PM Oli’s Ayodhya remark fits the pattern. China is the elephant in the room||Chastised at home and abroad over his Ayodhya claim, Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli resumed negotiations on Wednesday with his lead rival within the Nepal Communist Party Pushpa Kamal Dahal who has fronted a campaign to oust him from the prime minister’s office. But the negotiations didn’t last for long. After 15 minutes or so, PM Oli who was meeting Dahal at his official residence in Kathmandu’s Baluwatar told Dahal that he wasn’t feeling well and abruptly ended the meeting.Dahal, a former prime minister commonly known by his nom de guerre Prachanda, has for months tried to get PM KP Sharma Oli to step down from either of the two posts that he holds; the prime minister’s post and the co-chairman of the ruling communist party. But he has been outsmarted by PM Oli on more than one occasion, with some help from China that is comfortable with the 68-year-old Nepal politician and prefers his continuation.PM Oli has earned Beijing’s trust over the last several months with his sniping attacks at New Delhi, right from setting up a new boundary dispute, claiming that the SARS-Cov-2 pathogen from India is deadlier than the one in China or Italy and accusing India of trying to topple his government.Also Read: Nepal bought 6 Chinese planes that Dhaka rejected. Now it grounds them: ReportHis comment on Lord Ram and the “real Ayodhya” on Monday was part of this continuing tirade against India, designed to drive a wedge between people of the two countries, a Kathmandu watcher in New Delhi said.When India’s external affairs ministry made it clear that it would not initiate dialogue with Kathmandu after PM Oli pushed Nepal’s new political map through Parliament, it had underscored that the government would continue to work to strengthen people-to-people relations between the two countries.PM Oli’s claim that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya, described by his party leaders as ludicrous, was aimed at upsetting this effort. Indian government officials said PM Oli’s larger effort was to stoke anti-India sentiment in Nepal - a continuing effort of his government - by accusing India of encroaching on cultural facts.Nepal “has become a victim of cultural encroachment and its history has been manipulated,” he said at an event to mark the birth anniversary of Nepalese poet Bhanubhakta, credited for translating Valmiki’s Ramayan into Nepali language.But PM Oli’s effort backfired. There are already loud voices in his party and outside that have spoken about his concerted effort at chipping away at the goodwill between the two countries.On Wednesday, Nepal’s leading newspaper Kathmandu Post’s front page story on PM Oli’s Ayodhya remark is titled, “Amid soured Nepal-India ties, Oli is threatening relations between peoples of two countries, leaders and experts say”.A foreign ministry statement on PM Oli’s Ayodhya remark attempted to give it a new spin. The PM, the statement said, “was simply highlighting the importance of further studies and research... to obtain facts about Shri Ram, Ramayana and various places linked to this rich civilization”.This isn’t the first time that PM Oli has come under attack in Kathmandu for his sharp tilt against India. “But the elephant in the room is China,” said an analyst based in New Delhi, echoing the government’s reading of PM Oli and his pitch against India. He said PM Oli’s statements and actions fit the pattern of serving China’s interests, starting from the Lipulekh boundary dispute.In her conversations with PM Oli’s rivals in the communist party, Chinese ambassador Hou Yanqi is learnt to have explained China’s interest in Nepal’s ruling party to ideology: Communist China doesn’t want Nepal Communist Party - formed in 2018 with the merger of 2 leading left parties - to split again. And since PM Oli could split the party if he is up against the wall, the rival camps should take measured steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-oli-s-ayodhya-remark-fits-the-pattern-china-is-the-elephant-in-the-room/story-sbels4hLu02fd0V7SU1blO.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Party doors not shut’: Congress leader after Sachin Pilot denies joining BJP||Shortly after Sachin Pilot, who was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and pradesh Congress chief yesterday, announced on Wednesday that he was not joining the BJP, the Rajasthan Congress in-charge tweeted that the party doors were not closed on the leader.“The Congress doors haven’t been shut on Sachin Pilot, may lord grant him good sense and may he understand his mistake. I hope he gets out of the BJP’s deceptive ways,” tweeted Avinash Pande. The Congress is wary of what happened in Madhya Pradesh and has been making overtures to the rebel leader to sit with the party and resolve issues. At the same time, Rajasthan Speaker has issued notices to Sachin Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs after the party sought their disqualification from the state assembly. They have been asked to respond by Friday.The Congress complained that the rebel MLAs allegedly made statements to the media in an “openly hostile and prejudicial” manner against the interests of Congress and its government in Rajasthan.Also read: Congress dissolves all party panels in Rajasthan, aims for fresh startPilot, 42, underscored today that he had worked hard to defeat the BJP and bring the Congress back to power in Rajasthan. “I am not joining the BJP,” he said as rumours swirled around about him joining the opposition camp. He further said that connecting him with the BJP was being done to tarnish his reputation in the eyes of the Gandhis.The rebel leader, who has been camping in Delhi, has still not met the Gandhis. However, the Gandhis have reached out to him through their emissaries. The BJP, on its part, has kept its distance from the Congress drama playing out in Rajasthan, saying they are tracking the developments. The party does not want a repeat of the Maharashtra fiasco where despite being short on numbers it backed the leader from the rebel camp and rushed in to form the government. It had to beat a hasty, and ignominious, retreat. In the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, the BJP has only 72 MLAs, while the majority mark is 101. Pilot claims the support of 30 MLAs, but has also made it clear that he is not looking to jump ship as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-doors-not-shut-congress-leader-after-sachin-pilot-denies-joining-bjp/story-1ttgGtZfn5sB7Obemja4DO.html
15-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: HRD minister launches ‘world’s most affordable’ Covid-19 test kit developed by IIT Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.HRD minister launches ‘world’s most affordable’ Covid-19 test kit developed by IIT DelhiThe test, Corosure, has been billed as the world’s most affordable probe free RT-PCR based Covid-19 diagnostic kit. Nishank on Tuesday took to Twitter and announced that the kit will be launched on Wednesday. Read more here.Congratulations for the record but what now? Former India selector Anshuman Gaekwad recalls retirement talks with Kapil DevFormer India captain Kapil Dev is regarded as one of the legends of the game. Under his guidance, India went on beat the mighty West Indies in 1983 to win the World Cup. He was also regarded as one of the best all-rounders of all time. Read more here. Maruti recalls 1.34 lakh units of WagonR, Baleno over possible fuel pump issueMaruti Suzuki on Wednesday announced a recall for over 1.34 lakh units of WagonR and Baleno manufactured between January 8 and November 4 of 2019. This is one of the biggest recalls from the company in recent times. Read more here. Holograms to 16K VR, here’s what Samsung envisions for 6GSamsung predicts 6G will pave way for futuristic “Extended Reality” (XR), high-quality mobile hologram, and digital replicas. Here are the key takeaways from Samsung’s new white paper entitled “The Next Hyper-Connected Experience for All.”Prose and poetry to get you in the mood for the perfect monsoon seasonThe monsoon season has begun taking over the nation, with the sweet smell of wet earth and running water droplets on window panes. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hrd-minister-launches-world-s-most-affordable-covid-19-test-kit-developed-by-iit-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-T8JWMkqTfUHjRt36XdQ0mM.html
15-07-2020||India||Two rhinos drown to death as flood waters submerge Assam’s Kaziranga national park||Two rhinoceros were killed due to drowning in Assam’s Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve, which is reeling under monsoon flood fury that has become an annual feature.Kaziranga authorities informed on Wednesday that carcasses of a male and a female rhino were found on Tuesday at Tinimukhuni Nallah and Miikrjan Tongi areas in the central range of the park, which is spread over 430 square kilometres (km).This is the third rhino death in the park -- the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world -- this monsoon.On June 26, the carcass of a male rhino, which had died due to natural causes, was found in the western range of the park.At present, around 90% of the park’s total area is submerged under floodwaters and 153 of the total 223 forest camps inside are inundated, of which 14 of which have been vacated.According to a bulletin issued by the park authorities on Wednesday, 66 wild animals have died during this monsoon with 23 deaths (two rhinos, five wild boars, a swamp deer, 14 hog deer, and a porcupine) due to drowning and 12 (all hog deer) after they were hit by speeding vehicles.A total of 45 animals (all hog deer) have been injured — 44 due to floods and one due to a vehicle hit. Forest personnel has rescued 117 animals, including a one-year-old female rhino calf, which had got separated from its mother to date.Every year as floods ravage Kaziranga, the park’s animals including elephants, rhinos, and tigers cross the nearby national highway to find safety in the hills of adjoining Karbi Anglong district.Though vehicle movement is regulated and a speed limit of a maximum of 40 km per hour (kmph) has been imposed, several animals get injured or die due to speeding vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-rhinos-drown-to-death-as-flood-waters-submerge-assam-s-kaziranga-national-park/story-uuh4NvCOw5zhlsuxN5nJbI.html
15-07-2020||India||With message on skill development, PM Modi highlights importance of being self-reliant||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said no matter how educated a person is, one must always be ready to acquire new skills. He said skill, re-skilling and upskilling is the only way to remain relevant in the ever changing market scenario.Speaking on the occasion of the World Youth Skill Day, the PM said, “The biggest strength of the millennials is their ability to get skilled.”“The ongoing cornonavirus pandemic has changed the work culture and started the concept of work from home; for this the youth are acquiring new skills keeping in mind the new work culture and new nature of job,” he added.“People ask me business and markets are changing too fast, it’s hard to remain relevant. In times of corona, this is even more relevant. My answer to that is to skill, re-skill and upskill. To keep learning new skills is to re-skill and continuing to scale it up is to upskill,” he said.The PM, who has in the past stressed on self-reliance and the need to become employment generators, said, “Skill is something which you give yourself and which is timeless and keeps getting better with time, it is unique and makes your different from others, makes you self-reliant and also self-employable.”PM Modi also underlined that there is a difference between skill and knowledge and said people often confuse the two. “People get confused between Knowledge and skill. You can watch on YouTube or read in books how to ride a bike, this is Knowledge, but to ride a bike you need skill,” he said.Referring to the work opportunity for skilled people he said there is a requirement for lakhs of skilled people especially in the health sector. “...That is why we have started skill mapping. Information about which country needs skilled works in which sector will be available,” he said.He also referred to the portal for skill mapping of migrant labour that has been started and said employers can connect with labour at the click of a button. “Friends, in today’s rapidly changing world, millions of skilled people are needed in many sectors. There is a huge potential, especially in health services,” PM Modi said.He also spoke about the skilling centres opened by the government and how the number of ITIs was increased. “During this, skill development of more than 5 crore people has been done. And this campaign continues,” he said.The PM also reiterated that people should remember to stay healthy, maintain social distancing, wear mask and stop spitting during the worldwide pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-message-on-skill-development-pm-modi-highlights-importance-of-being-self-reliant/story-I7xId7vdwNt0byv04i0qCP.html
15-07-2020||India||Municipal Council Vice-President of J-K’s Watergam kidnapped||Mehrajudin Malla, vice-president of Municipal Council, Watergam, was kidnapped by some unknown people from a kilometre away from the small town in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Wednesday morning, locals said.Some unknown people purportedly pushed Malla into a car and sped away, they added.Malla is associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and he is vice-president, Rafiabad.“A manhunt has been launched to trace the abducted person,” said a police official.It’s not immediately known, whether Malla enjoyed any security cover.BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur has blamed terrorists for the abduction of Malla. “He is the vice-president Watergam Municipal Council. His father was also with BJP and acted as a general secretary. This family is loyal to the BJP for many years,” Thakur alleged.Malla’s kidnapping abduction comes days after two BJP leaders resigned from the party.Last week, BJP former district president, Bandipore, Waseem Bari, was killed, along with his father Basheer Ahmad and brother Suhail Basheer, inside his shop.Jammu & Kashmir Police had said that two outlawed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were involved in the killing of Bari and his kin.Last Sunday, Union Minister Jitendra Singh and BJP general secretary Ram Madhav visited Bari’s place and met his next of kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-vice-president-of-municipal-council-watergam-kidnapped/story-mWhDusZIkdBqUXPWAZiv1L.html
15-07-2020||India||HRD minister launches ‘world’s most affordable’ Covid-19 test kit developed by IIT Delhi||Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Minister of State (HRD) Sanjay Dhotre launched a low-cost Covid-19 test developed by Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT) Delhi on Wednesday. The test, Corosure, has been billed as the world’s most affordable probe free RT-PCR based Covid-19 diagnostic kit. The minister on Tuesday took to Twitter and announced that the kit will be launched on Wednesday. “In line with the Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s vision, I along with MoS for HRD Shri @SanjayDhotreMP, will be e-launching the world’s most affordable probe free RT-PCR based #COVID19 diagnostic kit, COROSURE, developed in the labs of @iitdelhi tomorrow. #AatmaNirbharBharat,” Nishank had tweeted. Also read: Zydus begins human trials for potential Covid-19 vaccine Launching the world's most affordable probe free RT-PCR based #COVID19 diagnostic kit, along with MoS for HRD Shri @SanjayDhotreMP ji. #AatmaNirbharBharat https://t.co/7u9dqR79W9The HRD minister described the launch as a “historic occasion” and lauded the team of experts at IIT Delhi for developing the diagnostic kit. The test kit uses an alternative testing method for testing Covid-19 samples and is launched by the company Newtech Medical under the name ‘Corosure’.During the event, Jatin Goyal, managing director of Corosure, said the total cost of the kit roughly comes to around Rs 650. “This certainly makes it very affordable as compared to other probe tests that are being imported from other countries,” he said. “This should change the paradigm of Covid-19 testing in the country, both in terms of scale and cost. The company Newtech Medical Devices, using IIT Delhi technology, can do two million tests per month at an extremely affordable cost. This is a true example of lab to market,” IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao said.The product is approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hrd-minister-launches-world-s-most-affordable-covid-19-test-kit-developed-by-iit-delhi/story-LwHzGuc1FsSCXeTapJZ7ZP.html
15-07-2020||India||Heavy rains throw traffic out of gear, waterlogging reported from several areas of Mumbai||Heavy early morning monsoon rains on Wednesday threw traffic out of gear in Mumbai and its suburbs, as waterlogging was reported from several areas amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Traffic movement was closed due to waterlogging at Andheri subway; north-bound traffic was closed at Khar subway; along with disruptions at Chandivali junction and Wadala freeway.Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police (Joint CP) (traffic), Mumbai Police, said: “The slip road at Hindmata is closed and traffic is diverted on Hindmata bridge due to waterlogging.”Waterlogging is also reported from Dadar Tram Terminus (TT); SV Road, Andheri; Sai Nath subway; SCLR bridge, Linking Road at Bandra and LJ Road, Mahim Junction; Khetwadi; Sion Road No. 24; and Gandhi Market.India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities have issued an orange alert – be prepared for intense rainfall – for coastal Mumbai, Thane, and Palghar districts for Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-heavy-rains-throw-traffic-out-of-gear-waterlogging-reported-from-several-areas/story-KMVaR4Wf6BQQ7sFJklbIEI.html
15-07-2020||India||Kidnappers decamp with ransom money, family blames police||The family of a man in Uttar Pradesh has blamed the police for losing Rs 30 lakh, which were paid as ransom. They said that the drop was made on the instruction of the police who did not make necessary arrangements to catch them.Ruchi Yadav, the sister of lab technician Sanjit, said the her brother went missing on June 22 in Kanpur and a police complaint was made at the Barra police station.Yadav then said that said a week later, the family received the ransom call for the first time. The family approached the police but it could not trace the caller or his location. Meawhile, the kidnappers asked for Rs 30 lakh to free Sanjit to which the family agreed on the assurance of SHO Ranjeet Rai.She said they were told the police would be nearby and asked her to carry a cellphone in the bag so that the location could be traced in real time.As per the schedule, the family members on Monday travelled on Kanpur-Etawah highway. The kidnappers had asked them to drop the bag from the Gujaini flyover. They did that and returned as told. The family further claimed that the police did not send any cop with the family or made any other arrangement to catch the criminals who took the bag away.Rai was not available for his comments. But Kanpur South Superintendent of Police Aparna Gupta denied that any ransom was paid to the kidnappers and said the police were trailing the criminals.However, a video surfaced later in which she could be heard admitting about the drop but did not offer comments on that. SSP Kanpur Dinesh Kumar P visited the family late on Tuesday night and assured that the police would rescue Sanjit and act tough in the case of alleged goof-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnappers-decamp-with-ransom-money-family-blames-police/story-QBmQY1fX4JKnX7T9PE4VMK.html
15-07-2020||India||What’s Sachin Pilot’s age, asks Congress’ Digvijaya Singh, then gives some advice||A day after Sachin Pilot was sacked as the Congress’ Rajasthan unit chief, senior leader Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday said the young leader should be patient as he pointed to the posts he has held in the party.Congress had dropped Sachin Pilot as the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan as well as the party’s state unit chief over differences with chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena, two other ministers who had joined Pilot, have also been dropped.Also Read: I’m not joining BJP, those saying so are trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes, says Sachin PilotThe Congress accused his camp of “conspiring” with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to destabilise the government.“Sachin Pilot was made an MP, a central minister, Rajasthan party chief and deputy CM. What is his age? He is still young, he should have some patience,” Digvijaya Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpit“His actions have been against the party discipline. These youngsters do not have patience,” the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister added.Digvijaya Singh also posted several videos of Sachin Pilot and former party member Jyotiraditya Scindia, on Twitter.“At the national level, people had a lot of confidence and hope in these two emerging leaders. Now listen to what they are saying and what they are doing,” he tweeted in Hindi.Also Read: From MP in 2004 to a rebel in 2020: Sachin Pilot’s journey in CongressPilot said on Wednesday said he is not going to join the Bharatiya Janata Party and denied he colluded with the BJP to conspire against the Congress.“I am not joining BJP. Those saying that are just trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes,” he said while speaking to HT. The Congress has issued notices to Pilot and 18 other party members for not attending the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meetings on Monday and Tuesday. Also Read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campCongress’ Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande said that Pilot and others have two days to respond to the notice after which the party would consider withdrawing their membership from the CLP.Rajasthan has been facing a political crisis after Pilot, along with his supporters, left the state over the weekend after he and other leaders got a notice from the state police’s special operations group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-s-sachin-pilot-s-age-asks-congress-digvijaya-singh-then-gives-an-advice/story-pZmi1oNm3e0RaGapRR2daK.html
15-07-2020||India||Obscene photos, child pornography found during raid at Bhopal rape accused’s flat||Obscene photographs of women, child pornography and documents on illegally-encroached government land worth crores of rupees were seized by the police in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal during a raid at a flat of a 68-year-old man, who allegedly raped six minor girls, said police.During the raid at the residence of the accused at Shyamla Hills locality, who has been absconding for the past three days, police found he had encroached upon government land in at least 12 different localities, said an official familiar with the investigation into the case. “His flat at Shyamla Hills had an interior design like a dance bar that was used for raping the minor girls many times. The flat’s walls were pasted with obscene pictures of women. Police also found stuff related to child pornography. At least 100 Indian made foreign liquor bottles were also seized from the flat,” Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police (Bhopal South), said. A joint team of district administration, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the police on Tuesday also razed a three-storey apartment allegedly illegally built by the rape accused on government land in Budhwara locality, Avinash Lavania, Bhopal district collector said.The joint team had demolished a marriage hall adjacent to the apartment on Monday. The marriage garden spread over 5000 sq feet was also built illegally on government land. The value of both the properties—the marriage hall and the apartment—is estimated to be more than Rs 5 crore, said an official from BMC.The man, who runs a small vernacular daily, also owns expensive four-wheelers, including an Audi car and a Mitsubishi Pajero. Thota said they have seized both the vehicles. Bhopal Police also arrested three people from the state capital on Tuesday, including a woman, who is a grandmother of one of the victims and was aware of the rapes. The two others are people who used to lure girls for the main accused.Sweeti Vishwakarma, who lives in a slum near Shyamla Hills and worked as an assistant to the main accused, was arrested for luring minor girls on Sunday.Police have also registered an FIR under section 14 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act for child pornography and under the relevant section of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at Shyamla Hills and Koh-e-Fiza police stations against the accused, said police.Earlier, the man was booked under section 366 (a) (procuration of minor girls), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 120 b (criminal conspiracy) and sections 5/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, according to Irshad Wali, Bhopal’s deputy inspector general (DIG) of police.“During a counselling session organised by the child welfare committee, two of six minor girls, who lodged the complaint on Monday night, said Pyare Miyan took them as a guardian two years ago by saying that he would take care of their education but later he raped them several times in different places of India including Goa and Indore,” Kripa Shankar Chaubey, a CWC member, said.“The girls have been shifted to a safe shelter home where their counselling is being done by us,” said Chaubey.Five teenaged girls were found by a police patrolling team in an intoxicated state in Ratibad area of Bhopal at 3am on Sunday. The girls said during counselling by Childline that the man used to call them to attend parties and raped them, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obscene-photos-child-pornography-found-during-raid-at-bhopal-rape-accused-s-flat/story-RvbCUqeicT62hp6jNVloVI.html
15-07-2020||India||In a first, Uttarakhand develops ‘Green’ Ramayana Park with plant species associated with Lord Rama||In a first, Uttarakhand’s forest department has developed a Green Ramayana Park where plant species mentioned in Valmiki’s Ramayan and associated with Lord Rama in six major forest types in India, have been grown.Uttarakhand chief conservator of forests (research wing) Sanjiv Chaturvedi said Green Ramayana Park, which took over six months to develop in Kumaon’s Haldwani area, is the first of its kind thematic project touching the little-explored aspect of Ramayana, especially in the context of the flora mentioned in it and associated with the journey of Lord Rama across four main forest types in India. The two other forests types are associated with deities Sita and Hanuman, he said.“We explored the available literature and religious texts to find out the plant species associated with Lord Rama. And to our surprise, we found sage Valmiki’s Ramayana as the treasure trove of such information. It is a botanist’s delight. We found around 139 species that have been mentioned in it. So we did some research on these plants and found that nearly 90 percent of them are still found in the areas mentioned by the sage. Then we found their scientific names and selected some 30 representative plants from six main forest types associated with Lord Rama journey, Sita and Hanuman,” he said.“During Lord Rama’s journey from Ayodhya to Sri Lanka, he came across four types of forests in the Indian subcontinent including Chitrakoot (tropical deciduous), Dandakarnanya (tropical deciduous), Panchavati (tropical dry deciduous) and Kishkindha (dry and moist deciduous). Ashok Vatika (evergreen) is associated with Sita while Dronagiri (alpine forest) is associated with Lord Hanuman,” he said.Also read: Uttarakhand reports 7th Covid-19 death, 78 new cases take state’s toll to 3,686Chaturvedi said the most fascinating part is that geographical location and species composition of the forests described in Valmiki’s Ramayana are still more or less the same whether it is Saal and Sagaun in Dandkarayana - which falls in Central India - or Chandan or Raktchandan in Kishkindha region situated in present-day Karnataka or the occurrence of Sita Ashok and Nagkesar in the evergreen forests of Sri Lanka where Ashok Vatika was believed to be situated.“After a lot of research work, we decided to develop Green Ramayana Park here at Haldwani Biodiversity Park over an acre of land where we have grown these plants and mentioned their Sanskrit names as mentioned in Valmiki’s Ramayana. Their scientific names and the precise number of ‘shloka’ (hymn) wherein the plant species have been mentioned have also been mentioned,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-uttarakhand-develops-green-ramayana-park-with-plant-species-associated-with-lord-rama/story-bYHtVxgtpBtXe9YTRWNaWI.html
15-07-2020||India||Dehradun: Four, including a pregnant woman, dead after house collapses due to heavy rains||Dehradun: Four persons, including a pregnant woman (28), died and two others were injured after their house collapsed due to heavy rains in Chukkuwala area of Dehradun at around 2:30 am on Wednesday, officials said.Three bodies were recovered during the rescue operations, which were conducted for over six hours, on Wednesday morning. While the pregnant woman succumbed to her injuries during treatment at a local hospital, they added. “A team rushed to the spot soon after the incident was reported. Initially, three persons, including the pregnant woman, a man (30) and a child (10), were rescued and admitted to a hospital. The woman succumbed to her injuries at the hospital. Three more bodies were recovered from the debris, including a woman (37) and a girl (8) and another woman, whose identity is yet to be ascertained,” said Praveen Alok, media in-charge, SDRF.The deceased have been identified as Kiran (28), Shrishti (8), and Vimla Devi (37). While Sameer Chauhan and Krish have sustained injuries.“The body of the unidentified woman was found at the end of the rescue operation. She was trapped deep in the debris that was removed by an earthmover,” Alok said.“The house was old and it collapsed because of intense overnight rains. Two families were living in the house. A man from a family was lucky to escape the accident because he was away at work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dehradun-three-including-a-pregnant-woman-dead-after-house-collapses-due-to-heavy-rains/story-sbYKOtmI64AixBpPUxpQuL.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Skill, re-skill, upskill’: PM Modi shares mantra to stay relevant on World Youth Skills Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the coronavirus pandemic has presented new challenges for the world which everyone needs to be prepared for.Addressing a digital conclave on World Youth Skills Day, PM Modi also presented a new mantra for the youth which will help them stay relevant in the time of crisis and empower them.“This day is dedicated to your skills. The millennial youth’s biggest strength is acquiring new skills,” PM Modi said.“Covid-19 has changed the nature of jobs, and then there is new technology which has impacted our lives too. Our youth have to adopt new skills,” he added.The prime minister then said that it is very important to stay relevant in the current time so that people can not only earn their livelihoods, but also help others too. “The mantra to stay relevant is: Skill, re-skill and upskill.”He further expanded on the idea. “Skill is something that you learn - like building a chair from a piece of wood. You increased the value of the wood by doing some value addition, and to stay relevant, you need to keep adding stuff to it. But it is important to expand our skill further. This is known as upskill,” PM Modi said.He added that not only the youth, but anyone can tread the path - learn new things and keep enhancing their skills. “This will help make us self-reliant,” he said.Many fields require people who have skills, especially in the health services sector, the prime minister said.This day marks the fifth anniversary of the launch of Skill India Mission. The conclave has been organised by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.WYSD is an event recognised by the United Nations and is celebrated on July 15 every year. It was designated by the General Assembly (UNGA) in 2014.This year’s event is focussed on the importance of developing skilled youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-address-digital-conclave-on-world-youth-skills-day/story-jOE5YGV1pzkQeSqfePoohM.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Respond within 2 days or face disqualification’: Rajasthan assembly speaker’s notice to Sachin Pilot, other members||Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi has issued notices to Sachin Pilot and 18 other party members after the Congress party sought their disqualification from the state assembly. Pilot and the party members have two days to respond to the notices. Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande said that the move follows after Pilot and other members defied a whip by not attending its legislature party meetings this week. Pilot, along with his camp of supporting lawmakers, skipped the Congress legislature meetings in Jaipur on Monday and Tuesday that recommended action against him and sought to discuss his political fallout with chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Notice issued to Sachin Pilot&18 other party members, for not attending Congress Legislative Party meetings. If they don't respond within 2 days, then it will be considered that they are withdrawing their membership from CLP: Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/TJ8ShxasgXAlso read: Not joining BJP, those saying so are trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes, says Sachin PilotCongress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday said that the party regrets that Pilot and his associates have fallen to the BJP’s trap of destabilising the Gehlot government.“I regret that Sachin Pilot and some of his associates have been swayed by the BJP’s plot and are now conspiring to topple the Gehlot government elected by 8 crore Rajasthanis. It is unacceptable,” Surjewala said during a press briefing.On Monday, the party tried to pacify the Pilot camp and said its “doors are open” to him or any other party member. Late on Monday evening, in a show of strength, Pilot’s official WhatsApp group shared a short video clip showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together.Also read: BJP to hold meeting today to discuss political situation in RajasthanThe party sent another invite to Pilot on Tuesday, asking him to attend the CLP meeting. During the meeting, in a unanimous resolution, the party decided to remove Pilot from his post of state deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief and also sacked two other ministers.Shortly after his removal, Pilot changed his Twitter bio and posted, “ Truth cannot be defeated”. On Wednesday, Pilot said that he does not intend to join the Bharatiya Janata Party and is deciding on the future course of action. Pilot also cancelled a press conference scheduled for today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-issues-notice-to-sachin-pilot-18-party-members-for-skipping-legislature-meetings/story-DAXQvkMkMKiQxvGtNgzBwJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Bengal’s vice-chancellors accuse Guv Dhankhar of ‘humiliating’ them, refuse to attend meet||Vice-chancellors of 20 state-aided universities in West Bengal on Tuesday evening declared that they felt “humiliated” and “intimated” by two letters from Raj Bhawan. The letters asked them to attend a virtual meeting called by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday morning to discuss problems faced by students during the Covid-19 lockdown.Dhankhar, who is also the de facto chancellor of all state universities, sent his first letter to the vice-chancellors on July 7, asking them to attend the meeting. The vice-chancellors wrote back, saying the invitation had to be routed through the education department according to law. Their letter was routed through the government.The vice-chancellors said that on Monday and Tuesday Dhankhar sent them two more letters which they described as “humiliating” and “intimidating” and therefore decided not to attend the meeting. Keeping Student Welfare uppermost in mind VCs must attend VIRTUAL CONFERENCE and desist partisan stance. Taking positive approach for sake of education and students had an over reach ⁦@MamataOfficial. "POLITICAL CAGING" of education would ve disastrous and suicidal. pic.twitter.com/VzhCFrNLeaIncidentally, higher education minister and Trinamool Congress secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and the principal secretary of the department met Dhankhar on Monday to discuss the state’s objections to the new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) on holding the examination.Also read: Video clip by Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee helped Bengal follow Covid-19 rulesAfter Monday’s meeting, Raj Bhawan said in a statement that the governor and the minister “felt it imperative that the matter be taken up with the UGC and the HRD ministry to appreciate the situation in West Bengal and make suitable amendments in the guidelines.”The situation changed on Tuesday. Dhankhar, who is known for posting tweets frequently, reacted on Twitter and hinted at an “undesirable situation” if the vice-chancellors did not attend the virtual meeting at 11 am on Wednesday.Dhankhar tweeted, “Looking forward to VIRTUAL CONFERENCE tomorrow with VCs as regards student welfare. The conduct of VCs in not indicating open ended issues of students not appreciated. Surely not in sync with their office. Primary concern ought to be student welfare and not otherwise.”“To break stalemate flagged issue @MamataOfficial. Her stance is “Universities and VCs are governed by their own statute and rules.” VCs must abide by directive of Governor/Chancellor, respond as per Act so as to avoid unwholesome situations and attend VIRTUAL CONFERENCE,” read Dhankhar’s second tweet.At around 9.30 am on Wednesday, Dhankhar tweeted an image of a letter chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to him on Tuesday stating that vice-chancellors were governed by their own statute and rules and the governor had already met the high education minister. The chief minister also quoted a message that she received from the governor on Tuesday stating that non-attendance by the vice-chancellors would be a “serious matter in law.”In the tweet, Dhankhar wrote, “political caging of education would be disaster and suicidal.”In another tweet written in Bengali around 9.45 am, Dhankhar described the action by the vice-chancellors as biased.Academicians said the issue might trigger a fresh acrimony between Dhankhar and the Mamata Banerjee government which earlier accused the governor of overstepping his jurisdiction on several occasions. Partha Chatterjee even alleged that the Raj Bhawan in Kolkata had turned into an extension of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s state headquarters.On Tuesday evening, Upacharya Parishad, the vice-chancellors’ body, issued a strongly-worded statement. It said, “…the Vice Chancellors received a humiliating letter (No. 358- S) from the office of the Hon’ble Chancellor on 13.07.2020 and again received an intimidating letter (No. 361-S) on 14.07.2020. Upacharya Parishad considers it extremely unfortunate to receive such communications from the office of the Hon’ble Chancellor during this critical national crisis.” “The language used in the governor’s letters has hurt the prestige of the vice-chancellors. It is not possible for us to attend any meeting unless the invitation is routed through the high education department,” Dr Subires Bhattacharyya, vice-chancellor of North Bengal University and general-secretary of the Parishad, told local media.The statement issued by the Parishad said that direct communication between the chancellor and the vice-chancellors is not possible under Rule 8 (5) of West Bengal State Universities (Terms and Conditions of Service of the Vice-Chancellors and the Manner and Procedure of Official Communication ), Rules 2019.The law was framed last year by the government.The Parishad’s statement said, “…..the vice-chancellors, acting legitimately as per rules cited above, find it extremely undesirable to receive such communications from the Hon’ble Chancellor’s office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-vice-chancellors-accuse-guv-dhankhar-of-humiliating-them-refuse-to-attend-meet/story-bkj6IMbS1wl7lNPofU1YnJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Zydus begins human trials for potential Covid-19 vaccine||Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus said on Wednesday it has started human studies for its potential COVID-19 vaccine, as coronavirus infections continue to surge in the world’s third worst-hit nation.ZyCoV-D, its plasmid DNA vaccine, was found to be safe, immunogenic and well-tolerated in the pre-clinical toxicity studies, Zydus said. In the human trials, Zydus will enrol over 1,000 subjects across multiple clinical study sites in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-begins-human-trials-for-potential-covid-19-vaccine/story-x7rRB7eF976rKNoBFZIAGL.html
15-07-2020||India||Nearly 30,000 Covid-19 cases, 582 deaths in 24 hours take India’s tally to over 9.36 lakh||India’s number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases has reached 936,181 and its death toll 24,209, Union health ministry data said on Wednesday.There were 29,429 fresh Covid-19 cases, for the first time, and 582 deaths across the country in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.The health ministry had said on Tuesday the daily growth rate of newer Covid-19 cases is declining each day and that it recorded the daily growth rate for newer cases at 3.24%.“If we see in the month of March, the daily growth rate of Covid cases was 31.28%, in May it was 9.27% and further reduced to 4.82% in May end and if we see the figures of July 12, the growth rate for newer cases is at 3.24%. There is a progressive decline in the daily growth rate of new cases,” Rajesh Bhushan, the health ministry’s officer on special duty, said.The number of those who have been cured of the viral disease has gone up to 592,031, taking the recovery rate to 63.23%. Between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, 20,572 patients were discharged from hospitals across the country.Bhushan also said that 86% of the total cases are confined to 10 states. Of these, just two states of Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu account for about 50% of the cases.“Maharastra and Tamil Nadu have 50% of the active caseload while Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Gujarat, and Assam have 36% of active cases, respectively,” he added.While Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, has 267,665 infections and 10,695 deaths, there are 147,324 cases and 2,099 fatalities in Tamil Nadu.Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases, West Bengal has extended the lockdown in 605 containment zones for another three days, till July 19.An order issued by the state’s home secretary on Tuesday also said that lockdown would be imposed in four towns of Malda, Raiganj, Siliguri and Cooch Behar in north Bengal. from July 15. The Tripura government has also announced a week-long “total lockdown” within one kilometre in rural areas and 0.5km in municipal areas on its border with Bangladesh from July 17.According to the central government, there are 20 states and Union territories (UTs) which have a recovery rate percentage more than the national average.Some of these states include Madhya Pradesh (73), Haryana (76), Tripura (71), Rajasthan (75), Delhi (80), Chandigarh (72), Chhattisgarh (76), Uttarakhand (79), Ladakh (UT) (87), Himachal Pradesh (76), Assam (64.87), Tamil Nadu (64.66) Uttar Pradesh (64), Odisha (67), Mizoram (64.94), Punjab (68.94), Bihar (69.09), Gujarat (70) and Assam (65).The health ministry has said testing is being increased every day and the laboratory network in the country further strengthened with 1,206 labs in the country.There are 22 states which are conducting more than 140 tests per day per million population, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-30-000-covid-19-582-deaths-take-india-s-tally-to-over-9-36-lakh/story-NfM2y5dg29aXjGi3aZ18JJ.html
15-07-2020||India||PM Modi to take part in India-EU Summit today: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take part in the India-EU Summit at 4:30 pm today via video conferencing. Taking to Twitter, the prime minister tweeted, “I am confident this Summit will further strengthen our economic as well as cultural linkages with Europe”.The Summit is aimed at further broad basing ties on a range of areas including trade, investment and defence, officials of the 27-nation bloc said.During the Summit, the two sides are also expected to kick off a process for effective cooperation between the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Europol, unveil a five-year roadmap to further expand ties and are likely to launch a separate dialogue on maritime security and for boosting trade and investment, the officials said.The Indian delegation at the summit will be led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi while the European side will be headed by President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, news agency PTI reported.  Will take part in the India-EU Summit at 4:30 PM today. I am confident this Summit will further strengthen our economic as well as cultural linkages with Europe.Both sides are also expected to launch a maritime security dialogue as part of efforts to expand defence and security cooperation. The officials said the summit will be an opportunity to strengthen the EU-India strategic partnership. The leaders will discuss how to further develop their trade and investment relations and support sustainable growth and jobs on both sides, the officials said.As the world is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the leaders will discuss global cooperation and solidarity to protect lives, to mitigate the socio-economic consequences and to strengthen preparedness and response capacities, they added. Ahead of the virtual Summit on Wednesday, India and the European Union on Tuesday sealed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement.The agreement provides for extensive cooperation in the civil nuclear energy sector including in research and development for peaceful uses of nuclear energy, the officials said.The European Union is of great strategic importance to India and was New Delhi’s largest trading partner in 2018. India’s bilateral trade with the EU in 2018-19 stood at $115.6 billion with exports valued at $57.17 billion and imports worth $58.42 billion.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-further-strengthen-ties-with-europe-pm-modi-to-take-part-in-india-eu-summit-today/story-VTSvjXQXqQlP0zpqjsawTM.html
15-07-2020||India||I’m not joining BJP, those saying so are trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes, says Sachin Pilot||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who was removed as the president of Congress’ state unit on Tuesday, said that he is not going to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“I am not joining BJP. Those saying that are just trying to lower me in Gandhis’ eyes,” he told Hindustan Times. Sachin Pilot also denied colluding with the BJP to conspire against the Congress.Pilot also cancelled a press conference scheduled for today.Also Read: BJP waiting in wings, watching events unfoldThe Congress had removed Pilot as Rajasthan Congress chief on Tuesday. He was also dropped by chief minister Ashok Gehlot from the cabinet after a meeting of the Congress’ legislature party (CLP). Also removed along with him from the cabinet were food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena and tourism minister Vishvendra Singh.Rajasthan education minister Govind Singh Dotasra was named the new Congress chief in Rajasthan. The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of frontal organisations Youth Congress and Sewa Dal.Rajasthan has been facing a political crisis after Pilot, along with his supporters, left the state leaving the Congress government led by Gehlot in a lurch. Pilot claimed that after his leaving, the Gehlot government has come in minority and sought a floor test.The grand old party immediately deputed two senior leaders to resolve the crisis and bring Pilot and the other rebels back into the fold. But all the efforts were futile and Pilot did not attend the two CLP meetings called by the party on Monday and Tuesday.Responding to the rebellion, Congress dismissed Pilot as deputy chief minister, sacked him as the state unit president of the party, removed two of his loyalists from the cabinet, accused his camp of “conspiring” with the BJP to destabilise the government, and contended that its government has numbers.On Tuesday, 101 legislators - in an assembly of 200 - attended the CLP meeting at the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur, which included 10 independent legislators and two from Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and one from the Communist Party of India (Marxist); the other CPIM legislator was unwell. However, in the afternoon, the two BTP legislators left the hotel, and went home, saying they would take a call on supporting a political party at an “appropriate” time.Also Read: Numbers behind Rajasthan storyPilot’s camp claimed to have the support of 22 legislators, including three independents, also said that six other legislators would join it soon, and rejected Gehlot’s claims of being in a majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-m-not-joining-bjp-says-sachin-pilot/story-ll9EmizHTKq0vCZeCJ6byJ.html
15-07-2020||India||MHA asks states to set up more anti-trafficking units in wake of Covid-19||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Home Affairs has written to states, Union territories to expedite the setting up of new anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) and upgrade the infrastructure of existing ones to ‘combat and prevent’ human trafficking. The AHTUs are an integrated task force to prevent and combat the menace of human trafficking. Trained representatives from the police, department of women and child development, other relevant departments and renowned non-government organisations are part of the unit which was first established in 2007. While the Central government has provided financial assistance for setting up physical infrastructure in these units, it is the responsibility of various states to depute suitable manpower to manage them. The advisory comes in the wake of nearly Rs 100 crore being released from the Nirbhaya fund in March by the government to facilitate the setting up of the AHTUs in districts across the country. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there were nearly 4,000 cases of trafficking in 2018, of which 99 percent accounted for internal trafficking. Moreover, 92 percent of the trafficking victims who were rescued were women and children.At present, there are over 330 AHTUs that work as convergence centres for the MHA, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Labour and External Affairs to fight human trafficking within India as well as outside it. Also read: Odisha asks MHA to remove 5 Maoist-affected districts from SRE list“Domestic violence, emotional or psychological abuse, neglect and other forms of trauma and violence makes a person vulnerable to human trafficking,” read the advisory which was issued on July 6 and was accessed by Hindustan Times. “Traffickers often exploit the vulnerabilities of people by making false promises of a new job, better income, better living conditions and support to their families etc. While such promises of perpetrators appear legitimate to people, unfortunately, it makes many men, women, and children easy prey for exploitation,” the advisory added. The MHA has also suggested that state governments evolve a co-ordination mechanism, monitored at periodic intervals by the highest level in the state, to handle the issue of human trafficking. Community awareness programmes and engagement at the local level with panchayats, leaders and village wards have also been recommended. “Because children can be transported at a large scale for wage labour, prostitution and trafficking, panchayats may be asked to maintain a register of complete information about the persons living in the village and a keep track of their movement,” the advisory stated. “Specific ‘intelligence’ and ‘surveillance’ mechanism to identify gangs, gather information about its history, affiliations, modus operandi to deceive people, activities of gang members, links with others, etc., should be worked out by the police department,” it added. The advisory also suggested shelters for women and children to be allowed to remain open and called for sensitisation of police personnel at regular and intervals. It asked police personnel deployed at border outposts to be on the “look-out for trafficked children”. “The police force should make full use of CCTNS and CriMAC application, launched by the National Crime Records Bureau in March this year, which facilitates the dissemination of information about significant crimes including human trafficking cases across the country on a real-time basis. These portals can help in locating and identifying the trafficked victims as also in prevention, detection and investigation of crimes,” the advisory added. Amid the pandemic, experts describe the advisory as a welcome step as the ‘situation in the wake of the pandemic is ripe for traffickers to exploit’ due to massive job losses and a likely increase in child labour. According to former DGP PM Nair who was integral in setting up the first batch of AHTUs in 2007, there has been an increase in trafficking of children both online and physically. “I have held various discussion with many stakeholders across the government and non-government sector,” Nair told Hindustan Times. “Trafficking during Covid-19 times has increased manifold,” he said.Nair said that the increase in the consumption of child pornography, which has been accessed by nearly 5 million Indians, leads to sexual exploitation of children. President of Shakti Vahini, an NGO that works with trafficking victims, Ravi Kant said that the NCRB’s numbers are only a fraction of the number of trafficking case. “The case becomes one of trafficking only after the rescued victim’s statement is recorded,” Kant told HT. “Most of the cases are actually recorded as kidnapping or abductions or missing persons,” Kant added. Kant added that the post the pandemic, job losses will drive traffickers to exploit more and more people. “West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand and Orissa are among the worst affected states,” Kant said. “We will see an increase in the number of cases as the vulnerability factor for the exposed section will go up. Parents who have lost their jobs will force their children into labour and others may be driven to it due to desperation. The MHA’s advisory is a welcome one as it will strengthen the efforts to counter it.” Nair too welcomed the decision, however, he added that issuing an advisory is not enough. “The MHA should make the officers at district level accountable, only then will we be able to implement this decision well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-to-set-up-more-anti-trafficking-units-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-rGcgi5duSpfGVzvl4g27OK.html
15-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address digital conclave on World Youth Skills Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.World Youth Skills Day: PM Modi to address digital conclaveWorld Youth Skills Day is an event recognised by the United Nations and is celebrated on July 15 every year. It was designated by the General Assembly in 2014. Read more here. 3 killed as building collapses in Dehradun, many feared trapped; rescue operation underwayThe state’s disaster response force had reached the spot and launched rescue operation. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also roped in later. Read more here. CBSE 10th Result 2020 to be declared today at cbseresults.nic.in, alternative ways to check scores online and offlineThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will declare the class 10th results 2020 today, July 15 on its official website at cbseresults.nic.in. Read more here. How did French Fries get their name? Here’s all you need to know about the world’s most favourite potato snackFrench fries are served as a common side dish to burgers, fried chicken, grilled steak and also, fried fish. The world’s most favourite potato fritters also have cultural variants. Read more here. Irrfan Khan’s son Babil stands up for family: ‘Ma I would give it all for you, Yo bro you know I love you more than life itself’Irrfan Khan’s son Babil has shared a poem in late actor’s memory, which talks bout dealing with immense loss and grief and standing up for his family in their hour of need. He shared the post with a few pictures of his parents and younger brother Ayan. Read more here. Graeme Smith highlights the ‘biggest difference’ between MS Dhoni and Sourav Ganguly’s captaincyMS Dhoni made his India debut under Sourav Ganguly, but Graeme Smith feels India would have won a lot more trophies had the wicketkeeper batsman played more under Ganguly. Dhoni made his debut in December of 2004, less than a year before Ganguly was removed as India’s captain across formats. Read more here. HT Salutes: Delhi poet who arranges free mental health counselling sessionsThis Delhi-based poet and content writer has been arranging free mental health counselling sessions. Ankit Gupta pays for therapy sessions for those who can’t afford it. Gupta says that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide triggered him to help others. Watch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-digital-conclave-on-world-youth-skills-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NfeZpMICXTU468mFb20MMP.html
15-07-2020||India||Bull, cow reunited after a video of their affection goes viral in Madurai||People broke into celebrations here after a bull, who refused to be parted from cow and doggedly chases the vehicle in which the latter was being transported were finally reunited.A moving video of the bull circling the lorry, sticking his head in and finally running after the lorry carrying the cow which was sold by her owner in Palamedu surfaced online. the visuals showed the black bull running after the lorry for about a kilometre.Muniandiraja a resident of Palamedu, who runs a tea shop in the area said he had reared his cow Lakshmi along with a temple Bull, named Manjamalai.Muniandiraja said he sold his cow and had loaded it to his truck for transportation. However, the Bull could not bear the separation and followed the vehicle for about 1 km and attempting to stop it.Seeing this incident the Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, O Panneer Selvam’s son, O. Jayapradeep, recovered the cow by giving money to the person who bought the cow.He donated the cow to the temple and reunited the bovines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bull-cow-reunited-after-a-video-of-their-affection-goes-viral-in-madurai/story-dDk1vxhHpJMmBtF4TrnrkI.html
15-07-2020||India||PM Modi to address digital conclave on the occasion of World Youth Skills Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a digital conclave on Wednesday, on the occasion of World Youth Skills Day (WYSD). His address will begin at 11 am.This day marks the fifth anniversary of the launch of Skill India Mission. The conclave has been organised by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.WYSD is an event recognised by the United Nations and is celebrated on July 15 every year. It was designated by the General Assembly (UNGA) in 2014.While passing a resolution, the UNGA had expressed concern at the high number of unemployed youth, the majority of whom live in developing countries. It recognised that fostering the acquisition of skills by youth would enhancetheir ability to make informed choices with regard to life and work and empower them to gain access to changing labour markets.The UNGA noted that the member states have an important role in meeting the needs and aspirations of youth, particularly in developing countries, and invited all the UN members to commemorate World Youth Skills Day in an appropriate manner.This year’s event is focussed on the importance of developing skilled youth.Highlighting the impact of Covid-19, the UN said that it has led to the worldwide closure of training institutions, threatening the continuity of skills development. It also said that nearly 70% of the world’s youth are affected by school closures.The global body thus said that it become more important to impart relevant skills to the youth which can help them in the long run and successfully manage evolving challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-youth-skills-day-pm-modi-to-address-digital-conclave/story-gtOhHJ0EQxchFz0NMM1dlN.html
15-07-2020||India||4 killed as building collapses in Dehradun, many feared trapped; rescue operation underway||Four people were killed and many others feared trapped after a building collapsed in Chukkuwala area of Dehradun in Uttarakhand late on Tuesday, news agency ANI reported.The state’s disaster response force had reached the spot and launched rescue operation. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also roped in later, ANI further reported.The rescuers were able to pull out three people alive from under the rubble. Four dead bodies were also retrieved, ANI quoted NDRF chief Satya Pradhan as saying.Those injured have been admitted to local hospital.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-as-building-collapses-in-dehradun-many-feared-trapped-rescue-operation-underway/story-amyOARS9w7WemqVcUxsk0O.html
15-07-2020||India||Emergency was lockdown on democracy: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Reiterating his stand on Emergency imposed on the country in 1975 by the then Congress government at the Centre, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Tuesday that it was like a lockdown on democracy in the country.Scindia was addressing a public meeting at Agar-Malwa on Tuesday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a number of development projects for the district on the occasion.“On one side there is a party which imposed Emergency that was a lockdown on democracy and on the other side there is Prime Minister Narendra Modi who implemented lockdown to save the life of people,” said Scindia in his speech.He said, “People may say that I am opposing Emergency now when I have joined the BJP but the fact remains that I opposed it even when I was in Congress.”Lashing out at the then chief minister Kamal Nath, Scindia said when he (Scindia) raised the issues concerning people of the state for the sake of justice to them Nath said let him (Scindia) take to streets “but Kamal Nath ji forgot whose grandson and whose son I am”.He said the then Kamal Nath government betrayed every section of people whether it was farmers, youth, women or others. “There was someone on the chair but its key was in the hand of someone else,” he added.He said whereas a corrupt government did nothing for welfare of people in Madhya Pradesh in its 15-month rule, Chouhan took several decisions for people in just 90 days.Speaking on the occasion, Chouhan said, “On one hand the then Kamal Nath government dumped several welfare schemes which had been introduced by his government earlier and on the other he didn’t fulfill a single promise out of the Congress manifesto including farmers loan waiver, unemployment allowance to youths and welfare schemes for women and students.”Chouhan and Scindia also unveiled a statue of former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kailash Joshi at Hat Pipalya. Scindia had earlier met senior BJP leader Uma Bharti in Bhopal.Talking to journalists after the meeting, he said that the Congress ran the government during its 15-month rule in Madhya Pradesh as a business instead of fulfilling aspirations of people. There was rampant corruption in the government, he alleged.On Congress’ repeated attacks against him, Scindia said that he didn’t say anything for 90 days as the entire world was fighting the coronavirus but he would now respond to all their charges.State Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “When Scindia ji was in Congress he used to issue warning to the government on every issue that he would take to streets but he didn’t say a single word when the BJP government failed to control Covid-19 situation in the state and is responsible for spread of coronavirus in the state. He must look into his earlier speeches to realise what his opinion was for the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-was-lockdown-on-democracy-jyotiraditya-scindia/story-4l8v8bU7WiJnqjk3zBORHN.html
15-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh will procure cow-dung at Rs 2 per/kg including transportation cost: State cabinet||Chhattisgarh cabinet on Tuesday approved the procurement of cow dung in the state at the rate of Rs 2 per kilogram, including the transportation cost, under the Gaudhan Nyay Yojana.Earlier this month, a cabinet committee had recommended the procurement of cow dung at the rate of Rs 1.50 per kg from livestock owners in villages with cowsheds.The cabinet meeting, which was chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, also approved the selling of vermicompost produced under the scheme through cooperative societies to farmers at the rate of Rs 8 per kg. The vermicompost will be under the goods section of the short-term agricultural loan of the Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society.Under the scheme, the cow dung will be procured from cow and buffalo owners through gauthan samitis and it will be utilised to make vermicompost and other products.“This will not only promote organic farming but will also create new employment opportunities, encourage protection of cows, stop open grazing and will expand the double-crop area creating a source of extra income of livestock owners,” the government said in a press release.The cabinet has also decided to merge the remaining batch of teachers (panchayat and urban body cadre), who have completed two years or more in service, under the school education department from November 1, 2020, which will benefit 16,278 teachers in the state.It also decided to distribute 5kg of rice per person per month from July 2020 to November 2020 on ration cards (except above poverty line category) issued under the Chhattisgarh Food Security Act, the same way is provided under the National Food Security Act.A kilo of chickpea will also be distributed to people for the same period under the same conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-will-procure-cow-dung-at-rs-2-per-kg-including-transportation-cost-state-cabinet/story-hd6EM32OXv005Q6aQZmQVI.html
15-07-2020||India||Dolphin number dips in Chambal river, experts raise concern||There are just 68 dolphins left in 435-kilometre-long Chambal river sanctuary which passes through three states (Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan), according to the latest census report of Madhya Pradesh forest department. The report came out in last week of June.According to the census report, dolphins’ number in Chambal river has been reduced by 13 per cent in four years. The decreasing trend is continuing from 2016 when there were 78 dolphins.In 2006, the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC) ordered a ban on mining in the sanctuary area to save the flora and fauna of the river. “But illegal sand mining and consumption of water is so rampant that it is putting the whole ecosystem of the river in danger,” said Jyoti Dandotiya, chief scientist of the Deori Gharial Eco-park in Chambal sanctuary in Morena.Principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife, SK Mandal said, “The decrease in number of dolphins is a matter of concern but Chambal is a lifeline for three states and the locals of MP, UP and Rajasthan are withdrawing water daily. Similarly, illegal sand mining is rampant in Bhind and Morena in MP and Dholpur in Rajasthan. Forest teams face so many life threatening attacks while taking actions against illegal sand mafia. Forest team needs support of locals, which they never get.” “Dolphin is a sensitive animal and we didn’t find many studies so we roped in a team of experts including scientists of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to do a research for safeguarding and increasing the population of dolphins in Chambal,” he added.Experts raised concerns on the decreasing number of the national aquatic animal.Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, scientist Qamar Qureshi, who is doing a research on dolphins in Chambal, said, “The maximum carrying capacity of dolphins in Chambal is 125. It’s a rare species of dolphins - platanista gangetica - and has been declared endangered by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). It requires at least 3 metre depth and 266.42-289.67 m3 per sec flow of water for sustainable habitat.”“But perennial problems like illegal extraction of sand from the river bed and water withdrawal projects in Morena, Dholpur and Kota are disturbing the whole ecosystem of the river and decreasing the water level and flow. It needs to be addressed properly to save the dolphins as well as ghariyal,” he added.Qureshi said, “With research on what is their favourable environment, we are also doing research to know about their communication system. There is lot to know about this species. It has rudimentary eyes. From preying to surfing, dolphins do it through ultrasonic sound. Now, the research has come to a halt due to Covid-19. We would resume it once this pandemic is over to know more about dolphins.”“The dolphins were spotted for the first time in 1985 in Chambal river near Etawah. That time, the number was more than 110 but poaching reduced the number. Now poaching is not at all a problem but unfavourable habitat is. Not only dolphins, but population of ghariyals has also been affected,” said Dandotiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dolphin-number-dips-in-chambal-river-experts-raise-concern/story-cxZFf1gM2TI46Q5y4Zu1jO.html
15-07-2020||India||Odisha deploys 130 doctors, 37 OAS, ORS officers in Ganjam to combat coronavirus||The Odisha government has deployed 130 doctors, 37 OAS (Odisha Administrative Services) and Odisha Revenue Service (ORS) officers in Ganjam District in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the district.As per the official statement, in view of the rising numbers of Covid-19 positive cases in Ganjam district, a total 100 numbers of Ayurvedic Medical Officers (AMOs)/Homoeopathic Medical Officers (HMOs) have been deployed at different places in the district for smooth management of Covid duty.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA total of 30 Medical Officers have been deployed to Districts Headquarters Hospital (DHH) Ganjam by Health and Family Welfare Department and concerned CDM and PHOs have been asked to deploy the above medical officers in Districts Headquarters HospitalState Government has also deployed 32 ORS (Group-B) officers and 5 Odisha Administrative Service, OAS-A (JB) officers to the Ganjam District to work under the District administration for management of Covid related work.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, in a high-level meeting on Tuesday reviewed Covid Management in the State and directed officials to strengthen monitoring in the focus districts such as Ganjam, Cuttack, Jajpur, Sundargarh and Khurda. The Odisha Government will initiate Plasma Therapy to treat Covid patients from Wednesday at three dedicated Covid Hospitals in the state, the government said in a press release.Plasma Therapy will be started from today in SUM Hospital, KIMS Hospital in Bhubaneswar and Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack. SCB medical College and Hospital, Cuttack will function as the Nodal Centre for Plasma Therapy.According to the state government, by the next week, Covid-19 testing will be ramped up to 9,000 tests a day from the current capacity of 7,000 tests per day.As per the Union Health Ministry, there are a total of 13,737 Covid-19 cases in Odisha including 4,412 active, 9,255 cured/discharged/migrated and 70 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-deploys-130-doctors-37-oas-ors-officers-in-ganjam-to-combat-coronavirus/story-BpAOh8vjnU4IpFS6mbY16J.html
15-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt appoints 15 parliamentary secretaries, BJP calls it unconstitutional||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has slammed the Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government in Chhattisgarh for appointing 15 parliamentary secretaries. The Opposition party said the move is unconstitutional and an attempt to pacify dissent.Baghel on Tuesday administered the oath to these parliamentary secretaries, all member of legislative assembly (MLAs), in the chief minister’s office.All the MLAs, except two - Chintmani Maharaj and Parasnath Rajwade - are first-time MLAs in the state assembly and will now be allotted different departments under cabinet ministers.Senior leader of BJP and former minister Ajay Chandrakar told Hindustan Times said that the appointment is completely unconstitutional.“Congress has always opposed the appointment of parliamentary secretaries when they were in the Opposition and now they doing the same. It also reflected that there is rift and dissent among the MLAs of the state, just like Rajasthan,” said Chandrakar.The BJP leader also said that they should tell the public about the directions of court about the powers which were curtailed by the court. “They should also tell whether any writ is pending before the high court over the appointment of parliamentary secretaries,” said Chandrakar.The BJP also alleged that the appointed parliamentary secretaries which will add additional burden to state exchequer at a time when it is dealing with the Covid-19 crisis.It is worth mentioning that in 2017, current cabinet minister Mohammad Akbar had challenged the appointment of 11 parliamentary secretaries by the previous BJP government in the high court. Akbar claimed that these appointments were illegal and unconstitutional.In April 2018, the court had dismissed the petitions but maintained its interim order, passed in 2017, that parliamentary secretaries will not be entitled to power and facilities at par with ministers.Recently, speaking about the appointments of parliamentary secretaries by his government, Akbar said that the Congress government will appoint MLAs as parliamentary secretaries but they will not be entitled to facilities at par with the cabinet ministers.“In our government, parliamentary secretaries will not function as ministers but will work as their assistants without holding the office of profit. We will strictly comply with the directives of the HC,” he added.The BJP’s legal unit slammed the Chhattisgarh government saying it is a mockery of democracy and law.“The appointment of parliamentary secretaries has been declared unconstitutional by Himachal Pradesh government and the case is pending before the apex court of India. Same thing happened with the Delhi government and the case is lying before the Election Commission of India. So far as Chhattisgarh government is concerned, Congress government led by Bhupesh government is going to appoint 15 ministers against 12 ministers which is unconstitutional and the mockery of democracy,” Naresh Gupta, in-charge of BJP’s legal unit of Chhattisgarh, had said ahead of the appointment.Responding to the allegations, agriculture minister Ravindra Chaubey said that the BJP government had first appointed parliamentary secretaries.“First the BJP should answer whey they had appointed parliamentary secretaries when they were power,” he said while talking to reporters.“Parliamentary secretaries give opportunity to the government to serve the larger part of the state by dividing the portfolios between MLAs which will be extension to the ministers and will lessen the burden of the departments and will also give an opportunity of learning the political and administrative skills to the younger MLAs under the guidance of senior ministers. The appointment of parliamentary secretary in our state is absolutely as per the dictum given by Chhattisgarh high court,” said Peeyush Bhatia, government advocate at the high court of Chhattisgarh and state president, youth bar association of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-appoints-15-parliamentary-secretaries-bjp-calls-it-unconstitutional/story-SIxMGI55fjtL5m3mvmpaXO.html
15-07-2020||India||BJP to hold meeting today to discuss political situation in Rajasthan||Bharatiya Janata Party will hold a meeting on Wednesday in Jaipur over the political situation in the state with the Congress government in the state facing a crisis.The meeting will be attended by former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje.BJP leaders also held a meeting on Tuesday which was attended by state chief Satish Poonia besides Om Mathur, Gulab Chand Kataria and Rajendra Rathore.The Congress on Tuesday removed Sachin Pilot as Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan PCC Chief. Two other ministers loyal to him were also removed from their posts. The simmering differences between Pilot and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have come out in the open. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-hold-meeting-in-jaipur-to-discuss-political-situation-in-rajasthan-today/story-vIeVUZz9cCVYjGAJzX5y7H.html
15-07-2020||India||Complete Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar from July 16; Bengaluru shuts down for a week||Nearly a dozen states have so far reimposed lockdown in selected areas for varying periods to check the surge in Covid-19, while Bihar on Tuesday extended the curbs to the whole of the state from July 16 to July 31. A week-long total shutdown came into effect in Bengaluru from 8 pm on Tuesday. Karnataka’s Dharwad and Dakshina Kannada districts too will come under lockdown for nine days and seven days respectively from Wednesday. There was a huge rush of customers at grocery stores and liquor shops ahead of the lockdown. Across the state, 41,581 people have tested positive for coronavirus including over 19,000 cases in Bengaluru.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today Besides Karnataka, states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have already announced area-wise lockdown for different durations. West Bengal on Tuesday extended the total lockdown in containment zones till July 19, the state home department said. Sikkim also imposed total lockdown in Rongli and Pakyong sub-divisions from 6 AM on Wednesday. Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi announced the 15-day total lockdown in the state from July 16. A shutdown had earlier been imposed in nearly a third of its 38 districts. The state government order, which cited a Ministry of Home Affairs communication of June 29 for containment of the pandemic, also said the decision was taken in view of the “alarming surge in COVID 19 cases...in last three weeks”. The state’s tally rose by more than two-fold during the period. Bihar recorded a single-day spike of 1,432 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, which pushed the total tally in the state to 18,853, the health department said. With 28,498 fresh cases recorded in a day, India’s Covid-19 tally sprinted past nine lakh on Tuesday, just three days after it crossed the eight-lakh mark. The health ministry said that 86% of the total active cases were recorded in 10 states of the country.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Two of the most affected states are Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu which are contributing 50 per cent of the total active cases (154,134 active cases). Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Gujarat and Assam are the other affected states that contribute 36 per cent of the total active cases (111,068 active cases). In Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases at 2,67,665, a 10-day strict lockdown came into force from Monday in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. A lockdown has been imposed in Osmanabad city till July 19 to break the chain of the viral spread. With some Haryana districts falling in the National Capital Region seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks, home minister Anil Vij indicated that the state may also impose stricter curbs in its worst-affected areas. Of the over 22,000 cases in the state as of Tuesday, three districts alone--Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat, all of which fall in the NCR, contributed to nearly 15,000 of the cases and also to nearly 75% of the total fatalities.Also read: India set for pivotal role in Covid-19 vaccine production, says ICMR Assam had extended the two-week lockdown imposed from June 28 in Kamrup Metropolitan district, under which Guwahati falls, by a week till July 19 from 6 pm on Sunday. After Kashipur, a three-day lockdown has been imposed in Rudrapur and Bajpur in Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand with effect from midnight Monday due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, a senior state official said. Strict lockdown restrictions were reimposed in most parts of Kashmir, including in the city here, on Monday after a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the valley over the past one week, officials said. The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to implement strict restrictions across the state on weekends to check the spread of coronavirus, joining Karnataka and Tamil Nadu which have been imposing Sunday lockdown. The UP government on Tuesday issued detailed directives for the weekend lockdown. All urban and rural haats, markets, galla mandis and business establishments in Uttar Pradesh would remain closed during the period, it said. Tamil Nadu had earlier imposed lockdown for varying periods in Chennai, Madurai and nearby regions. Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of cases in the country. The Arunachal Pradesh government had on Saturday extended the lockdown in the capital region for another week till 5 pm on July 20 in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the region. The Meghalaya government had imposed a lockdown in Shillong from 6 AM on Monday till Wednesday 6 AM. The lockdown will not be extended further as contact-tracing in identified clusters has been completed, Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong said on Tuesday. West Bengal had imposed strict lockdown in containment areas and nearby buffer zones from July 9 evening. These zones are located in and around Kolkata, besides Jalpaiguri, Malda, Cooch Behar, Raiganj and Siliguri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-covid-19-lockdown-in-bihar-from-july-16-bengaluru-shuts-down-for-a-week/story-hVy4d6y8qXoSRWyHUSIZnM.html
15-07-2020||India||Odisha tribal woman dies of starvation during lockdown, food rights group alleges||A 46-year-old tribal woman of Nayagarh district allegedly died after failing to get food, in the first probable case of starvation death during the lockdown, a group of activists said.Dukhi Jani from Kaliamba village in Nayagarh, who was deserted by her husband, died on June 24 after going without any food for three days. Jani had gone to the local forest on June 24 afternoon when she collapsed and died. She was buried instead of being cremated because there were no survivors in her immediate family to perform the funeral.After the local media reported about her death, a fact-finding team from Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan had visited her village early this month and found that Jani did not have access to food for three days before she died.“Jani depended on collection of non-timber forest produce from nearby jungles as she had no other source of income. Her access to subsidised food grain supplies from the public distribution system was limited and irregular,” said Sameet Panda, one of the members of the forum on food rights.“Though she had an Annapurna card sanctioned in March 2016 that entitled her to get 10 kilos of rice free from the public distribution system, she had got the rice last in November 2018. She was deprived of free ration from November 2018. She was entitled to pension as a single woman but couldn’t get one in spite of applying several times via panchayat and block officials. This is a clear case of administrative negligence and apathy on many counts,” Panda said.Panda said the tribal woman didn’t have a job card under MGNREGA, which could have provided her unskilled work. Neither did she get the Jan Dhan support provided by the central government as assistance during the lockdown. She didn’t get the rice and dal offered under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana even she had presumably did not have a ration card.The investigating team’s members who spoke to local villagers said despite approaching panchayat and block officials, Jani could not get a ration card under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana.“She got a State Food Security Scheme card only after she went to the district collector’s grievance cell on February 24 this year. She did not have any other social security scheme to support herself,” said Laxmidhar Singh, another member of the team.Local sarpanch Trilochan Sahu said he had arranged for 15kg of rice and Rs 1,000 during the lockdown for her.Anganwadi worker Basanti Behera said Jani was given cooked food for some days during the initial period of the lockdown by the community resource person of the gram panchayat but it stopped after some time.“It was a sad case of complete social apathy. The person like Dukhi in such a dire case was not supported much by the community. Jani being a single woman without any income support should have provided with AAY card to provide protection from hunger and starvation,” a member of the Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan said.“The current situation due to the pandemic has made many poor people like Jani vulnerable to starvation death,” the member added.Nayagarh district collector Poma Tudu did not respond to messages or calls seeking the administration’s comment on the alleged starvation death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tribal-woman-dies-of-starvation-during-lockdown-food-rights-group-alleges/story-JfLJSCurrF2s6IkyZoWOYJ.html
15-07-2020||India||Banning TikTok takes a big tool away from Chinese surveillance work: US NSA||Banning mobile applications such as TikTok by countries like India takes a big tool away from the surveillance work of China, a top White House official said on Tuesday.The Trump administration is “very seriously taking a look” at TikTok, WeChat and some other apps coming out of China, US National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien told Fox News Radio in an interview.“India has already banned those apps, as you know. And if they lose India and the United States, they lose some western European countries, that takes a big tool away from the espionage work or the surveillance work of the CCP (Chinese Communist Party),” he said in response to a question on the dangers posed by apps like TikTok.“The kids who are using TikTok -- and it can be a lot of fun -- but there are a lot of other social media platforms they could use. TikTok is getting facial recognition on you,” O’Brien said.“They are getting all of your personal, private data, your most intimate data. They are getting to know who your friends are, who your parents are. They can map all your relationships,” he added.All the information is going straight to massive super computers in the cloud in China, O’Brien said, adding, “So China is going to know everything about you. They are going to have biometrics on you. You ought to be very careful regarding who you give such personal information to.” The Trump administration, he said, is looking not just at TikTok but at WeChat and some other Chinese apps as well, because the Chinese are veracious consumers of America’s personal data.“They will either try and get you to give it to them for free through WeChat or TikTok -- if they cannot get it that way, they will steal it,” O’Brien said.China, he said, has hacked into Marriott and stolen the personal data of hundreds of millions of people, including their passport numbers.“They have hacked into Experian and other credit rating agencies to get most intimate credit details. They have hacked into Anthem healthcare so that they can get medical details.“So this is not just an advertiser trying to find out what you are interested in searching for on Google so they can sell you a different brand of car, this is a country that is looking to get every bit of personal, private information they can, so they know everything about you,” O’Brien said.“There are social credit scores in China. They give people scores based on how compliant they are with Communist Party dictates. They are going to be able to put social credit scores together on all Americans and everyone in the world soon because of artificial intelligence and super computing.“We need to make sure that does not happen,” the US National Security Advisor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banning-tiktok-takes-a-big-tool-away-from-chinese-surveillance-work-us-nsa/story-74Z2V4KOSZnC6GNpJ9YZ3O.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: BJP waiting in wings, watching events unfold||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday made friendly overtures to rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot after he was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief amid his face-off with Ashok Gehlot.Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is a BJP Parliament member from Rajasthan, said the party has grown manifold and any leader with the people’s mandate is welcome to join it. Another BJP lawmaker, Om Mathur, echoed him.The comments came shortly after Gehlot blamed the BJP for conspiring with Pilot to topple his government. Mathur rejected the allegation saying “by shutting the eyes one does not erase the sun”. In a tweet, he said “the structure of your house is weak” and questioned how could Gehlot blame the BJP for it.Also read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campThe BJP sharpened its attack on the Congress leadership for blaming it for the crisis in Rajasthan. It also shifted its stance from watching from the sidelines to taking on an aggressive posture.Shekhawat called the events unfolding in Rajasthan a diversionary tactic. He likened them to the Bollywood trend of “propaganda” to make a film work if it seems it will not do well. “This is what has happened in Rajasthan where the government has been unable to provide good governance, and crime and corruption have grown. In the last one and a half years, the way the Congress has been ruling in Rajasthan, it is only natural that they would have created propaganda,” he said.He blamed Gehlot for orchestrating the discord and said he has directed, produced, and acted in “the film” that was in the making for the last six months. Shekhawat said Gehlot “seemed very happy” when he stepped out of the governor’s house on Tuesday whereas lawmakers have been held against their wishes.Shekhawat said Gehlot has been successful in planning Pilot’s ouster and added democracy and Rajasthan’s people have had to pay a heavy price. “This government is a minority government and making efforts to save its chair...”Also read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpitShekhawat’s statement about the government lacking numbers was also an indication that the party could raise the issue of a floor test, even though Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia told ANI, “At present, we are not demanding anything as of now. Our priority was that it is a corrupt government and it did mismanagement in the coronavirus crisis. It has become a weak government. First thing is that this government should go away in the interest of the people.”Satish Poonia, the BJP’s Rajasthan chief, said they were not demanding anything as of now while calling Gehlot’s government inept and corrupt. He also accused it of mismanaging the coronavirus crisis. “It has become a weak government. First thing is that this government should go away in the interest of the people,” Poonia said.A BJP leader in Delhi, who spoke on condition of anonymity, earlier said the party will not seek a floor test unless it is confident that both Gehlot and Pilot factions are falling short of numbers.Also read: Numbers behind Rajasthan storyGehlot on Tuesday claimed to have the support of 109 lawmakers in the 200-member state assembly, where the halfway mark is 101. The BJP has only 72 lawmakers.The BJP has maintained it will keep its options open should the Gehlot government fall in the wake of defections to the Pilot camp. It has made no overt attempts to initiate an alliance with Pilot-led Congress rebels.Functionaries aware of the matter said senior BJP leaders, including general secretary Anil Jain and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, have been tasked with tracking developments in Rajasthan.Jain and Pradhan declined to comment on whether there was a meeting between BJP leaders and Pilot. The BJP has dismissed speculation about a meeting between Pilot and BJP chief JP Nadda.A second BJP leader, when asked about the speculation that the BJP could support Pilot if he floats his party and stakes claim to form the government, said they will watch from the sidelines until it becomes clear that the Gehlot faction does not have the required numbers to stay in power.“A clear situation has to emerge for the party [BJP] to take its next steps. We are currently watching the Congress collapse because of infighting. The inability of the Congress leadership in keeping the unit together is showing and if the government falls, naturally we will explore all options open to us,” said the second leader in Delhi, requesting anonymity.“If Pilot has the numbers to form the government, the party will consider support. But if we go by the anti-defection law, he will need 2/3rd of the MLAs with him otherwise they stand disqualified and will require re-election.”There has also been no statement from former Rajasthan chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje on the developments in the state, leading to speculation that she is not on board with Pilot joining the party.Raje, who claims to have the support of over 40 MLAs, has been at loggerheads with the central leadership over several issues in the past.The BJP has deputed Mathur to take stock of situation in the state. He is expected to chair a meeting of the BJP leaders in the state on Wednesday.The BJP leaders have insisted that they have had no role in engineering defections in the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-bjp-waiting-in-wings-watching-events-unfold/story-jQxtVJJzDV0NwwYhvvCurN.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajasthan turmoil exposes fault lines, indecisiveness in Congress||The political crisis in Rajasthan, coming just three months after the fall of its government in Madhya Pradesh, has once again exposed the fault lines in the Congress as it confronts infighting in many states. Indecisiveness on the part of the Congress leadership cost the party dearly in Madhya Pradesh and triggered turbulence for its government in Rajasthan.The power struggle between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot has been going on for a long time. It escalated after the Congress came to power in the 2018 assembly elections when the party high command opted for Gehlot as the chief minister.The gamesmanship peaked with a notice to Pilot from the Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan police to record his statement in connection with its probe into an alleged attempt to topple the Gehlot government.Also read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campBoth Gehlot and Pilot repeatedly conveyed their grievances to senior leader Ahmed Patel, party general secretary in-charge of the organisation, KC Venugopal, and general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande. But the differences persisted.The developments in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have cast a shadow also on the stability of the government in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh where chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is engaged in a bitter power tussle with his cabinet colleague TS Singh Deo.“The issue has also been brought to the notice of the Congress high command on many occasions but there seems to be no end to the turf war. Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia has failed to unite the warring leaders,” said a Congress functionary familiar with the development, requesting anonymity.In Punjab, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu is sulking and the Congress central leadership has failed to resolve differences between him and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Also read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpit“Sidhu is incommunicado for the past several months. He is visibly hurt and there is no reconciliation attempt from the central leadership so far,” said a Punjab Congress leader on condition of anonymity.Sidhu is dealing directly with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and has had no interaction with party’s Punjab in-charge Asha Kumari.State chiefs of Telangana (Uttam Kumar Reddy) and Odisha (Niranjan Patnaik) resigned from their posts soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but the party leadership is still struggling to find replacements for them. There is a broad consensus in the party that regional satraps need to be strengthened but the status quoist approach of the leadership has also demoralised the party cadre eagerly waiting for the oganisational reshuffle that was due after the humiliating defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Also read: As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, PilotHyderabad-based political analyst and Congress watcher C Narasimha Rao said groupism had always plagued the party. “That is weakening the Congress. The central leadership has to take bold decisions and nip the factionalism in the bud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-turmoil-exposes-fault-lines-indecisiveness-in-congress/story-NRdYtXCu9Dp1uEpVftqZcO.html
15-07-2020||India||Numbers behind Rajasthan story||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s government enjoys a wafer-thin majority. Here is how all the numbers stack up:200 Total MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly107 Number of Congress legislators, including the Speaker101 The majority mark in the assembly. Also, the number of legislators who attended the Congress legislative party meeting at the Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur on Tuesday, although only 88 of these (including Gehlot) were from the Congress. There were 10 independent legislators, two from the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), and one from the Communist Party of India (Marxist).104 Legislators whose support Gehlot claimed in a meeting with the governor later in the day, according to the party. 2 BTP legislators who attended the Fairmont meeting but left for their homes, saying they would take a call on support at an “appropriate” time. 4 Legislators who left the Sachin Pilot camp on Sunday, and signalled their support for Gehlot. 19 Congress MLAs (including Pilot) supporting Sachin Pilot. 3 Independents supporting Pilot1 Legislator who seems to be counted by both sides (likely Bhanwarlal Meghwal). 181 Reduced strength of the assembly, if Gehlot decides to disqualify the 19 Congress MLAs supporting Pilot. 91 Majority mark in a 181-member assembly92 MLAs BJP could hypothetically muster, if it can convince the three independents with Pilot, and all the 10 other independents, two CPI(M) members and two BTP members, to support it. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party have 75 MLAsX-Factor: The situation could change if some MLAs who attended the CLP meeting decide to switch to Pilot’s side. There is no indication at the moment that this could happen. Although Gehlot claims to have a majority, “the numbers are not very comfortable for him,” said Jaipur-based analyst Narayan Bareth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/numbers-behind-rajasthan-story/story-xbHzVMfPUwXgEdKSk98JYN.html
15-07-2020||India||HT Salutes: A helping hand to tackle mental health issues||A 32-year-old woman, who was diagnosed with clinical depression two years ago, was forced to skip the appointments with her psychiatrist for three months after the lockdown was imposed in March to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). A cash crunch — her spouse had lost his job and income was tight — made it difficult for her to continue her therapy. But she resumed her sessions in the last week of June. And it was a stranger on Twitter who made it happen, as he offered to pay for her next few counselling sessions.Ankit Gupta, a content writer and Urdu poet who has been living in Delhi for the past year, has been using Twitter to connect those expressing a need for mental health help with two psychologists based in Mumbai and Delhi, who have slashed fees and agreed to conduct online or telephonic counselling during the lockdown.“Ever since the lockdown was implemented, I’ve heard of several people losing jobs and therefore being unable to afford their psychiatric treatments. Professional mental health is expensive in India, and I know this because I have myself overcome depression. I know how tough the struggle is,” said the 27-year-old. Watch | HT Salutes: Delhi poet who arranges free mental health counselling sessionsThe idea to help people access mental healthcare was sparked by the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who died by suicide on June 14. That’s when he tweeted out his offer to fund counselling sessions for people who couldn’t afford a counsellor.After the tweet offering to help pay for counselling sessions, more than 20 people connected with him almost immediately. “I asked them for basic information: were they consulting a doctor for the first time, or did they need to continue their treatment. Accordingly I connected them with either of the two therapists who are helping me,” said Gupta. In most cases, people shared their inability to continue treatment due to increasing costs. “Both of them (counsellors) have been charging a nominal fee of ₹300 per session and have been conducting virtual therapy sessions for over 35 people in the last three weeks,” said Gupta.Mental health experts, who have been witnessing a consistent spike in cases of anxiety and depression among all age groups, lauded Gupta’s efforts.“Not only is the pandemic an unprecedented time, but anxiety and claustrophobia is taking over daily routine because people are understanding that this is going to be the way of life for some time now,” said clinical psychologist Seema Hingorrany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-a-helping-hand-to-tackle-mental-health-issues/story-Bj7t1S9clo3tUNIJ4SNLHJ.html
15-07-2020||India||India set for pivotal role in Covid-19 vaccine production: ICMR||India will play a crucial role in scaling up production of any Covid-19 vaccine that is developed anywhere in the world, the head of India’s top medical research body said on Tuesday, citing the size of the domestic pharma industry and expressing hope that the country will be well poised for the production of successful candidates. The comments come weeks after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) appeared to rush the trial process of one of the two Indian vaccines by setting an August 15 launch deadline, before widespread criticism forced officials to clarify that a letter mentioning that date was meant to speed up the regulatory approvals process rather than lay down a hard timeline. “India is well-known as the pharmacy of the world... It also supplies 60% of the world’s vaccines, whether it be Africa, Europe, south east Asia or anywhere. So, any vaccine candidate that’s produced or developed in any part of the world will ultimately have to be scaled-up in India or by China because these are the two major vaccine producers of the world,” said Balram Bhargava, the head of ICMR, while adding that several developed nations are in touch with Indian entities for vaccine distribution.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBhargava said two India-made vaccines are now being trialled with 1,000 volunteers each, and the focus will be on easing regulatory clearances for the process without compromising on scientific or ethical parameters. “The two indigenous vaccine candidates have undergone successful toxicity studies in rates, mice and rabbits and their data was submitted to the drugs controller general of India, following which both these candidate vaccines got clearance to start the early phase human trials early this month,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Among the two is Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which received drugs controller general of India’s nod for human trials on June 29 . On July 2, a letter sent by Bhargava to hospitals where vaccine trials were to be done said, “it is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by 15th August 2020 after completion of all clinical trials”. Criticised for setting an unrealistic timeline that would compromise vaccine safety, the ICMR later backtracked and said international trial protocols will be followed.Another vaccine candidate is from Zydus Cadila called ZyCov-D, which received the drug controller’s approval for human trials on July 2. It was developed indigenously at the company’s Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad, Gujarat.Also read: Regulate Covid treatment costs at private hospitals, orders Supreme Court“They have got their sites ready and they are doing their clinical studies on approximately a 1,000 human volunteers each at different sites, some have six and some 12. They are trying to do the early clinical testing for these two indigenous candidate vaccines. Over and above there are pre-clinical experiments for other vaccine being done at National Institute of Virology in Pune, which is trying to work day and night to do these experiments because it is our moral duty to develop these vaccines as fast as possible,” said Bhargava.The world over, vaccine candidates that have been put on a fast-track are from Russia, China, United States of America and the United Kingdom. “We are making all efforts to fast-track developing the vaccine and it is the moral duty that there should not be a delay even by a day for the regulatory clearances for these vaccines so that we can break the transmission of the virus as soon as possible,” said Bhargava.Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Ayog, in an earlier interview to HT, also had said that India will take the lead in manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine when it is developed. Experts also say that eventually it is the vaccine that will provide the key to break the transmission cycle.“The vaccine will be ultimate to check the disease spread but we don’t know when will an effective vaccine be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease,” said Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU, Lucknow.Bhargava was speaking at briefing organised by the Union government on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-for-pivotal-role-in-covid-19-vaccine-production-icmr/story-FHkz2CuK4afNLcgGGgIfZN.html
15-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||I have questions.It is clear, from the trajectory of infections in countries around the world, that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) starts slow, builds up momentum, rises to a peak, then starts plateauing, and finally falls.This is more or less true for every country in Europe. It is true for Italy, France, Spain, and Germany.And, within every country, it is true for every region.In large countries, it is also true of states that were early hunting grounds for the virus — New York in the US; Delhi, perhaps, in India.So, the first question is simply this: Is there a pattern?Does the trajectory of infections across countries follow a certain timeline? If so, what is this timeline? 45 days? Two months?Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Or, does it dance to a different metric — say, the population infection rate, rising till a certain proportion of the population is infected, and then falling? If so, what is this proportion? 15%? 20%? 25%?And if this is indeed the case, what does it mean for the herd immunity level? 60% or 43%? Or could it be some other value?I ask these questions because I haven’t come across any answers on why the infection followed the pattern it did in continental Europe, and New York City. Countries on the continent may see a flare-up, but, on current evidence and case statistics, the worst is definitely behind them. That can be said of New York State and New York City too. And closer home, the same can be said, albeit tentatively, of Delhi.Why did the infections start falling in Europe? Why did they start falling in New York? And why in Delhi?Also read: Regulate Covid treatment costs at private hospitals, orders Supreme CourtSure, masks, lockdowns, social distancing, better hygiene, and extensive testing and tracing helped, but the infection still traversed a similar trajectory in most countries (and states within countries) that have seen off the worst of it.Does it indicate an overall population infection rate that is rarely crossed? And because this can’t be herd immunity (not at the levels we are talking of), does this mean only 15%, 20%, 25% of a population is vulnerable to the infection itself under certain conditions (which would include our current response to the disease)?Like I said at the beginning of this column, I have questions. Scientists who believe they are good enough to be hypotheses that merit research are welcome to use them. I’m not particular about credit — I just want the answers.We know that the Sars-CoV2 virus which causes Covid-19 does not infect everybody. In fact, why it infects who it does is one of the questions researchers are scrambling to answer (they have a reasonably good explanation on how it infects, though, and also how it kills). It might be even better to flip the question around – why does the virus not infect those it doesn’t?We also know that not everyone who is infected spreads the disease — research has shown that a lot of the spreading is caused by super spreaders, perhaps explaining the clusters of infection that emerge.And finally, we know that the infection rate on the Diamond Princess (the yacht, which for some time had more cases than most countries) was 20%, and that on the US Navy’s Theodore Roosevelt 25%. Both were contained spaces and, at least in theory, the virus should have infected more people, perhaps everyone on board.Why did it not?Still, the preceding three statements are internally consistent – not everyone exposed to the virus gets infected; and not everyone infected by the virus passes it on.It would help to know the prevalence of the infection in, say, Italy, New York City, and Delhi, because that could be a starting point for some of the answers.That’s what makes serological surveys (blood tests) of the population, to find out who has antibodies to the virus and who doesn’t, important.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ND0LT7himhu0HmcL1rtn2K.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajya Sabha starts employee welfare scheme in Arun Jaitley’s name||The Rajya Sabha secretariat has launched an Employees’ Welfare Scheme in the name of former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, who was also the Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha. The scheme has been formulated and approved based on the decision of Sangeeta Jaitley, wife of the senior leader who passed away in August last year. She urged Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu in a letter last year to utilise the family pension she is entitled to for the benefit of the bottom rung of the secretariat. The Secretariat has formulated “Shri Arun Jaitley Financial Assistance for Group C Employees” Scheme, an official statement said on Tuesday.In her letter, Sangeeta Jaitley said: “...I would like to humbly request the Hon’ble Parliament to deploy this pension amount towards the welfare of the most needy segment of the institution which Arun served for almost two decades; the class IV employees of the Rajya Sabha.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-starts-employee-welfare-scheme-in-arun-jaitley-s-name/story-5Fqr52fmOUcebIUqqNVHYM.html
15-07-2020||India||1 dead in Visakhapatnam pharma unit fire||A 40-year old chemist was charred to death and four workers were injured, one of them seriously, when fire broke out at a pharmaceutical plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, leading to a massive explosion of one of its reactors late on Monday night, police said. While initially Visakhapatnam police commissioner R K Meena said that there were no casualties, except injuries to four workers, the police later recovered the charred body of senior chemist Kandregula Srinivasa Rao. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said the fire broke out in one of the columns during the solvents’ recovery process. There were five reactors in the plant and one of them exploded. The fire spread to a few other adjacent tanks storing chemicals resulting in their explosion. The sound was so deafening that people in Visakhapatnam city, about 15 km from the pharma city, could also hear it. The police commissioner said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. “The police and fire tenders rushed there and brought the flames under control,” he said. The opposition Telugu Desam Party and CPI (M) blamed it on the state government for adopting callous approach towards industrial accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-in-visakhapatnam-pharma-unit-fire/story-XuJGw5HtajN1CectMrgpyM.html
15-07-2020||India||Railways creates prototype of post-Covid coach to fight virus||The railways is preparing to provide better hygiene and sanitation standards in train coaches as it plans to install foot-operated soap dispensers, copper-coated handrails, fixtures with titanium dioxide (TiO2) coating that kills viruses and plasma air equipment inside air conditioning (AC) ducts to steralise and make the interiors particulate matter-resistant. The national carrier’s production unit, Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala, has built the first prototype. The railways plans to retrofit all its existing coaches with these amenities, officials aware of the matter said.“Post Covid Coach will have hands-free amenities like foot operated water tap and soap dispenser, foot operated lavatory door (outside), foot operated flush valve, foot operated latches in lavatory door, outside washbasin with foot operated water tap and soap dispenser and forearm operated handle on compartment doors,” the railway ministry said in its design note for the coaches. The first two coaches built at the unit have fixtures coated with TiO2 and the provision for plasma air equipment in AC ducts to sterilise interiors using ionised air. “This plasma air equipment will sterilize the air and surfaces inside the AC coach using ionised air to make the coach Covid-19 and particulate matter resistant. This provision will also improve the ion concentration from 100 ions/cm3 to more than 6000 ions/cm,” the ministry said.The ministry said nano structured TiO2 functions as photoactive material. “This is eco-friendly water-based coating that kills viruses, bacteria, mould, and fungal growth and most importantly enhances indoor air quality,” the ministry said. “It is non-toxic and approved by [the] food testing laboratory of the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA), CE certified. TiO2 is considered to be a safe substance and is harmless to humans. This Titanium Dioxide coating [will be] applied on washbasins, lavatory, seats & berths, snack table, glass window, floor, virtually every surface that comes in human contact.” The effective life of this coating is expected to be a year. The coaches will also be equipped with copper-coated handrails and latches. “Copper degrades the virus landed on it within few hours. Copper has anti-microbial properties,” the ministry noted.The railways is planning to manufacture all coaches with these specifications. “ All future coach production will have these features. For existing coaches, too, we will try to retrofit wherever it is technically possible. The same was also done for bio toilets, which were retrofitted in existing coaches,” an official said on condition of anonymity.An estimate of the cost of production was not immediately available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-creates-prototype-of-post-covid-coach-to-fight-virus/story-llhw9bDcSGNldaSKiI4G0O.html
15-07-2020||India||First ‘virtual’ Constitution bench hearing in SC||New DelhiThe Supreme Court held its first Constitution bench sitting through videoconferencing on Tuesday, with, for the first time since March 5, five judges sitting together in one court to take up critical matters that require an interpretation of the Constitution. The court moved into virtual mode on March 25, as the coronavirus disease started infecting more people across India. The country declared a 68-day hard lockdown (in four phases), between March 25 and June 1. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, MR Shah and Aniruddha Bose appeared wearing masks and maintaining nearly two-feet distance between themselves on the bench. There were previously concerns in some quarters that the Constitution bench would not be able to sit during the pandemic. Several important cases are awaiting the attention of the Constitution bench. These include the matter on rights versus faith relating to religious practices that restrict women from entering mosques, Parsi worship places and the Sabarimala temple, petitions challenging scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Articles 370 and 35A, validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act granting citizenship to non-Muslims from neighbouring Islamic countries, and the legal case to determine what is a money bill.The first case the five-judge bench heard was a legal tussle on whether the Centre has the power to provide reservation to in-service candidates (those already in government service, as doctors in this case) in post-graduate medical degree courses. The plea was brought up by the Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association.Senior advocate Arvind Datar opened arguments in the case, sharing the extensive compilation of his arguments including cases to be referred through Google drive . One of the lawyers, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for Medical Council of India (MCI) complained of being unable to access the Google Drive. He objected to Datar referring to the same. The problem was sorted out when the court asked Datar to give case law citations.As the hearing proceeded, Datar was inaudible to the court. Justice Shah commented in a lighter vein, “Don’t keep social distancing with your mike.” Datar heard mike as “wife” leaving the bench in splits. “There is no bar if the Court continues hearing Constitution bench matters but the present system must be geared up to support such hearings. Screen sharing must be activated on VIDYO app to allow documents to be exhibited. Case files should be digitized and given to judges. There must be a steady bandwidth to support multiple video links. And lastly, the online platform must provide an enclosure allowing privacy of discussion happening between senior lawyers and their briefing counsels,” said senior advocate KV Vishwanathan. Other matters listed before the Constitution Bench could not be taken up.The day also witnessed veteran jurist Fali S Nariman make a maiden appearance through videoconferencing before a three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde. Seeing him, the CJI remarked, “So happy to see you Mr Nariman. For the first time you are appearing through videoconferencing.”True to his tradition at the bar to stand and address the Court, Nariman stood and addressed the Court expressing his inhibitions of appearing in a “virtual court”. The CJI corrected him by saying, “This is not a virtual court. It’s a real court where only the hearing is virtual.”The Court began hearing of urgent cases through a videoconferencing app called VIDYO in March . The volume of cases taken up on a daily basis has been less in the past three months.Beginning March 23, the SC took up close to 7,000 cases till June 20.Beginning this week, the Supreme Court has listed Constitution Bench matters for hearing as well. With the pandemic showing no signs of let up there is uncertainty over when physical court hearings can resume. The Constitution Bench heard and reserved judgment in the first case it took up through videoconferencing .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-virtual-constitution-bench-hearing-in-sc/story-FVVS9DUCXE2tPhY1ZqKAAI.html
15-07-2020||India||From MP in 2004 to a rebel in 2020: Sachin Pilot’s journey in Congress||Sachin Pilot’s entry into the Congress in 2002, two years after the death of his father Rajesh Pilot in a road accident, was marked by jubilation, and cheered , among others, by his current bête noire chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Now, 18 years later, the long-standing rivalry between Gehlot, 69, and Pilot, 42, has culminated in a bitter out-in-the-open feud, threatening to destablise the Congress govermment in Rajasthan.Pilot, was inducted into the Congress in February 2002 by then state chief Girija Vyas with much fanfare during a Kisan rally in Jaipur. Gehlot was also present at the rally.Two year later in 2004, he contested his first election and emerged victorious from the Dausa Lok Sabha seat in Rajasthan.Also read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpitIn the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, Pilot, then 32, contested and won from Ajmer and was appointed union minister of state for communications and information technology.In the 2012 union cabinet reshuffle, Pilot was elevated as a minister of state with independent charge and given the portfolio of corporate affairs.Barely few months before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Pilot, then 36, was named as the Rajasthan Congress chief. By then, the party had badly lost the assembly elections in 2013 with Gehlot as the chief minister.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) recorded its highest ever margin in Rajasthan winning 163 seats in that election, the Congress registered its worst ever poll performance with 21 seats.The grand old party repeated its performance in the 2014 national elections and failed to win any of the 25 Lok Sabha seats from the state. Pilot too lost from Ajmer.By then, the rivalry between Gehlot and Pilot had begun, with each blaming the other for the poll debacle.Since Pilot was considered close to Rahul Gandhi, the Gehlot camp viewed his appointment as state chief as an attempt to cut the veteran leader to size.Also read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campIn 2017, Gehlot was brought to Delhi and made general secretary in-charge of BJP-ruled Gujarat just before the assembly elections.The appointment was seen as an attempt by the Congress high command to strike a balance of power in Rajasthan, with Gehlot being handed over a key position at the national level; the move also gave Pilot the much-needed political space in the state.Under Gehlot’s charge, the Congress fought a keenly contested election in Gujarat i. That period also saw Rahul Gandhi beginning to rely on the veteran leader.Soon after Rahul Gandhi became the Congress president in December 2017, he appointed Gehlot to the key position of general secretary in charge of organisation, replacing another veteran Janardan Dwivedi.In the run-up to the 2018 assembly elections and with Pilot at helm, the Congress had won by-elections to few assembly and Lok Sabha seats in Rajasthan, and also performed well in local body elections. When the Congress won the 2018 assembly elections, Pilot staked claim to the chief minister’s post arguing that he worked hard , reviving the Congress in the state. Also read: Numbers behind Rajasthan storyBut Pilot’s claim was overlooked and the Congress leadership once again opted for Gehlot, who became Rajasthan chief minister for the third time. Pilot, then 40, was named his deputy.The rivalry had by then turned into a bitter power tussle between the two with Pilot claiming that his authority was being repeatedly undermined by Gehlot. Both once again blamed each other for the debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha when the Congress failed to open its account from the state.There were also frequent run-ins between the two. Pilot has commented critically on Rajasthan’s record in public health and law and order. In turn, Gehlot sidelined Pilot completely. The Congress’ central leadership was aware of the differences between the two but both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi ignored it. The flashpoint came late last week when Pilot received a notice from the special operations group (SOG) of the state police to record his statement regarding the alleged attempts to topple the Congress government in the state.Though the SOG also served similar notices to Gehlot, government’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi and several legislators, Pilot’s loyalists termed it yet another move to “humiliate” their leader and “undermine” his authority. The police report to Gehlot. Pilot rushed to Delhi soon after receiving the notice along with some of his loyal legislators. The rebellion was now out in the open. Pilot’s refusal to attend the two Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings in Jaipur and to sort out the differences with Gehlot culminated in his sacking as the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president. Gehlot, who received Pilot in the Congress with warmth and enthusiasm in 2002, oversaw his removal from key positions 18 years later in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-mp-in-2004-to-a-rebel-in-2020/story-vw8ovxe9g3lQcSXg0k4QaP.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Truce hinged on three key demands||How did the Congress party go from reaching out to Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Rahul Gandhi expressing his “affection’’ for him, to removing him as the deputy chief minister in under 24 hours? Hindustan Times has spoken to several key Congress leaders to piece together the events that led to Pilot’s exit as deputy CM and also as the Pradesh Congress Committee chief.According to a senior Congress leader who spoke on condition of anonymity, Pilot placed three conditions before the party leadership that simply couldn’t be met. The first was that Pilot would be made chief minister in 2022, a year before the elections.“He wanted a public committment right away that in the last year, he would be the Chief minister. He wanted us to announce it to all ,’’ added the leader, who is involved in the party’s decisions at the highest level. Also read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpitThe second demand was that all of Pilot’s supporters would be given some position in the government -- not necessarily as ministers, but “rewarded” in some way, this person said -- “made heads of corporations or any other bodies.’’The third and final demand was that Avinash Pandey, the general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan should be removed from his post. Pilot believes that Pandey is biased towards chief minister Ashok Gehlot and that the situation could return to normal only if another person was brought in his place.“We really tried to bring him around but we couldn’t accept his condition. What if other leaders in other states started asking for this as well?’’ asked the senior leader. Also read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campPilot didn’t respond to queries on whether he laid down these conditions, but one of his supporters said: ”But the Congress is not in power in other states. So why do they have this fear?’’However, the senior Congress leader insisted that the party tried its best. He added that Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s brief to the mediators was simple -- try to bring Pilot around.“Even till this morning, till before the CLP (Congress Legislative Party) meeting began, we kept talking to him. All of us spoke to him-- his well wishers within and outside the party but he wouldn’t listen,’’ said the leader.Hindustan times has confirmed that while Rahul Gandhi did not speak to him, Priyanka Gandhi did make a call to Pilot. Also read: Numbers behind Rajasthan storyWhen the last call from the emissaries was made at around 1030 am on Tuesday and Pilot still wouldn’t budge, the party went ahead with its meeting and passed a resolution against him. That’s when Randeep Surjewala announced , ``We are sorry that Sachin Pilot and some of his ministers have gotten involved in a BJP conspiracy to bring down a democratically elected government.’’“I have never said or done anything in my life against the Congress party,’’ a second supporter quoted Sachin Pilot as having said soon after the decision. “All I wanted was that the public humiliation that Ashok Gehlot put me through should also be publicly acknowledged and set right.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truce-hinged-on-three-key-demands/story-rqe4YOqisCh6CoJCXHjWAO.html
15-07-2020||India||Congress begins process to disqualify rebel legislators||The Congress initiated late on Tuesday the process of disqualifying legislators who failed to attend two consecutive legislature party meetings in Jaipur as the party scrambled to shore up its numbers and save its government.The decision came hours after Sachin Pilot was removed as deputy chief minister and two other ministers, Vishwendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, were dropped from the cabinet. Singh and Meena are considered close associates of 42-year-old Pilot.Congress general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, said the party had initiated the process of issuing notices to the MLAs who did not attend the Congress Legislature Party meeting by submitting a petition before assembly speaker CP Joshi.Also read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campHe said the absence of the MLAs from the CLP meeting amounted to giving up their membership of the party voluntarily as they tried to destabilise the government. “We have filed a petition before the speaker for dismissal, if the replies aren’t found justified, then it is up to the speaker to decide the action,” said Pande.There was no immediate response from the office of speaker CP Joshi. None of the MLAs who skipped the two meetings – one on Monday and one on Tuesday – was available for comment.To be sure, Pilot has neither been expelled nor has he formally quit the primary membership of the party. The same holds true for all the other rebel MLAs.Also read: Numbers behind Rajasthan storyPande refused to specify the number of MLAs who will get the and when asked, only said, “All who were absent from the CLP.”Also read: As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, PilotSenior Congress leaders confirmed to HT that 88 party MLAs attended Monday’s meeting while 86 were present at Tuesday’s meeting. Two MLAs – speaker Joshi and minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal, who is in hospital, were not expected to attend.Late on Tuesday, the Congress also dissolved the state executive, all department and cells of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee. With the appointment of the new state president, a new state executive, departments and cells will be constituted again, said Pande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-begins-process-to-disqualify-rebel-legislators/story-tFjSTWmey2nWxm0uIiFwEM.html
15-07-2020||India||How the Rajasthan impasse is different from Madhya Pradesh saga||The Congress’ decision to sack Sachin Pilot from both deputy chief ministership and state unit presidency of the party in Rajasthan — and Pilot’s open rebellion over the past few days — has thrown up comparisons with Madhya Pradesh. In MP, Jyotiraditya Scindia — the party’s young and popular face — walked out in March, along with legislators loyal to him, and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), leading to the ouster of the Kamal Nath government, and the subsequent installation of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. But there are significant differences between the two states. Here are three such variations:1 Ashok Gehlot versus Kamal NathRajasthan’s CM Ashok Gehlot is a political veteran, who is serving as CM for the third time. In contrast, Kamal Nath — while being a senior leader — was a newcomer to state politics, having been almost entirely in national politics. MP, for him, for much of his political career, was largely limited to his Lok Sabha constituency of Chindwara. He was resourceful, but lacked the ground experience, control over all regions of the state, and skills of political management. Also read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpitGehlot — as reflected in his current legislative strength — appears to have a firmer grasp over the party organisation. He has grown up in Rajasthan politics, from ground-up. His network in each constituency is formidable. Gehlot’s caste identity — he is a Mali, belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category — is seen as relatively neutral in the otherwise bitter caste-driven politics of the state; the scattered nature of his community across the state also gives him an edge. Gehlot also has good links with both the old guard and the younger leadership of the Congress in Delhi, which explains the prompt and unequivocal support he has got in this current battle.2 The arithmetic questionThe MP assembly election results of 2018 was fragmented. In the house of 230 members, Congress won 114 seats and the BJP trailed behind, just narrowly, 109 seats. The Congress won the support of smaller parties and independents to form the government under Kamal Nath. Also read: How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot campBut the narrow difference in seats left the BJP smelling an opportunity. This presented itself when Scindia — unhappy at how the party leadership has failed in ensuring what he saw as a just distribution of power in the state, and Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh’s attitude towards his group — decided to walk out with 22 legislators loyal to him. This reduced the size of the assembly, ensured the Nath government slid into a minority, and enabled the BJP to stake claim to form the government and prove its majority.In Rajasthan, by contrast, while the Congress had just about reached the half-way mark — in the assembly of 200 members, it won 100 seats — it was able to secure the support of other parties and independents and bolster its strength. The BJP, by comparison, won 73 seats. This leaves the gap wider and makes it more challenging for the BJP to oust the Gehlot government. It also means that Pilot will need to muster up greater strength to be able to effect a change in government. Also read: As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, Pilot3 Differing ambitions of the young TurksWhile Scindia is invested in the politics of MP and has a mass base in the state, his immediate aspirations did not revolve around seeking leadership in the state. The BJP, which already had Chouhan as a prominent leader and former CM, too, found it politically easier to get him back in the saddle. Scindia’s loyalists were accommodated in the state cabinet, but Scindia himself was elected to the Rajya Sabha. There is speculation that a greater national role is planned for him.Also read: Numbers behind Rajasthan storyIn contrast, Pilot’s ambition appears state-centric at the moment. He was keen to become CM while he was leading the Congress in the elections; he fought hard to ensure that it was him, rather than Gehlot, who got the seat; his camp’s demand over the past week has revolved around ensuring that he becomes CM. This, then, complicates the situation on two counts. One, it is not clear that Pilot has the numbers. But two, it is also not clear if the BJP will be willing to accommodate this ambition — given that it has a set of its own leaders in the state. It is instructive that the party has not made a single leader who has shifted from another party a CM in any state where it is in power. The closest example is Manipur, where N Biren Singh, a former Congressman is CM — but he had joined the party before the elections.At the same time, there is a remarkable similarity in the two episodes — particularly with the regard to the inability of the Congress leadership in retaining its top talent. Whether Pilot goes the Scindia way, and whether Rajasthan goes the MP way, remains to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-raj-impasse-is-different-from-mp-saga/story-X4kZ0dxAGxOWutNyrcf9YL.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis exposes infighting, indecisiveness in Congress||New Delhi: The political crisis in Rajasthan, coming just three months after the fall of its government in Madhya Pradesh, has once again exposed the fault lines in the Congress as it confronts infighting in many states. Indecisiveness on the part of the Congress leadership cost the party dearly in Madhya Pradesh and triggered turbulence for its government in Rajasthan.The power struggle between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot has been going on for a long time. It escalated after the Congress came to power in the 2018 assembly elections when the party high command opted for Gehlot as the chief minister.The gamesmanship peaked with a notice to Pilot from the Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan police to record his statement in connection with its probe into an alleged attempt to topple the Gehlot government.Both Gehlot and Pilot repeatedly conveyed their grievances to senior leader Ahmed Patel, party general secretary in-charge of the organisation, KC Venugopal, and general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande. But the differences persisted.The developments in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have cast a shadow also on the stability of the government in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh where chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is engaged in a bitter power tussle with his cabinet colleague TS Singh Deo.“The issue has also been brought to the notice of the Congress high command on many occasions but there seems to be no end to the turf war. Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia has failed to unite the warring leaders,” said a Congress functionary familiar with the development, requesting anonymity.In Punjab, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu is sulking and the Congress central leadership has failed to resolve differences between him and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.“Sidhu is incommunicado for the past several months. He is visibly hurt and there is no reconciliation attempt from the central leadership so far,” said a Punjab Congress leader on condition of anonymity.Sidhu is dealing directly with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and has had no interaction with party’s Punjab in-charge Asha Kumari.State chiefs of Telangana (Uttam Kumar Reddy) and Odisha (Niranjan Patnaik) resigned from their posts soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but the party leadership is still struggling to find replacements for them.There is a broad consensus in the party that regional satraps need to be strengthened after the party’s unexpectedly good show in Haryana polls under former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda last year.But the status quoist approach of the leadership has also demoralised the party cadre eagerly waiting for the oganisational reshuffle that was due after the humiliating defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Many All India Congress Committee (AICC) office bearers are continuing in their posts despite having submitted their resignations over a year ago, owning responsibility for the party’s poor show in the national elections.General secretaries like Harish Rawat (Assam), Oommen Chandy (Andhra Pradesh), who is said to be spend much of his time in his home state Kerala, Luizinho Falerio (North East) are on the edge.The party’s general secretary in-charge of Haryana, Ghulam Nabi Azad, is also not keen on looking after the affairs of the state.Some in-charges of states like A Chella Kumar (Goa), Anugrah Narayan Singh (Uttarakhand), Ram Chandra Khuntia (Telangana) and Rajni Patil (Himachal Pradesh) are likely to be divested of their responsibilities.Also, party general secretary in-charge of Jammu and Kashmir Ambika Soni had in 2017 requested the Congress high command to relieve her of the charge of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand because of health reasons.Sonia Gandhi will complete her one-year term as interim Congress president on August 10 and is likely to be given an extension with Rahul Gandhi unwilling to once again assume the reins of the party in the immediate future.Hyderabad-based political analyst and Congress watcher C Narasimha Rao said groupism had always plagued the party. “That is weakening the Congress. The central leadership has to take bold decisions and nip the factionalism in the bud. For that, there has to be a strong central leadership which is not the case right now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-exposes-infighting-indecisiveness-in-congress/story-WijxjWv2aZPS78amq3emMJ.html
15-07-2020||India||How Ashok Gehlot retained support, made inroads into Sachin Pilot camp||Pradyumn Singh, a former three-term legislator, an old-time associate of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot may have been the key in the latter’s success in wooing back four rebel Congress MLAs from the Sachin Pilot camp.  Singh’s son Rohit Bohra was one of them. He arrived in Delhi on Friday with three other Congress legislators Danish Abrar, Prashant Bairwa, and Chetan Dudi. All were considered Pilot loyalists. On Saturday evening Gehlot managed to get through to Bohra on phone. And then, through Bohra, he was able to speak to the other three. Also read: Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpitA Rajasthan Congress functionary said on condition of anonymity that Gehlot was able to convince the four that they would have no future with Pilot, who was then rumoured to be joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Gehlot promised to address all their grievances and dangled the carrot of important responsibilities.Soon after the call, the functionary said, the four left Delhi and reached Jaipur at 4 am on Sunday, where they had separate meetings with Gehlot. “One of the MLAs [members of legislative assembly] sought forgiveness,” said a second Congress functionary, who was present at Gehlot’s residence when the four returned.“With their return, Gehlot was able to break Pilot’s camp and convince party leaders in Delhi that more rebel legislators would return to the fold,” the first functionary said. The four held a press conference on Sunday and said they were with Gehlot. “We are Congress soldiers for generations and are with the party,” said Abrar. The others echoed the sentiment.Their return also seemed to enthuse others in the Gehlot camp. Also read: As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, PilotAccording to the first functionary, Gehlot called almost all the legislators himself and assured them that he would take care of them. Once he was convinced he had the numbers, he called a meeting of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) on Monday. Legislators belonging to the Congress’ allies in the state were also invited to the meeting. “The CLP is a forum where party MLAs can raise their issues in front of Central observers, who then submit a report to the party high command,” said a third party functionary who asked not to be named. “The central observers have given specific instances of how Pilot and his supporters were trying to undermine the chief minister’s authority and were hobnobbing with the opposition,” a fourth functionary said on condition of anonymity. The CLP passed a resolution on Monday, seeking “strict action” against any member of the legislative party indulging in anti-party activities even as central leaders appealed to Pilot and rebel legislators to return.Hours before the CLP met again on Tuesday morning, party leaders again reached out to Pilot to resolve the crisis. According to a fifth Congress functionary who did not wish to be identified, Pilot was told that if he does not want to attend the CLP meeting, he should address the media in Delhi and clarify that he is a “loyal soldier” of the party. Also read| ‘Was a 20-20. Test match next’: Team Sachin Pilot tweets to Ashok Gehlot“But Pilot turned this offer as well and insisted on his demand for immediate removal of Gehlot as the chief minister,” this person added. HT learns that Jitin Prasada and Dinesh Gundu Rao, Pilot’s friends, were asked to contact him. But they, too, failed to persuade him, said another leader involved in the crisis management.“His refusal was like the final nail in the coffin. It was finally decided to remove him as the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president,” this person added on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-gehlot-retained-support-made-inroads-into-pilot-camp/story-ZTVF7eEbnHvDzwCM9r3nfM.html
15-07-2020||India||Congress ejects Pilot from power; CM Gehlot still in Rajasthan cockpit||Responding to Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan, the Congress on Tuesday dismissed Pilot as deputy chief minister, sacked him as the state unit president of the party, removed two of his loyalists from the cabinet, accused his camp of “conspiring” with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to destabilise the government, and contended that its government has numbers. Soon after the decision, Pilot — who has maintained a studied silence on the issue — tweeted in Hindi: “Truth can be harassed, but not defeated.” Later in the evening, he thanked people who expressed their support to him.While Pilot — who has also served as a Congress member of Parliament and a Union minister, and was widely perceived as a rising star of the party with a national future — has not commented about his future plans, observers saw Tuesday’s developments as marking the end of his association with the Congress.Officially, he has neither been expelled nor has he formally quit the primary membership of the party. Coming in the wake of developments in Madhya Pradesh earlier this year, where Jyotiraditya Scindia left the party, senior Congress figures expressed regret at the possible exit of another young leader. Pilot, 42, is likely to set up his own regional party, according to a person familiar with his thinking.As the intra-Congress battle took a decisive turn, the BJP — which had, so far, claimed to be just “watching the developments” and blamed it on the Gandhi family — indicated that its doors were open for Pilot, and claimed that Gehlot’s government had lost its majority.Also read: As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, PilotThe Congress’s decision to sack Pilot came in the backdrop of its assessment that the arithmetic in the Rajasthan assembly favours Gehlot — though party leaders acknowledge privately that there will now be questions over the “stability” of the government and the situation will remain fragile.On Tuesday, 101 legislators — in an assembly of 200 — attended the Congress legislative party meeting at the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur, which included 10 independent legislators and two from Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and one from the Communist Party of India (Marxist); the other CPIM legislator was unwell. However, in the afternoon, the two BTP legislators left the hotel, and went home, saying they would take a call on supporting a political party at an “appropriate” time. Pilot’s camp claimed to have the support of 22 legislators, including three independents, also said that six other legislators would join it soon, and rejected Gehlot’s claims of being in a majority. Two of the legislators in the Pilot camp, Ramesh Meena and Vishwendra Singh, who were both sacked as ministers, issued a statement saying that they were with Pilot and Gehlot government was in minority. Also read| ‘Was a 20-20. Test match next’: Team Sachin Pilot tweets to Ashok GehlotThe dramatic decision came on a day when the Congress held a second legislative party meeting in as many days — which Pilot and legislators loyal to him, once again, did not attend.A Congress leader familiar with the developments said that senior party leaders reached out to Pilot again, and conveyed to him that if he did not want to attend the meeting, he should address the media in Delhi, clarify that he was a “loyal soldier” of the Congress, that he would not do anything that would bring down the government in Rajasthan. “But Pilot turned this offer and insisted on his demand for immediate removal of Gehlot as the chief minister,” the leader said.Despite repeated attempts, Pilot did not respond to questions about the Congress’s accusations and the chain of events put forth by it. Also read: Sachin Pilot welcome to join, say BJP leaders as party weighs its optionsA leader close to Pilot, however, dismissed the claim that the party was responsive, and said that the former deputy CM had consistently expressed his concerns to the party’s top leadership in the past year and a half. Pilot’s camp has been resentful of what they see as Gehlot’s dominance and attempt to marginalise the former deputy CM, including by implicating him in a case regarding the destabilisation of the government. Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party’s chief spokesperson and one of the party’s central observers sent to the state, formally made the announcement. He said Pilot had enjoyed the “blessings” of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and was given political power at a young age, and alleged that despite this, he and other ministers were trying to topple the state government as part of a “BJP conspiracy”. “This cannot be acceptable to any political party. Therefore, the Congress took the decision with a heavy heart,” he said. He declared that state’s education minister, Govind Singh Dotasara, would be the new Rajasthan Congress president. Soon after, CM Gehlot met state governor Kalraj Mishra and apprised him of the dismissal of the three ministers. Gehlot categorically blamed the BJP. “The party high command was compelled to take the decision [to sack Sachin Pilot] because for a long time, the BJP was conspiring and resorting to horse-trading.” He claimed that it was not Pilot, but the BJP, which was “managing everything”. Pilot is scheduled to address reporters on Wednesday at 10am.The BJP categorically rejected the accusation of conspiring to destabilise the government, with senior leader and MP, Om Mathur, saying, “Dear Ashok Gehlot, closing your eyes does not make the sun disappear. There is weakness in the structure of your house, and you are blaming the BJP national leadership for this.”However, Mathur, who is also from Rajasthan, opened the party’s doors for Pilot. “Our doors are open for Sachin Pilot. Anyone who wishes to join the party and adapt to the ideals of the party, they are welcome,” he said.The party’s central leaders were circumspect.According to a person familiar with the party’s thinking in Delhi, BJP general secretary Anil Jain and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan have been at the helm of tracking developments in the state. A second leader said that it would only be natural if the party was in touch with Pilot, for he would not have gone so far in his battle with the Congress without signals. A third party leader, when asked about the speculation that the BJP could support Pilot if he floats his own party, said the BJP will watch from the sidelines till the time it becomes clear that the Gehlot faction does not have the required numbers to stay in power.But even as the permutations and combinations of the political alignment in Rajasthan were being worked out, observers said that the big takeaway from Tuesday’s development was the exit of yet another young leader from the Congress, which is in the middle of a deep political crisis after losing two Lok Sabha elections. Mumbai-based political analyst Abhay Deshpande said young leaders are restive and there is a trust deficit between them and the leadership. “One the aspirational leadership doesn’t see its future in the party and also don’t see the future of the party. They have lost hope and lack confidence in the leadership which has become unpredictable in the recent past,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-ejects-pilot-from-power-cm-gehlot-still-in-raj-cockpit/story-BtEVIqfSRuNkwSjWbCKF4K.html
15-07-2020||India||Govt recommends cap on screen time for online classes||Schoolchildren in Classes 1-8 should spend no more than two teaching sessions of 30-45 minutes each in a day and those in higher classes must have only four such sessions, the Union human resource department (HRD) ministry said on Tuesday in guidelines meant to limit the time students spend in front of screens at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has shut schools around the world.The guidelines — which are not binding but are likely to be adopted by schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Kendriya Vidyalayas — are meant “to mitigate the impact of the pandemic” on the roughly 240 million children as schools stay shut to reduce the risk of infection. The document notes that schools will need to “remodel” and “re-imagine” teaching and learning methods by introducing suitable home and institutional schooling methods. According to the guidelines, made in consultation with CBSE and the National Council for Education, Research and Training (NCERT), pre-primary children should not be made to sit in front of screens for over 30 minutes while children of Classes I to 8 should not be asked to attend more than two sessions of 30-45 minutes on days they hold online classes. For students in Classes 9-12, they can be part of up to four sessions a day of 30-45 minutes each. “Do not rush for the sake of completing the syllabus, rather focus on the consolidation of learning. Plan the interventions keeping in mind students’ level, age, resource availability, nature of content, etc,” the guidelines suggest.Rather than relying too much on teaching in front of screens, schools have been asked to focus on the alternative academic calendar, which the NCERT is preparing for the year.Children exposed to digital technologies or gadgets for a longer time are prone to severe health issues, officials and past research has said, prompting authorities to look for ways in which exposure to digital gadgets can be avoided by designing age-appropriate schedules.HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said the guidelines, titled PRAGYATA, have been developed from the perspective of learners, with a focus on online, blended or digital education for students who are presently at home.A CBSE official, who asked not to be named, said the board “takes all directions from the HRD ministry seriously and implements them with sincerity even if they are of an advisory nature”.Some of the other aspects of the guidelines describe the need for assessment, planning and steps to implement digital education while ensuring cyber safety and privacy measures. It also outlines the support to be provided to students with special needs. For parents, the guidelines focus on understanding the need for physical, mental health and wellbeing along with the cyber safety measures for children at home. While parents welcomed the HRD ministry’s new guidelines on capping the screen timing, school principals and students expressed mixed reactions. CR Park resident Rupa, who goes only by her first name and has a son in nursery, said: “I don’t mind classes every day but I definitely wanted reduced timings. While the online sessions are a good guide for parents, we want our son to continue doing activities under teacher’s guidance as younger children are more likely to listen to their teachers, especially if they are studying at home.”Kavita Arora, whose daughter is a Class 6 student at a south Delhi private school, said: “The reduced timings won’t affect their education much because they have been submitting multiple assignments anyway. The guidelines are welcome because my daughter was complaining of headaches and irritation in her eyes. We had to visit an eye specialist and there were several children there indicating that increased screen time was leading to a lot of problems. We hope the school implements this quickly.” Several school principals said that the capping of screen timing was essential. “It is important to have some capping on the screen timing. The screen time should be a time which is productive. Listening to classes hours after hours is not productive. We have been following quite a similar time frame for online classes even now. This capping of screen timing will also allow teachers and students to balance the online and offline activities taking place simultaneously,” said Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said that the new screen timing is fine for junior classes but it can be a challenge for senior classes. “For primary and upper primary classes there could be recorded videos which the students can access any time. There are certain topics which can be converted into activities and we can just brief students about it and they can do it at home. This way, children will also get an opportunity to do some research. However, for senior classes from 9 to 12, schools will need some more time. We have lots of syllabus to finish and there is also a requirement of extra explanations from teachers’ side,” she said.Darshan Ram, a Class 12 student at Bluebells School International in Kailash Colony, also said that 30 to 45 minutes for a session will be too less for students of senior classes. “Currently, we are having one hour-long three sessions a day. So if we cut down the duration to 45 minutes we will not get time for any kind of discussion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-recommends-cap-on-screen-time-for-online-classes/story-g3xaGUTrGVK8ASyGxADBIJ.html
15-07-2020||India||‘Was a 20-20. Test match next’: Team Sachin Pilot tweets to Ashok Gehlot||Hours after Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot appeared to have survived the immediate challenge to his government on Tuesday, Congress rebel Sachin Pilot’s team made it clear that this was just the beginning. “Today, this was a 20-20 match. The test match begins tomorrow,” Vishvendra Singh, one of the two ministers to be dropped from the Gehlot government earlier in the day along with Sachin Pilot, tweeted.“Now you see what happens next,” he said, a warning that appeared to be directed at Ashok Gehlot.Earlier today, in the biggest development of the day, Gehlot had leaned on party to get Pilot fired from all position of prominence in the government and the party right after a show of strength in a legislative party meet called at a city hotel, making people question if Sachin Pilot had been outwitted by the old political warhorse in a tussle for power in Rajasthan. While Gehlot had successfully paraded 102 MLAs this morning to signal that he had the numerical superiority to survive a floor test in the 200-member strong state assembly, Sachin Pilot’s decision to stand his ground suggested he was confident of his numbers as well.Also read: Congress hits reset after Sachin Pilot’s exit, dissolves party teamsHe had claimed to have the support of 30 MLAs including some from other parties. Congress has a total of 107 MLAs in the assembly, followed by BJP’s 72 MLAs. 88 Congress MLAs, 10 independents, two legislatures from the Bharatiya Tribal Party and one CPM MLA was present today at the Fairmont hotel in Jaipur.According to the party, the chief minister, however, claimed to have the support of 104 MLAs when he met the governor later in the day. He could be counting on Assembly Speaker C P Joshi, indisposed minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal and another CPI(M) legislator.Whether Pilot has the support of 30 MLAs or if that number could eventually turn out to be a few more or a little less on the floor of the house, could be crucial. And since possible disqualification of MLAs could also impact the equations, it cannot be said which side will have the advantage when it counts.Also read: Sachin Pilot welcome to join, say BJP leaders as party weighs its optionsWhich is why, Sachin Pilot’s aide’s challenge for a test match cannot be taken lightly, even more so since the BJP has not opened up its cards yet. Sachin Pilot himself has not been very vocal. After he was sacked, he only sent out two terse tweets. “Truth can be frustrated but not defeated,” he said in his first and used his second to express gratitude for “all those who came out in my (his) support today.” It will be interesting to see how the politics in Rajasthan unfolds tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-a-20-20-test-match-next-team-sachin-pilot-tweets-to-ashok-gehlot/story-1jeDm5QSFwNDrhEjiZdLPN.html
15-07-2020||India||House official tests Covid-19 positive, MPs isolate||After a senior parliament official, who had attended a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee last week, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday morning, several MPs have gone into self-isolation. Two MPs and a senior Lok Sabha official confirmed the developments. Covid-19 cases had been reported among parliament staff earlier, but this is the first time it involved the main parliament building and affected MPs. It underlines the vulnerability of holding meetings amid the Covid-19 pandemic and some lawmakers feel that the demand for online meetings will now get louder. A total of 18 MPs attended the meeting.With many MPs swiftly moving into to self-isolation, some of the upcoming meetings of the parliamentary panels have been affected. Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD) Bhartruhari Mahtab, the chairman of the labour panel and a member of the PAC, said, “I am in self-isolation and so the meeting of the labour committee has been deferred to July 20.”Another MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar announced on twitter that he is going into quarantine. Although strict health norms—members wore masks and maintained distance— were observed at the meeting of the Parliament’s audit watchdog on July 10, the emergence of an active case of an official who sat throughout the meeting and assisted MPs took many by surprise. BJP MPs had thwarted PAC chief Adhir Chowdhury’s attempt to discuss PM Cares fund in that meeting.The first time such an incident inadvertently involving a parliamentary panel meeting and MPs comes amid the demand for digital meetings. Four panel heads —Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Adhir Chowdhury (all four Congress leaders) — had sought permission to go online but no digital plan for panels has been finalised yet.An opposition leader said, “After this incident, the demand for holding online meetings will grow even louder. We have a stronger case to underline the risk of meeting offline when Covid cases are exponentially growing in India.”The labour panel was scheduled to discuss the crucial subject of changes in labour laws by some states and issues relating to migrant labour force. Five meetings of different panels are also slated in this week.Officials also said that a few weeks ago, two junior staff members were detected with Covid-19 in one of high offices of the Lok Sabha, prompting a few top officials to go into self-quarantine.Previously, a few senior officers and a senior housekeeper had also tested positive. The Lok Sabha officials have started attending office in select numbers since May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-official-tests-positive-mps-isolate/story-iyuS0dqqK2E4HWVOkmaT5M.html
15-07-2020||India||Independence Day celebrations to be muted amid Covid-19 pandemic||Independence Day celebrations are expected to be muted this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and fewer VIPs are likely to attend the annual August 15 event at Delhi’s Red Fort while schoolchildren will skip it altogether, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Corona winners, or people who have recovered from the disease, will be the highlight at the celebrations. Around 1,500 such people are expected to attend the function and listen to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, said one of the persons cited above. The corona winners will include around 500 local policemen. The remaining will travel to Delhi from other parts of the country. The defence ministry, which plays a key role in organising the event, has asked the Union home ministry to implement the plan for inviting corona winners for the function.Schoolchildren have traditionally been a part of the Independence Day celebrations. Thousands of them show up to hear the Prime Minister’s speech at the Red Fort. This time they will be missing at the event because of Covid-19, said a second official. Modi mingled with over 8,000 children, who attended the Independence Day function at Red Fort last year, after his speech. The children enthusiastically crowded around him hoping to shake hands with him or speak to him.Defence secretary Ajay Kumar, who visited the Red Fort last week to inspect the preparations for the function, gave clear directions that social distancing norms have to be strictly adhered to, said a third official. While schoolchildren will not attend the celebrations, cadets from the National Cadet Corps are expected to be a part of the function.Fewer dignitaries will attend the event because of the social distancing norms, said the third official. Only 150 to 200 of them will be seated in the VIP enclosure compared to almost 1,000 in previous years. Last year, 10,000 people attended the Independence Day function.In his sixth Independence Day speech from Red Fort last year, Modi highlighted the nullification of the Constitution’s Articles 370 and 35A to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status in August last year. He also spoke about the legislation that criminalised the practice of instant divorce among a section of Muslims, strengthening of anti-terror laws. Modi said the country was moving towards “one nation, one Constitution” while highlighting key accomplishments of his government in less than 70 days after it was voted back to power in May last year.Modi also announced the creation of Chief of Defence Staff’s post for more effective coordination between the three services. This came after the proposal for the post remained in limbo for decades.He also outlined India’s journey from 2014 to 2019 as one from disappointment to hope and urged citizen participation in environmental initiatives, water conservation, end of single-use plastic. He flagged the population explosion as a key concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-day-celebrations-to-be-muted/story-9JxO9SMgeNFn6IHtGttSTM.html
15-07-2020||India||India, EU ink nuclear cooperation pact||New DelhiIndia and the European Union (EU) on Tuesday signed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement on the eve of a virtual summit, while Europol and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are negotiating a working arrangement to combat organised crime and terrorism.The agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community or Euratom and Indian authorities will focus on cooperation between EU’s research programmes on new ways of using nuclear energy and similar activities on the Indian side, EU officials said during a briefing for journalists.“The agreement is on research and development cooperation for peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which was negotiated for 13 years and finally can be cemented by the summit,” said one of the EU officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.The India-EU Summit, to be co-chaired on Wednesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, is expected to focus on strengthening multilateralism and global institutions in the face of the rise of an increasingly assertive China.The leadership of both sides are expected to reiterate their strong commitment to combat terrorism in all forms during the summit, the EU officials said. The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation or Europol and CBI are negotiating a working arrangement that will support law enforcement authorities of EU member states and India to prevent and combat organised crime and terror, they said.Asked specifically about the India-China border standoff, the EU officials described the recent incidents on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as a matter of considerable concern.“We are pleased to see that since these very deadly clashes took place on the LAC, both sides have committed to show restraint, to engage in military de-escalation and to engage in dialogue,” one of the officials said.Reports showed there has been a withdrawal of troops by both sides in key areas, and diplomatic and military efforts are having a “de-escalatory effect and we trust that both sides will continue dialogue to find a peaceful solution to their differences”, the official added.However, the EU officials said two sides are “quite far apart” on the issue of a Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA), negotiations for which were suspended in 2017. They were also critical of what they described as “protectionist” measures adopted by India and the termination of bilateral investment treaties with 25 EU member states.The trade relationship was far below the potential, with India accounting for less than 3% of EU’s total trade, they said. They added EU wants an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement that brings in strong rules, removes barriers to trade in goods and services and investments and opens up human markets.“India maintains a quite protectionist stance when it comes to negotiations on tariffs and on opening up its services sector, it goes backward in many areas, [such as] reducing access to the Indian procurement market for European companies,” one of the EU officials said. “At the moment, we are quite far apart in agreeing on joint operations we want to see in such an exercise.”EU is looking forward to the launch of a high-level trade dialogue between the EU trade commissioner and India’s comer minister to address these issues, they said.Besides the trade dialogue and a cooperation roadmap for the period till 2025, other deliverables expected from the summit are a joint declaration on circular economy and resource efficiency, the renewal of a science and technology cooperation agreement, the launch of a new maritime security dialogue, and the development of security and defence consultations and military contacts, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-ink-nuclear-cooperation-pact/story-qQjMRGMKMEBaDw0syIwHeL.html
15-07-2020||India||Boost to rural economy: Record sowing points to good harvest||Plentiful rains and a rural stimulus have led to frenzied planting of kharif, or summer-sown crops, this year, as acreages of four key crops surpassed their five-year averages for this time of the year, a welcome record amid the county’s economic crisis. If this results in a bountiful harvest (as it is expected to), the result could be a boost for the rural economy -- and more demand for everything from consumer products to mobile phones to motorcycles. Buoyed by robust showers from May onwards, farmers sprinted into action earlier than usual, planting crops in 58.6 million hectares until July 12, compared to 40.2 million hectare last year, a 45% jump, according to data from the farm ministry.In all, the respective areas under pulses, coarse cereals, oilseeds, and cotton are currently the highest in five years pointing to a bumper harvest. The five-year average represents the normal sowing area.  A good monsoon is critical because 60% of the country’s farmlands don’t have access to irrigation and almost half of all Indians depend on a farm-based livelihood. And a good harvest keeps prices low and stokes demand for manufactured items, spurring factory output. Rural buyers, for instance, account for nearly half of all motorcycles sold annually, according to Citibank Research. The monsoon so far has been either “normal” or “excess” in 26 states, according to the India Meteorological Department. Countrywide, the rains have been surplus by 14%. Also read: After vigorous monsoon rains, crop planting gathers pace in IndiaOne hundred and twenty-one nationally monitored reservoirs -- critical for power, drinking and irrigation -- currently have twice as much water as last year (171 billion cubic meters on July 9), official data showed.Better farm output will cushion the impact of a widely expected recession this year, as the Covid-19 pandemic roils economic activity. The World Bank on June 8 forecast India’s economy will shrink 3.2% in 2020-21. The farm sector, by contrast, is poised to grow 3%, government think-tank Niti Aayog said in April.Farmers have sown paddy on 12 million hectares, up 25% from last year. The area under cotton stands at 10.4 million hectares, compared to last year’s 7.7 million. Oilseeds are at 13.9 million hectares, against 7.5 million last year. Pulses acreage is at a record 6.4 million hectares, sharply higher than 2.4 million hectares in 2019. One hectare equals 2.5 acre.“Farmers were able to sow crops faster this year due to good pre-monsoon showers ; the fact that the rural economy was kept outside the [Covid-19] lockdown helped. Farm incomes are critical for revival of consumption demand,” said KS Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. In June, 4.2 million farmers received about Rs73,500 crore in cash, from prices the government paid for crops. Fertilizer sales were 73% higher year-on-year in May.In April, nearly 80 million farmers also received a fresh instalment of Rs 2,000 each as cash transfer under the PM KISAN programme, totalling Rs 17000 crore. Data from two farm equipment manufacturers showed that in June, tractor sales by Mahindra & Mahindra and Escorts Ltd rose 13% and 24% from a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-to-rural-economy-record-sowing-points-to-good-harvest/story-NP0ETMFwn4nWd3m4nob8EJ.html
15-07-2020||India||In marathon meet, India, China talk tricky issues||Complicated negotiations on kicking off the next stage of disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies in eastern Ladakh saw senior military commanders from both sides hold an hours-long meeting at Chushul on Tuesday to discuss the road map for further reducing tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.The talks that began at 11.30am were in progress when this report was filed.The focus of the latest round of military talks was to hammer out a consensus on easing tensions in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons and equipment from friction points in other sectors, said one of the officials cited above.“Tricky issues are on the table. Addressing them will take time,” he said.This was the fourth meeting between the corps commander-ranked officers who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the contested border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.The previous two meetings went on for up to 11 hours while the first one was the shortest at seven hours.Negotiations are expected to be harder going forward as the continued presence of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point of the talks, as reported by Hindustan Times on Tuesday.In Tuesday’s talks, the agenda included the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from all friction areas along the LAC and thinning the military build-up in the region, a second official said.The military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement, while the WMCC monitors the process.A limited military disengagement was initiated last month after the commanders reached an understanding on reducing tensions during their first meeting on June 6. But the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15 dashed disengagement hopes, leaving 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead.The July 14 talks follow a series of steps taken by the two armies at friction points in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra to implement a complex disengagement plan worked out during the June 30 meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.The current disengagement process began after the June 30 military dialogue and a subsequent conversation on July 5 between national security adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi.At the June 30 meeting, the Indian side reiterated its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from friction points along the LAC and sought the restoration of status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) in the Finger Area, Galwan Valley, Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang plains, apart from emphasising the need for thinning the military build-up in the region.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.The PLA pulled back 2km from Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan Valley), PP-15 (Hot Springs) and PP-17 (Gogra) last week, with the Indian Army also withdrawing proportionately in these areas.The army observed some thinning of PLA troops, vehicles and removal of structures from a key spur in the Finger Area over the last week but the army doesn’t view it as disengagement, said a third official, asking not to be named.The Finger Area, which refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, remains the biggest test and the hardest part of the disengagement process.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the contested border in the Depsang sector where the PLA’s forward presence is a matter of serious concern and where a 2013 Chinese intrusion blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes, including the ones leading to PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-marathon-meet-india-china-talk-tricky-issues/story-51yN6OMumnwAxugPOecbqI.html
15-07-2020||India||Supreme Court directs telcos to maintain data seized in criminal cases||Cellular companies and internet service providers (ISPs) should maintain call data records (CDR) and other relevant data in a segregated and secure manner if a particular CDR or other record is seized during the investigation of a criminal case, the Supreme Court ordered on Tuesday in an order aimed at obviating difficulties arising due to non-availability of CDR and other data in criminal trials.Parties to the criminal case can then summon such record at the stage of presenting defence evidence, or in the event such data is required to cross-examine a particular witness, the top court said. “This direction shall be applied, in criminal trials, till appropriate directions are issued under relevant terms of the applicable licenses (under which mobile companies operate), or under Section 67C of the Information Technology Act (which mandate central government to issue such directions)”, the bench headed by justice Rohinton Nariman said.The court noted that the Department of Telecommunication’s license conditions generally oblige internet service providers and providers of mobile telephony to preserve and maintain electronic call records and records of logs of internet users for a limited duration of one year.But, if the police or other interested individuals fail to secure those records or secure the records but fail to secure the certificate (validating its authenticity) within the period of one year, the production of a post-dated certificate (i.e. one issued after commencement of the trial) would in all probability render the data unverifiable, the court said. Therefore, the court ruled that it was necessary to issue general directions to mobile companies till appropriate rules are framed by the centre. “General directions are issued to cellular companies and internet service providers to maintain CDRs and other relevant records for the concerned period in a segregated and secure manner if a particular CDR or other record is seized during investigation in the said period”, the judgment said. The court was hearing a case from Maharashtra relating to admissibility of electronic evidence which itself stemmed from an election petition challenging the election of Shiv Sena candidate Arjun Panditrao Khotkar tothe Maharashtra assembly from the Jalna constituency in 2014.The election petition was filed before the Bombay high court in 2014 by the defeated Congress candidate Kailash Kishanrao Gorantyal. The case set up by Gorantyal was that Khotkar had filed his nomination papers after the stipulated time of 3 pm on September 27, 2014.In order to buttress this argument, Gorantyal had sought to rely upon video-camera arrangements that were made both inside and outside the office of the returning officer (RO).The High Court, in March 2016, ordered the Election Commission and the concerned officers to produce the entire record of the election including the original video recordings. A specific order was made that this electronic record needs to be produced along with the ‘necessary certificates’.As per section 65B of Indian Evidence Act, such certificates from the concerned authorities are required, if secondary evidence like CDs, VCDs, chips etc are sought to be produced as evidence.But such certificates were not produced before the Bombay high court in this case. Despite that, the high court relied upon the statement made by the returning officer who admitted that the video cameras were regularly used in her office for recording incidents and daily VCDs were collected of the recording by her office.Based on the same, the video evidence was accepted and Khotkar’s election was declared invalid.The Supreme Court ruled that a certificate from the relevant authority is a condition precedent for admissibility of electronic evidence.“Oral evidence in the place of such certificate cannot possibly suffice as Section 65B(4) is a mandatory requirement of the law”, the court held.But in the current case, the court noted that Gorantyal had done everything in his power to obtain the requisite certificate from the appropriate authorities, that is Election Commission, including directions from the court to produce the requisite certificate, but no such certificate was forthcoming. Hence the high court judgment cannot be faulted, the Supreme Court ruled while also imposing a fine of Rs. 2 lakh on Khotkar.“It is clear that apart from the evidence in the form of electronic record, other evidence was also relied upon (by the high court)”, the Supreme Court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-telcos-to-maintain-data-seized-in-criminal-cases/story-DwpVH4rzscsxgAfAhuNN6J.html
15-07-2020||India||J’khand plea: SC to examine decision to auction coal blocks to pvt firms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the central government in a plea by Jharkhand government challenging the centre’s decision to auction coal blocks situated in the state to private firms for commercial mining on the grounds that it would have an adverse impact on the state’s forest cover as well indigenous population. .A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde sought the centre’s response in the plea which alleged that centre unilaterally decided to auctions coal resources within the territory of Jharkhand without consulting the state government.“We are inclined to issue notice and hear on the injunction (to stay the auction)”, CJI Bobde said.The decision was welcomed by Jharkand chief minister Hemant Soren in a tweet: “As reiterated before, Jharkand Government is committed to an inclusive welfare centric development model safeguarding the environment, forests, and forest-dwelling communities; minimising socio-environmental impact.” The Jharkand government also believes that the current adverse investment climate will mean the auctions are unlikely to generate as much revenue as they could have. On June 10, Soren wrote to Union coal minister Prahlad Joshi seeking a six to nine months moratorium on the auction. Rajeev Jain, additional director general and spokesperson of the coal ministry said, “Hon’ble Supreme Court has not stayed it. The policy decision was taken by the Cabinet. The government will take the legal recourse.”Senior counsel Fali S Nariman, who represented the Jharkhand government along with senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, pointed out that the auction will take place on August 18 and the matter should be heard before that.CJI Bobde said that the centre can extend the auction date and that Attorney General KK Venugopal, who was representing the centre, should look into it.The matter is likely to be heard next on August 17.Prime Minister Narendra Modi , on June 18, launched the virtual auction process of 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. These coal blocks are situated in the states of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra; nine of the forty-one coal blocks are in Jharkhand.HT has reported that several are located in biodiversity-rich forest areas in central India, including a few in one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest called Hasdeo Arand that spans 170,000 hectares.The decision was part of the series of announcements made by the Government of India, under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan aimed at making India a self-reliant nation, and boosting an economy ravaged by the coronavirus disease and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread. The Jharkhand government moved the Supreme Court in June, first by filing a writ petition and then by way of a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution, challenging the centre’s decision. Article 131 empowers the Supreme Court to hear disputes between central government and states.“The state is the owner of the mines and minerals situated within the territory of the plaintiff (Jharkhand). “The defendant (Centre) has announced the auction unilaterally without consultation with the plaintiff (Jharkhand)”, the suit said.Though there were consultation regarding the same between the centre and states in Februay, Jharkhand has contended that fresh consultations should have been held in view of the changed situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to combat the same.“The meetings of February 2020 are meaningless as they do not take into account the materially changed circumstance arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Renewed consultation with the plaintiff state was indeed required due to COVID-19 pandemic which has brought the nation and the entire globe to a standstill, in a manner never seen before,” the plea stated.It also took objection to the fact that centre resorted to such a move during time of Covid-19 pandemic.“The impugned action impinges the rights of the indigenous people of the plaintiff state and will lead to large scale displacement and consequential rehabilitation and re-settlement issues,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-khand-plea-sc-to-examine-decision-to-auction-coal-blocks-to-pvt-firms/story-VVNMLz4g6pyBRaj0vp5JPP.html
15-07-2020||India||Central vista project: 7 firms in race to build new Parliament||Seven firms have evinced interest in the construction of the new Parliament building after pre-qualification bids invited by the Centre for its ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project closed Tuesday. A senior official aware of the development said that seven firms have submitted their bids, which will be under consideration. “It will take two to three weeks to shortlist the bidder based on their technical qualifications,” the official added.Hindustan Times has verified the submission documents of the seven firms, which specify similar work completed in the past seven years, ongoing projects, as well as tentative plans to indicate manpower requirement, sourcing of materials, and establishment of facilities such as for fabrication, among other things.Mumbai-based construction and civil engineering company ITD Cementation India Limited, Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited, Larsen & Toubro Limited, NCC Limited (head quartered in Hyderabad), PSP Projects Ltd based in Ahmedabad, Tata Projects and Uttar Pradesh state government undertaking U.P. Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited filed their bids online seeking to construct the triangular shaped building with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had invited pre-qualification bids in a two-bid system to construct the new Parliament building adjacent to the current Parliament building. The bid document offered an estimated cost of Rs 889 crore, which it referred to as “a rough guide” to the project. It laid out strict eligibility criteria based on a firm’s past work — such as having built an assembly hall of minimum 1000 capacity and a building with a basement — as well as experience of ongoing projects, average monthly turnover, and net worth, among other factors.Construction on the new Parliament building, which will comprise halls with greater seating capacity for the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, offices for members of Parliament, as well as a courtyard, dining facilities and a lounge for lawmakers, is likely to begin after the Parliament’s winter session.“The construction work will begin post the Parliament’s winter session. It is expected to be completed by end of the year 2022,” said Bimal Patel, managing director of HCP Design, Planning And Management Private Limited, the architecture firm which won the bid for the redesign of Central Vista last year.“The proposed work is of very prestigious nature and is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the highest standards of quality and workmanship,” the bid document said.“The proposed new Parliament Building shall be of reinforced cement concrete framed structure building. The plinth of building shall match with plinth of existing building which is approximately 1.8 metre above the ground level,” the document stated.The bid document also specified that 50% of the workers will need to be skilled for work of stone masonry, carving, fresco, furniture, and adequate health and safety measures would need to be taken in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.Centre will provide land free of cost to the contractor for establishing a labour camp within Delhi NCR area. The contractor shall make his own arrangement of transportation of labour from labour camp to site for working in three shifts.CPWD had additionally modified the pre-qualification bid and stated that contractor in collaboration with CPWD shall arrange on-site skill training for at least 30% of unskilled workers through reputed institutions like CPWD National Training Academy, CIDC, ITI, National Institute of Construction Management (NICMAR). National Academy of Construction or any similar reputed and recognised institute managed or certified by state or Central Government.“The contractor may have to execute the work in three shifts with large man power of skilled, semi-skilled and un-skilled workers, experienced and professional supervisors of engineers,” it said.It will be the contractor’s scope to arrange the labourers, Patel told HT. “They will plan and arrange for the required labour.”CPWD, which is the project implementation arm of the ministry of housing and urban affairs, specified that existing Parliament building shall continue to function during the entire period of execution of this project.The new Parliament complex, which has an earlier deadline of 2022 under the Central Vista redevelopment plan, will be among the first plans to be finalised and tendered out. The redevelopment will also see North and South Block turning into a museum as well as new administrative offices with an underground metro on either side of the avenue.On January 21, Hindustan Times reported that the new Lok Sabha hall would be big enough to house up to 1,350 parliamentarians for joint sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-7-firms-in-race-to-build-new-parliament/story-HebL5XHNK2p8oaQICq8XhK.html
15-07-2020||India||Monsoon to resume over northwest region from today: IMD||After a brief lull, monsoon rains will resume in northwest and central India from Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). There is an 8% monsoon rain deficiency over northwest India during this season. The monsoon trough which had moved northwards to the Himalayan foothills around July 8 bringing intense rains to east and northeast India has moved back almost to its normal position and is passing along Amritsar in Punjab; Chandigarh; Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh; Dumka in Jharkhand and Canning in West Bengal.It’s likely to rain all along these regions because of high moisture incursion and easterly winds blowing from the direction of Bay of Bengal. Delhi however is likely to receive light, patchy rain during the period.The eastern end of the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) has shifted further southwards causing significant reduction in rainfall intensity over northeast India. Under influence of likely strengthening of lower level easterlies and hence the monsoon tough, widespread rain with some heavy to very heavy rain is likely over northwestern plains during July 15 to 18 with maximum intensity and distribution of rainfall on July 16 and 18, IMD’s Tuesday bulletin said.Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal during next 2 days. Under the influence of strong lower level wind convergence along the West coast, heavy to very heavy rain will affect north Madhya Maharashtra, south Gujarat region and north Konkan from July 14 to 16 with extremely heavy rain over parts of north Madhya Maharashtra and north Konkan on July 15 and over south Gujarat region on July 16.“The monsoon trough has come down so there will be relief from extreme rains in northeast India. When the trough moves to the plains, there is easterly wind flow. This makes conditions favourable for rain in regions where the trough passes. There is a feeble western disturbance affecting the northwestern region and a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh. These will help bring rain to northwest India but it will not be very intense. There will be a lot of rain along the west coast also mainly due to wind convergence,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.“We are expecting rain intensity to be higher in Uttarakhand, east and west UP, east Rajasthan, Delhi NCR may get light rain and thunder,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.The country has received 12% excess rains till now since June 1 when monsoon arrived; 16% excess over east and northeast India; 8% deficient in northwest India; 17% excess over central India and 14% excess over peninsular India.Bihar and east UP have 57% and 54% excess rains respectively since June 1 because of extremely heavy rains and flooding in the foothills but Jammu and Kashmir is 60% deficient; Himachal Pradesh is 28% deficient; Uttarakhand in 7% deficient and west Uttar Pradesh is 27% deficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-monsoon-to-resume-over-north-west-region-from-today/story-NFv2ahuczRXs7dTKgTeMtL.html
15-07-2020||India||New draft rules for transpersons act issued, 30 days for giving suggestions||Nearly a month after the ministry of social justice and empowerment sought suggestions to the draft rules of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2020, a new draft was issued Monday that offered 30 days to submit further suggestions or objections.The new draft has incorporated some of the changes submitted by members and activists of the transgender community in May, including the definition of discrimination based on the internationally recognized human rights proposition laid down by the Yogyakarta Principles, a provision on equal opportunities in employment, and formulation of state and Central schemes on social security, health and welfare for trans communities. The draft offers a list of suggested welfare schemes that the government could consider in access to health, education, housing, welfare measures, and economic support. Some of the suggested measures included providing zero-interest and other micro-finance schemes, inclusion in employment guarantee schemes such as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, universal access to food security schemes, free gender affirmative surgery, old age homes and shelters for at risk transgender youth. “We need reservation, and without it any guarantee of protection is empty. But the draft rules don’t even mention a word of reservation,” said Tamil Nadu-based trans and Dalit rights activist, Grace Banu.The new draft removed the previous document’s provision to penalize “false declaration to obtain certificate of identity” and further defined discrimination as: “Any distinction, exclusion or restriction on the basis of gender identity and expression, which has the purpose of impairing or nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal basis with others, of all human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other field and includes all forms of discrimination, including denial of reasonable accommodation.”However, the draft retained the provision to differentiate between certifications of the transgender identity and the male or female identity. While the former would require the submission of a form, the latter would require proof of medical intervention to change gender. The 2014 Supreme Court verdict, National Legal Services Authority (Nalsa) vs Union of India, which granted legal recognition to the transgender identity stated that self-identification was central to gender identity, and that government cannot ask for any medical certification.“The new draft rules have made minor modifications in response to our considerable suggestions, but they retain the core of the Act which strips us of the right to self-determination and self recognition that Nalsa [judgment of Supreme Court] granted. The bill continues to rely on medical interventions to grant binary gender identities,” said Bittu Kondaiah, an associate professor at Ashoka University, New Delhi. Members of the community from around the country held consultations over video calling applications to build consensus on modifications and additions to the first set of draft rules which were released earlier this year, and were required to be submitted by May 18.The United Nations Development Programme as well as non-profit organisations like SAATHII, which works towards universal access to health care and social welfare held sessions with trans persons from around the country to formulate the feedback to the draft rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-draft-rules-for-transpersons-act-issued-30-days-for-giving-suggestions/story-TeSGKCILXM37Be5YhkY2iJ.html
15-07-2020||India||If FB is so dear to you, put in your papers, Delhi high court tells Lt Col||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked an army officer to either abide by his organisation’s mandate or resign while declining his plea seeking a stay on the army’s directive to soldiers to delete 89 apps from their smartphones. The court said the stay cannot be granted as the matter related to the country’s security and safety.The officer, Lieutenant Colonel PK Choudhary, moved the court after he was directed to remove the applications and also delete his Facebook and Instagram profiles.“You please delete... You can always create a new one. It cannot work like this. You are part of an organisation. You have to abide by its mandate,” a bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon said. “If you are so dear to FB [Facebook], then put in your papers. See you have to make a choice, what do you want to do. You have other choices which are also irreversible.”Choudhary, who is posted in Jammu & Kashmir, sought a direction to withdraw the Centre’s June 6 policy to “ensure that the fundamental rights of armed forces personnel are not abrogated amended or modified by arbitrary executive action”. It added the order is “not backed by the mandate of law, offends the provisions of the Army Act and Rules made thereunder and is unconstitutional”.In his plea, he called himself an active Facebook user, who used the platform to connect with his friends and family as most of them are settled abroad, including his daughter.Choudhary’s lawyer, Shivank Pratap Singh, contended the order will compromise the right to privacy and data. He said if the interim relief is not granted, his client’s valuable data will be lost due to the deletion of the accounts. He said it is an “irreversible” process and the account once deleted cannot be retrieved.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, who appeared for the Centre, opposed the plea and said the decision was taken as the government found Facebook had a bug. “It was infiltrating as cyber warfare and there were so many instances of personnel being targeted.”Sharma cited the petitioner argument that he needed Facebook to communicate with his family and added there are other modes of communication like WhatsApp, Twitter and Skype available to him.The court will hear the matter next on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-fb-is-so-dear-to-you-put-in-your-papers-hc-tells-lt-col/story-ZZslMzjrKWwuAPNrBvKBcP.html
15-07-2020||India||Supreme Court hints at judicial probe in Vikas Dubey case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that it may order a judicial probe into the killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and his associates as it issued a notice seeking Uttar Pradesh government’s response to a bunch of petitions demanding an independent investigation into them.The Uttar police claimed Dubey was killed on Friday when he tried to flee after a car bringing him from Madhya Pradesh, where he was arrested for his alleged involvement in the July 3 killing of eight policemen in Kanpur, overturned. Politicians, former police officers, and rights groups have demanded a probe into the killing, saying the police version of what happened did not add up. Five people linked to Dubey were killed between July 3 and July 9.“This is something which this court will do reluctantly. But since we have done it in the other case pertaining to Telangana, we will do something similar here,” said chief justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde as a three-judge bench he heads began hearing three petitions seeking a probe into Dubey’s killing. “Monitoring [of the probe] is something we cannot do as finally the appeal arising out of this case has to come to this court.” The court posted the matter for hearing next on Monday when the Uttar Pradesh government has to file its response.The Supreme Court in December constituted a three-member commission to investigate the killing of four men days after they were arrested for allegedly raping and murdering a 26-year-old veterinary doctor near Hyderabad. The former Supreme Court judge VS Sirpurkar-led panel was constituted after two lawyers moved the court seeking an independent probe into the Hyderabad killings. The Telangana police have insisted the four accused were killed in an exchange of fire on December 6 after they allegedly snatched their weapons when they were taken to the crime scene. The killings triggered a fierce debate and raised concerns about the violation of the due process.The three-member Supreme Court bench drew parallels between the two cases. It asked the petitioners to suggest the composition of the judicial inquiry committee to probe the murders of Dubey and his accomplices.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the Uttar Pradesh government, said the state has addressed all concerns of the petitioners. “We have taken up the matter seriously. Let me first place before the court what has been done and then the court can take a decision.” The court allowed Mehta to file his response by Thursday.Ghanshyam Upadhyay, a lawyer and one of the petitioners, had filed a petition before Dubey was killed fearing he will be eliminated like his accomplices. Anoop Prakash Awasthi, another petitioner, has sought a probe into the alleged police-politician-gangster nexus behind Dubey and his gang members killings. He has alleged the state police consider themselves to be above the law and hence “their excesses” in this case should be subject to a court-monitored probe either by central agencies or a panel headed by a retired judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-hints-at-judicial-probe-in-dubey-case/story-15h1Zl8Xnp9ALRphpDzcpN.html
15-07-2020||India||No ‘actionable evidence’ against politicians in Delhi riots: Police||Delhi Police on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that no “actionable evidence” has been found against several political leaders -- including the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma, and the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Amanatullah Khan -- against whom public interest litigations were filed for allegedly making hate speeches and instigating people during the anti-CAA protests.In an affidavit filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, the police said that “the prima facie investigation has revealed that this is not the case of any sporadic or spontaneous violence but appears to be a part of a well-thought-out conspiracy to destabilise harmony in society”, and that the petitions should be dismissed. It stated that investigation in the case is still on, and if anything incriminating is found, FIRs will be registered.The reply comes in a bunch of pleas that sought registration of FIRs against several political leaders for allegedly making speeches during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act agitation that, the petition said, eventually led to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February.On February 26, the Human Rights Law Network filed a plea on behalf of activist Harsh Mander seeking FIRs against Bharatiya Janata Party leaders such as Kapil Mishra and Anurag Thakur to be booked for making that speeches that purportedly triggered communal violence in northeast Delhi. The following day, an organisation named Lawyers Voice filed an intervention in the plea, making similar allegations against Congress's Sonia and Rahul Gandhi as well as leaders of AAP.“It is submitted that during the investigations conducted so far in all the aforesaid matters related to north-east Delhi riots, no actionable evidence has yet surfaced indicating any role being played by the persons named in the writ petitions in instigating and/or participating in the riots,” the police affidavit said.It added that the “investigation conducted so far is pointing towards a wider and a larger conspiracy and concerted attempts of creating disruption of law and order situation in the city through violent means by disrupting communal harmony in the state and to perpetrate chaos in the society”.On Monday, the court gave two days to the Delhi Police to file their replies to the pleas seeking various directions to speed up action in the case of violence at Jamia Milia Islamia that had broken out during the anti-CAA protests after some of the petitioners said they had not received the copy of the reply. Reacting to the affidavit, BJP leader Kapil Mishra said: “Today it is clear that the entire propaganda campaign against me was fake. People who organised riots in Delhi are filling fake complaints against me and some ‘urban Naxals’ tried to promote that. The fake campaign against me stands exposed. I am sure not only rioters but also their support groups in media and politics will be punished by the law.”BJP leader Abhay Verma added that he was confident that nothing would be found against him. “I was sure that whenever the investigation would be conducted; no evidence would be found against me. I am a public representative and had gone to the riots hit area because the residents and shopkeepers of the area were angry after the murder of IB official Ankit Sharma. I had not made any instigating speeches and it can be seen on the video. Rather, I had tried to stop some people when they raised slogans,” Verma said. AAP leaders Manish Sisodia and Amanatullah Khan did not respond to requests for a comment.While representatives of the Congress did not immediately respond to the police affidavit, the party’s senior leadership has maintained that none of their speeches have incited communal violence. The police said in its affidavit that exercising the fundamental right of dissent should be respected, but no person can be allowed to commit a breach of law, indulge in violence, arson and riotous activity causing danger “under the garb of exercise of the fundamental right of free speech and assembly”.The matter will be now heard on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-actionable-evidence-against-politicians-in-delhi-riots-police/story-l5JDjra4BdUS1fmYLk32FP.html
15-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Congress hits reset after Sachin Pilot’s exit, dissolves party teams||Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande dissolved the State Executive unit, all other departments and cells of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee late Tuesday night after the party dropped Sachin Pilot from the cabinet and also removed him from the post of the party chief in the state.“The state executive, all departments and cells of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee have been dissolved with immediate effect. With the appointment of the new president of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress, new state executive, departments and cells will be formed,” Pande tweeted.Also read: As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, PilotShortly after Pilot was removed, the Congress appointed Govind Singh Dotasara as the new Pradesh Congress Committee chief.Pilot has been quiet except for a couple of tweets and has not yet made any formal announcement of his plans. He is expected to address a Press conference Wednesday morning at 11 when he may outline his next steps.Two of Pilot’s supporters - ministers Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur and Ramesh Meena were also removed from the Cabinet after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party.Also read: Sachin Pilot welcome to join, say BJP leaders as party weighs its optionsVishvendra Singh Bharatpur took to Twitter to joke that his downgrade from a minister to only an MLA “was a day’s work”.“I just love the way how from being called ‘Mantri’ to ‘MLA’ was a day’s work! Actually that gives me more room on the drawing board! A fresh canvas !,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-congress-hits-reset-after-sachin-pilot-s-exit-dissolves-party-teams/story-1P0lvTrdCLhWik9VHYJ2wN.html
15-07-2020||India||Covid patients in Hyderabad hospital protest after body left on bed for hours||In a case of utter callousness by the authorities at the Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad, the body of a Covid-19 victim was left unattended on the bed for nearly eight hours on Tuesday, triggering protests from other patients undergoing treatment in the ward.The incident came to light in the evening when some of the patients in the ward complained to their family members that the body of a Covid-19 victim had been lying on the bed since morning and that the entire ward was stinking.“Apparently, the inmates in the ward brought to the notice of the hospital authorities about the death of a patient in the morning, but nobody bothered about it. Unable to bear the stench coming from the dead body, some of the patients moved out of the ward,” a relative of a Covid-19 patient said.It was only after the other inmates raised a hue and cry that the hospital authorities shifted the body to the mortuary.Gandhi Hospital is the designated government hospital for Covid-19 and has been declared as centre of excellence.Later in the night, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital Dr Raja Rao issued a statement acknowledging that there was delay in shifting the body from the ward and attributed the same to the strike by outsourced staff, sanitary workers and security personnel since the morning.Rao, however, said the delay was not up to seven or eight hours as claimed by the other patients. “The patient expired at around 1 pm. As per the protocol, we had to take the Electro Cardio Gram (ECG) to confirm the death and document the same. This exercise was delayed,” he said.The superintendent further said the clearance of the dead body was also delayed because only a few regular staff members were available because of the strike by other staff. “With the available workers, we were forced to manage 6 Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and all other wards. As we concentrated more on patient care and treatment, clearing the body got delayed,” he explained.Rao also denied the reports that the body was decaying. “The dead body does not putrefy and emanate stench in a few hours. But, in this big pandemic, where so many people are fearing even to enter Gandhi Hospital, every one of us is working hard. Anyway, we will see that it will not happen again,” he said.Meanwhile, the outsourcing, sanitation, security and patient care staff have called for indefinite strike demanding settlement of their pending demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patients-in-hyderabad-hospital-protest-after-body-left-on-bed-for-hours/story-hDDLoSQdKxhlOdiVazprpN.html
15-07-2020||India||As Congress picks old guard over new, future tense for both Gehlot, Pilot||An anecdote from the 2014 Lok Sabha elections involving Punjab’s Captain Amarinder Singh held perhaps the template for striking an equitable balance between the competing ambitions of Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot. The story goes that Singh was talked into playing a more proactive role in the elections in a direct phone call from Sonia Gandhi. She struck a personal note with the reluctant Punjab leader, saying it’ll help if he does so, and the Captain agreed to contest.Cut to 2020.“The Congress president has to take a call,” Pilot told this writer shortly before he was removed as deputy chief minister and president of the party’s state unit. He said he conveyed to the central leadership his grievances against chief minister Gehlot, who “sidelined and humiliated” him and his supporters in the legislature party. With the party high command choosing to back the incumbent chief minister who, at 69, is elder by 27 years to Pilot, the Congress has lost another young and promising leader after Jyotiraditya Scindia. Gehlot might pass a trust vote in the assembly. But winning the perception war will be an exacting task for his fractured regime. Only a party united can deliver governance in a divided polity. Organisational power is centralised in the Congress even when it is out of power. That apart, Sonia Gandhi’s regard in the rank and file is intact despite the party’s falling graph. A personal appeal by her to Pilot or his mother, Rama Pilot, who has been a Congress legislator, could have set the stage for an honourable truce. For that to happen, Pilot should’ve have grabbed the olive leaf the party publicly extended through emissaries dispatched to Jaipur.That he received a lot in too short a time in the Congress was accepted by Pilot in an interview when Gehlot became CM against his claims after the 2018 polls: “Today’s the payback time ....Congress has given me a lot. At age 26, I became an MP, at 30 a minister and at 35 the party chief....”What changed then in the span of 19 months? It is understood that Rahul Gandhi, who then was the Congress president, invoked their friendship to make Pilot wait his turn for the CM’s office: “Do it for the sake of our friendship...”.But the euphoria of the assembly poll victory died fast. Five months down the line, the 2019 Lok Sabha elections saw the Congress losing all the 25 seats, including Jodhpur, where Gehlot’s son Vaibhav was the candidate. He was defeated by the sitting MP and the BJP’s emerging face, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, believed to be groomed by the PM as a latter-day Bhairon Singh Shekhawat.The late vice-president of India and three-time CM of Rajasthan was from the Shekhawati region from where Gajendra Singh’s family migrated to Jodhpur (Marwar). In that sense, he fits the “Shekhawat 2” tag perfectly.The parliamentary debacle provided the early sparks that today gutted the Congress’s facade of unity. Gehlot and Pilot blamed each other for the humiliating outcome. Their distrust of each other that got shrouded by government-formation in Rajasthan was as much the cause of the party’s below-par victory. The original Congress tally was 99 in the House of 200.Ironically, the party’s tenuous numbers tilted the scales in Gehlot’s favour. He seemed better qualified to helm the government in a touch-and-go legislative arithmetic. He consolidated his position by delivering fast on that front, winning over the Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs and marshalling the support of Independents -- among whom some were his men who were denied tickets in the tussle with Pilot. Gehlot was also helped by other factors: proximity to influential Congress apparatchiks; bigger support in the legislature party and a social identity that was a threat to none. Rightly or wrongly, in the tug-of-war for the CM’s office, Pilot was projected as a leader of his Gujjar community, and viewed with circumspection by other social groups.To be sure, Rajasthan hasn’t had any Gujjar CM since Independence. The office mostly went to Brahmins, Baniyas, Kayasthas and Rajputs barring the exception of Barkatullah Khan, a Muslim, and Jagannath Pahadia, a Dalit. The talk in the Congress circles at that time was that Pilot’s ascendance as CM could antagonise the Meena community that has been with the party since the days of the freedom struggle.The end of Rahul’s party presidency, which was a collateral casualty of the Congress’s poor show in the Lok Sabha elections, was another setback for Pilot. It was on his assurance that he agreed to Gehlot as an “interregnum” CM.At the Congress Working Committee meeting, where he announced his resignation, Rahul lashed out against three senior colleagues for focusing more on the prospects of their sons than the party. Gehlot was one among them.Even that wasn’t a cause for Gehlot to lose favour. He said he put up his son to create a semblance of a fight rather than giving the BJP a walkover in his home town. That brings one to the question whether the BJP can offer Pilot the CM’s slot he seeks. This writer’s reading is that Gajendra Singh will be its choice if Vasundhara cedes ground, or is bypassed in the eventuality of the party assembling the numbers required.But as the leader of a regional outfit with numbers touching 30 (after by-elections), the 75-member BJP combine could see value in Pilot’s bid. The identity question will remain a nagging worry which only the wholesome support of the Prime Minister can negate in the people’s arena.For the present, it is future uncertain for both Gehlot and Pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-congress-picks-old-guard-over-new-future-tense-for-both-gehlot-pilot/story-7GKDLnxFQndGI2FQLLf4iK.html
15-07-2020||India||Supreme Court holds first ‘virtual’ Constitution Bench hearing||The Supreme Court held its first Constitution bench sitting through videoconferencing on Tuesday. This is the first time since March 5 the five judges sat together in a single court hall ever since the lockdown forced the apex court to stop physical court hearings and begin hearing cases through videoconferencing from March 25 this year. A bench of justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, MR Shah and Aniruddha Bose appeared wearing masks and maintaining nearly two-feet distance between them on the bench. The first case that was heard by the five-judge bench was a legal tussle on whether Centre or states have the power to provide reservation to in-service candidates in post-graduate medical degree courses. The plea was brought up by Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association.Opening the argument, senior advocate Arvind Datar exchanged the extensive compilation of his arguments including cases to be referred through Google drive with all lawyers. One of the lawyers, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for Medical Council of India (MCI) complained about being unable to access Google Drive. He objected to Datar referring to the same, the first hiccup encountered by the Court in the virtual proceeding. The problem was sorted as court asked Datar to give case law citations.As the hearing proceeded, Datar was inaudible to the Court. Justice Shah commented in a lighter vein, “Don’t keep social distancing with your mike.” Datar heard ‘mike’ as “wife”, leaving the bench in splits.The bench reserved judgment in the case, allowing parties to submit their written submissions in the case by July 20. Other matters listed before the Constitution Bench could not be taken up due to lack of time.The day also witnessed veteran jurist and the senior among the bar Fali S Nariman make maiden appearance through videoconferencing before a three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde. Seeing him, CJI remarked, “So happy to see you Mr Nariman. For the first time you are appearing through videoconferencing.”The Supreme Court began hearing of urgent cases through video conferencing app called VIDYO in March after the imposition of lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. The volume of cases taken up on a daily basis has been less in the past three months. Beginning this week, the Supreme Court has listed regular matters and Constitution Bench matters for hearing as well. With the pandemic showing no signs of let up, there is uncertainty over when physical court hearings can resume. Till such time, virtual mode may be the only way left for courts to keep functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-holds-first-virtual-constitution-bench-hearing/story-6OIJDbbzpliujLFjz1z3mI.html
