16-07-2020||India||US helped India decide on banning Chinese apps: Pompeo||Washington While India decided independently to ban over 50 apps linked to China as part of its campaign to punish Beijing for the Galwan Valley clashes, the United States indicated on Wednesday it played an enabling role with its ongoing effort to “assist” New Delhi with information it needed to make the right choice.No details were forthcoming. But the United States has been considering a ban on some of these apps, such as video-sharing app TikTok, as has been said by both President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo as they ratchet up their attacks on China over a growing list of disagreements.“We’ve been working closely with the Indians across a broad spectrum of the – the full range of international partnership with them to assist them in making sure they had all the information they needed to make good decisions,” Pompeo said in an interaction hosted by the Economic Club of New York, a non-profit.Pompeo was responding to a question if America was alone in confronting China over its trade “thievery”, using his own words, “lies” in the South China Sea, and its attempt to leverage its outsized clout in the WHO to escape accountability for the Covid-19 pandemic that started in Wuhan last December.“They made the decision that they were going to pull 50 or so Chinese applications off the systems that were operating inside of India,” the secretary of state said of the Indian decision on the Chinese apps, and added, “They didn’t do that because the United States told them to. They did it because they could see the threat to the Indian people from the Chinese Communist Party.”Pompeo, who is spearheading the Trump administration’s growing hawkishness on China, went on to indicate the US may have played a similar enabling role in United Kingdom’s ban on Huawei from its 5G network Tuesday, reversing its long-held position that had caused frustration in the United States, which has declared the telecommunications giant with links to Beijing a national security risk.Separately, White House economic advisor Larry Kudlow said TikTok pulling itself out of its Chinese holding company and operating as an independent American company is a much better solution than banning it.When asked whether any American company would like to buy the Chinese firm, he said: “I don’t want to speculate on that...That’s really a market question, but I’m just saying that’s a much better solution than banning.”The US, meanwhile, also indicated that it may take a decision on banning the Chinese mobile applications within weeks after a campaign to bar them gained momentum.“I do not think there is any self-imposed deadline for action, but I think we are looking at weeks, not months,” White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told reporters on Wednesday aboard Air Force One, flying with President Trump from Atlanta. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-helped-india-decide-on-banning-chinese-apps-pompeo/story-zQZW2g7pTtzfa1xTRaadKP.html
16-07-2020||India||There’s an election year, Mamata Banerjee warns BJP over AI’s leave without pay decision||“Do not forget that in these five years there is also an election year,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday reacting to national carrier Air India’s decision to send its staff on leave without pay for two to five years to cut cost because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Reacting to hike in goods and services tax GST on sanitization products, Banerjee said, “The BJP party is taking advantage of the pandemic. They have passed so many laws without any consultation. They are doing it to maintain dictatorship. I am so shocked.” Assembly elections in Bengal are due in 2021 and BJP leaders claim that the party will win 200 of the 294 seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats, marking its best ever performance. “How can Air India send its employees on leave without pay for five years? Don’t forget that in these five years there is also the election year. Don’t forget, it is very important. I request all state and Central government employees to fight. I also request the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) trade unions not to surrender,” Banerjee said during a press conference at the secretariat on Thursday afternoon.The Trinamool Congress chief spoke for more than one hour on various issues and sharpened her attack on the BJP-led government at the Centre. “Is a democratic government working under democratic rule? If the credential is lost everything is lost. Everybody is scared. Everybody is ashamed. This is the agony of the people. The government should take care of the people,” said Banerjee.Banerjee also attacked the Centre for allowing more private investment in public sector enterprises such as Coal India and Railways.“There are labour laws for workers. How can you bulldoze all the employees. How can you say they will not be paid for five years in this kind of a situation (pandemic). People want money. From hawkers to marginal farmers, people want cash and there is no cash flow. They (BJP) should be ashamed. How can they snatch jobs from people. How can they allow 100% foreign direct investment?“Even senior economists are asking the government to give money to the people,” said Banerjee.Bengal’s Left Front chairman Biman Bose also took a swipe at the BJP over the GST hike on sanitisers.“Many ministers in the BJP government are businessmen. Even the Prime Minister says he used to sell tea. That too is a business. They understand business very well,” said Bose.The BJP’s Bengal unit leaders did not react to Banerjee’s statements till late in the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-s-an-election-year-mamata-banerjee-warns-bjp-over-ai-s-leave-without-pay-decision/story-bSKfwAxT78R0ZEf5iYfAqN.html
16-07-2020||India||Odisha businessman gets himself a gold mask for Rs 3.5 lakh||Days after a Pune-based businessman got himself a face mask made of pure gold, an Odisha businessman, too, procured a gold face mask from Mumbai’s Zhaveri Bazaar.About 10 days ago Shankar Kurade, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad in Pune, had created a huge buzz when he minted the extravagant mask spending nearly Rs 3 lakh.Now, a businessman from Cuttack has got himself a N95 gold mask worth Rs 3.5 lakh. Alok Mohanty, a resident of Kesharpur area of Cuttack, showed his gold mask to reporters on Thursday. “I had recently seen a businessman wearing a golden mask on television. As I have a penchant for gold so I placed the order for the same through a Mumbai based trader. It’s a N95 mask in which 90 to 100 grams of golden threads have been used. The mask has minute holes for breathing and is comfortable to wear,” said Mohanty.Mohanty, who owns a furniture shop in Cuttack, wears lots of gold bracelets, gold rings and gold chains. He also owns a gold cap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-businessman-gets-himself-a-gold-mask-for-rs-3-5-lakh/story-Fvq9cg8zDP3rDLtd9NeSCP.html
16-07-2020||India||MP government officer’s reply says hand pump to be pierced in complainant’s chest, it is viral||A bizarre and equally insensitive response to a complaint lodged with the Madhya Pradesh chief minister’s helpline over water problem inconveniencing 200 villagers in the Bhind district has gone viral on social media, prompting the government to suspend the officer responsible for posting the reply. The response given by state’s public health engineering (PHE) department’s executive engineer, responsible for resolving the matter, called the complainant mentally unstable and added that ‘the hand pump will be pierced in the complainant’s chest’, as per the viral post. The weird reply was also shown to have made some reference to “a Chinese war, which is a guerrilla policy”.The reply dated July 9, 2020 came to light on Wednesday when the complainant Rahul Dixit, a resident of Rahwali village of Bhind district, checked the status of his complaint, filed at CM Helpline on June 7, about incomplete installation of a hand pump at the village inconveniencing 200 villagers.“When I checked the details, I found PHE executive engineer PR Goyal’s unusual reply, which stated that ‘the complainant is mentally unstable and he and his family are patients of epilepsy. It is not the hand pump, but it’s his brain which is not working. Entire PHE department knows that this insane man tore the clothes of our mechanic. Now, time has come for a Chinese war which is a guerrilla policy. The hand pump will be uprooted and pierced in the complainant’s chest’.” Reply By Madhya Pradesh CM Helpline pic.twitter.com/qctkXNPbGhThe engineer, PR Goyal, however, sought to distance himself from the above response by alleging that the CM helpline account had been hacked by someone to malign his image. He added that he had filed a complaint with the district collector in this regard.Dixit was suspended by Thursday evening for using “undignified and unparliamentary language” while addressing the complaint, said SK Sender, under secretary, PHE. District collector Virendra Singh Rawat has also ordered an inquiry into the matter.-Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-government-officer-s-reply-says-hand-pump-to-be-pierced-in-complainant-s-chest-it-is-viral/story-vOD95xX5nugwzZ5sE6JKNN.html
16-07-2020||India||Journalist bodies condemn Assam scribe’s arrest, seek CM’s intervention||Journalists organizations in Assam have requested Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to intervene in a matter related to arrest of a journalist allegedly for his reporting about cattle smuggling.Rajiv Sharma, a journalist belonging to a local TV channel and based in lower Assam’s Dhubri, was arrested by the police early Thursday on charges of extortion, outraging the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation etc. following a complaint filed by divisional forest officer Biswajit Roy.Reports quoting Sharma said that he was falsely implicated in an extortion case for his continuous reporting on cases of cattle smuggling by criminal syndicates in Dhubri district which borders Bangladesh.The journalist’s father, Sudhin Sharma, suffered a heart attack at his residence in Gauripur near Dhubri after the arrest and later died.Terming the arrest as ‘unfortunate’, the Guwahati Press Club has asked CM Sonowal, who handles the home portfolio, to intervene in the matter and ensure that Sharma is not unnecessarily harassed in the name of investigation.The Journalists Forum of Assam also expressed shock at the arrest and demanded unconditional release of the scribe.Sharma was granted interim bail for three days by a court on Thursday and performed his father’s last rites in Gauripur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-bodies-condemn-assam-scribe-s-arrest-seek-cm-s-intervention/story-LS2XcF9zpKKT2u3MrqxKZL.html
16-07-2020||India||Gauhati HC grants bail to peasant leader Akhil Gogoi who tested positive for Covid-19||The Gauhati High Court on Thursday granted bail to Assam peasant leader and founder of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) in three cases lodged against him by Assam Police in connection with his involvement in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests in the state last year. Two other cases lodged against him by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are still pending. The court has set July 20 as the next date of hearing for the two cases. Gogoi,who was lodged in the central jail in Guwahati, tested positive for Covid-19 recently and is undergoing treatment at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) where he was admitted on July 11. He is stated to be asymptomatic and is recovering well. He was arrested in Jorhat on December 12 last year for his role in the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which seeks to fast track Indian citizenship for Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Parsi, Buddhist and Jain refugees from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan.Gogoi was later handed over to NIA and a court here sent him to 10 days custody of the agency on December 17. He was taken to New Delhi the same day for questioning.Gogoi was brought back to Guwahati on December 25 and has been in judicial custody since then. Several demonstrations seeking his release following reports of his deteriorating health had taken place both in Assam and outside.The NIA has lodged a case under sections 120B, 124A, 153A, 153B of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 18 and Section 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA).The charges pertain to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organization etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-grants-bail-to-peasant-leader-akhil-gogoi-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19/story-vksM1T5kJECDSOtVcJESNL.html
16-07-2020||India||Odisha orders 14-day complete lockdown in 4 districts as Covid-19 cases spiral||With Covid-19 cases surging past 15,000 and fears of community transmission setting in, the Odisha government on Thursday announced a 14-day lockdown in four districts and a municipal corporation area that have reported over 66 per cent of the total cases.The death toll in Odisha is close to 80.Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy said that from 9 pm on July 17, the districts of Khurda, Ganjam, Jajpur, Cuttack and Rourkela Municipal Corporation would be under strict lockdown in which no vehicular movement would be allowed on the roads. Lockdown will also be implemented in the Rourkela Municipality area.“Two-thirds of the active cases are in these four districts and Rourkela. Of the total cases of Sundargarh district, 90 per cent are from Rourkela. Therefore the decision has been taken to impose lockdown in Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack, Jajpur and Rourkela Municipality from 9 pm tomorrow. Though many steps are being taken at the district levels, a decision at the State-level was the need of the hour. July is a very crucial month and to stem the progress of novel Coronavirus infection, the lockdown in these aforementioned places was necessary,” Tripathy said. Out of Odisha’s tally of 15,392 cases, Ganjam alone has one third of the cases.The capital city of Bhubaneswar in Khurda district, where cases have spiked over the last month with 919 cases being reported so far, will also come under the 14-day lockdown as there have been apprehensions of community transmission.All commercial establishments including banks, shops and offices except government ones will remain closed during this period. During the lockdown period only shops selling vegetables, groceries and milk will remain open from 6 am to 1 pm in the four districts and RMC area, Tripathy said.The rising cases of Covid-19 has led to shutdown of outpatient departments of four premier government hospitals of the state including AIIMS Bhubaneswar, MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur, VIMSAR in Burla and Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre in Cuttack. More than 300 cases were found in these hospitals.Considering the issues faced by patients, the state health department has decided to launch telemedicine service at 41 healthcare institutions, said health minister Naba Kishore Das. The telemedicine service will be made available at all 30 District Headquarters Hospitals in the state, seven government medical colleges, Rourkela Government Hospital, Bhubaneswar’s Capital Hospital, Cuttack’s Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre and Sisubhavan.Several states including Bihar, West Bengal, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh have recently clamped lockdowns in different places for different durations to curb rising cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-orders-14-day-complete-lockdown-in-4-districts-as-covid-19-cases-spiral/story-7wl9Qh88h0txCDeFMZZYqI.html
16-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Assam to launch plasma donation campaign; airfare, free stay for donors from outside state||The Assam government on Thursday decided to invite plasma donors from all over the country in a bid to carry forward its policy of ‘aggressive treatment’ of Covid-19 patients. The government said the donors will be treated as state guests.The northeastern state is witnessing a sharp rise in positive cases and has recently started plasma therapy to treat serious cases. But due to scarcity of donors and recovered patients, it has decided to seek help of donors from other states.Till Thursday, Assam had recorded 19,754 positive cases with 12888 recoveries and 48 deaths.Six of the state’s recovered patients have donated plasma and three patients have been provided plasma therapy at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital.“We appeal to the recovered patients in Assam to volunteer to donate their plasma so that we can treat other patients. I would also appeal to recovered patients from other states to come to Assam and donate plasma,” said health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at a press conference on Thursday.“Several other states have lots of recovered patients but haven’t started plasma therapy. Since their plasma would be of no use after three months of recovery, we appeal them to donate. We will soon launch an ad campaign in newspapers, TV channels and social media appealing donors to come forward,” he added.A recovered patient, who was symptomatic, can donate 400 gm of plasma (within 3 months of recovery) and it can be used to treat two patients.Sarma added that donors from other states will be treated as state guests with free return airfare and stay. They will be given plasma donor cards and letters of appreciation for their contribution.“For donors from Assam, we are considering giving them preference in government schemes and they may get preferential allocation of houses under PM Awas Yojana. Society should acknowledge their contribution,” he said.“Since we didn’t have many Covid-19 cases initially, we don’t have lots of donors at present. But due to the rise in cases in the past month, we should have enough donors in Assam by August,” added Sarma.In recent weeks, Assam government has started what it calls ‘aggressive treatment’ of Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms in order to reduce the number of fatalities. This includes oxygen therapy, plasma therapy and use of steroids and medicines like Remdesivir.Sarma also announced a number of new orders including compulsory installation of Covid-19 testing machines in private hospitals and home isolation guidelines for positive patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-assam-to-launch-plasma-donation-campaign-airfare-free-stay-for-donors-from-outside-state/story-ZCnmALQ0RakUSBv2SzvLeM.html
16-07-2020||India||Delhi adds 1,652 new Covid-19 cases, active cases fall by 400 in a day||Delhi recorded 1,652 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,18,645 while the death toll in the pandemic rose to 3,545, the state health department said.The national capital recorded 58 casualties in the last 24 hours.It was for the sixth consecutive day that the number of new cases in Delhi stayed below 2,000. Delhi had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases on June 23. The number of active cases on Thursday stood at 17,407, down from 17,807 the previous day. Delhi has been able to fight back the pandemic and the recovery rate has increased this month compared to June when the government said it feared that it would end up with a tally of over five lakh cases by July 31. A higher number of testing, increasing the number of beds in hospitals, the wide use of oximeters for Covid-19 patients under home isolation and plasma banks are said to have contributed to Delhi getting a hold on the pandemic.On Thursday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs from Delhi to discuss preparations that are under way to fight the pandemic, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.Kejriwal said that Delhi model of fighting Covid-19 has been possible due to the collective efforts and support from all political parties, MPs and MLAs, according to the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-adds-1-652-new-covid-19-cases-cm-says-fight-against-pandemic-a-collective-effort/story-by6n6v9TLjSypZm5Wz3jMP.html
16-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid tally reaches 284,281 with 8,641 new cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 8,641 new cases of Coved 19 disease and 266 casualties over the past 24 hours in another instance of high daily spike in coronavirus cases pushing the state’s overall tally to 284,281 including 11,194 deaths, according to the data released by the state health department.Mumbai’s fresh daily spike of 1,498 new cases and 56 deaths reported over the past 24 hours also continues to be on the higher side, taking the total number of infections in the metropolis to 97,751, including 5,520 fatalities owing to the disease.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMore than half of Maharashtra’s total positive cases have recovered so far. On Thursday, 5,527 people were discharged from hospitals taking the total recoveries to 158,140. The state currently has 23,694 active cases. 1,446,386 people have been tested so far in the state.Maharashtra has the highest number of coronavirus infected population in India. Country’s combined tall of Coved-19 cases has reached 9.68 lakh including 3,31,146 active cases-- a third of total infections.Also Read: Ex-Maharashtra SEC chief dies of Covid-19The Central government has highlighted “a steady dip” in the number of active cases, from around 45 per cent in mid-June to around 34.18 per cent as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-tally-reaches-284-281-with-8-641-new-cases/story-Hw8olW45TYmmrsl5osisSN.html
16-07-2020||India||Indian nationals challenge US President Trump’s H-1B suspension in federal court||President Donald Trump’s temporary suspension through a June 22 proclamation of non-immigrant work visas such as the H-1B, L-1, H-2A and J has been challenged by 174 Indian nationals, including seven minor children, in a federal court in Washington DC.The lawsuit filed by Wasden Banias, a law firm, has asked the court to direct the state department to decide on the plaintiffs’ H-1B and H-4 (for H-1B dependents) applications and direct the department of homeland security to not refuse entry to the plaintiffs and for the restrictions to be struck down.On June 22, President Trump issued a proclamation suspending most non-immigrant work visas, including the H-1Bs till December 21 ostensibly to ensure Americans have the first shot at jobs that become available as the economy emerged from Covid-19-related lockdowns and layoffs.Indians hired by US firms and US-branches of Indian firms are the largest recipient of H-1B visas, accounting for more than 70% of the 85,000 issued annually. There are fears that the temporary suspension could lead to more lasting changes and restrictions, based on reported plans of the administration. The president is said to be working on an executive order overhauling legal immigration system, to move it towards merit-based from family-based.The June 22 proclamation does not impact H-1B visa holders already in the United States, but those with approved petitions and not in the US and those applying afresh. The lawsuit cited the case of a family, which was on H-1B visa with a pending clearance for immigrant visa. They traveled to India recently and wanted to renew their H-1B or H-4 visas but there had been no progress on their applications.The June 22 proclamation also extended the suspension of immigration, the issuance of Green Cards.The lawsuit was filed on Tuesday. The same day, several lawmakers wrote to the labor secretary Eugene Scalia to end the H-1B restriction. “Throughout this administration, the president has continued to lament the alleged abuses of the immigration system while failing to address the systemic problems that have persisted and allowed businesses and employers to exploit and underpay immigrant workers, guest workers and American workers,” the lawmakers wrote as reported by PTI.“This misguided attempt by the president to scapegoat immigrants for policy failures during the pandemic not only serves to hurt immigrants, but dismisses the true problem of a broken work visa program that is in desperate need of reform,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-nationals-challenge-us-president-trump-s-h-1b-suspension/story-XfIlnddKC8m2TVKM1lEmPO.html
16-07-2020||India||History-sheeter killed, police sub-inspector injured in shootout in UP’s Meerut||A history-sheeter was killed in a gunfight with the police in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut district, in which a sub-inspector was also injured, officials said on Thursday.Deepak Siddhu, who was one of the most wanted criminals of Meerut and carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was gunned down on Wednesday night, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ajay Kumar Sahani said.Following an input about loot in the area, the local police were put on alert. Siddhu and one of his accomplices were intercepted but they opened fire on the police personnel, he said.“In the retaliatory fire, Siddhu was injured while his accomplice managed to flee. A sub-inspector also got injured in the cross-firing. They were both taken to a community health centre and then referred to the district hospital, where Siddhu died during treatment,” Sahani told reporters.The SSP said that Siddhu was a notorious criminal and the police in various districts of western Uttar Pradesh were on the lookout for him.“He had more than one-and-a-half dozen cases, including those of loot, murder and dacoity, registered against him,” the police officer added.The police said they have recovered two illegal firearms from Siddhu’s possession and further investigation was underway.The sub-inspector injured in the shootout is still under treatment at the district hospital, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/history-sheeter-killed-police-sub-inspector-injured-in-shootout-in-up-s-meerut/story-UosoMXZ04g6jHL0INOZBeK.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Political rivals being terrorised’: TDP to President against Jagan govt||The Telugu Desam Party on Thursday sought the urgent intervention of President Ram Nath Kovind in upholding the democratic values and rule of law in Andhra Pradesh which, the party alleged, were given a go-by during the present YSR Congress Party government.A delegation of five TDP members of parliament met the President in New Delhi and submitted him a 52-page representation with a long list of complaints against the Jagan Reddy-led government in Andhra Pradesh. The TDP members brought to the notice of Kovind how the YSRCP government had systematically destroyed democratic and constitutional institutions in the state and infringed upon the fundamental rights of the people in the last 13 months.“The YSRCP has ignored a fundamental dictum in a democracy, that governments may change, but governance is a continuous process. Right from demolishing the Praja Vedika (People’s Forum) in June 2019 to unleashing a reign of terror against the political opponents, the Jagan government has ruined every system,” they said in the representation.The TDP lawmakers alleged that the YSRCP had injected a sense of fear in the government officials, forced university Vice-Chancellors to resign, concocted cases against the Dalits in Guntur district thus making them refugees in their own state, indulged in killing opposition party supporters and slapping cases against the farmers who are peacefully protesting in Amaravati.They pointed out that the Jagan had resorted to threatening his own party member who raised voice against his policies. The YSRCP leaders had also issued unofficial orders to ban News channels and indulged in illegal mining and transporting of sand and various other scams like in house sites and ambulances.“The President of India has given an assurance that he will examine the representation and take appropriate action,” TDP MP Galla Jayadev said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-rivals-being-terrorised-tdp-to-president-against-jagan-govt/story-owfI7juvPY662ABrQeYxwN.html
16-07-2020||India||Kerala coronavirus cases cross 10,000 mark||With 722 fresh cases, Kerala’s total coronavirus cases crossed 10,000 (10,275) on Thursday, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, adding that pandemic situation is serious in some parts of the state including capital Thiruvananthapuram. The state also reported two deaths taking the death toll to 38.This is the first time daily numbers are crossing 700. Out of 722 fresh cases, 481 are locally-transmitted. Out of 10,725 total cases, recovered are 4,838 and live 5,372. In Thiruvananthapuram, at least 80 employees of a shopping mall were tested positive forcing authorities to take strict action against business establishments which flout social distancing and safety norms. In Thiruvananthapuram, at least 310 people contracted disease through local transmission. Those infected include 12 health workers and eight paramilitary personnel.“Despite high density of population the state managed the disease well so far. Death per million is still below one per cent. But this is not the time to lower our guard. In some areas situation is grim. It shows we have to step up our vigilance,” said the CM. He said shops and establishments will be closed indefinitely if found any violations. “Everyone will have to assume that virus spread is everywhere and cut short travel and listen to guidelines and warnings of the health department,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-coronavirus-cases-cross-10-000-mark/story-CLaGddn3ujYxdT0TbZ1I7K.html
16-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: India condemns Pak’s decision to construct Diamer Basha dam on Indus river and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India flays Pakistan for dam on Indus, says it will submerge parts of J-K and LadakhIndia has condemned Islamabad’s decision to construct the Diamer Basha dam on the Indus river in Chilas in Gilgit-Baltistan of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir saying it will submerge large parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Read moreNearly 4 million people still affected in Assam floods; 5 more deaths reportedNearly 4 million people continued to be affected by floods in Assam on Thursday, which saw five more deaths due to drowning-taking the tally this season to 71. Read morePM Boris Johnson appoints Indian-origin experts on new race commissionA new commission announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson in June in the wake of the Black Lives Matter campaign to look into race and ethnic disparities includes two Indian-origin commissioners: Samir Shah and Ajay Kakkar, officials said on Thursday. Read moreRicha Chadha says same directors who posted condolence messages have ‘replaced actresses who refused to sleep with them’Actor Richa Chadha has blogged about the nepotism debate, which was reignited after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The actor died by suicide on June 14, and Richa wrote that instead of discussing mental health, nepotism became the primary talking point. Read moreVanity Fair cover, featuring Oscar-winner Viola Davis, shot by Black photographer for first timeThe new issue of Vanity Fair featuring a powerful image of Oscar-winning actor Viola Davis marks the first time the publication has featured the work of a Black photographer on its cover. Read moreVivo X50 Pro review: All eyes on the ‘Gimbal’ cameraIt’s the age of smartphones with unique camera features. This year itself we have seen smartphones with 108-megapixel sensors and periscope-style lenses. Adding to the list of unique cameras is Vivo’s X50 Pro, the smartphone with a Gimbal-style camera at the back. Read moreBrave boy saves sister from dog. ‘Get this man a shield,’ says Chris Evans aka Captain AmericaUnless you’re staying far away from the world of the Internet, you must have heard about the 6-year-old boy named Bridger who saved his younger sister from an attacking dog. A native of Wyoming, US, this brave boy is now a viral sensation and online world’s latest hero. His tale of bravery has not just wowed the netizens but the Avengers too – Captain America and Hulk. Read moreAssam floods: CM Sonowal visits Kaziranga National Park to assess damagesAssam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal visited the flood affected Kaziranga National Park to take stock of the damages caused by the flood. He also met people who are staying at a relief camp in the area. He interacted with people and assured them of all possible help from the government during this time of crisis. The CM also spoke to people taking care of the injured and rescued animals. Sonowal also thanked PM Modi for his support in dealing with the flood crisis in the state. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-condemns-pak-s-decision-to-construct-diamer-basha-dam-on-indus-river-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2tC0BqQawtKGVVnVQLo2pJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Nine firms in race to redevelop 4 railways stations under PPP model||The railways has shortlisted nine companies for redeveloping four of its stations at Nagpur, Gwalior, Amritsar and Sabarmati as part of its plan of redeveloping railway stations under the public-private partnership (PPP) model.Railways’ project implementation arm the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Ltd. (IRSDC) had invited RFQs (Request for Qualification) in December 2019 to redevelop the four railway stations. The redeveloped stations are proposed to be called ‘Railopolis’.It has shortlisted the following firms: G R Infraprojects, Kalpataru Power Transmission, GMR Business and Consultancy, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings, ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments, Monte Carlo, JKB Infrastructure and Kalyan Toll Infrastructure, Cube Construction Engineering.“On June 26, 2020 IRSDC opened the RFQ applications of these four railway stations and received overwhelming response from 32 developers and funds despite the current COVID19 scenario,” IRSDC said in a statement.The total estimated cost for the redevelopment of the four stations is about Rs 1,300 crore. The total built-up area allowed for commercial development is 5.4 million square feet.Among 29 shortlisted applicants, six qualified for Nagpur, eight for Gwalior, six qualified for Amritsar and nine for Sabarmati.The stations will also be the first to have provisions for pre-determined user charges on passengers and visitors, as one of the main revenue stream for the concessionaire. The user development fees model will be used by the national transporter for the first time.IRSCD will be leasing the land out for 60 years for commercial purposes and 99 years for residential.This comes in the backdrop of railways’ plan of redeveloping 400 railways stations. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had announced its plan of redeveloping 400 railway stations during its first tenure. As per the plan, the cost of the station redevelopment project was to be met by leveraging commercial development of land and air space in and around the stations. The railway stations were taken up for redevelopment based on financial viability.Apex policy think-tank Niti Aayog had, in October 2019, pulled up the ministry of railways for delayed implementation of the Centre’s plan. Niti Aayog had recommended an empowered group of top bureaucrats to develop 50 stations on priority basis.The railway ministry earlier this month also began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-firms-in-race-to-redevelop-4-railways-stations-under-ppp-model/story-ECtmvhWW9QpPEvlbFOM6II.html
16-07-2020||India||Kerala suspends CM’s former secretary as heat rises in gold smuggling case||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday announced that the government has suspended his former principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, for flouting service rules amid reports of his imminent arrest in the gold smuggling case.Vijayan said the action was taken on the basis of an inquiry conducted by a two-member panel headed by chief secretary Viswas Mehta.“Inquiry report pointed out that there were some lapses on his part and he violated all-India service rules,” said the CM.The opposition Congress and BJP said the CM cannot get away with action against his former secretary. “He took action against his secretary since needle of suspicion is turning towards him. We want the CM’s resignation” said BJP’s Kerala unit president K SurendranConsidered close to Vijayan, he was removed from the powerful principal secretary’s post last week after reports surfaced that he was allegedly close to one of the key accused in gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh. He was grilled by the Customs department for nine hours on Wednesday.Officials found discrepancies in his statement and decided to call him again for questioning, people familiar with the investigation said. They also said his arrest was imminent. The case blew up after Customs seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on June 5. Later the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Many other central agencies are helping the NIA in the investigation.The UAE attaché in Thiruvananthapuram Rashed Khamis Ali Musaiqri Alsheme who enjoys diplomatic immunity, left the country via Delhi on Tuesday. Earlier, the Union government had made a formal request to the UAE embassy for a meeting with him. Meanwhile ,the Ministry of External Affairs has cancelled the passport of Faisal Fareed, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case who is reported to be in the UAE. After a court in Kochi issued an arrest warrant against him the NIA had approached Interpol and issued a blue corner notice against him. People familiar with the investigation said he will be extradited in a couple of days.During investigation the NIA found that he used to procure gold and send it to the country through different channels. Fareed, who is said to run a gym and motor garage in the UAE, is reportedly close to many in the film industry. On Thursday, least 12 people were arrested by Customs and revenue intelligence in connection with the case.Earlier this week, a NIA court had remanded four persons in the agency’s custody - Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the UAE consulate, IT consultant Swapna Suresh, Suresh’s friend Sandeep Nair and K T Rameez, an alleged agent who used to distribute smuggled yellow metal to jewellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-suspends-cm-s-former-secretary-as-heat-rises-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-fubte60XpCxIgVACI4wnAM.html
16-07-2020||India||Goa’s complacency led to Covid-19 spike, says Governor after meeting with CM||Goa governor Satya Pal Malik on Thursday discussed “shortfalls” of the state government in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic in an extensive meeting at the Raj Bhavan with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant.In political circles, the meeting is being seen as a ‘run-in’ between the Governor and the Chief Minister over the handling of the pandemic.Sawant, who is under fire from opposition parties as well as civil society, also came under the scanner with the Governor questioning the ‘error of judgment’ in not locking down Vasco da Gama, Goa’s port town which is now the epicentre of the spread of the virus in the state, and instead having to lock down the whole state after an exponential rise in the number of cases.“I raised several issues during the meeting. Wherever they have done a good job, I commended, and where they have fallen short I have also pointed it out.“Wherever there was a need like food supply, the quality of food, menu, the cleanliness of the Covid centres -- bathrooms are overflowing-- shortage of ambulances, whatever shortfalls were there were discussed. To a great extent, the health secretary has spoken and clarified what steps are being taken,” Malik said in comments to a local TV channel. “The logic (reasoning) of comorbidities that was being offered (to explain the deaths) to say that because they had comorbidities they passed away, I said that they should be treated. Else a person may get treatment for one disease and die of another,” he added. Malik said the government had become complacent that led to a spike in Covid-19 cases.“As far as the tests are concerned, Goa is doing very well, management too is fine. But what happened here is that we became satisfied too early when we shouldn’t have. We relaxed the lockdown, and now when the cases are rising we are locking down again. When people were saying that Vasco should have been locked down, we didn’t do it. It has grown a lot and now we are doing it. There was an error of judgment,” Malik said. The Governor had called the meeting with the Chief Minister, Chief Secretary, Health Secretary and other officials following the rise in number of cases, deaths as well as reports in the media that the condition of the Covid care centres left a lot to be desired. The Governor’s comments were in sharp contrast to what the Chief Minister said after he emerged from the meeting. Sawant claimed the Governor told them that he realized that he was misinformed through what he has seen in the media. “He was getting wrong information from the media and social media and we have given him the right information. In fact he told us that what we are doing is very good. Social media, print media and electronic media is showing the wrong picture. That’s what he said. He said that the good side should be shown,” Sawant claimed. But the Governor refuted the CM’s claims. “It is definitely wrong to say that I have blamed the press. The issue of the press (coverage) didn’t come (during the meeting). I have definitely not criticized the press. The press is our strength, through which we get feedback and only then can we go forward. The CM has said that I have said this, but I haven’t. He shouldn’t have said that. I definitely didn’t say that,” Malik said.This isn’t the first time that the Governor and the CM have differed. In May, Malik was forced to clarify as being “in bad taste” news reports which he said “portrays differences and divergences between him and the Chief Minister in handling the crisis.”Goa which had brought down Covid-19 cases from seven to zero in the first week of May has seen a spike in cases of infections and deaths with a tally of nearly 3,000 cases and 19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-complacency-led-to-covid-19-spike-says-governor-after-meeting-with-cm/story-1HOpxKX8ibcGEI4Quc74YP.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Obstructive and insincere’: India roasts Pak after meeting Kulbhushan Jadhav||A long-awaited meeting of Indian officials with Kulbhushan Jadhav ended inconclusively on Thursday after Pakistan refused to give them unimpeded consular access, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday evening. New Delhi has lodged a formal protest with Islamabad.Indian officials had made nearly a dozen requests to Islamabad over the last one year for “unimpeded, uninterrupted and unconditional” consular access to the former Indian naval officer in line with the verdict of the International Court of Justice. Jadhav, a former naval officer turned businessman, was quietly sentenced to death by a military court in April 2017. He had gone missing the previous year from Iran and turned up in the custody of Pakistani security agencies some time later who accused him of espionage.Thursday’s consular access to Jadhav was the second time that he had been allowed to meet Indian officials. The first was on September 2, 2019.As had happened the first time that Pakistan gave Indian diplomats access to Jadhav, Pakistani officials “with an intimidating demeanour were present in close proximity of Shri Jadhav and consular officers despite the protests of the Indian side”.Officials also spotted a camera that was being used to record their conversation. Officials also reported that Jadhav was “visibly under stress and indicated that clearly to the consular officers.”“The arrangements did not permit a free conversation between them. The consular officers could not engage Shri Jadhav on his legal rights and were prevented from obtaining his written consent for arranging his legal representation,” the government statement said.In the light of these circumstances, the Indian officials concluded that the consular access being offered by Pakistan was “neither meaningful nor credible”. They left the venue after lodging their protest.In May 2020, Pakistan passed an Ordinance, ostensibly to comply with the order of the International Court of Justice. It envisages the consular officer of the Indian High Commission filing a petition before a high court to seek review of Jadhav’s death sentence. In that context, the contacts and conversations between the consular officer and Jadhav assume great importance, the external affairs ministry said.“Any conversation between them must necessarily take place in privacy and without the presence of any Pakistani official or recording by Pakistan. It is only then that Shri Jadhav can speak freely without any concerns of reprisal as he remains in Pakistani custody after the meeting,” the statement said, pointing that it was already evident that Jadhav has been repeatedly intimidated in the past.“It is clear that Pakistan’s approach to this matter continues to be obstructive and insincere. It has not only violated its assurance to the ICJ to fully implement the 2019 judgement, but also failed to act in accordance with its own Ordinance,” New Delhi said.India’s focus on getting Jadhav legal representation comes against the backdrop of claims by Islamabad that Kulbhushan Jadhav had refused to file an appeal in the Islamabad high court against the death sentence ordered by a military court despite an offer to do so.New Delhi had responded angrily, accusing Pakistan of continuing with a farce that it had been playing for the last four years. New Delhi says Jadhav was sentenced to death at a farcical trial by a military court.Over the past year, India has requested Pakistan more than twelve times to provide unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access to Shri Kulbhushan Jadhav, who remains incarcerated in Pakistani custody since 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-with-kulbhushan-jadhav-ends-inconclusively-as-pak-doesn-t-give-unimpeded-consular-access-india/story-ocTx09qlCc5xFPGPpDrReO.html
16-07-2020||India||Nearly 4 million people still affected in Assam floods; 5 more deaths reported||Nearly 4 million people continued to be affected by floods in Assam on Thursday, which saw five more deaths due to drowning-taking the tally this season to 71.According to a bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 3,218 villages and localities in 27 of the state’s 33 districts are still affected by flooding.Five deaths due to drowning-2 in Morigaon district and one each in Barpeta, Lakhimpur and Goalpara-were reported during the day. The state has also recorded 26 deaths, due to landslides caused by heavy rains, since May.Over 49,000 people displaced by flood waters are at present taking shelter in 748 relief camps set up in the affected districts. Rescue workers evacuated 2,737 stranded people by boats on Thursday and took them to safety.According to ASDMA, over 1.31 hectares of crop area has been affected by flood waters. More damage to embankments, roads and bridges were reported from the affected districts during the day.Nearly 90% area of the Kaziranga national park and tiger reserve (KNPTR) spread over 430 sq km continues to remain submerged by flood waters. Till date 76 animals of the park including 5 rhinos have died during this season’s floods, said a bulletin issued by the park authorities.According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, most rivers in the state remained in spate on Thursday. The Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, Barak and Kushiyara flowed above the danger mark at several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-4-million-people-still-affected-in-assam-floods-5-more-deaths-reported/story-Igx7M1CWP9L3GwVwiWo2rN.html
16-07-2020||India||Tussle over Bengal universities escalates with Mamata Banerjee’s attack on Governor||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has launched a frontal attack on governor Jagdeep Dhankar following his assertion that the education system in the state was in a “political cage” and accused him of talking like a “political party” and not following his constitutional role. The latest face off between Banerjee and Dhankar relates to a tussle over state universities. The trigger was provided by the absence of most state university Vice Chancellors from a meeting called by Dhankar on Wednesday to assess the academic situation in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.“I find there is tightening of this political cage in the education scenario in West Bengal,” Dhankar was quoted as saying by PTI following the absence of VCs from the virtual meet.Also Read:One held for murder of BJP MLA, Mamata Banerjee writes to President KovindHe added that the VCs opposed the meeting “tooth and nail” for “the reasons known to all”.The chief minister soon launched a counter-attack accusing him of acting like a “political party” representative.“A governor can’t talk like a political party,” she said, while accusing him of not abiding by the constitution.“He is not abiding by the Constitution, not following the PM and home ministry,” the agency quoted Banerjee as saying. She also extended support to the VCs over the issue when asked about Dhankar’s stated intention to seek explanation for their absence. “We respect VCs, they have our 100 per cent support,” Banerjee said.Also Read: Admission to colleges for under-graduate courses via online mode this year: West Bengal education ministerThe West Bengal government had recently amended the rules relating to the governor’s power as the chancellor of universities, significantly reducing Raj Bhawan’s role in their functioning.All communications between the governor and the universities, now, have to be routed through the higher education department of the state as per the revised rules.Another such meeting called by Dhankar had failed to take off in January this year following the state government’s reported objection to its convening without keeping the government in the loop. Dhankhar claimed the “unwholesome situation” was the creation of the state government.Dhankhar accused the government of apathy towards students whose futures were in jeopardy due to the unprecedented crisis. He added that the students were getting increasingly restive with each passing day and that the graduate and postgraduate students needed degrees to pursue further studies and secure suitable jobs through competitions.“The saddest element in the entire gamut is that they completely forgot the students crisis amidst the pandemic,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.The tussle also assumes significance in the backdrop of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s recent letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, opposing HRD ministry and UGC guidelines for holding college and university exams by September 2020. She had cited risks to the students from the coronavirus disease and universities’ decision to evaluate students on the basis of previous semesters and internal assessments.“Denying degrees means denying academic progression and jobs. Degrees cannot be given without evaluation which happens to be in the form of examinations. Exams can be held only when the courses have been completed,” Dhankhar said in an apparent reference to the issue.Dhankhar said he wanted to know during the meeting what steps the universities intended to take in that direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-over-bengal-universities-escalates-with-mamata-banerjee-s-attack-on-governor/story-f2BeERomFWRdm9jw6CHE2J.html
16-07-2020||India||EC pauses postal ballot for 65+ voters in Bihar polls, cites constraints||The Election Commission on Thursday hit pause on a government rule that would have allowed voters over 65 years to use postal ballots to vote in the Bihar assembly elections, citing challenges and constraints to implement this rule. The postal ballot rule would, however, be applicable for voters over the age of 80, disabled or those suffering from coronavirus.“Commission has already limited the number of electors to one thousand for each polling station for ease of voting, especially for elderly and vulnerable sections of electors, in Covid-19 situations,” the EC said in a press statement today. In view of the Covid-19 situation, the poll body said, it has already created additional 34,000 polling stations, which roughly equals to 45% more and will also increase the number of polling stations to 1,06,000.The EC said it has been monitoring the electoral preparedness for Bihar assembly elections, the dates for which are yet to be announced. When the rules were first amended the Congress had alleged that the government had not consulted any political party, other than the ruling one, to amend the poll conduct rules ahead of the Bihar election.Earlier, the ministry of law and justice amended the conduct rules on June 19, on the recommendation of the EC, to allow senior citizens over the age of 65 to vote using postal ballots in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.In several Covid health advisories, people over the age of 65 have been asked not to venture out as they are particularly vulnerable to catching the highly contagious virus.Casting votes through postal ballots was available only to armed forces and officials assigned poll duties till now.In February, Delhi became the first state to experiment with postal ballots, extending the facilities to those with severe disabilities or above the age of 80 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-pauses-postal-ballot-for-65-voters-in-bihar-elections-cites-constraints/story-iN7KB3PdgNrd8z8ZdugVzI.html
16-07-2020||India||India flays Pakistan for dam on Indus, says it will submerge parts of J-K and Ladakh||India has condemned Islamabad’s decision to construct the Diamer Basha dam on the Indus river in Chilas in Gilgit-Baltistan of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir saying it will submerge large parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.“India strongly protested against construction of Diamer Basha dam to Pakistan govt. It will lead to submergence of large part of land of Indian UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. We condemn attempts by Pak to bring about material changes in Indian territories under its illegal occupation,” Anurag Srivastava, official spokesperson of Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Thursday.“We have also consistently conveyed our protest and shared concerns with both China and Pakistan on all such projects in Indian territories under Pakistan’s illegal occupation where it has no locus standi,” Srivastava said at a briefing. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan inaugurated the construction of the Diamer-Bhasha dam on Wednesday, despite India’s objection to the huge China-backed project.Also Watch l PoK residents protest against China and Pakistan over illegal dams Khan said the Diamer-Bhasha will be Pakistan’s third largest dam and will generate 4,500 MW of electricity and provide at least 16,000 jobs. The dam expected to be completed by 2028.In May, the Pakistan government signed a Rs 442 billion contract with a joint venture of a Chinese state-run firm and a commercial arm of Pakistan’s powerful military for the construction of the dam.India had then said that carrying out of such projects in territories under Pakistan’s illegal occupation was not proper.In 2016, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) had refused to commit funds for the dam project, two years after the World Bank declined to fund the project following Islamabad’s refusal to seek a no objection certificate from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-flays-pakistan-for-dam-on-indus-says-it-will-submerge-parts-of-j-k-and-ladakh/story-hvvHUZFeNKRwMCDtUCvIbP.html
16-07-2020||India||India gets second consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav||Pakistan on Thursday provided Indian officials consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former naval officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in espionage, for only the second time since he was detained in March 2016.The Indian side took up Pakistan’s offer only after receiving assurances regarding unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional access to Jadhav, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.“India has been requesting for unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access to Kulbushan Jadhav. On the basis of assurances provided, our officials proceeded for the meeting [on Thursday],” Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.The Indian side will assess the situation and comments on the matter after the officials who met Jadhav submit a report, he said.The timing of the meeting was crucial as it was held just four days before the expiry of a deadline for Jadhav, his legal representative or the Indian government to file a review petition in the Islamabad high court under an ordinance promulgated by the Pakistan government.Unlike the past meetings with Jadhav, which were high-profile affairs, Pakistani authorities did not release any photos or video footage of Thursday’s meeting that was kept tightly under wraps.Before the meeting, India had made it clear that the Pakistani side couldn’t impose conditions such as making audio and video recordings of the conversation or insisting that Jadhav and the officials speak only in English, people familiar with developments said.A statement from Pakistan’s foreign ministry said consular access to Jadhav, 50, was provided for the second time following an Indian request. Consular access under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations was first provided in September 2019, while Jadhav’s mother and wife were allowed to meet him in December 2017.“Two consular officers of the Indian high commission in Islamabad were provided unimpeded and uninterrupted consular access to…Jadhav at 1500 hours,” the statement said.The statement repeated Pakistan’s accusations that Jadhav was arrested in Balochistan province on March 3, 2016 and that he had “confessed” to his involvement in terrorist activities. India has already dismissed such charges and said the former naval officer was kidnapped by Pakistani intelligence operatives from Iran’s Chabahar port, where he was running a business.Earlier this month, India had accused Pakistan of coercing Jadhav not to file a petition seeking a review of his case and of not complying with the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) verdict to review his conviction.New Delhi’s response came after senior Pakistani officials contended Jadhav had refused to file an appeal in the Islamabad high court against the death sentence given by a military court. The Pakistani officials had also said Jadhav preferred to follow up his pending mercy petition.ICJ had ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan had violated Jadhav’s rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, and stayed his execution while calling on Islamabad to take all steps for an “effective review and reconsideration” of his sentence, including “enacting appropriate legislation”.The Pakistan foreign ministry’s statement said the country “remains committed to fully implementing the ICJ’s judgment of July 17, 2019” and “hoped that India will cooperate with the Pakistan court in giving full effect to the said judgement”.India has pushed for the full implementation of ICJ’s judgment and sought unimpeded access to Jadhav to discuss his remedies under the new Pakistani ordinance.Pakistan also rejected numerous requests from India for free and unimpeded access to Jadhav. India has also repeatedly asked for a lawyer from outside Pakistan to be allowed to appear for Jadhav in any review proceedings but Islamabad has denied this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gets-second-consular-access-to-kulbhushan-jadhav/story-fbwl2MGIYiLngcJ0zEpsVN.html
16-07-2020||India||Poet Varavara Rao, accused in Bhima Koregaon case, tests Covid-19 positive||Poet and writer Varavara Rao, accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, confirmed Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of JJ hospital in Mumbai.Rao, who was shifted to the hospital after he complained of giddiness, has been keeping unwell for a while.The family members of Rao, 81, had expressed concern about his worsening health condition. Rao’s wife Hemalatha and daughters Sahaja, Anala and Pavana said while speaking to reporters they were worried about his deteriorating health, as was evident from the phone call they had received on Saturday.Rao’s co-prisoner also told the family that the poet-writer needed immediate medical care for not only physical but also neurological issues.In April, around 40 prominent writers wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting Rao’s release in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.He was first arrested by the Pune Police in August 2018, but was released after a court order. He was rearrested in November 2018. Initially lodged in the Yeravada Jail in Pune, he was later moved to the Mumbai prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-rao-accused-in-bhima-koregaon-case-tests-coronavirus-ve/story-AuuXFPJzaIZDlwBsJ0AQRP.html
16-07-2020||India||From Rs 4.5k to 18k, Punjab fixes daily treatment rate for Covid patients to nix overcharging||The Punjab government has joined the list of states to have fixed rates for treatment of coronavirus patients in hospitals amid reports of inconsistent rates and overcharging. The range varies from a minimum prescribed rate of Rs 8,000 a day for treatment of moderate Covid-19 cases at non-NABH accredited hospitals to Rs 18,000 a day for treatment of critical patients at private medical colleges.The state government on Thursday issued an order to fix Rs 10,000 as daily charge for all private medical colleges and Rs 9,000 for NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers). Non-NABH accredited hospitals are allowed to charge up to Rs 8,000 per day for moderate sickness, reported news agencies.For severe sickness requiring ICU care without a ventilator, the daily rates have been capped at Rs 15,000, Rs 14,000 and Rs 13,000 respectively for the above-mentioned categories of hospitals.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government order has also fixed the rates for treatment of very severe covid-19 patients who require critical care at Rs 18,000, Rs, 16,500 and Rs 15,000 for all private medical colleges, NABH-accredited hospitals & non-NABH accredited hospitals respectively.All the above-mentioned rates are inclusive of PPE cost, according to the statement released by the government.The Punjab government had constituted a committee under Dr K K Talwar for fixing rates after receiving several complains of overcharging. It had also asked the committee to discuss the issue with private hospitals. The statement released today said that the committee had finalised the treatment rates for private hospitals and medical colleges.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The committee has also fixed the per day admission rates for private hospitals for mild sickness cases at Rs 6,500, Rs 5,500 and Rs 4,500, respectively.The decision was announced after a Covid-19 review video conference meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, reported PTI.The CM, who had personally also received complaints on this count, had asked the Talwar committee and the state health and family welfare department to look into the matter and work out the rates after discussions with private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rs-4-5k-to-18k-punjab-fixes-daily-treatment-rate-for-covid-patients-to-nix-overcharging/story-jU3e8qalzXNtmcFaIzS5FM.html
16-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot, disqualification and the Tenth Schedule: An explainer||Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident Congress MLAs moved the Rajasthan high court on Wednesday challenging the disqualification notice issued to them by the Speaker of Rajasthan assembly, CP Joshi on July 14.The ruling Congress has sought their disqualification from the assembly for ‘anti-party activities’.The Speaker’s notice asked the 19 MLAs to furnish an explanation by Friday on why they should not be disqualified from the assembly for their conduct which the Congress party alleged was detrimental to the interest of the party and showed their intention to quit the party.What is the basis for Speaker’s notice?The Speaker’s notice was based on the disqualification petition filed by Chief Whip of Congress Party, Mahesh Joshi.Joshi in his plea had cited the absence of the MLAs from two Congress Legislature Party meetings, held on July 13 and 14, despite specific instructions to attend the same as the main reason which showed the intention of the MLAs to leave the Congress party.Joshi also cited statements made by the MLAs to the press, their prolonged absence and their allegedly hostile and prejudicial conduct in open against Congress party as grounds that they intended to leave the party. What are the grounds on which lawmakers can be disqualified for defection?The Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India contains provisions relating to disqualification of lawmakers for defection. It provides two grounds to disqualify a lawmaker for defection.First, voluntarily giving up membership of the political party on whose ticket the lawmaker was elected [para 2(1)(a)].Second, voting or abstaining from voting in the house contrary to the directions issued by the party, that is violating the party whip in the house [para 2 (1)(b)].Pilot and other MLAs were served notice for disqualification on the first ground, that is, voluntarily giving up membership of the party.What does “voluntarily give up membership” mean?The Supreme Court had the occasion to deal with the interpretation of these words used in the Tenth Schedule in the 1994 case of Ravi S Naik v. Union of India.In that case, the court held that the words “voluntarily give up membership” are not synonymous with “resignation” and have a wider connotation. A person may voluntarily give up his membership of a political party even though he has not tendered his resignation from the membership of that party. Even in the absence of a formal resignation from membership an inference can be drawn from the conduct of a member that he has voluntarily given up his membership of the political party to which he belongs, the court had held.Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had also cited the Ravi Naik case in his disqualification petition filed before the Speaker.There have been more such judgments since then on this point including Rajendra Singh Rana v. Swami Prasad Maurya and Dr. Mahachandra Prasad Singh v. Chairman, Bihar Legislative Assembly which held that express resignation is not required to prove that a lawmaker has given up the membership of the party and the same can be inferred from the conduct.Can the Speaker’s powers to decide on disqualification be interfered with?The Speaker of the house enjoys vast powers when it comes to deciding on disqualification of members of the house.The Supreme Court has consistently held that it will not interfere in disqualification matters till the Speaker actually makes a decision. In other words, once the Speaker makes a decision, the court can judicially review the correctness of the same but it cannot interfere before that.One of the first cases in which this was laid down was in the 1992 judgment in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu.In that case, the top court ruled that having regard to the constitutional scheme in the Tenth Schedule, judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speakers/Chairman. No interference would be permissible at an interlocutory stage of the proceedings, the court said.“Exceptions will, however, have to be made in respect of cases where disqualification of suspension is imposed during the pendency of the proceedings and such disqualification or suspension is likely to have grave, immediate and irreversible repercussions and consequence”, the court had added.Recent case of interference with the Speaker’s exercise of powersOne aspect of the Speaker’s power to decide the disqualification petitions is that no time limit is prescribed for making such a decision. So when a disqualification petition is filed by an opposition MLA, the Speaker often defers his decision for an inexplicably long period so as to enable the government to continue in office.In two such recent instances, courts – Supreme Court and Manipur high court - were forced to interfere due to the Speaker’s delay in deciding the case. One is the famous case of Manipur Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar who had contested the 2017 elections to the Manipur Assembly on a Congress ticket and, subsequently, joined hands with the BJP after the election results, and was made a minister in the Biren Singh-led BJP government.Congress leaders filed disqualification petitions before the Speaker Y Khemchand Singh to seek Shyamkumar’s disqualification on the ground of defection but the Speaker did not take a decision for a very long period. The petitioners then moved Manipur high court which declined relief. An appeal was filed before the Supreme Court which was critical of the undue delay by the Speaker in arriving at a decision. The top court, in a judgment rendered on January 21, asked the Speaker to take a decision on the disqualification petitions within a month.When the Speaker again refused to take a decision as per the court’s order, the Supreme Court resorted to an unprecedented step. In a strongly worded order, the top court restrained Shyamkumar from entering the Manipur Legislative Assembly and also ordered that he shall cease to be a cabinet minister in the state with immediate effect. The Speaker later disqualified Shyamkumar in March.Close on the heels of this, the Manipur high court in June ordered that 7 former Congress MLAs, who had defected to the BJP along with Shyamkumar in 2017 elections, cannot enter the state legislative assembly till the disqualification petitions filed against them are decided by the Speaker.But both these were instances of court’s interference when the Speaker failed to decide the disqualification petitions filed by opposition MLAs, on time – a scenario which is unlikely in this case where the ruling party whip has filed the plea.Important grounds raised by Pilot and other MLAs- Pilot and other MLAs had contended that Speaker’s notice is based on assumptions and surmises and there is no factual basis to support the apprehensions raised by him in the notice. - None of the MLAs have either by their express or implied conduct indicated their intention to give up Congress party membership.- In a democratic setup, voicing disagreement with the policies or decisions taken by the party does not amount to acting against the interests of the party.- Not attending two Legislature Party meetings will not fall within the scope of defection contemplated in para 2 of the Tenth Schedule.- Rajasthan Assembly (Disqualification) Rules mandate that the Speaker should give 7 days’ notice to a member to explain his stance in a disqualification case. The notice issued by the Speaker on July 14 has set a deadline of July 17 to show cause and is, therefore, violative of the rules.- If somebody is expelled from a political party, such a person cannot be said to have voluntarily given up membership as required under para 2 of Tenth Schedule to attract disqualification for defection. This issue is not yet completely settled and is pending before the Supreme Court in the case of Amar Singh v. Union of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-disqualification-and-the-tenth-schedule-an-explainer/story-ZrfFVKmYZZnLKPuA1UX1DL.html
16-07-2020||India||Rains lead to traffic mess in Mumbai, weather department predicts some relief tomorrow||Several incidents of water logging and traffic jams have been reported from Mumbai on Thursday due to persistent rains in the metropolis including the heavy showers received in the morning. The weather department’s forecast for the day doesn’t offer any relief with a prediction for heavy rains through the day.Areas such as Andheri subway and the King circle were closed for traffic following water filled roads. Traffic was also affected at several places including at Hindmata slip road, Mahalaxmi Temple junction, Worli naka, Churchgate junction, Alankar Junction, Dadar TT, Khetwadi, Bandstand, Bhindi Bazar, Bandra railway colony, S V Road near Andheri and Sainath Subway, said authorities.Heavy rains have been battering Mumbai since last night. According to the IMD data, Bandra and Mahalaxmi received 201 mm and 129 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending 6.30 am on Thursday, according to an official of IMD Mumbai.Mumbai’s suburbs received 191.2 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Wednesday and 8.30 am on Thursday, while the Colaba weather station in South Mumbai recorded 156.4 mm rainfall, followed by 151.8 mm rainfall recorded at the Worli station and 71.4 mm rains recorded at Mumbai-Borivali weather station in the same period, as per the weather department.The rain forecast for the next seven days in the city, however, is relatively better with moderate rains predicted between July 17 and 20, which will intensify into the ‘rain’ category on July 21 and 22.Coastal Maharashtra, too, continues to receive rainfall with the Harnai weather station in Ratnagiri district reporting 127.2 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period and 97.5 mm rains recorded by the Ratnagiri observatory during the period.Nanded and Osmanabad districts in Marathwada region of the state received 96.4 mm and 25.8 mm rains, respectively.The meteorological department has also posted a red alert for Central Maharashtra today, which pertains to extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places along with heavy to very heavy rainfall in some other places. Heavy rainfall has been predicted for most of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lead-to-traffic-mess-in-mumbai-weather-department-predicts-some-relief-tomorrow/story-DwrBmApBhHoCuB9T6E5LLO.html
16-07-2020||India||TTD head priest seeks temporary closure of Tirumala temple as Covid-19 cases rise; demand gets rejected||A spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in Tirumala, the abode of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, has triggered an uproar in the shrine, as a section of employees and even the honorary chief priest have demanded that the temple be temporarily closed again for darshan for pilgrims.The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the country’s richest shrine, held an emergency meeting of officials and priests on Thursday, but turned down the demand for a temporary suspension of darshan for devotees.“There is no question of closing the temple again for darshan, as the situation is under control,” said YV Subba Reddy, chairman, TTD.Earlier on Thursday morning, AV Ramana Deekshitulu, the honorary head priest of the temple, lashed out at the TTD officials for their insistence on allowing darshans, despite a surge in Covid-19 cases in Tirumala.Deekshitulu tagged Andhra Pradesh (AP) chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and tweeted that 15 out of 50 archakas (priests) had tested Covid-19 positive and were quarantined, while “still 25 results are awaited. But TTD executive officer and joint executive officer refuse to stop darshans”.Deekshitulu, who was forced to retire in 2018 by the then Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government on attaining the superannuation age of 60, was back in the shrine after the YSR Congress party (YSRCP) government came to power in June 2019.Initially, he was made Agama (a code of conduct for temple management) advisor to the Tirumala in November, and later appointed as the honorary chief priest of the shrine.He alleged that the TTD officials were embracing the anti-hereditary archaka and anti-Brahminical policies of TDP, led by former CM N Chandrababu Naidu. “Disaster if this continues. Please take action,” he requested CM Reddy.On Wednesday, the TTD Staff and Workers’ United Front, affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), had submitted a representation to TTD executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal, requesting that darshan at the temple be temporarily suspended because of the viral outbreak in the Tirumala hills.The TTD staff pointed out that over 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Tirupati town and around 100 TTD employees had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the viral disease.“These employees can end up infecting devotees, when they go up the Tirumala hills to perform their religious duties. We are very worried,” they said.They also requested the TTD to allow employees to work in shifts in a bid to comply with social distancing norms, as only 33% of the staff would work on a day.The TTD chairman, however, said there was no possibility of temporarily suspending darshans again. “It is true that 140 TTD employees had tested Covid-19 positive since the temple was opened on June 11 for darshan. They include security persons, priests, and workers of the temple kitchen. More than half of them have already recovered from their viral infection,” he said.Subba Reddy said none of the devotees, who had come for darshan, had tested positive in the random tests being conducted by the TTD authorities. He, however, announced that the restrictions on the number of pilgrims being allowed for darshan would persist. At present, only 12,000 pilgrims are allowed daily because of the pandemic.The TTD chairman said all facilities would be provided to the priests of the shrine in a bid to ensure that they don’t get infected by the pathogen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ttd-head-priest-seeks-temporary-closure-of-tirumala-temple-as-covid-19-casesrise-demand-gets-rejected/story-D35BRP7bKVy9ec5lmTGAjN.html
16-07-2020||India||College director, 7 arrested after Nigerian students thrashed in Haridwar||The director of a private engineering college in Haridwar, five security guards, registrar and a non-teaching staff member have been arrested after security guards of the college allegedly thrashed two Nigerian students who tried to go out for dinner, said police. The video of the two students, without their shirts and crying in pain ‘oh God, oh God’ in the back of the car, has gone viral on social media.Sanjeev Thapliyal, station house officer at Bhagwanpur police station in Haridwar district, said FIR has been registered in the matter of beating up of two Nigerian BTech second year students studying at Roorkee Institute of Technology (RIIT) Bhagwanpur college.Thapliyal said on the complaint of Nigerian student Francis Koyang, an FIR has been registered against the college director Parag Jain, registrar Munendra Chauhan, five security guards and a non-teaching staff member on Thursday.The two Nigerian students on Thursday evening, said police, tried to move outside the college premises for dinner but were denied permission. The students said they were bored of the college canteen food and stepped out to eat.Upon their return, they were confronted by the security guards which led to a verbal duel followed by the students getting beaten up with other security guards also joining in, said police. One of the two students is now recovering in a hospital.Meanwhile local students, villagers and National Student Union of India (NSUI) have come out in support of the Nigerian students demanding stern legal action against the private college management and their security guards.Protests were staged outside the college gate by NSUI and Bhim Army activists condemning the action of the college management and security personnel.Circle officer Mangalore Abhay Singh said that no one will be allowed to take law into their own hands. He said security has been beefed up in the college area with CCTV footage being monitored as well.When contacted, the college management information cell personnel said that they will soon release a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-director-7-arrested-after-nigerian-students-thrashed-in-haridwar/story-04kOFlbc7iOsjJopwplCfP.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Presumptuous’: What Sachin Pilot’s petition in court says about Ashok Gehlot||Sachin Pilot and his team of 18 Rajasthan lawmakers on Thursday approached the high court’s Jaipur bench to seek cancellation of assembly speaker CP Joshi’s disqualification notice issued to them, insisting that the anti-defection law could not be invoked against them for disagreeing with decisions and policies of some Congress leaders outside the assembly.Pilot’s decision to move the Rajasthan High Court is politically seen by Congress leaders to be a signal that he intends to take his battle with Ashok Gehlot to its logical conclusion. If the Pilot camp is disqualified from the assembly, it would reduce the strength of the assembly and place Gehlot - who is believed to be on thin ice - on a stronger footing till elections are held on these seats.The joint petition was taken up by the high court’s Justice Satish Sharma on Thursday afternoon. But senior lawyer Harish Salve, who is representing the petitioners, sought time to amend the petition to broaden its scope.“They said they will challenge the Rajasthan Assembly Member (Disqualification on the grounds of changing party) Rules, 1989, instead of the notices,” Prateek Kasliwal, who is representing speaker CP Joshi, said. Justice Sharma resumed the hearing a few hours later at 5 pm. But the petition in its new form challenged the Rajasthan assembly’s rules, the judge referred the case to a two-judge bench.“Only a division bench can hear petitions challenging rules, bylaws and amendments,” Prateek Kasliwal explained.Also Read: Ashok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot becomes Harish Salve vs Abhishek Singhvi in courtSachin Pilot’s primary argument in the early version of the petition on Thursday was that missing two meetings of Congress Legislative Party did not amount to defection. According to the Constitution’s Tenth Schedule, the anti-defection provisions kick in if a member voluntarily gives up membership of the political party or votes contrary to the party’s direction in the assembly.Pilot also stressed that speaker CP Joshi might act under the influence of chief minister Ashok Gehlot.It is evident that the Tenth Schedule of Constitution is merely sought to be used as a guise to impose its majoritarian views upon the members and to stifle their freedom of speech and fair play in democratic setup, the petition said.Elected representatives who voice disagreement with certain policies or decisions by some members of the party cannot be counted as acting against the interests of the party. A healthy discourse of the pros and cons of policies of a political party cannot be inferred to imply voluntarily giving up membership under anti-defection law, the petition said, pointing that they had never spoken about quitting the Congress or trying to pull down the Gehlot government.Also Read: Congress ready for a ‘face saver’ for Pilot, he keeps them on the edgeThe complaint against them was “based on assumptions and surmises” and were without a factual basis to support such apprehensions.A “grave mischief” is sought to be achieved in which the assembly is seeking to impose sanctions upon the petitioners on “sheer presumptuous basis”, the petition said. It contrasted the speaker’s inaction on a disqualification complaint against Bahujan Samaj Party legislators who crossed over to the Congress with Joshi’s 14 July notice that was issued within hours of the complaint from Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi.The petition by 19 lawmakers also pointed to the law that allows an MLA expelled by a political party to continue as the member of the assembly, underlining that there would be “dangerous consequences” if an elected member is deprived of membership “merely on the whims and fancies” of party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grave-mischief-says-sachin-pilot-s-plea-in-high-court-against-disqualification-move/story-t3UPnp1p1fRcsF5q3fjJNM.html
16-07-2020||India||Roorkee police station sealed, 50 cops quarantined after officer tests Covid-19 positive||The Ganga Nahar police station at Roorkee in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district has been sealed and all 50 personnel has been put under self-quarantine as a preventive measure after a female sub-inspector (S-I) tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, officials said.The female S-I had returned from Muzaffarnagar district in western Uttar Pradesh (UP) last week and later tested Covid-19 positive.All 50 self-quarantined police personnel’s swab samples are being collected for Covid-19 test.State healthcare workers are busy sanitising the police station and hoardings have been put up for the public, urging them to approach Ramnagar police post for complaints or any related work.Ramnagar police post has been converted into a makeshift police station in a bid to ensure smooth functioning of law and order in Roorkee.Additional personnel from Bhagwanpur and Jhabreda police stations have been deployed at the makeshift Ramnagar police station. Civil Lines police station personnel is carrying out night patrolling in the area under Ganga Nahar police station’s jurisdiction, while the day-time responsibility has been given to Jhabreda police station authorities.D Senthyl Aboodai Krishan Prakash, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Haridwar, said due precautions and safety measures are being adhered to all police stations and check posts in the district after the female S-I tested Covid-19 positive.“Ramnagar police post will function as temporary Ganga Nahar police station until the test reports of 50 self-quarantined police personnel are made available. It is being ensured that routine police station work as well as patrolling in the area is carried out on a normal basis,” said SK Singh, SP (Rural), Haridwar.C Ravi Shankar, district magistrate, Haridwar, has directed health officials to conduct rapid tests every Friday of frontline workers, who are battling the pandemic in light of a spike in the Covid-19 positive cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roorkee-police-station-sealed-50-cops-quarantined-after-officer-tests-covid-19-positive/story-dIrVBIWuxqN09L5T6vtcjN.html
16-07-2020||India||Earthquake of 4.8 magnitude hits Gujarat’s Rajkot, no casualty reported||A medium intensity earthquake of 4.8 magnitude hit rural areas near Rajkot city in Gujarat’s Saurashtra region on Thursday morning, officials said.There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, Rajkot Collector Ramya Mohan said.The epicentre of the earthquake was 20 km south- southwest of Rajkot city, close to Shapar and Tranba villages, the official said.“Earthquake of 4.8 magnitude hit near Rajkot city at 7.40 am. As per reports that we have collected from city as well as rural areas, it left no impact. There are no damages due to the quake,” she said.After the earthquake, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held telephonic discussions with collectors of Rajkot, Surendranagar and Amreli districts.He instructed them to gather information about any damage in their region and take necessary action, a government release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-4-8-magnitude-near-gujarat-s-rajkot-no-casualty-reported/story-XHWCd2OsWeAFFV98OmPTMN.html
16-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt ambivalent on saints’ demand to revoke controversial order on Ganga||The community of saints in Haridwar has asked the Uttarakhand government to retract an order over declaring a stretch of the Ganga as an escape channel after former chief minister Harish Rawat apologized on Wednesday for the “mistake” of his administration. “I seek an apology from the saint community and Ganga Sabha over the decision taken by the state government under my chief ministership. I urge chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to take back this decision and announce Har-Ki-Pauri as part of main holy Ganga river,” Rawat said Wednesday during his meeting with saints and Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad office bearers along with representatives of Ganga Sabha, the body that manages the affairs of the ancient sanctum sanctorum of Brahma Kund Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat in Haridwar. “This controversial order was passed to safeguard the interests of local traders and commercial activities but later I realized it was a mistake. It was a decision taken with certain aspects taken into consideration but now this decision should be nullified. A large number of saints, teerth purohits and Ganga activists met me in this regard recently after which I realised my mistake,” said Rawat who is also a former MP from Haridwar.Many priests, pandas, traders, shopkeepers, hoteliers and politicians living in and around Har-Ki-Pauri had then urged Harish Rawat to pass the order saying Har-Ki-Pauri is not the mainstream Ganga but a secondary part of Ganga canal stream.Rawat said that if the state government doesn’t take any decision in this regard, then he will ensure that this order is taken back if the Congress returns to power in 2022,Terming it as a genuine realisation of a major mistake Mahant Durga Das of Shri Panchayati Akhada Bada Udasin said that after Rawat publicly accepted the mistake, the ball is now in the court of the state government.Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said that sentiments of Ganga devotees continued to be hurt as in official records Har-Ki-Pauri part of the Ganga is deemed as a channel of the main river.“We have already submitted three memorandums in this regard to the state government to nullify the previous Congress government order. Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri has since antiquity been believed to be the sacred place where tug-of-war took place between deities and demons and nectar fell at that place,” said Jha.The Congress-led government had issued an order declaring part of Ganga from Sarvanand Ghat, Bhoopatwala till Shri Daknesheswar Mahadev temple, passing through sanctum sanctorum of Brahama Kund, Har-Ki-Pauri as an escape channel on December 14, 2016. This meant Har-Ki-Pauri ghat is not on the main river Ganga course and thus did not come under NGT directive that prohibits construction activities within 100 metre of the Ganga river.The order of the then Congress government meant construction activities could go on, bringing relief to many ashram owners, hoteliers, dharamshala owners and shopkeepers whose establishments were coming under 100-metre belt.Earlier this week Ganga Sabha had threatened to move to the Supreme Court if the state government didn’t turn down this order.The BJP government in Uttarakhand is ambivalent about the demand of the saints.Madan Kaushik, state cabinet minister and state government spokesperson blamed the previous Congress government for this situation but did not say why the BJP government had not scrapped the order or cleared its stance on the matter in the last three and a half years.“Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had stated during his first visit as CM to Har-Ki-Pauri that mistakes and wrongdoings of previous Congress government will be washed away. It is good that finally Harish Rawat has realised his mistake but it won’t be easy for people of Haridwar to forget his acts,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-ambivalent-on-saints-demand-to-revoke-controversial-order-on-ganga/story-VxfpiRrl2pvyVcF0603oMM.html
16-07-2020||India||Domestic flights may reach up to 60% capacity by Diwali this year: Puri||Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri said that he hopes the number of domestic flights will reach 55 – 60 percent of the pre-coronavirus levels by Diwali this year.The domestic aviation industry is facing financial losses due to the two-month long suspension of air travel followed by restricted resumption of domestic air traffic due to the impact of coronavirus.“We are assuming that by Diwali this year, we will have 55-60 percent of pre-Covid domestic flights operating in India,” said Puri.According to a report released earlier this year by aviation consultancy firm Capa India, the industry’s losses in the first quarter of 2020 could run up to $3-3.6 billion due to covid-19-related disruptions.It had predicted that the four months from June to September will be a critical phase for the Industry. It predicted that some carriers may even struggle to cover their variable costs up until the end of second quarter of financial year 2021 due to market conditions and the “constraints” imposed by possible social distancing requirements.A total of 1,633 flights operated on July 15, carrying about 1,40,000 passengers. Initially, after the resumption of flights, the government had allowed airlines to operate at a maximum of 33 percent of their full capacity, in proportion to the market share and capacity they had in the pre-Covid market. The government had also capped fares for seven domestic sectors. The scenario of international travel returning to its previous levels also remains uncertain as underlined by the minister. He said bilateral arrangements between countries allowing passenger traffic remains the best hope till the crisis is over.Also Read: Air bubbles only way forward for international travel during pandemic“I think answer will lie through bilateral air bubbles which will carry a possible number of people but under defined conditions as countries are still imposing entry restrictions including India,” he said.Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal said that as on July 13, Air India and Air India Express operated 1,103 flights, bringing back 2,08,000 Indians under Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-may-reach-up-to-60-capacity-by-diwali-this-year-puri/story-t9vRs8EMCA09Axo9Y6xMNN.html
16-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot camp seeks time to amend plea challenging Speaker’s disqualification notice||The 19 Congress rebel lawmakers of Rajasthan assembly, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, moved Rajasthan high court (HC) on Thursday against the notices issued by the state assembly Speaker CP Joshi on the petition by chief whip Mahesh Joshi seeking their disqualification, but sought more time to amend their petition.The petitioners, who are slated to respond to Speaker Joshi’s notices on Friday, informed the court that they would want to challenge the rules and not the validity of the notices, said the counsels, who were present during the hearing in the court.The 19 rebel Congress legislators had moved the plea to challenge the validity of the notices under Article 191 of the Constitution read with Rajasthan Assembly Member (Disqualification on the grounds of changing party) Rules, 1989.Also read| Chhattisgarh: 25 MLAs given positions in govt in last three days amid Rajasthan crisisAdvocate Prateek Kasliwal, who represented Speaker CP Joshi, said senior counsel Harish Salve, who is representing the petitioners, has sought time to amend the petition.“The petitioners said that they would challenge the Rajasthan Assembly Member (Disqualification on the grounds of changing party) Rules, 1989, instead of the notices,” Kasliwal said.State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, Speaker Joshi is empowered to question the rebel lawmakers.“Everyone needs to follow the party’s whip,” he told media persons.Earlier, Speaker Joshi had issued notices to 19 rebel members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs).The notices stated disqualification of the 19 MLAs from the Rajasthan assembly under the 10th schedule of the Constitution, which deals with anti-defection.Also read: Rajasthan ex-minister hits back at Gehlot over horse-trading chargesThe notices cited an alleged conspiracy to destabilise the democratically elected Ashok Gehlot government, as the rebel lawmakers skipped the Congress legislative party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14. “All of these lead inescapably and irresistibly to the conclusion that the individual has voluntarily given up membership of the Indian National Congress and the provisions of Para 2(1)(a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution are attracted to disqualify him with immediate effect,” the complaint had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-sachin-pilot-camp-seeks-time-to-amend-plea-challenging-speaker-s-disqualification-notice/story-zPJVhUvgmL8auLCOmbXERJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Bihar’s vigilance bureau lodges second FIR against IAS officer in scam worth Rs 17 crore||The Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) of Bihar lodged second FIR against a serving IAS officer of 1991 batch, three retired IAS officers and six others for their alleged involvement in Bihar Mahadalit Vikash Mission (BMVM) scam in which funds to the tune to more than Rs 17 crore were embezzled, originally meant for the upliftment of mahadalit youths.The FIR was lodged based the statement of VIB inspector Sanjiv Kumar against IAS officer SM Raju (suspended); former BMVM directors Raghwendra Jha, Raj Narayan Lal, Ramashish Paswan; Debjani Kar, then mission’s state programme director; Anil Kumar Sinha (OSD); Shashi Bhusan Singh(co-ordinator); Harendra Shrivastava (OSD); Birendra Chaudhary (assistant director) and Dr Birbal Jha (director, British Lingua). The FIR was lodged under sections 406/409/420/467/468/471/477a/120b of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Prevention of Corruption Act. The mission came into force in 2010. The scam continued till 2016.Also read: ‘Now, don’t blame rats’: Bihar opposition’s dig at CM over collapse of newly inaugurated bridgeAccording to the FIR, on October 4,2011, the BMVM had published an advertisement to impart knowledge about 22 trades including MS Office, Tally, spoken English and other courses to mahadalit youths through funds allocated under state government’s Dashrath Manjhi Skill Development Scheme and with special assistance from central government.During an investigation, the VIB found that British Lingua Director Dr Birbal Jha hatched a conspiracy with the connivance of BMVM officials and withdrew Rs 17 crore between 2012 and 2016 financial year on fake paper.In the FIR enclosure, the VIB revealed that the BMVM claimed, he had trained 14,826 students. But in the investigation, the bureau found that most of the students attended separate trade during same session and period.“During investigation, it also surfaced that students whose names were in the list of firms as candidates who were imparted training and certification never really took any such course. Such youths had given a written statement that they had never been into any such training,” reports said.Raju, who was suspended in January 2017, was in the thick of controversy in 2003. The then leader of opposition in Bihar, Sushil Kumar Modi, had sought his dismissal over corruption charges. Modi had advised the government not to accept his following his suspension in Karnataka where he had gone on deputation.In December 2016, the VIB lodged an FIR against the IAS officer, along with 15 other officials for alleged irregularities in the disbursement of post-matric scholarship among SC/ST students pursuing technical education outside Bihar.In April 2019, the VIB submitted charge sheet against IAS officer SM Raju, two retired IAS officers and five others for alleged involvement in scam wherein funds to the tune to more than Rs 5.55 crore were embezzled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-s-vigilance-bureau-lodges-second-fir-against-ias-officer-in-scam-worth-rs-17-crore/story-Hr2J4jSyEbmkdRedWXYooO.html
16-07-2020||India||India gets 2nd consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav||India on Thursday got second consular access to former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav - sentenced to death by a Pakistan Army court - at the Pakistan foreign office in Islamabad. The last time Pakistan allowed such access to Jadhav was in September 2019. The development follows India’s request for unconditional access to Jadhav ahead of the July 20 deadline to file a review petition in his case.Last week, Pakistan claimed that Jadhav, arrested on charges of espionage and terrorism in 2016, had refused to file an appeal to review his case in the Islamabad High Court. New Delhi denied the claim, and said he had clearly “been coerced” into not appealing against his conviction. In its July 2019 verdict, the International Court of Justice ordered Pakistan to review Jadhav’s death sentence. It also ruled that India’s right to have consular access to its national had been violated.India has also accused Pakistan of violating the ICJ judgment in “letter and spirit”.New Delhi said Pakistan passed an Ordinance in May this year to allow for the High Court to review the sentence awarded by their military court.“They have all along maintained that their laws allowed for effective review and reconsideration while we have protested it all along. Now, after almost a year, they have made a U-turn and issued an Ordinance to ostensibly provide for some sort of review. We have already expressed our serious concerns at the content of the Ordinance and how it violates the ICJ judgment. Pakistan is only seeking to create an illusion of remedy,” it said.Jadhav was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. In April 2017, Pakistan announced he had been given the death sentence by a military court.India has rejected the allegations against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. Pakistan has so far granted consular access to Jadhav only once since his arrest in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-officials-at-pak-foreign-office-after-new-delhi-gets-consular-access-to-meet-kulbhushan-jadhav-report/story-KzgCYkAVotCtKXI3AXknuO.html
16-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: 25 MLAs given positions in govt in last three days amid Rajasthan crisis||The Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government in Chhattisgarh has appointed 25 lawmakers for various posts in the state statutory bodies, including parliamentary secretaries, boards, and commissions over the last three days, in what appears to be a pre-emptive measure to fortify itself amid the party’s internal power struggle in Rajasthan.At present, 38 legislators are holding various posts in the state government, including the latest entrants.The others are chief minister Baghel and his 12 Cabinet colleagues.The ruling Congress has 69 lawmakers in the 90-member Chhattisgarh assembly.On Thursday, a list of chairman and vice-chairman of boards and commissions, which include four members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), was released that has been carefully drawn up while keeping the regional sensibilities in mind, as 14 leaders are from Raipur division, followed by four each from Surguja, Bilaspur, and Durg divisions and six from the under-developed Bastar division.On Wednesday night, the state government had appointed six MLAs as chairmen and vice-chairmen of two development authorities.On Tuesday, the state government had appointed 15 MLAs, as parliamentary secretaries, who are touted to work in tandem with 12 ministers.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed that appointments have been made to pacify the infighting within the Congress-led government, which is further rattled because of the ongoing Rajasthan crisis.Senior BJP MLA and ex-minister Brijmohan Agrawal told media persons on Wednesday that the government “hurriedly’’ appointed the party legislators as parliamentary secretaries out of fear because of the political crisis in Rajasthan.“There is a huge discontentment among Congress legislators in the state. The ruling party decided in a hurry to appoint them as parliamentary secretaries. This is a fallout of what happened in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh (MP) and is likely to happen in Rajasthan. The Chhattisgarh unit of the Congress is afraid of the MP and Rajasthan experience,” Agrawal alleged.However, state Congress leader RP Singh rubbished Agrawal’s allegations.“The BJP has only 14 MLAs in the state assembly, which is less than the parliamentary secretaries appointed by us. The party needs to understand where it stands. Besides, these appointments were made before the Rajasthan crisis. It is a coincidence that it has been announced now,” he said.Another BJP leader Ajay Chandrakar, too, harped on the infighting within Congress’s Chhattisgarh unit. “It is a well-known fact that there is a growing rift between two Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh. These appointments have been made to pacify some leaders and put an end to infighting,” he alleged.Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, who heads the Congress’s communication unit in the state, likened the BJP’s allegations to the pot calling the kettle black.“Ajay Chandrakar and Brijmohan Agarwal are two major factions in the BJP since 2000. Now, they are talking about rift and infighting. They need to first get their own house in order,” said Trivedi.The BJP, which has ruled Chhattisgarh for three consecutive terms since 2003, has 14 MLAs.Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC) (J), and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have four and two lawmakers, respectively.The Marwahi assembly seat has been lying vacant since the death of Ajit Jogi, ex-CM, and JCC (J) MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-25-mlas-given-positions-in-govt-in-last-three-days-amid-rajasthan-crisis/story-3AcMsTXKaGYmuJvGxHkB3L.html
16-07-2020||India||Air bubbles only way forward for international travel during pandemic: Hardeep Puri||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday underlined that bilateral air bubbles will be the way to resume international travel amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Till international civil aviation can reclaim its pre-Covid numbers, I think the answer will lie through bilateral air bubbles which will carry a possible number of people but under defined conditions as countries are still imposing entry restrictions including India,” Puri said at a press conference.Puri also said Air France will operate 28 flights between Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore to Paris from July 18 till August 1 while United Air will operate 18 flights between Delhi, Mumbai to Newark till 31 July: Scheduled international passenger flights have remained suspended in India since March 23 due to the pandemic.Earlier this month, Airports Authority of India (AAI) chairman, Arvind Singh had said that India is in talks with the US and Canada and the countries in European and Gulf regions on establishing individual bilateral bubbles which will allow airlines of each country in the pact to operate international flights.The pandemic has also continued to dog domestic flight operations.“Domestic flights are operating at 33%.... We have to navigate a difficult terrain,” Puri said at Thursday’s presser.The minister also lavished praise on Air India for carrying out a massive evacuation to bring back stranded Indians from several countries across the world amid the Covid-19 crisis.“The Vande Bharat Mission is currently in the fourth phase. It involves 619 flights which will bring back more than two lakh Indians. We are evacuating about 20,000 people every day,” Puri said.He said 687,467 people have been brought back so far out of which Air India carried 215,495. Private carriers brought back 12,258 Indians while 135,000 used private charters to return home. Puri said the Vande Bharat mission with an initial evacuation figure of 190,000 people but soon increased to a larger number after people from many parts of the world where Air India does operate also requested evacuation.Air India’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal said the airline operated 1,103 flights from 71 cities across 53 countries to evacuate Indians.“Almost 50% of those returned are from West Asia and most of them belonged to Kerala,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-bubbles-only-way-forward-for-international-travel-during-pandemic-hardeep-puri/story-ZhQobJTSeTFqEVGiUbcS6O.html
16-07-2020||India||Isolated places in central Maharashtra, Gujarat to get extremely high rainfall over next 2 days||The weather department has predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall over Konkan, Goa, Central Maharashtra and Gujarat over the next four days. According to the Thursday forecast, some of these regions are likely to receive extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places, while several other places in these regions could experience heavy to very heavy rainfall.The department has predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Gujarat state today and tomorrow. The intensity of the rainfall for the regions mentioned above is expected to decrease after that.According to the weather department’s prediction, Central Maharashtra is likely to receive rainfall at most places on Thursday with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. On Friday, the trend is likely to continue with several places in the region receiving rainfall including some places that will receive heavy rainfall. The intensity of rain is likely to subdue after Friday but most of the region will continue to receive rainfall.Also Read: Mumbai records its second-highest 24-hour rainfall since 2015The Thursday forecast for Gujarat says Rainfall will occur at most places along with heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places. The weather department has put Gujarat in the red zone for Thursday. Similar weather conditions are likely to prevail even on Friday, when most places in the state will receive rainfall, while heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected to lash isolated places. On Saturday and Sunday, the intensity is set to decrease a bit with the state likely to receive rainfall at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places.Photos: Heavy rain takes Mumbai past July average alreadySimilarly, the rainfall prediction for Saurashtra and Kutch region for Thursday is categorized in the red zone, indicating that while most places here will receive rainfall, some places will be battered with heavy to very rainfall and some isolated places will be lashed with extremely heavy rainfall. However, the situation will ease on Friday, when no place in the region is predicted to receive extremely heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isolated-places-in-central-maharashtra-gujarat-to-get-extremely-high-rainfall-on-thursday/story-j62yDURmPUyc6FkxpgsvBM.html
16-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot camp seeks time to amend plea challenging MLAs disqualification, hearing deferred||Rajasthan HC on Thursday deferred the hearing on disqualification notice served on MLAs of the rebel Sachin Pilot camp. According to news agency PTI, the Pilot camp has sought time to amend its petition challenging move to disqualify dissident MLAs from Rajasthan Assembly.Appearing for the Pilot camp, counsel Harish Salve said the dissident MLAs want to challenge constitutional validity of disqualification notices issued by Rajasthan Speaker. He said the petitioner will challenge anti-defection law enshrined in Tenth Schedule of Constitution.The high court granted time to the Pilot camps to file fresh petition and the matter will be heard now by Division Bench when the amended petition is filed. Former deputy chief minister and Congress state unit president Sachin Pilot and other Congress rebels had moved the Rajasthan high court earlier in the day against the disqualification notice issued by assembly speaker CP Joshi to disqualify them as MLAs. The ruling Congress has sought their disqualification from the assembly for ‘anti-party activities’. The notice issued stated disqualification of the MLAs from assembly under the Tenth Schedule of the constitution of India. The MLAs were asked to respond to the speaker’s notice by Friday.The MLAs deliberately absented themselves from the Congress legislature party meeting held on July 13 and 14.On Tuesday, the Congress had sacked Pilot - credited with leading the party’s successful campaign in the 2018 assembly elections - both as deputy chief minister and also from the Pradesh Congress Committee chief posts. His two loyalists were also sacked as ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-defers-hearing-on-disqualification-notice-served-on-mlas-of-sachin-pilot-camp/story-lSChMLP81lLAg4bQ2PzmXM.html
16-07-2020||India||Supreme Court directs Centre to make new appointments in AFT in one month||The Supreme Court on Thursday pulled up the Central government for not making timely appointments of judicial members in the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) and directed it to do the same within a period of one month.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde also said that the court is inclined to extend by 3 months the tenure of officers retiring on July 22 and 23.“We will extend the tenure. In the meantime, Union can make regular appointments,” CJI Bobde said directing the Central government to make appointments in one month.Attorney General KK Venugopal, appearing for the Union of India, suggested giving a time of three weeks to consider names for appointments and said that there will be a huge vacuum in the tribunal as officers are retiring on July 22 and 23.Pulling up the Attorney General, the CJI said, “When we enabled you to make appointments, you haven’t done anything. Why must we give you directions every time?”Venugopal, responding to the apex court, said that the same could not be done due to certain difficulties. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-centre-to-make-new-appointments-in-aft-in-one-month/story-s29YyiensGuBEnTHzZYNUN.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Dirty politics, sad spectacle’: AAP’s Raghav Chadha reacts to Rajasthan political crisis||Reacting to the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan, Aam Aadmi Party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday said that political parties are busy playing games at a time when the focus should be on fighting the pandemic. The AAP MLA said now is the time when all parties should come together and stand united in the face of the Covid-19 crisis.“It is a sad spectacle to witness that parties are busy playing dirty politics at a time when the pandemic crisis looms overhead,” Chadha said.“Now is the time to figure out how can we protect our country, our citizens and their health ami the pandemic. How can we improve our recovery rate? How can various states conduct more tests and arrange for more beds, ventilators, ICUs,” he said. Also read: Rajasthan HC defers hearing on disqualification notice served on MLAs of Sachin Pilot campSharpening his attack on the Congress party, Chadha described it as an old political entity which has collapsed completely and is now fighting for its survival. “The Congress party is currently on a ventilator, fighting for its survival. It cannot save itself. We all have seen, states after states it ican be seen selling its votes and MLAs,” Chadha said, citing examples of similar power tussle in states like Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh.  Press conference by AAP National Spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Rajasthan political crisis. https://t.co/b9Sc6sYnNo“Congress neither has any future, nor the party can give any future to this country,” he said, adding that nothing can save the grand old party from its downfall. Chadha’s remarks come as the political tussle in Rajasthan intensifies with the recent removal of Sachin Pilot as deputy chief minister and state Congress committee chief by the Congress party. Also read: Ashok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot becomes Harish Salve vs Abhishek Singhvi in courtRajasthan High Court on Thursday deferred the hearing on disqualification notice served to MLAs of the rebel Sachin Pilot camp. Pilot and others had moved the Rajasthan HC earlier in the day against the disqualification notice issued by assembly speaker CP Joshi to disqualify them as MLAs.Congress had sought their disqualification from the assembly for ‘anti-party activities’. Pilot and his supporting camp of lawmakers did not attend the Congress Legislative Party meeting called by the party on Monday and Tuesday in Jaipur which was mandatory for party MLAs to attend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dirty-politics-sad-spectacle-aap-s-raghav-chadha-reacts-to-rajasthan-political-crisis/story-dkdrN5oAjJAaUNXAyndq6H.html
16-07-2020||India||Tripura: Another patient dies of Covid-19, second case in July||Tripura recorded another coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related death on Wednesday late evening, four days after a senior citizen had succumbed to the viral infection, as the toll rose to four in the north-eastern border state, including an infected woman patient, who had died by suicide in early June. This is the second Covid-19 related death in July.A person (38), who was suffering from an acute difficulty in breathing, was admitted to Agartala’s Gobind Ballav Pant (GBP) Hospital on Tuesday and later he tested Covid-19 positive.He died at the Covid-19 ward in the hospital on Wednesday late evening, a state health official said.Earlier on July 11, a senior citizen (72) had died of Covid-19 at GBP Hospital.In early June, a man (48) had died three days after he was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.A Covid-19 positive woman patient had died by suicide at GBP Hospital on June 2.Tripura has reported 2,283 Covid-19 positive cases to date, of whom 1,602 patients have recovered from their viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-another-patient-dies-of-covid-19-second-case-in-july/story-vb0HheMoriUkfI6RbzmLCJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Alibaba’s UCWeb lays off India staff, Club Factory halts payments after app ban||Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s subsidiary UC Web is slashing staff in India after a ban on 59 Chinese-origin mobile apps that includes UC Web’s browser and two other products, according to staff and a company letter seen by Reuters.India last month outlawed the apps following a skirmish between Indian and Chinese forces on a disputed stretch of Himalayan border in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.It said the apps threatened India’s sovereignty and security and its tech minister described the ban as a “digital strike”.UCWeb, which entered India a decade ago and operated the browser along with a news app and the Vmate short video app, told some employees in a letter dated July 15 and seen by Reuters that they were losing their jobs.“This termination is on account of the ban imposed by the government of India on UCWeb and Vmate, hampering the company’s ability to continue providing services in India,” the company said in the letter.UCWeb said in a statement that it had complied with the government order and stopped services but did not comment on whether it had shut operations entirely.Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba declined to comment.UC Browser had 130 million monthly active users in India. The company has under 100 direct employees in India and hundreds of third-party workers, sources said.Another banned app, an e-commerce service called Club Factory (CF), has written to its Indian sellers saying it is invoking a “force majeure” clause - freeing it from contractual obligations.“We hereby wish to inform that all settlements with sellers on the CF app and website are hereby being put on hold until the ban of the CF app and website is lifted,” the firm said in a letter to some 30,000 Indian sellers.The India app ban requires a temporary halt of business activities and the company is working with the government to resolve their queries, Club Factory said in a statement.Operators of the banned apps, which include the TikTok video service, have been asked by India to answer 77 questions, including whether they censored content, worked on behalf of foreign governments or lobbied influencers, Reuters reported previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alibaba-s-ucweb-lays-off-india-staff-club-factory-halts-payments-after-app-ban/story-mTtMSD6i5cnq3rWdCXOPYO.html
16-07-2020||India||Rebel Congress moves Rajasthan HC against Speaker Joshi’s notice||A day before 19 Congress rebel lawmakers of Rajasthan assembly, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, are to submit their replies to notices issued by the state assembly Speaker CP Joshi on the petition by chief whip Mahesh Joshi seeking their disqualification, a legislator has moved Rajasthan high court (HC) against the notices.Justice Satish Sharma would hear the petition filed by one of the rebel Congress members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLA) PR Meena, said a lawyer.Also read: Ashok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot becomes Harish Salve vs Abhishek Singhvi in courtRajasthan advocate-general MS Singhvi is slated to file a caveat on behalf of Speaker Joshi in the court before the hearing to be held at 3 pm on Thursday.State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, Speaker Joshi is empowered to question the rebel lawmakers.“Everyone needs to follow the party’s whip,” he told media persons.Earlier, Speaker Joshi had issued notices to 19 rebel MLAs, including Pilot and the petitioner Meena.The notices stated disqualification of the 19 MLAs from the Rajasthan assembly under the 10th schedule of the Constitution, which deals with anti-defection.Also read: Congress ready for a ‘face saver’ for Pilot, he keeps them on the edgeThe notices cited an alleged conspiracy to destabilise the democratically elected Ashok Gehlot government, as the rebel lawmakers skipped the Congress legislative party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-congress-moves-rajasthan-hc-against-speaker-joshi-s-notice/story-vbYLyEhAC6TfC8iD8GbmsL.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Approach road washed away, main structure safe’: Bihar govt on Sattarghat bridge collapse||The Opposition in Bihar on Thursday lashed out at Nitish Kumar-led NDA government after a bridge on the approach road leading to newly-constructed Sattarghat bridge over River Gandak was washed away by flood water, exactly 29 days after it was inaugurated by chief minister himself on June 16.Kumar had laid the foundation stone of the ambitious bridge on April 5, 2012, which was a long-pending demand of the people of the area. The 1.44-km-long bridge, built at a cost of Rs 263.47 crore, reduced the distance between Gopalganj, Saran and East Champaran districts by 45 km.Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief madan Mohan Jha was quick to lap up the issue and attacked the NDA government.“The Sattarghat bridge of Gopalganj built at a cost of Rs 263.47 crore in 8 years, was inaugurated by Nitish Ji on June 16. Today, 29 days later the bridge collapsed. Beware! If someone terms it corruption by Nitish ji. Rs 263 crore is for just a glimpse. Even their rats consume alcohol worth this amount,” Yadav tweeted.Bihar Congress chief Dr Madan Mohan Jha also tweeted: “The inauguration of the bridge constructed at a cost of Rs 263.47 crore on June 16 and its destruction on July 15. Now do not accuse the poor rat for this.”Facing flak, the road construction department immediately went on a denial mode and said that there was no damage to the bridge as being reported in a section of media. “About two kilometres from the main bridge, on the side of Gopalganj, an approach road of 18 metres long bridge has been eroded by heavy water pressure of Gandak river. This bridge is situated inside the embankment area of Gandak. There is no damage to the bridge. The main bridge is absolutely safe and traffic will be restored on the road once water pressure reduces. There is no question of irregularities in its construction. This is a natural disaster,” said additional chief secretary, road construction department, Amrit Lal Meena.The BJP also came in defence of chief minister as the road construction department is with the saffron party. “The RJD, which itself has specialised in corruption is making a false propaganda. CM Nitish Kumar’s target is to make corruption-free development. The bridge is completely safe only an approach road two kilometres ahead of bridge has been washed away. The minister of road construction department is an efficient minister who has brought revolution in road network. The RJD should publicly apologise for false propaganda,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.The Bihar government, on earlier occasions had also cut a sorry figure when one of its ministers in 2017 had blamed rats for floods as they made holes in embankments resulting in heavy floods. Last year, the police had blamed rats for gulping seized liquor in police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approach-road-washed-away-main-structure-safe-bihar-govt-on-sattarghat-bride-collapse/story-kEWypPfqqPWV1Oh2bOxTzL.html
16-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot becomes Harish Salve vs Abhishek Singhvi in court||The Ashok Gehlot versus Sachin Pilot fight will now shift to the courtroom. Hindustan Times has learnt that while Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Congress’ Rajya Sabha member, will appear for the Rajasthan chief minister, former solicitor general Harish Salve will appear for Pilot.Hindustan Times had reported how Pilot first reached out to Singhvi but found out how Ashok Gehlot had already hired him for the job. Salve was NDA government’s top law officer from 1999 to 2002 and is currently based out of London, from where he fought India’s case against Pakistan in the Kulbushan Jadhav matter.“We had to challenge it in court and that’s why we are waiting for the Rajasthan high court to hear us soon,” said a leader from Sachin Pilot’s camp, on condition of anonymity. Over the last 24 hours, there have been mixed signals from both sides - from Pilot’s appointees in local bodies being cancelled to public statements saying that the door for his return was still open. Since his removal as deputy chief minister on Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been in touch with Pilot while Rahul Gandhi’s brief to his emissary KC Venugopal was to try to hold Pilot back.“We don’t understand the duplicity of this. On one hand they say the door is open but on the other hand, the chief minister holds a press conference and says such things about his English language and the way he looks,” said the Sachin aide quoted above.For his part, chief minister Gehlot has alleged that Pilot’s supporters were paid Rs 20 crore by the BJP. To this, Pilot’s loyalist and former BSP legislator Murari Lal Meena has responded by saying that the CM should also come clean about the money they were paid to come over to the Congress.But it isn’t just Gehlot. Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who had earlier expressed concern about “horses bolting from the Congress’ stables”, today sounded critical of Pilot. He tweeted: “False rumours spread to malign Pilot: “I am not joining BJP. “I guess then legislators at a hotel in Manesar is merely a vacation in Haryana’s comfort zone under BJP’s watchful eye What about “ghar wapsi”?”“He never detached himself,” said the Pilot loyalist. “Is it wrong to have grievances against the chief minister and point out what he was doing wrong? The legislators are in the Manesar hotel at their own cost because they will be arrested in Jaipur. Pilot has not held anyone hostage, they are paying their own hotel bills and some are staying at homes in Faridabad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-vs-sachin-pilot-becomes-harish-salve-vs-abhishek-singhvi-in-court/story-axbgbiSC4ZT2cd8vAyAPXL.html
16-07-2020||India||UP govt profiles returnee migrants into 93 categories as per their skills||If you think that migrants who have returned to their native villages from other states amid the countrywide Covid-19 lockdown are only daily wagers, then think again. Among them are also a sizeable number of professionals and service providers like nutritionists, financial advisors, income tax consultants, sports coaches, gym trainers, yoga teachers and tutors — both men and women.Of the total 37.61 lakh returnee migrants that the Yogi Adityanath government profiled in June to find them jobs according to their skill sets, some 20.37 lakh were found to be skilled and another 15 lakh unskilled workers. No employment details were available for around 2 lakh migrants.Profiling the skilled migrants, the state government has put them into 93 categories as per their skill sets, each category has migrants belonging to one particular skill.A skill-wise employment data, that HT has accessed, prepared by the UP government’s revenue department shows that women account for more than 3.18 lakh of the total workforce and had their share in almost all the skilled works Minors (children between 15 and 18 years) were found to be 1.63 lakh.Also read: Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC to not function on July 16, 17 due to Covid-19The major chunk of over 20 lakh returnee skilled migrants consists of construction labourers (10.8 lakh), which is around 50% of the total skilled workforce, followed by factory workers (1.25 lakh), workers other than construction and factory workers (1.21 lakh) and agriculture labourers (83,344). Next come painters and POP workers (89,681), tailors (66,535), carpenters (65,043) and drivers (46,471).Among the skilled migrants are also professionals and service providers such as yoga teachers (417), tutors (2674), coaches (1,102), photographers (504), financial advisors (407), income tax consultants (129), dieticians (407), barbers/beauticians (10,013), cooks (23,745), e-commerce employees (18,048), aayahs/child caretakers (7,210), call centre employees (3,481), banking/insurance sector staff (2,275), clerks/accountants (2,516), food processing staff (4,238), IT sector employees (1,237), and retail sector workers (1,346).The largest chunk of migrants returned to eastern UP districts in two phases in March end and then in May. Districts like Siddharthnagar, Prayagraj, Gonda Maharajganj, Bahraich, Balrampur, Jaunpur, Hardoi, Azamgarh, Basti, and Gorakhpur witnessed a major influx.The UP government decided to conduct skill mapping of the returnee migrants in a bid to provide jobs to them as per their skill sets if they chose to stay back in the state after the lockdown. “We are trying our best to absorb all the migrants in different sectors, including MGNREGS and construction work, though many of them have gone back,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-profiles-returnee-migrants-into-93-categories-as-per-their-skills/story-5qNrsL0kRZCaViCj12YnPN.html
16-07-2020||India||New lockdowns ordered as India’s Covid-19 cases near one million||One of India’s most impoverished states went into lockdown Thursday, but near-normal traffic on Patna’s streets showed the difficulty of corralling over 125 million people.The lockdown in the northern state bordering Nepal started as India reported more than 600 deaths in the previous 24 hours, and the Red Cross warned the virus was spreading at “an alarming rate” across south Asia.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith India’s caseload on course to hit one million on Friday or Saturday -- and fatalities approaching 25,000 -- authorities across the country are reimposing restrictions that have only recently been lifted.Bihar went into a 15-day lockdown at midnight, a day after IT hub Bangalore -- home to 13 million people -- shut down for a week.All schools, clubs, temples and non-essential businesses were ordered to close in Bihar, but construction and agricultural activity allowed to continue. And while public transport was shut down, private vehicles are still allowed to operate, and an AFP reporter in the state capital Patna said traffic appeared to be as busy as ever on Thursday morning.“We have not faced such a situation in my life before, it is really a horrible experience,” said Radhika Singh, a housewife in her late 40s as she jostled to buy rice and lentils Wednesday before the lockdown started.A lack of coronavirus discipline forced Goa to announced a three-day shutdown from Thursday evening and a night curfew until August 10.Chief minister Pramod Sawant said too many people were “stepping out to meet people at parties” and that there was a low level of “awareness and sensitivity”.“We have more than 40,000 people fined for not wearing masks, plus there are many who are detained for flouting rules, but they continue to loiter,” Sawant told local media.“This only establishes that people only understand the language of the law.”Only God can save us’ Bangalore appeared to be coping far better.Many firms that handle the back-office operations of global corporations were little affected by the re-imposed restrictions having already working from home.Still, the health minister of Karnataka said Wednesday that “only God can save us” as the number of cases in the state approached 50,000.The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said that the entire region is fast becoming the next epicentre for the coronavirus.“While the world’s attention has been focused on the unfolding crisis in the United States and South America, a concurrent human tragedy is fast emerging in South Asia,” the organisation said.“Covid-19 is spreading at an alarming rate in South Asia, home to a quarter of humanity.”While India has reported almost 970,000 cases, the pandemic is also still raging in Pakistan and Bangladesh with almost 260,000 and 195,000 cases respectively.In total the three countries have recorded more than 1.4 million cases and almost 33,000 deaths, according to official figures that many experts say in reality are much higher.The IFRC also cited a report from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) scientists -- yet to be peer-reviewed -- that in six months India could be reporting up to 287,000 cases per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-lockdowns-ordered-as-india-s-covid-19-cases-near-one-million/story-WPRzbeOhGZ9sx5cbP10SXJ.html
16-07-2020||India||India’s electricity output recovers further in first half of July||India’s electricity generation during the first half of July fell at a slower pace than in June, provisional government data showed, as industries and commercial establishments opened up after further following gradual easing of lockdowns.Power generation fell 3.1% in the first 15 days of July compared with the same period last year, a Reuters analysis of daily load despatch data from federal grid operator POSOCO showed, compared with a 9.9% fall in June.In the second half of June, electricity generation declined 5.3%. While power use has picked up from previous months when India was under a strict lockdown, electricity demand - which is impacted by seasonal changes - is still lower when compared with the same periods from the previous year.Industries and offices account for over half of India’s annual power use. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been citing electricity consumption to show there are “greenshoots” in the Indian economy.Major industrial states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat in the west and Tamil Nadu in the south continued to witness steep drops in electricity use amid higher incidence of coronavirus cases.However, many states with smaller yet significant industrial profiles saw growth in power demand for the first time since Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in March.The northern state of Uttar Pradesh - India’s most populous and home to the largest number of medium and small scale enterprises (MSMEs) in the country - witnessed a 10.1% growth in electricity use. Other states including Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh - all of which are known for MSMEs - saw an uptick in power demand.Seasonal factors including hot weather could have fuelled higher power demand.The states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have also seen a rise in coronavirus cases in the recent days, which could impact power demand. Bihar has also announced a lockdown beginning Thursday and ending July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-electricity-output-recovers-further-in-first-half-of-july/story-4k1Soh9zZ0etXTrKSnAKDM.html
16-07-2020||India||Rebel leader Sachin Pilot’s camp challenges disqualification notice in court||Sachin Pilot and other Congress rebels moved the Rajasthan high court on Thursday against the disqualification notice issued by assembly speaker CP Joshi to disqualify them as MLAs. The ruling Congress has sought their disqualification from the assembly for ‘anti-party activities’. The notice issued stated disqualification of the MLAs from assembly under the Tenth Schedule of the constitution of India. The MLAs were asked to respond to the speaker’s notice by Friday.The MLAs deliberately absented themselves from the Congress legislature party meeting held on July 13 and 14.If the rebel MLAs are disqualified, the majority mark will drop, making it easier for chief minister Ashok Gehlot to win a floor test. The majority mark in the 200-member assembly is 101. Gehlot has accused his former deputy of hobnobbing with the BJP to bring down his government. The BJP, with just 72 MLAs, has been gingerly watching the developments. Despite Pilot categorically ruling out joining the BJP amid the power tussle within the Rajasthan unit, the Congress has alleged that he was colluding with the opposition party to topple the state government. On Tuesday, the Congress sacked Pilot - credited with leading the party’s successful campaign in the 2018 assembly elections - both as deputy chief minister and also from the Pradesh Congress Committee chief posts. His two loyalists were also sacked as ministers.On another track, the party has been making overtures with Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala calling upon Pilot and his supporters to stop all conversations with the BJP and return to Jaipur to thrash out differences. Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande too after Pilot’s remark that he is not joining the BJP tweeted that the party doors are “not shut on him”. He also wished that lord would grant the leader the good sense and comes out of the “elusive trap of the BJP”.Since his removal from the state cabinet, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been in touch with Pilot while Rahul Gandhi’s brief to his emissary KC Venugopal was to try to hold Pilot back.The fight between the two leaders reached a tipping point when Pilot was asked to record his statement with the Special Operations Group team of the Rajasthan police in an alleged case of bribing MLAs for a coup by the BJP.The Pilot camp has maintained that they are fighting for dignity and are not after posts or positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-sachin-pilot-moves-hc-against-speaker-s-disqualification-notice/story-1bywkpvfgjekXM6UxRqVpJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Ex-Maharashtra SEC chief dies of Covid-19||Neela Satyanarayana (72), Maharashtra’s first woman commissioner of the state election commission (SEC) and an acclaimed Marathi author, died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday evening. Her three other family members have also tested Covid-19 positive and are undergoing treatment at hospitals.Satyanarayana tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago and was admitted to Seven Hills Hospital at Marol in Andheri (East), where her two other family members are also being treated. While another family member has been admitted to a private hospital in central Mumbai.Satyanarayana, a 1972-batch Indian Administrative Officer (IAS), was appointed as the first woman commissioner of SEC, Maharashtra, after she had retired from the civil services as the additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue, Maharashtra, in February 2009. She retired as the Maharashtra SEC commissioner in July 2014.She was also well-known for her literary pursuits in Marathi. She is the author of 10 anthologies of poetry and 17 novels.Her autobiographical work, One Full, One Half, depicted her own experiences as a mother of a son suffering from Down’s Syndrome, was widely appreciated in the literary circles.“She was a hardworking and efficient officer and an equally sensitive writer. Her passing is tragic,” said Balasaheb Thorat, state revenue minister and president, Maharashtra Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-maharashtra-sec-chief-dies-of-covid-19/story-XaX7g2NCPKN6owfIu0cn8I.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Disengagement an intricate process, needs constant verification’: Army||India and China remain committed to “complete disengagement” which is an “intricate process” and “requires constant verification”, the Indian Army said in a statement on Thursday, two days after senior military commanders from both sides met at Chushul to discuss the road map for reducing tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).“The senior commanders reviewed the progress on implementation of the first phase of disengagement and discussed further steps to ensure complete disengagement,” army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said.The government’s high-powered China Study Group (CSG) on Wednesday reviewed the latest developments in eastern Ladakh, with focus on the next stage of disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies following the 14-hour meeting between senior military commanders.“The two sides remain committed to the objective of complete disengagement. This process is intricate and requires constant verification. They are taking it forward through regular meetings at diplomatic and military level,” Anand said in the statement. He said India and China have been engaged in discussions through established military and diplomatic channels to address the prevailing situation along the LAC.On the fourth meeting between the senior commanders on July 14, he said the engagement was consistent with the consensus reached between the Special Representatives of India and China on July 5 to discuss complete disengagement.The CSG, which is the apex policy advisor to the government on China, on Wednesday evaluated the proposals and counter-proposals discussed at the corps commander-level talks before charting out the course for the next round of disengagement that is expected to begin in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso. The focus of the current round of military talks is to hammer out a consensus on easing tensions between the two armies in the Finger Area and Depsang plains as well as pulling back weapons and equipment from friction points in other sectors.“The involvement of the CSG reflects a synergised approach and response. India is minutely evaluating all aspects of disengagement, which will be a lengthy and laborious process,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.A fifth meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region could take place soon to discuss different aspects of disengagement, officials said.Even as disengagement and de-escalation is being discussed and monitored in the highest echelons of the government, defence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Ladakh for a security review on July 17. Singh will also visit forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir on July 18. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane will accompany the minister on the two-day tour.The military is keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan from fishing in troubled waters and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 2.The minister will visit Ladakh two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an unscheduled visit to the sector on July 3. The PM then declared that the “era of expansionism” is over, sending a strong signal to China about India’s determination to defend its borders.The July 14 meeting was the fourth round of talks between the corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies who made previous attempts to reduce tensions along the border on June 6, June 22 and June 30.Negotiations are expected to be far harder this time as the continued presence of the PLA in the Finger Area and the Depsang sector could be the sticking point in the talks.In Tuesday’s talks, the agenda included the step-wise withdrawal of weapons and equipment to mutually agreed distances from all friction areas along the LAC and thinning the military buildup in the region.The military dialogue will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs. The military commanders set the time-frame and method of disengagement while the WMCC monitors the process.The disengagement effort involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours by both sides.The military build-up in Indian and Chinese depth areas hasn’t thinned, with both sides keeping their guard up. The deployment of thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence weapons continues in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-an-intricate-process-needs-constant-verification-army/story-HF3F5XYcULMxyD7bFnqnyI.html
16-07-2020||India||Guna incident: Collector, SP removed, high-level probe ordered after couple consumes poison||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan late on Wednesday night directed immediate removal of Collector and SP of Guna, after a couple consumed poison allegedly after they were manhandled by police during an anti-encroachment drive in Guna.A State government has also ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident.The couple consumed poison allegedly after they were manhandled by police during anti-encroachment drive, Tehsildar N Singh said.The incident took place on Tuesday when the police tried to remove people who had encroached land allotted for college in the district.The duo is in stable condition. “Land has been allotted for college. So people, who had encroached it, were being removed. Both husband and wife consumed pesticide after which they were admitted to a hospital. Both are in stable condition,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guna-incident-collector-sp-removed-high-level-probe-ordered-after-couple-consumes-poison/story-ZA283PYWHubZPhihNLSr9N.html
16-07-2020||India||After viral video, Kerala woman’s act of kindness gets her new house||After a video of a Kerala woman helping a visually-impaired man cross a busy road and board a bus went viral last week, her kindness amid such trying moved many. Wallowing in poverty, Supriya never thought her act will get her a new home - something which was beyond her dreams.Alukkas group chairman Joy Alukkas congratulated her and later visited her rented home with his family. Supriya works as a saleswoman with the Alukkas group. Alukkas told her to come to the head office in Thrissur next week as there will be a surprise for her.“I never thought it will be such a huge surprise. I was in tears as hundreds of workers of the group cheered me. It was a spontaneous act and I never thought this will fetch me so much of praise and love,” said Supriya who has been working as a saleswoman for the past three years. During a meeting on Wednesday, Alukkas had announced a brand new home for her. Supriya is married and has two children, her husband has a small-time private job. Also read: Woman stops bus, helps visually impaired man to get on it“’You must have done so much good work and that might have prompted you to do this also. Kindness will flow and never dry in this world’. I was moved by these words of Jolly Alukkas, wife of the chairman,” she said.In a video clip that went viral last week, Supriya was seen chasing after a public bus and urging the conductor to wait as a visually impaired man was seen walking up to it slowly. She was seen running back to the man, walking with him to the bus and helping him board safely.The video was shot by a man and shared on social media where he stated he, “witnessed a kind act”. Soon it went viral and many celebrities praised Supriya’s act of kindness. “We should all aim to be like her when no one is watching. #Salute,” actor Riteish Deshmukh had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-viral-video-kerala-s-woman-act-of-kindness-get-her-new-house/story-LbRNJpL0EoJpjGNVRBI8RJ.html
16-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Railways will move to 100% electrification in next 3.5 years, says Piyush Goyal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.100% electrification in railways in next 3.5 years, says Piyush GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday hailed the strides India has made in the renewable energy field and said that the government is working towards transitioning into international solar grid. He also said that Indian Railways will move to 100 per cent electrification in next three-and-half years. Read more‘Now, don’t blame rats’: Bihar opposition’s dig at CM over collapse of newly inaugurated bridgeBihar’s opposition leaders have slammed chief minister Nitish Kumar after a recently inaugurated bridge by him, constructed at the cost Rs 263.47 crore, collapsed yesterday within a month of its opening. Read moreTwo more rhinos die due to flooding in Assam’s Kaziranga; total goes up to 5Two more rhinoceroses have died due to drowning in floodwaters in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR), as the toll of the endangered species rose to five amid the annual monsoon fury. Read moreInternet curbs in J&K: SC seeks Centre’s response on plea seeking contempt chargesThe Supreme Court on Thursday sought response from the Centre on a petition filed by a body of media professionals. The petition accuses Centre of contempt for not conducting periodic review of its orders suspending internet services in Jammu and Kashmir. Read moreIMF chief warns global economy ‘not out of the woods yet,’ amid Covid-19 crisisGlobal economic activity is picking up after an unprecedented decline this year due to the coronavirus pandemic, but a second major wave of infections could trigger more disruptions, the International Monetary Fund’s top official said. Read moreKirsten reveals how Dhoni cancelled a team trip as coach wasn’t allowed entryFormer India captain MS Dhoni and then Team India coach Gary Kirsten’a partnership produced some great results for the team. From becoming the top Test playing nation in the ICC rankings for the first time to winning the ICC World Cup in 2011, Kirsten and Dhoni’s understanding helped the team. Read moreTwitter explains what happened when its verified high profile handles were hackedA massive hack in the form of a bitcoin scam hit verified accounts across Twitter including those of Barack Obama, Joe Biden, Bill Gates, Elon Musk etc. The social media platform was inundated with fake tweets that offered to send $2,000 for every $1,000 sent to an anonymous Bitcoin address. Read moreMumbai Police, Nagpur Police share Vidya Balan’s dialogue from Shakuntala Devi for this messageBy now you’ve probably seen the trailer for Shakuntala Devi, in which Vidya Balan plays the role of mathematician Shakuntala Devi. Now, a dialogue from the trailer has been turned into a meme. Both Mumbai Police and Nagpur Police handles have shared a similar message using this dialogue. And people on Twitter are loving it. Read moreFrom colours, prints, textures, Katrina Kaif owns her fashion, here are top 5 looks of hersKatrina Kaif brings her fashion A-game in every style she chooses to carry. The stylish actor turns 37 today and will soon be seen opposite Akshay Kumar in Sooryavanshi. When it comes to her sartorial sense, Katrina Kaif has a distinctive sense and she knows what works best for her. Read moreWatch| ‘Congress without Gandhis will be unprecedented, but it will work’: Sanjay Jha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-railways-will-move-to-100-electrification-in-next-3-5-years-says-piyush-goyal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lAtNf01D5VX7HduG16w7AM.html
16-07-2020||India||Congress ready for a ‘face saver’ for Pilot, he keeps them on the edge||Sachin Pilot, sacked as deputy chief minister and the state unit chief for leading a rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government, hasn’t taken up the Congress on its offer to head back to Jaipur along with the other rebel lawmakers sequestered in a Gurugram on the outskirts of national capital Delhi.On Wednesday, the Congress initiated the process to eject Sachin Pilot and the 18 rebel lawmakers from the assembly for skipping a party meet in Jaipur but followed up the many darts that Ashok Gehlot hurled at him with an offer.Pilot had to make contact with the party leadership, pull out his group of legislators from a Gurugram hotel and head back home, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters. Then, Pilot would be given opportunities to raise his grievances with the party’s large-hearted leadership who would look at how best to resolve them, he said. Also Watch | ‘Congress without Gandhis will be unprecedented, but it will work’: Sanjay JhaSurjewala’s message signalled that it was for Sachin Pilot to make the first conciliatory move if he indeed intended to stay in the Congress, and not switch sides. But Surjewala had also made it clear that the party didn’t buy the new narrative floated by his camp that he never intended to jump ship or hadn’t been working with the Bharatiya Janata Party.The measured approach - a contrast to acerbic statements by Ashok Gehlot -- were driven by an assessment in the party headquarters in New Delhi that Congress leaders should not do anything to precipitate the matter.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is learnt to have told the party’s central observers camping in Jaipur that they should leave a window open for Pilot’s honourable stay in the party.A Congress leader suggested that Sachin Pilot’s reluctance to grab the offer could stem from the fact that any ‘face saver’ being contemplated by the party is unlikely to include any role of significance in Rajasthan, the state where Pilot is heavily invested.His camp had earlier hinted at plans to launch a regional front if the Congress didn’t accommodate his concerns around rival Ashok Gehlot who, Pilot had alleged, had been humiliating him and creating hurdles. Pilot, who had at one point expected 30 legislators to stand with him, subsequently found only 18 legislators willing to put their future in the party at stake.This depleted strength of his camp vastly reduced his ability to negotiate with the Congress or the BJP. The Congress also moved faster than his camp had estimated, sacking him and two ministers from the government, and then purging the state unit of his supporters. But it is the Congress complaint to the assembly to disqualify Team Sachin Pilot as MLAs that could hurt him the most.The BJP, which at one point this week believed the Gehlot government was nearing its end, appears to have stepped back for the moment. The BJP’s state leadership has decided to switch back into the wait-and-watch mode, rather than be seen to be actively pulling down the Gehlot government.A Congress leader in Delhi said Sachin Pilot would want to explore his options outside before driving back to Jaipur, given that the return may not really be on his terms. Gehlot’s continuation in the chief minister’s chair does make it a little difficult for him to return, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ready-for-a-face-saver-for-pilot-he-keeps-them-on-the-edge/story-9hNBKVIKIRi32wFb2fqlvK.html
16-07-2020||India||‘Now, don’t blame rats’: Bihar opposition’s dig at CM over collapse of newly inaugurated bridge||Bihar’s opposition leaders slammed chief minister Nitish Kumar after a recently inaugurated bridge by him, constructed at the cost Rs 263.47 crore, collapsed yesterday within a month of its opening. Last month, on June 16, CM Kumar inaugurated the Sattarghat bridge at Gopalganj which collapsed on Wednesday due to heavy rains and floods. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav and Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha slammed the Kumar government for the collapse of the bridge. In a tweet, Yadav said, Rs 263 crore is nothing for the Kumar government. “Their rats alone consume alcohol worth this amount,” his post read. “Portion of Sattarghat Bridge on Gandak River, that was inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar last month in Gopalganj, collapsed yesterday after water flow increased in the river due to heavy rainfall. #Bihar “Beware! If someone calls it Nitish ji’s corruption? 263 crores is just a show of good governance. Their rats alone consume alcohol worth this amount,” his tweet read.  Also read: Bihar goes under lockdown from today: What remains open, what will close8 वर्ष में 263.47 करोड़ की लागत से निर्मित गोपालगंज के सत्तर घाट पुल का 16 जून को नीतीश जी ने उद्घाटन किया था आज 29 दिन बाद यह पुल ध्वस्त हो गया।ख़बरदार!अगर किसी ने इसे नीतीश जी का भ्रष्टाचार कहा तो?263 करोड़ तो सुशासनी मुँह दिखाई है।इतने की तो इनके चूहे शराब पी जाते है pic.twitter.com/cnlqx96VVQBihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha carried on with the rodent jibe and said that the blame of this mishap should not be put on “poor rodents”. “The inauguration of the bridge which was constructed at a cost of Rs 263.47 crore took place on 16 June and its destruction on 15 July. Now do not accuse the poor rodents for this,” Jha tweeted. ALSO WATCH | Bihar CM faces flak as part of month-old bridge falls into Gandak river The opposition’s “rodents” jibes come as part of veiled attacks on various instances where the administration tried shirking off incidents, putting the blame on rodents.  Also read: Why Bihar should be conducting more Covid-19 tests than Delhi is16 जून को 263.47 करोड़ रुपये की लागत से बने पुल का उद्घाटन और 15 जुलाई को उसका सत्यानाश ।अब इसका आरोप बेचारे चूहों पर मत लगा देना। pic.twitter.com/H8enBRqTvUAmong the many wrongdoings that the poor creature was accused of was the disappearance of gallons of liquor seized in the state a few years ago. The police had came up with the claim that the confiscated alcohol was lost to tipsy rats.Last year, two ministers blamed rodents for the floods that devastated the state’s northern and eastern parts, stating that the holes in the embankments were made by rodents which weakened the structures and allowed river water to cause floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-don-t-blame-rats-bihar-opposition-s-dig-at-cm-nitish-kumar-over-collapse-of-newly-inaugurated-bridge/story-Qe0crTtVraUoORDaS5sHyO.html
16-07-2020||India||100% electrification in railways in next 3.5 years, says Piyush Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday hailed the strides India has made in the renewable energy field and said that the government is working towards transitioning into international solar grid.He also said that Indian Railways will move to 100 per cent electrification in next three-and-half years.“PM has promoted ‘One Sun, One World, One Grid’. India is taking lead role in International Renewable Community. Transitioning into international solar grid is something we are all working on. With PM-KUSUM Yojana we are bringing farmers too in renewable energy fold,” Goyal said while speaking at a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) event through video conferencing.“Railways will move to 100% electrification in next 3.5 years & 100% ‘Net Zero’ operator in next 9-10 yrs. By 2030, each one of us will be a proud citizen, owning the world’s first large ‘Clean Railways’,” the railways minister added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last week inaugurated Asia’s largest solar plant in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa.The Prime Minister dedicated the 750-megawatt solar power plant to the nation through video conferencing. He said that it will not only help the state but the entire world as a secure foundation for a clean environment.“Solar energy is going to be a major medium of energy needs not only today but in the 21st century. Because solar energy is sure, pure and secure,” the Prime Minister said.He also said that the way India is utilising solar power, it is going to be discussed further and is being considered as the most attractive market of clean energy.“Keeping this expectation of the world and the humanity from India, we are engaged in connecting the whole world. The result of this thinking is ISA which is International Solar Alliance. This is the spirit behind one world, one sun, one grid,” PM Modi said.The railways ministry has taken a number of initiatives in order to transform into ‘Green Railways’ by 2030.Railway electrification, improving the energy efficiency of locomotives and trains and fixed installations, green certification for installations/stations, fitting bio-toilets in coaches and switching to renewable sources of energy are parts of its strategy of achieving net-zero carbon emission, according to Ministry of Railways.Indian Railways has completed electrification of more than 40,000 Route kilometre (RKM) (which is 63 per cent of total broad-gauge routes) in which 18,605 km electrification work has been done during 2014-20.Indian Railways has fixed a target of electrification of 7,000 RKM for the year 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-electrification-in-railways-in-next-3-5-years-piyush-goyal/story-mlKq8324njLO6G8oeY1oXL.html
16-07-2020||India||Patna Medical College and Hospital guard held for raping a minor, molesting another||A private security guard at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) was arrested on Wednesday morning in connection with the rape of a minor girl and for molesting another girl at the hospital’s isolation ward the previous night.The accused, Mahesh Singh, has been sent to jail.The two girls were brought to PMCH by child rights activists on July 8 after they showed symptoms for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The incident came to light, when the girls narrated their ordeal to child rights activists, who visited them at the hospital on Wednesday morning.“Singh was arrested on the basis of the girls’ statement. Acase has been lodged with women’s police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012,” said Arti Jaiswal, Station House Officer (SHO), women’s police station, Patna.She said the accused was posted at PMCH for the last four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-medical-college-and-hospital-guard-held-for-raping-a-minor-molesting-another/story-dZRdOo4Aq6moxXLxggvjTN.html
16-07-2020||India||Internet curbs in J&K: SC seeks Centre’s response on plea seeking contempt charges||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought response from the Centre on a petition filed by a body of media professionals. The petition accuses Centre of contempt for not conducting periodic review of its orders suspending internet services in Jammu and Kashmir.The apex court has given the Centre a week’s time to file its response.The petitioner, NGO Foundation for Media Professionals (FMP), claimed that no action has been taken by the Centre to comply with the Supreme Court’s order on the issue on May 11. It then urged the court to initiate contempt proceedings against the Centre.The court had asked for a special committee to be formed on restoring mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir in its previous order.Attorney General KK Venugopal denied there was any contempt on the Centre’s part. He told a three-judge bench, headed by Justice NV Ramana, that the special committee headed by Secretary, ministry of home affairs, is already in place as per the Supreme Court’s order.Venugopal further pointed out that since May, the committee met twice and asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to find out if relaxation is possible in restrictions in telecom services.He also agreed to file a response within one week.The Supreme Court had said in its May 11 order that indefinite suspension of internet is not permissible and that these curbs will have to follow principles of proportionality.The Attorney General said that the situation is startling in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of increasing terrorist attacks. He agreed to place the minutes before the top court in a sealed cover.The petitioner had first approached the top court in April, challenging Jammu and Kashmir administration’s March 26 order restricting internet speed. It had urged the court to order restoration of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir. The FMP had further said that suspension of services had severely impeded normal life of people in the union territory.The FMP had argued that communication shutdown makes it impossible for journalists to perform their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-curbs-in-j-k-supreme-court-seeks-centre-s-response-on-plea-seeking-contempt-charges/story-Q4lUEM6BQ95bvdTOwavqoM.html
16-07-2020||India||Two more rhinos die due to flooding in Assam’s Kaziranga; total goes up to 5||Two more rhinoceroses have died due to drowning in floodwaters in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR), as the toll of the endangered species rose to five amid the annual monsoon fury.According to a bulletin issued by the park authorities on Thursday, 90% of the park -- spread over 430 square kilometres (km) -- is submerged, and 99 of the 223 forest camps are inundated, including six that have been vacated.The carcasses of the two rhinos were detected on Wednesday. While a male rhino was found on the eastern side of Donga camp in the park’s Western range, a female rhino was found at Hatibalo in the Burapahar range. State forest department officials have collected the horns of the dead animals.Also read: 6 more dead as floods worsen across AssamEarlier on Tuesday, carcasses of a male and a female rhino were found at Tinimukhuni Nallah and Miikrjan Tongi areas in the Central range of the park.On June 26, the carcass of a male rhino, which had died due to natural causes, was found in the park’s Western range.According to a bulletin issued by the park authorities on Thursday, 76 wild animals have died during this monsoon with 31 deaths, including four rhinos, five wild boars, two swamp deer, 18 hog deer, a wild buffalo, and a porcupine, due to drowning and 12 hog deer because of speeding vehicles.At least 48 animals, including 47 hog deer and a swamp deer, have been injured because of floods (47) and one by a speeding vehicle.Forest personnel has rescued 121 animals, including a one-year-old female rhino calf, which got separated from its mother, and a two-year-old tigress to date.Every year, as floods ravage KNPTR, the park’s animals including elephants, rhinos and tigers cross the nearby national highway to find safety in the hills of nearby Karbi Anglong district.Though vehicle movement is regulated and a speed limit of a maximum of 40 km per hour (kmph) has been imposed, several animals get injured and die due to speeding vehicles.Also read: Heavy rains cause flooding in Assam’s Dibrugarh villagesLast monsoon, nearly 70% of the park had got submerged. Around 200 wild animals, including 18 rhinos, had died due to floods, and 17 others, mainly deer, got killed by speeding vehicles in violation of the stipulated speed limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-rhinos-die-due-to-flooding-in-assam-s-kaziranga-total-goes-up-to-5/story-FDywumHloSFZjrJqwyuOjJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Goa hopeful of favourable hearing on mining petitions scheduled before SC today||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said he was hopeful that the Supreme Court would favourably consider a petition filed by the Goa government seeking that the apex court reassesses its 2018 order which brought mining to a halt.In 2018, the top court had cancelled all 88 mining leases that were renewed by the Goa government in 2015 and asked the Goa government to issue fresh leases instead of renewing existing ones.“The mining matter is scheduled to come up in court tomorrow (Thursday). We are hopeful that we will get justice. Looking at the country’s and the state’s financial condition, we want that the Supreme Court allows the resumption of mining. Goa has low-grade iron ore, which can only be exported. We are hopeful,” Sawant said.Also read: Three-day lockdown in Goa from Friday to curb Covid-19 spreadThe review petition, which was belatedly filed, is one of the two petitions before the Supreme Court on which the state is gambling to resume mining. The other is a special leave petition before the Supreme Court by Vedanta Ltd, the largest mining company that operated in Goa. The company which has challenged a decision by the Goa government to decline its request to amend their mining lease and extend the period from 1987 to 2037 i.e. for a period of 50 years in terms of Section 8(A)(3) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (MMDR Act).The Goa government had declined to renew the leases citing the Supreme Court’s order which specifically barred the state from renewing leases and instead directed them to issue fresh leases if mining is to restart.The Goa government is yet to begin the process of issuing fresh leases but has instead hinged its hopes on a favourable order from the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-hopeful-of-favourable-hearing-on-mining-petitions-scheduled-before-sc-today/story-iZTlkuWsENl80OFPK7GYzK.html
16-07-2020||India||Pulse oximeters, plasma bank to ramped-up testing: How Delhi fights back Covid-19||Delhi might be one of the worst coronavirus-hit regions in the country but the number of Covid-19 patients recovering in the national capital far exceed the rate of fresh infections or ‘active cases’. Delhi has faired well this month as compared to June concerning the coronavirus situation. By July 15, Delhi was expected to witness 2.25 lakh coronavirus cases but only 1.15 lakh cases have been reported till date. It was estimated that 34 thousand beds would be needed across hospitals but around 10 thousand beds are currently unoccupied across various hospitals in Delhi. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said this is the result of collective efforts by all, adding that while the infection seems to be under control, the administration’s preparedness is necessary. A host of factors have contributed to Delhi’s strong hold on the spread of coronavirus. Here’s taking a look at some of them as reported by Live Hindustan. Ramped up testing Coronavirus cases were rapidly increasing in Delhi in the first week of June. At that time, around 5,500 tests were being done daily in the national capital which has now been increased to more than 21 thousand. Increased number of bedsIn the first week of June, there were only 700 corona beds in eight private hospitals. Today, Delhi has 15,000 beds, out of which more than 10 thousand beds are unoccupied. The administration also launched a mobile application through which patients can easily monitor the availability of beds at various hospitals. Pulse oximeters - the protective shiedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the national capital has been able to “minimise deaths” of Covid-19 patients in home isolation with the help of pulse oximeters. The chief minister described it as a protective shield or “suraksha kavach”. “If patients detect their oxygen is falling, they reach out to us for help. We immediately send oxygen concentrators to their home or take them to a hospital,” Kejriwal had tweeted.Response time of ambulanceThe response time of an ambulance was previously two hours which has now come down to 30 minutes. A war room was created for ambulance management wherein over 400 ambulances were dedicated for Covid-19 patients. Plasma banks The government introduced plasma therapy for serious Covid-19 patients. A total of 84 patients were provided the therapy, of which 80 were cured. The first plasma bank was set up at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the national capital’s second plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. According to government data, the administration’s home isolation model has also helped a great deal in the speedy recovery of patients with mild symptoms or those who are asymptomatic. Delhi has reported over 1.1 lakh coronavirus cases till date of which over 95 thousand patients have beaten the virus. Delhi’s active cases stand over 17,000 while more than 3,000 people have succumbed to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulse-oximeters-plasma-bank-to-ramped-up-testing-how-delhi-fights-back-covid-19/story-AOsudhu5ew9DB7jOsZhT5K.html
16-07-2020||India||‘What about ghar wapsi?’ Kapil Sibal takes a swipe at Sachin Pilot||Congress leader Kapil Sibal presented his views on the political crisis in Rajasthan with sneer. In a tweet on Thursday morning, Sibal hit back at Sachin Pilot and took a swipe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“False rumours spread to malign. Pilot: “I am not joining BJP”. I guess then legislators at a hotel in Manesar is merely a vacation in Haryana’s comfort zone under BJP’s watchful eye. What about “ghar wapsi”?” Sibal tweeted. False rumours spread to malign Pilot : " I am not joining BJP "I guess then legislators at a hotel in Manesar is merely a vacation in Haryana’s comfort zone under BJP’s watchful eye What about " ghar wapsi "?His tweet came after it was reported that Pilot and several of his followers are at a hotel in Manesar in Haryana. Its location indicated that Pilot’s move had the blessings of the BJP leadership, which leads the ruling coalition in Haryana.The crisis in Rajasthan began after chief minister Ashok Gehlot claimed that attempts were made to topple his government. The state police took notice of the development and its Special Operations Group (SOG) sent notices to a few leaders, including Pilot.His camp called these notices a joke and he left Rajasthan with his supporters, and claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority.A hectic few days began with Congress deputing its senior leaders to defuse the crisis. Attempts were made to woo Pilot back but he refused to listen and did not attend the CLP meetings of the party. Pilot was removed as Rajasthan Congress chief and Gehlot dropped him from his cabinet.On Wednesday, the chief minister claimed that Pilot was involved in horse-trading with the BJP. In an interaction with reporters, the chief minister did not mention Pilot by his name but said the “former Pradesh Congress Committee president” was himself “doing the deal”.“Some of our colleagues fell into the BJP trap, became over-ambitious and got involved in horse-trading,” the CM alleged.“Our deputy chief minister and PCC president himself was doing the deal and was giving statements that no horse-trading was taking place. What clarifications are you giving when you yourself were involved in it,” Gehlot added.Pilot, meanwhile, claimed that he is not joining the BJP, asserting that he had worked hard to defeat the saffron party and bring the Congress back to power in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-about-ghar-wapsi-kapil-sibal-takes-a-swipe-at-sachin-pilot/story-2nnUpN3i91ysckJZWwYuIK.html
16-07-2020||India||Looking at converting Jayalalithaa’s house into CM’s residence, Tamil Nadu govt tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that it is also actively considering converting “Veda Nilayam”, the residence of late AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa at upscale Poes Garden here, into the official residence of the Chief Minister.Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted before Justice Anand Venkatesh that the government would be acquiring not only the immovable property but also the movables to make as it was during the times of the late chief minister.The submission was made during the hearing of a plea of a residents association against converting Jayalalithaa’s residence into a memorial.The A-G submitted that the suggestion of a division bench of the high court to convert a major portion of the property into the official residence of the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu instead of a memorial was also under the active consideration.He opposed the plea by Poes Garden and Kasthuri Estate House Owners Association, which contended that if Jayalalithaa’s residential premises was allowed to be converted into a memorial, it would affect the peaceful lives of its members as the place would be frequented by thousands of people.Justice Anand Venkatesh, however, dismissed the plea as premature and on mere apprehensions.The Judge observed that converting a residence into a memorial was not something new and that it had happened in cases of various leaders who had earned the love and respect of the people.Tamil Nadu government had in May promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of Veda Nilayam and movable assets as well for setting up a foundation and make arrangements to covert it into a memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/looking-at-converting-jayalalithaa-s-house-into-cm-s-residence-tamil-nadu-govt-tells-hc/story-MipLIQLfTpujXRQZBwT9kK.html
16-07-2020||India||Highest-ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in India, recovery rate at all-time high too||India on Thursday recorded 32,695 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours which took the country’s tally to 9,68,876, according to the Union health ministry website.The number of active cases in the country stand at 3,31,146, while 6,12,814 have been cured or discharged, according to the health ministry. The death toll reached 24,915 after 606 fresh fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours.India’s Covid-19 tally has been fast heading towards a million mark with spike in the number of cases every day.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state and has reported a total of 2,75,640 Covid-19 cases and close to 11,000 fatalities.Amid the rise in cases, Bihar has imposed a lockdown from Thursday till July 31. Except essential services, everything else will be closed in the state during this period. Religious places and offices too will remain closed.The government, meanwhile, announced on Wednesday that a record 20,572 patients recuperated from Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours (betwen Tuesday and Wednesday) and the country’s recovery rate rose to 63.24 per cent.This is the highest rate of recovery so far, according to the health ministry.Aggressive testing, timely diagnosis and effective management of patients either through supervised home isolation or active medical attention in hospitals have led to a surge in recovered cases which exceed active Covid-19 cases, the ministry said.It further said that the norms and standards for home isolation along with the use of oxymeters have helped to keep a check on the asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients without putting pressure on hospital infrastructure.Medical infrastructure in India to treat Covid-19 patients includes 1,378 dedicated hospitals, 3,077 dedicated health centres, and 1,0351 care centres equipped with 21,738 ventilators, 46,487 ICU beds, and 1,65,361 oxygen beds, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-ever-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-india-recovery-rate-at-all-time-high-too/story-cQ8DsIbmwgprayYNXagvcJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Two medium-intensity earthquakes jolt Assam, Gujarat||Two medium-intensity earthquakes of magnitude 4.1 and 4.5 hit Assam and Gujarat respectively on Thursday, the National Centre for Seismology said.The epicentre of the quake in Gujarat was Rajkot, and it occurred at a depth of 10 kilometres at 7.40 am.The epicenter of the Assam quake was Karimganj district. It occurred at 7.57 am at a depth of 18 kilometres.There were no immediate reports of any loss of life or damage to property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-medium-intensity-earthquakes-jolt-assam-gujarat/story-0adI0rnSN5rkRS2NfekqZM.html
16-07-2020||India||Manipur drug smuggling case: Congress demands CBI inquiry||The opposition Congress party in Manipur on Wednesday demanded a CBI inquiry into the 2018 drug smuggling case and the resignation of the chief minister on moral ground to deliver justice. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and former chief minister O Ibobi Singh and Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC-I) president Moirangthem Okendro conveyed the demands during a press conference in Imphal. “We’re demanding to hand over the case to the CBI,” MPCC-I president Okendro said. “We’re also demanding the chief minister to resign on moral ground.”The MPCC(I)’s demands came a day after chief minister N Biren Singh had informed the media that the BJP-led government’s initiative ‘war against drugs’ will continue and the government will not spare anyone, be it party members, family, friends or officials, if they are found involved in drug smuggling cases.Also read: Newly-promoted Subedar Major Jitu Rai doing duty in Manipur, says ever ready to serve countryBiren’s statement came following a media report in which a lady police officer in Manipur Police department, in her affidavit to the High Court of Manipur, alleged that politicians and top police officers were involved in the said 2018 drug smuggling case.The lady police officer is facing a suo motu contempt case for her remarks on Facebook, allegedly undermining the judiciary after the alleged drug smuggler was granted bail. In June 2018, Manipur Police team seized 4.595 kilograms of contraband heroin and 2.80 lakh World is Yours (WY) Amphetamine tablets worth around Rs 27.79 crore in the international market from eight persons including the then chairman of Autonomous District Council (ADC), Chandel during an operation in and around Imphal.Reacting to the said media report published on July 14, the Manipur Police Department in a press release on Tuesday clarified that there was no pressure from any quarter to the investigation officers in the case connected with the drug haul from former chairman of ADC, Chandel in 2018.After a thorough investigation, the charge sheet of the case was submitted as laid down under the provision of law on October 6, 2018, PRO Manipur Police said in the release. Maintaining that it has been working sincerely and relentlessly in the ongoing war against drugs, the release said right from the time of arrest of the accused person of the mentioned case till the submission of charge sheet, it has been taking up all requisite legal action to ensure that all the involved accused person are booked in accordance with the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-drug-smuggling-case-congress-demands-cbi-inquiry/story-IgRbmU5abOf6O80PEgG6UN.html
16-07-2020||India||In worst-case scenario, India could report over 6 crore Covid-19 cases by March 2021: IISc study||According to the Indian Institute of Science’s (IISc) projection of Covid-19 infections in India, in a better case scenario for the country, India’s total coronavirus cases could be as low as 37.4 lakh at the end of March 2021 and could get as high as 6.18 crore at the end of March 2021 in the worst-case scenario.The IISc model “is a paradigm shift in mathematical modeling of infectious diseases” and is based on the country’s Covid-19 data and trends observed between Mar 23 and June 18 this year “to tune the parameters of the data-driven model”. However, the projections are likely to differ after taking into account the current Covid-19 situation in the country.Also read: To ramp up coronavirus testing, Delhi clinics put TB machines to useIn its “worse scenario” projection, the model predicted no Covid-19 peak for India until the end of March 2021. Whereas going by the “better scenario”, India’s Covid-19 peak could come by the “second week of September” or by October.The model laid great emphasis on the initiation of “one or two-day lockdown per week” to cut the rate of new infections. “One or two day lockdown per week (e.g., Sunday, Sunday & Wednesday etc) with complete compliance along with adequate social distancing during other days is effective to reduce the spread,” the study read.Also read: Why Bihar should be conducting more Covid-19 tests than Delhi isIt also noted the steady improvement in India’s Covid-19 recovery rate and emphasised the importance of appropriate medical care and timely quarantine.“Among all measures, contact tracing, quarantine and social distancing are key to contain the spread in the absence of vaccine,” it stated.India’s Covid-19 tally now near the 10 lakh mark with over 24,000 deaths and the number of recovered patients touching 6 lakh. Globally, the virus has infected 13 million people while over 5 lakh people have succumbed to death and over 8 million patients have recovered worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-worst-case-scenario-india-could-report-over-6-crore-covid-19-cases-by-march-2021-iisc-study/story-k8UJyeb1o9Xg6NHpwMgtZL.html
16-07-2020||India||Terrorist associate of LeT arrested in Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora||Security forces have arrested terror associate of proscribed outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba involved in providing shelter, logistics and other support to the LeT terrorists.Security forces arrested him from Awantipora of Pulwama district on Wednesday. Arrested terror associate has been identified as Sahil Farooq Mir, a resident of Chakoora Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir police said.According to police, the terrorist associate was involved in the transporting of arms, ammunition of the terrorists in Tral, Kakpora, Khreew, and Awantipora areas.Incriminating material including explosive material and ammunition has been recovered from him in the Noorpora area, Police said.A case has been registered against the arrested terror associate in Awantipora Police Station under relevant sections of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-associate-of-let-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-awantipora/story-GF4xq9nQpXnEECK4r2v2nI.html
16-07-2020||India||Bhopal man accused of raping six minors arrested from Srinagar||Accused of raping six minor girls in Bhopal in the past few years, a 68-year-old man was arrested from a hotel in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Wednesday. “He was arrested with the help of J&K Police,” said Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Bhopal.The accused, living in Shahpura locality in Bhopal, was a state government accredited journalist and was allotted a government bungalow. Five of the six girls lodged FIR against the man who had been absconding since Sunday.The five teenagers were spotted in an intoxicated state by a police patrol team in Ratibad area of Bhopal in the wee hours of Sunday. During counselling by Childline, the girls narrated their ordeal and said the accused repeatedly raped them in the past few years. Later on Monday, one more minor girl came forward and registered a case of rape against him, said the police.The state government later cancelled the accreditation of the accused and also the allotment of bungalow to him, according to additional director at Directorate of Public Relations (DPR) Mangla Prasad Mishra.A joint team of district administration, Bhopal municipal corporation (BMC) and police razed a marriage hall and a three-storey apartment owned by the man in the city. The buildings were allegedly built by him illegally on government land, according to administrative authorities.The man faces three FIRs lodged at Shahpura, Koh-e-Fiza and Shyamla Hills police stations under sections 366 (a) (procuration of minor girls), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 120 b (criminal conspiracy) and sections 5/6 and 14 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Wildlife Protection Act and under relevant sections of SC/ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act, said the DIG of police. “Police got the information that accused, who owns properties in Dubai, is trying to leave India. Acting on a tip-off, a team of Bhopal Police left for Delhi via train on Tuesday night and reached Srinagar from Delhi by a flight on Wednesday. They arrested him from a hotel. The police team will return to Bhopal on Thursday,” said Wali.The police also raided the flat where he took the girls and raped them. The police said that the flat’s walls had obscene pictures of women. The police also said that they have also found stuff related to child pornography. “At least 100 Indian made foreign liquor bottles were also seized from the flat,” said Sai Krishna Thota, Superintendent of Police, Bhopal (South).As of now, four people, including two women who worked as his aides and lured and shifted the girls from one place to another, have been arrested, the police said.The man, who runs a small vernacular newspaper, owns luxurious cars. Police also found papers of illegally encroached government land at 12 different places worth crores of rupees, as per an official who is a part of the investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-man-accused-of-raping-six-minors-arrested-from-srinagar/story-mndFLg99iGHEW7kYFxDwfI.html
16-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Feel terrible that this happened,’ says Twitter CEO after high profile accounts get hacked and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Tough day for us at Twitter’: Jack Dorsey on hacked high profile handlesTwitter CEO Jack Dorsey on Thursday took note of the hacking of high profile accounts including those of former US president Barack Obama, former Vice President Joe Biden, and former New York City mayor Mike Bloomberg. Read moreTo ramp up coronavirus testing, Delhi clinics put TB machines to useIn a bid to expand coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing in the national capital, the Delhi government has started using two machines usually used to detect tuberculosis, to diagnose for the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Read moreWoman killed over witchcraft suspicion in Odisha, man walks into police station with severed headA man in Odisha hacked to death a woman, who claimed she knew black magic, after she failed to save his brother’s life, the police said. He later walked into a police station with the severed head and axe, they added. Read more‘We’re fed up with you’: Netanyahu faces backlash over Covid-19 responseThey’ve been coming by the thousands, packing Tel Aviv’s main square, chanting outside the prime minister’s residence, and unfurling black flags from bridges spanning Israel’s highways. All with a single message: We’re fed up with you, Bibi. Read moreEXCLUSIVE | Sachin volunteered to bat at No.4 so that Sehwag can open in ODIs: Former India keeper Ajay RatraFormer India wicket-keeper batsman Ajay Ratra believes the credit for Virender Sehwag’s promotion as an India opener should be shared between former captain Sourav Ganguly and the legendary Sachin Tendulkar. Read moreHappy birthday Katrina Kaif: An outsider who became an insiderThe one thing that Katrina Kaif does the best is her ability to dismantle cliches. She is an outsider who made it big as an insider. She could speak no Hindi yet dreamt of making it big as a Hindi film heroine. Read moreNortheastern traditional attire ‘misappropriation’ online draws flakNetizens recently took to social media to report that quite a few popular e-commerce websites where selling garments categorised as ‘fancy dress’ costumes inspired by the cultural attires of Northeastern states! Read moreWatch- On The Record | ‘Congress needs clarity at the top’: Dinesh Gundu Rao||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-twitter-ceo-jack-dorsey-takes-note-of-hacking-of-high-profile-accounts-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MQkZ6y1Ov1uudzdaHL2HmJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Bihar goes under lockdown from today: What remains open, what will close||Bihar will be under lockdown from Thursday. The state government took the decision after a spike in the number of coronavirus disease cases.The lockdown will be in place till July 31.A government order on Tuesday, announcing the lockdown, said that restrictions will remain applicable to all district, sub-division and block headquarters and municipal areas.The services and institutions which will be impacted:• Government offices, private and commercial establishments, barring some exceptions and educational institutions will remain closed during this period.• As per the government order, transport services “will remain suspended” during the lockdown period. State capital Patna has been put under severe curbs. No transport sevice will be available in the city’s 114 localities. The district administration has said that the vehicles of those autorickshaw drivers who are found violating the orders will be impounded.• Places of worship will also remain closed. Only priests will be allowed to enter the premises for daily rituals. These temples and places of worships can’t hold any festival within their premises.• The owners of motor garages and mobile repairing shops will have to take permission from the administration before opening their establishment. Those within or in the vicinity of a containment zone won’t be allowed to operate.What remains open:• Industrial establishments will be allowed to function and construction activities will be permitted with strict adherence to social distancing norms and wearing of masks.• Agricultural activities, along with shops relating to the same, will also be allowed to function.• Those plying their vehicles for commuting to and from their places of work will be required to carry their identity cards.• Taxis and autorickshaws will be allowed but at local level.• Hotels and restaurants will remain open.The order passed by a special secretary to the state government “supersedes all orders issued by district magistrates concerned in their respective area of jurisdiction” and the DMs “cannot dilute restrictions but, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities in areas outside containment zones”.Lockdowns have been in place in nearly a quarter of the state’s 38 districts, for the past few days, clamped by the local administrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-goes-under-lockdown-from-today-what-remains-open-what-will-close/story-6vC45PVrU5DIu6uivfA9sK.html
16-07-2020||India||Woman killed over witchcraft suspicion in Odisha, man walks into police station with severed head||A man in Odisha hacked to death a woman, who claimed she knew black magic, after she failed to save his brother’s life, the police said. He later walked into a police station with the severed head and axe, they added.The police said that Kartik Kerei of Chhatara village in Danagadi block of Jajpur district had taken his ailing cousin brother to Nandini Purti, who used to practice black magic. Nandini reportedly assured Kartik that his brother would get cured by her black magic skills.Danagadi inspector AK Mohanty said after Kerei brought his brother home, his condition worsened. Kerei rushed Purti to the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, but he died on the way.“Angry over Nandini’s black magic skills going wrong, Kerei picked up an axe and went to Nandini’s home where he hacked her to death. He then carried the severed head to police station and surrendered,” said the inspector.Kerei was arrested and the axe seized by police.In a similar incident last month, a 30-year-old man in Mayurbhanj district had killed his aunt on suspicion of practising black magic and then walked with her severed head to police station. Budhuram Singh had severed the head of his aunt Champa Singh, suspecting that his daughter’s death was the result of black magic done by the 60-year-old.On an average, 60 witchcraft-related murders have taken place annually since 2010 across Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-killed-over-witchcraft-suspicion-in-odisha-man-walks-into-police-station-with-severed-head/story-uDX0XgXtAxtL5YyaC2s86K.html
16-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Multiple raids carried out in Thiruvananthapuram||As part of the probe into Kerala gold smuggling case, the investigation agencies on Wednesday carried out multiple raids in Thiruvananthapuram.A raid was carried out at Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITIL), under the IT department where the accused Swapna Suresh used to work. The raid lasted more than one hour.Meanwhile, the Customs carried out a raid in the flat near secretariat where M Sivasankar used to reside.This comes after the accused during interrogation revealed that they met in this flat.Earlier also Customs had carried out a raid in this flat. It is learned that Customs is corroborating evidence to ascertain whether the gold smuggling plan was hatched in this flat.The NIA special court in Kochi on Monday had sent Swapna Suresh and Nair to NIA custody for eight days until July 21 in the relating to the smuggling of gold via a diplomatic channel into Kerala.The Customs Department had on Wednesday questioned M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister for over nine hours at the Customs House here in connection with the case.The case pertains to 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore smuggled in consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage that was busted by Customs in Thiruvananthapuram.The NIA has registered an FIR under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, against four accused persons, of which three have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-multiple-raids-carried-out-in-thiruvananthapuram/story-cydlnBEJz4UJttaqri8QuO.html
16-07-2020||India||Rajasthan police name 3 more in probe over plot to topple Ashok Gehlot govt||An investigation by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police has found that three more people, apart from two men who have already been arrested, are involved in a plot to destabilise the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, said a senior police official associated with the probe.“The two men arrested in the case confessed that the planning to topple the government started in April and these two were given details of several Independent MLAs,” the official said on condition of anonymity.On a complaint by chief whip Mahesh Joshi, SOG registered a case of sedition and conspiracy against unknown people for attempting to topple the Congress-led state government.On Saturday, SOG arrested Bharat Malani of Ajmer and Ashok Singh of Banswara on charges of plotting to topple the Gehlot government, after the interception of phone calls.The arrests came in the midst of a bitter feud between Gehlot and Sachin Pilot, who was on Tuesday sacked as deputy CM of Rajasthan, removed as state president of the party and accused of conspiring with the Bharatiya Janata Party to destabilise the government.The three others involved in the plot belong to the National Capital Region (NCR), the police official cited in the first instance said. “We are trying to break the chain of people who tried to finance not only these two (who were arrested) but a few others,” the official said.Also read: 24 hours of twists and turns in Rajasthan political dramaA team of four police officials is investigating the case under the supervision of a deputy inspector general of police.Chief minister Gehlot on Wednesday claimed that his team had proof that Congress MLAs were being lured into a rebellion against the state government. “Horse trading was being done in Jaipur, we have the proof. We had to keep people at a hotel for 10 days,” Gehlot told the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-name-3-more-in-probe-over-plot-to-topple-ashok-gehlot-govt/story-e1Gn8iGdG48jmMaei4JQJJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Apex China Study Group reviews East Ladakh: Key stand-off points record withdrawal||The marathon meeting of corps commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies at Chushul that started on Tuesday and stretched into the early hours of Wednesday reported a forward momentum in disengagement of the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from all the four stand-off points in East Ladakh.The Indian government’s high-power China Study Group, which has all the principals involved in the boundary dispute in Ladakh, reviewed for at least two hours on Wednesday evening the outcomes of the nearly 15-hour-long meeting between India’s XIV Corps Commander and the Xinjiang Military District Commander .The meeting was attended by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser and Special Representative of India-China Boundary Dialogue Ajit Doval, senior most officials of the government, and security agencies chiefs.Also read: Defence minister, Army chief to visit Ladakh for security review on July 17-18According to people familiar with the proceedings of the meeting, disengagement efforts have been consolidated at the Galwan sector (Patrolling Point 14), and there has been a thinning out of troops at Patrolling Point 15 (Gogra) and Fingers 4 and 5 of the Pangong Tso.Indian Army Statement on the Ladakh SituationIndia and China have been engaged in discussions through established military and diplomatic channels to address the prevailing situation along the LAC.Commanders from PLA & Indian Army held a meeting at Chushul, on Indian side, for the fourth round of talks, on 14 July 2020.The engagement was consistent with the consensus reached between the Special Representatives of India and China earlier, on 05 July, to discuss complete disengagement.The Senior Commanders reviewed the progress on implementation of the first phase of disengagement and discussed further steps to ensure complete disengagement. The two sides remain committed to the objective of complete disengagement. This process is intricate and requires constant verification. They are taking it forward through regular meetings at diplomatic and military level.The meeting of the corps commanders also discussed and defined specific time lines for total disengagement at PP15 and Pangong Tso. According to Indian officials, there are a smattering of troops of both sides on the ridge of Finger 4 as a precaution, with the Chinese PLA now moving to Finger 6 with a limited presence in Finger 5.The officials added that based on the outcome of the meeting of the commanders, it looks like things have cooled down between the two armies , and that the Chinese PLA is showing signs that it is working towards returning to the April 20 status quo. HT also learns that the Chinese PLA has withdrawn beyond its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Patrolling Point 17 (Hot Springs) with all its tents, vehicles and material.Also read: How PM Modi called China’s bluff in LadakhEven at Gogra, PLA has a very thin presence of around 30 PLA troopers in forward locations, and timelines have been set for a total withdrawal by this weekend. However, the Modi government is monitoring the 1,597km LAC in Ladakh and the 1,127km LAC in Arunachal Pradesh closely and the forces remain on alert. It is only after the disengagement is completed that the two Special Representatives (Doval and Foreign Minister Wang Yi) will discuss steps towards de-escalation.They will also work towards a permanent mechanism to ensure that what happened in Ladakh isn’t repeated.While the Chinese withdrawal is being verified on the ground by both physical observation and technical intelligence, Beijing watchers here are questioning the decision of the PLA military commander or Central Military Commission member who advised President Xi Jinping to indulge in the Ladakh adventure.They point to the presence of the US super carriers openly challenging the PLA Navy in the South China Sea, the ASEAN countries standing up to Beijing, and the economic and political costs.The US, India and UK have all decided to keep Chinese companies out of their 5G networks, and many countries are seriously reviewing the extent of Chinese penetration into their telecom and media sectors.Interestingly, China’s Western Theatre Commander Zhao Zongqi, widely believed to behind the Ladakh gambit and who was also the architect of the Doklam stand-off, turns 65 (the official age for retirement in the PLA for theatre commanders) this November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forward-momentum-in-india-china-commanders-meeting/story-osXRt1KIOyZHZDramvns7I.html
16-07-2020||India||Why Bihar should be conducting more Covid-19 tests than Delhi is||Earlier this month, a wedding in Patna district became the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in Bihar. The groom, who had come from Gurugram had been feeling unwell a few days before the wedding and wanted it to be postponed. However, his family did not agree and forced him to go ahead. Even on the day of wedding, he was made to take paracetamol tablets and go through the rituals. The groom died two days after the wedding. His family cremated him without informing the administration. However, the administration came to know about it. Close relatives of the groom were tested. Fifteen of them were found positive for Covid-19 infection. Of the 364 people who were traced to have participated in the wedding, 86 were found Covid-19 positive.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe entire episode seems to be a result of recklessness on part of the groom’s family. An HT analysis based on the latest Sample Registration System (SRS), National Sample Survey and Covid-19 testing statistics suggest otherwise. It tells us why a state like Bihar is more likely to fail to detect Covid-19 infections and deaths than a place like Delhi or Kerala. Here’s why. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The latest SRS data gives a state-wise breakup of type of medical treatment received before death. There are four categories under this head: government hospital, private hospital, qualified professional and untrained functionary and others. Bihar had the lowest share of deaths (32.1%) where the medical treatment was in a government or private hospital.Also read: Covid-19 rapid antigen tests high on accuracy, but protocols crucial Data on tests per million people compiled by HT shows that Bihar also had the lowest testing per capita among the 22 large states for which data on the treatment received before death is available in the SRS data. To be sure, Bihar is not the only state facing this challenge. Chart 1 shows a scatter plot of Covid-19 tests per million and share of deaths where medical attention before death was at a hospital. States such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, West Bengal are in the worst quadrant. They have lower hospital attention before deaths and are also testing fewer people. Delhi is in the best quadrant. It has the highest per capita testing as well as the highest proportion of deaths where treatment was in a hospital. Kerala, scores badly on per capita testing, but does well on hospitalisation attention before deaths. Assam has a poor score on hospitalisation attention before death, but it has done well in per capita tests.States that have low per capita testing and low hospitalisation rates even in the event of life threatening illnesses will find it difficult to deduct Covid-19 infections, fatalities, and therefore, possible hotspots in time.To be sure, Bihar fares relatively better when it comes to share of deaths where medical attention was received from an untrained professional. It was ranked sixth among 22 states for which data is available. Also, 40% of deaths received attention from a qualified medical professional before death in the state, which is the fourth highest among states. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); However, the collapse of the health system after the pandemic could have made access to doctors more difficult in the state. In an analysis in April this year, Rukmini S used National Health Mission data to highlight a massive disruption to health service provisioning because of the pandemic. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Bihar has been facing absenteeism from doctors after the pandemic. States with poorly functioning health sector could be facing similar problems.There is another reason why a more pro-active approach is needed for detecting Covid-19 infections among the poor. A 2017-18 NSS survey on consumption of health services shows that the poor are less likely to report illnesses. Proportion of persons that responded as ailing (PPRA) in the 15 days prior to the survey among the top 20% (by household expenditure) was 2.2 times in rural areas and 1.7 times in urban areas compared to the bottom 20%.A state-wise comparison of PPRA figures from the NSS and life expectancy statistics from the latest SRS suggests under-reporting of illnesses in states such as Bihar. Bihar has the lowest PPRA figures among the 22 states for which life expectancy statistics are available in the SRS. However, this does not mean that Biharis are the healthiest people. This can be seen from the average life expectancy levels. In contrast, a state like Kerala has the highest level of both PPRA and life expectancy. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();People not reporting themselves as sick when they are unwell, not visiting a hospital when they might be dying, and the state not testing enough to compensate for these institutional oversights is a dangerous combination during a pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-bihar-should-be-conducting-more-covid-19-tests-than-delhi-is/story-Z7pT288etII9ieyQhHQtRM.html
16-07-2020||India||Dalit couple consumes poison after land taken away, beating by police||The Madhya Pradesh government ordered on Wednesday a high-level inquiry into the case of a Dalit couple consuming pesticide in Guna district after police allegedly tried to remove them from a piece of land.The couple and local residents said they were forcibly removed but the local administration refuted these allegations and said a local land mafia was resisting an anti-encroachment drive by the police and using poor people to thwart the government’s efforts.The couple -- Ramkumar Ahirwar, 37, a resident of Janakpur Chak village and his wife Savitri Ahirwar, 35 -- were rushed to the district hospital in Guna on Tuesday where their condition was said to be stable, added police.“On a complaint of a revenue officer in Guna, police on Wednesday registered an FIR against Ramkumar, Savitri, Shishupal Ahirwar [younger brother of Ramkumar] and four others, all residents if Janakpur Chak village for deterring him from discharging his government duty. A separate case has been registered against Ramkumar and Savitri for making an attempt to commit suicide,” said Tarun Nayak, superintendent of police.A video of the incident went viral on social media where police personnel could be seen beating Ahirwar’s brother and sister-in-law. Late on Thursday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s secretariat ordered the transfer of collector S Vishwanathan and superintendent of police Tarun Nayak. It also ordered a high-level inquiry.Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said, “Guna incident is unfortunate. I had a discussion with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and requested him to take action against insensitive and irresponsible officials. Taking a serious note of the incident the CM has ordered shifting of Guna collector and SP.”Vishwanathan refuted allegations that the family was beaten up and harassed by the administration.The collector said, “The land at Janakpur Chak was earmarked for a science college but a land mafia Babbu Padri is trying to encroach upon the land by using poor people.” He alleged that Ahirwar and his family were being used by Padri to encroach upon the four acre land.“The government had allocated the fund of ~12 crore to PWD for construction of the science college one year ago. The administration was trying to free the land from encroachment for a long time...Ramkumar Ahirwar and his family resisted,” said Vishwanathan. State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “In which direction is Shivraj government taking the state… If there was any land dispute the same could have been addressed legally.”BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “The government will provide all the possible help to the family and will not allow any land mafia to use poor to encroach upon the land.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-couple-consumes-poison-after-land-taken-away-beating-by-police/story-BJcSmnxHZYeAcHUzOPllVJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Abducted Kashmir BJP leader returns home same day||Mehrajudin Malla, vice-president of Municipal Council, Watergam, was kidnapped by some unknown people from a kilometre away from the small town in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Wednesday morning, locals said.Some unknown people purportedly pushed Malla into a car and sped away, they added.Malla is associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and he is vice-president, Rafiabad.“A manhunt has been launched to trace the abducted person,” said a police official.It’s not immediately known, whether Malla enjoyed any security cover.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state spokesman Altaf Thakur has blamed terrorists for the abduction of Malla. “He is the vice-president Watergam Municipal Council. His father was also with BJP and acted as a general secretary. This family is loyal to the BJP for many years,” Thakur alleged.Malla’s kidnapping abduction comes days after two BJP leaders resigned from the party. However in the evening Malla reached his home without any harm. Police, however, said that Malla was rescued by the police.Last week, BJP former district president, Bandipore, Waseem Bari, was killed, along with his father Basheer Ahmad and brother Suhail Basheer, inside his shop.Jammu & Kashmir Police had said that two outlawed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were involved in the killing of Bari and his kin.Last Sunday, Union Minister Jitendra Singh and BJP general secretary Ram Madhav visited Bari’s place and met his next of kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abducted-kashmir-bjp-leader-returns-home-same-day/story-1PyEZGoinmRPP4UTuuCwuI.html
16-07-2020||India||Mental health: DU students take to sports, art to cope with stress||From cancelled college fests and farewell parties to rescinded job offers and the unknown eventuality of final examination, Delhi University students have faced many a challenges due to Covid-19 pandemic. This has lead to a heightened feeling of uncertainty, anxiety and helplessness among many students. “Things around campus have been very messed up. There is so much debate around the online Open Book Exam. Job offers are not on the table. Our whole future is at stake! There’s a prevalent feeling of hopelessness since the online-offline exam debate has begun, and it just doesn’t seem to end,” says Manish Dhawan, a student of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College.Students who are still in hostels, miles away from their families, are experiencing loneliness and feeling stressed out due to recent developments on campus. “There’s this constant fear I have for my family that gives me jitters. I’m unable to be with them at this time, and I don’t know how they are coping. Likewise, my parents are worried that I’m living in Delhi, where the number of cases is increasing rapidly,” says Sanjay Kataria, a student of Department of Library and Information Science, DU. To battle against such stressors, some students have resorted to sports whereas certain others are trying different therapies that can help them stay calm. Kataria says, “I play badminton with my hostel mates to distract myself from all depressing news around me. Physical activity leads to release of endorphins and acts as a great benefactor in such times.” On the official website of DU, there’s a list of e-mails and contact numbers of teachers, who are volunteering to provide free online counselling to students who are grappling with the situation. However, students claim that these aren’t of real help. “Some numbers don’t work. I have dialled them, and many a times the calls went unanswered. When somebody did pick up the phone at the other end, they asked me to write a mail to them first. Besides, three email addresses and seven enlisted numbers can’t address the mental health problems of around ten thousand students on campus,” says Utkarsh Singh from Satyawati College, adding, “We were added to a WhatsApp group with a teacher who was supposed to be a mental health counsellor. Once a week, the teacher used to send generic messages regarding staying stress free and then remained unavailable for the rest of the time. How does it help if the volunteer isn’t available when needed!”Akshat Rawal, a student of College Of Vocational Studies, shares that some differently abled students, including him, have taken up art therapy to deal with the mental stress they are experiences. Rawal adds, “Life is certainly more challenging for the differently abled students. We are facing a lot of problems in this pandemic year, and to cope with this anxiety, we have been connecting with each other over video calls. I even teach my friends, who are differently abled, how to use art therapy, to vent out our angst creatively. In those few hours that we spend painting, I forget about the mounting stress in my life... Art is a form of meditation through which one can counter mental stress caused by academic pressures.” If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Call helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918 Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/mental-health-du-students-take-to-sports-art-to-cope-with-stress/story-fedVzxDeHiOqflkzlRMTcJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Data and science, I wrote in this column a few weeks ago, are the only two things needed to fight the coronavirus disease — and establishments around the world have always had an uneasy relationship with both.I was reminded of this after The New York Times reported that the US federal government has ordered hospitals to stop sending Covid-19 patient information to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and instead send it to a central database. The piece added that “the move has alarmed health experts who fear that the data will be politicised or withheld from the public”.Also read: Covid-19 rapid antigen tests high on accuracy, but protocols crucialAround the world, governments and provincial and local administrations are being feted or faulted for the number of Covid-19 cases and the number of deaths in their countries, states, cities, even districts. This is understandable — the number of new cases and the spread of infections are directly related to how well administrations manage to enforce the wearing of masks and social distancing, and their effectiveness in testing and tracing; and the number of deaths depends on access to and quality of health care.As the number of cases in the US rises (the average new cases for the past week was around 60,000 a day) in an election year, it is understandable that the Trump administration wants to control the data. Understandable, but still not correct.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Closer home, states that aren’t testing enough are equally at fault. Among large states (with a population in excess of 50 million), the states that perform the worst in terms of number of people tested for Covid-19 for every million of the population are Bihar (2,737 per million), Uttar Pradesh (5,144 per million), Madhya Pradesh (6,344 per million), West Bengal (6,589 per million), and Gujarat (7,035 per million). The national average is 9,313, and all other states with a population in excess of 50 million test more than that. If the states don’t test enough, they won’t show enough cases, and the thinking is that this makes them look good. That it may — but only in the short-term. Six months after the pandemic began (though the World Health Organization dragged its feet, declaring it as a pandemic only on March 11), and nearly four months after I started writing this column, it can be safely said that when it comes to Covid-19, there is no such thing as an exception. If the data is too good to be true, it probably isn’t true.Every country, and every region within a country, invariably traverses the same trajectory of infections. It may not when it comes to deaths, because that is also a function of health care, and there may be other factors at play — such as the BCG vaccine, which research, including a very interesting Indian study, has shown to provide some kind of protection from Covid-19 (HT has reported this extensively). Also read: 99 doctors have died fighting Covid 19, IMA sounds ‘Red Alert’The only lucky break anyone can catch is probabilistic — the disease doesn’t infect everyone exposed to it, and everyone infected by it does not transmit it. All of this adds up to just one thing — if every state in India were to test at the same level, the number of infections they find per million of the population should fall within a range. If it doesn’t, there are other factors at play.With deaths beginning to come under control across India, the two key parameters to watch are the tests per million and the positivity rate.The chart accompanying this column shows how large states (population in excess of 50 million) perform when mapped against this — in a classic matrix of the kind that consultants love. States that are housed in the first quadrant (low testing and low positivity rate) are the ones India should be worrying about the most. States that are in the third quadrant (high testing and high positivity rate; Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra) will all eventually enter the fourth one (high testing and low positivity rate) signalling that they have travelled the course of the pandemic. The caveat (there is always one): it is important that states traverse the trajectory in terms of positivity rates as they increase testing. That means Rajasthan, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh, which are already in the fourth quadrant, have to be evaluated against this metric. It also means a weekly snapshot of average daily tests and average positivity rates may provide states with a good dashboard to measure their progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-hjzNvHL7vKF9HNQr79qphM.html
16-07-2020||India||Won’t join BJP: Sachin Pilot; CM Ashok Gehlot says a coup was in works||The political turmoil within the Rajasthan Congress continued on Wednesday, with chief minister Ashok Gehlot accusing his former deputy Sachin Pilot of being part of a conspiracy to topple the government and asserting that it was political commitment — and not traits such as looking good and speaking fluent English — that mattered in public life.This sharp attack on Pilot, who was sacked by the Congress as deputy CM and the state unit chief on Tuesday, came hours after the rebel leader said that he remained a Congressman, had not made any disparaging comments against the party and the high command, and would not join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Congress said its doors were still open for Pilot, with former party president Rahul Gandhi understood to have told party leaders to leave room for an “honourable stay” in the party. But the Congress laid out a clear set of conditions for Pilot — recognise his mistake, stop “conversing” with BJP leaders, get legislators loyal to him to leave the Manesar hotel where they are being “hosted” by Haryana government, communicate directly with Congress leadership rather than through the media, and “return home to Jaipur”.Also read: 24 hours of twists and turns in Rajasthan political dramaIn moves that further highlighted the Congress’s stance, the party on Wednesday dissolved the state, district and block units of the Rajasthan Congress which, so far, had Pilot’s strong imprint.The Rajasthan assembly, too, sent showcase notices to rebel legislators, based on a Congress petition, accusing them of “anti-party activities” — an initial step in disqualification proceedings — and asked them to respond by July 17.Speaking to reporters in Jaipur, Gehlot, said that he had “proof” that horse trading was taking place and money was being offered to legislators (to topple the government). In a direct reference to Pilot, the CM said: “With us, you are deputy CM and PCC (state unit chief) and you make deals with [BJP] people. You ask for mobile number and names and are involved in conspiracy and then... give clarification that there was no horse trading. You were part of the conspiracy and what are you clarifying now... Speaking good English or giving byte or being handsome is not everything. What do you have in your heart, what commitment do you have, all this is seen.”The numbers still remained slightly tenuous for Gehlot, who appeared to have the support of at least 100 members — one short of the majority mark in the 200-member state assembly (though this does not include speaker CP Joshi). The allegiance of one of the two members of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) remained in flux through the day. Pilot has 18 other Congress MLAs and three independents in his camp.The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. One Congress MLA, Bhanwarlal Meghwal, is indisposed, though he is said to be close to Pilot. If any of the Congress MLAs with Pilot are disqualified, however, it will reduce the strength of the house and increase Gehlot’s majority.Earlier, in an interview to India Today magazine, published on Wednesday morning, Pilot criticised Gehlot’s governance in Rajasthan, said the CM had “humiliated” him, claimed he had repeatedly raised issues in internal party forums, rejected all allegations of conspiring with the BJP, said that he was still a Congressman and that all he wanted was “dignity and the freedom to work”.Outlining his grievances with Gehlot, he said: “He did not allow me and my followers the dignity and space to work for Rajasthan’s development. The bureaucrats were asked not to follow my directives, files were not sent to me, Cabinet meetings and Congress Legislature Party meetings had not been held for months. What’s the worth of a position if that doesn’t allow me to fulfil the commitments I made to my people?” He said he had not attended the recent legislative party meeting because his “self respect” was hurt because of the police notice against him, which included sedition charges.When asked whether he would stay on in the Congress, Pilot said, “Let the feeling sink in. It has not even been 24 hours. I’m still a Congressman. I have to discuss with my followers about my next course of action.” But he categorically said he had not met any BJP leader.After Gehlot spoke on Wednesday afternoon, strongly rebutting Pilot, Rahul Gandhi called up the central observers and asked them to leave a window open for Pilot’s “honourable stay” in the party, according to a person familiar with the development. “Rahulji felt that nothing should be done to precipitate the matter further after Pilot insisted that he will not leave the Congress to join the BJP,” he said. It was after this that Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party’s chief spokesperson and a central party observer delegated for Rajasthan, spoke to the media — in remarks which firmly outlined the party’s red lines but were more accommodative than those of Gehlot. He said that the party had noted Pilot’s statement that he would not go to the BJP. “If you do not want to go to the BJP, stop accepting the hospitality of the BJP immediately,” Surjewala said, claiming that the rebel legislators were under the security net provided by the BJP government in Haryana. “Come back and you can talk to the leadership about all the issues that you have directly, not through the media.”Asked about his comments, and whether they were reconciliatory, Surjewala said, “Whatever I said was with the concurrence, consent and approval of the Congress leadership, the chief minister and the party.”Reacting to Gehlot’s statement on horse-trading, a former minister in his Cabinet and a Pilot loyalist, Ramesh Meena, said: “People are disgruntled from his working and dominating bureaucracy across the state. Our demands and issues were not addressed. The CM made statements on horse trading and luring of MLAs, I want to ask him – how much was paid to us when we joined Congress from BSP?The Rajasthan BJP, which is waiting and watching the events unfold, claimed that the Gehlot government was in a minority but said it will not seek a floor test just yet. The leader of opposition in the assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria, said it was for the Congress government or the rebel MLAs who are supporting former deputy CM Sachin Pilot to do so.He also questioned the notices issued by the assembly speaker to the 19 MLAs, contending that the assembly secretariat had “no locus standi” in the matter.The Rajasthan Assembly sent notices to the MLAs, including Pilot, based on a petition of chief whip Mahesh Joshi to Speaker CP Joshi. The notices were sent through WhatsApp, email and even pasted outside their houses late Tuesday night. The MLAs have been asked to respond by 1pm on Friday.“The Assembly will take a legal view of the future course depending upon the replies,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-join-bjp-pilot-cm-says-a-coup-was-in-works/story-4LbjrRBL0QEaYfzmFudRuL.html
16-07-2020||India||Relief for students as US rolls back visa rule||The US has withdrawn a rule that required international students, including hundreds of thousands of Indians, to leave the country if their schools held classes entirely online amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions — a move that was welcomed by students who were at risk of being deported, their families, and universities that had vehemently opposed the decision.The Trump administration on Tuesday conveyed its decision to a federal US district court that was hearing a challenge by Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), joined by hundreds of other schools and colleges, and some states.Under the policy, international students in the US would have been prohibited from taking all their courses online this fall. New visas would not have been issued to students at schools planning to provide all classes online, which includes Harvard. Students already in the US would have faced deportation if they didn’t transfer to schools with in-person instructors or leave the country voluntarily amid the pandemic.The US is the worst-hit country by the infectious disease, with the virus infecting more than 3.5 million people and killing about 140,000.“The government has agreed to rescind the July 6 2020 policy directive and the frequently asked questions, the FAQs, that were released the next day on July 7,” district court judge Allison D Burroughs said just as the hearing started. “They also agreed to rescind any implementation of the directive,” the judge added.According to a recent report of the Student and Exchange Visitor Programme (SEVP), 194,556 Indian students were enrolled at various academic institutions in the US in January. The issue was raised by Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla during an online meeting with US undersecretary of state for political affairs David Hale.Foreign students earlier said international travel restrictions in place due to the pandemic made it increasingly difficult for them to return to their home countries, while those outside America were uncertain if they will be able to travel back.On Tuesday, US district judge Allison Burroughs said federal immigration authorities agreed to pull the July 6 directive and “return to the status quo”.With the policy rescinded, the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will revert to a directive from March that suspended typical limits around online education for foreign students.Harvard president Lawrence Bacow called it a “significant victory”.“While the government may attempt to issue a new directive, our legal arguments remain strong and the Court has retained jurisdiction, which would allow us to seek judicial relief immediately to protect our international students should the government again act unlawfully,” Bacow said in a statement.MIT’s president said his institution also stands ready “to protect our students from any further arbitrary policies”.“This case also made abundantly clear that real lives are at stake in these matters, with the potential for real harm,” president L Rafael Reif said in a statement. “We need to approach policy making, especially now, with more humanity, more decency — not less.”ICE did not immediately comment on the decision.The surprise decision was welcomed by students across who would be affected by the ICE policy.Omkar Joshi, a doctoral student at the University of Maryland, said: “This is a really good development and we are relieved after the order.” Though the university opted for a hybrid model of teaching, “it was still not clear to students how many courses they had to take under the new directive, or how many hours they had to spend on the campus,” Joshi added.Tanujay Saha at the Princeton University said that though he was not personally impacted by the July 6 directive because he finished most of his coursework as a doctoral student and was focused on research work, the work in his lab came to a “standstill” as people could not “work for a day or two” in the aftermath of the order.Immigration officials issued the policy last week, reversing the earlier guidance from March 13, telling colleges that limits around online education would be suspended during the pandemic. University leaders believed the rule was part of President Donald Trump’s effort to pressure the nation’s schools and colleges to reopen this fall even as new virus cases rise.The policy drew sharp backlash from higher education institutions, with more than 200 signing court briefs supporting the challenge by Harvard and MIT. Colleges said the policy would put students’ safety at risk and hurt schools financially.The US admits an estimated one million international students every year and they generate around $41 billion worth of economic activity and support 450,000 jobs, according to the American Council on Education, which represents US colleges and universities. Incomes generated from foreign students are critical to the financial health of many US colleges.Seventeen US states and the District of Columbia, along with top American IT companies such as Google, Facebook and Microsoft, joined the MIT and Harvard in the US District Court in Massachusetts in seeking an injunction to stop the entire rule from going into effect.The lawsuit alleged that the new rule imposes a significant economic harm by precluding thousands of international students from coming to and residing in the US, and finding employment in fields such as science, technology, biotechnology, health care, business and finance, and education, and contributing to the overall economy.In a separate filing, companies such as Google, Facebook and Microsoft, along with the US Chamber of Commerce and other IT advocacy groups, asserted that the ICE directive would disrupt their recruiting plansThe American Council on Education, which represents university presidents, applauded ICE’s pullback of the rule. The group called the policy “wrongheaded” and said it drew unprecedented opposition from colleges.“There has never been a case where so many institutions sued the federal government,” said Terry Hartle, the group’s senior vice president. “In this case, the government didn’t even try to defend its policymaking.”Elizabeth Warren, Democratic senator and former presidential candidate, tweeted: “I’m glad the Trump admin agreed to rescind this dangerous & xenophobic #StudentBan policy after we demanded they reverse course & MA schools sued them. I’ll keep fighting to make sure it stays that way… When we fight back, we can make a real difference.” International students enrolled in academic programmes at US universities and colleges study on an F-1 visa and those enrolled in technical programmes at vocational or other recognised non-academic institutions, other than a language training programme, come to the US on an M-1 visa.(With inputs from AP and PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-for-students-as-us-rolls-back-visa-rule/story-u23HaSvdvUxqmJbibLerkO.html
16-07-2020||India||PM Modi invites EU firms to invest, boost economy||India and the European Union (EU) agreed on Wednesday to start a high-level dialogue on finalising trade and investment agreements even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited European businesses to invest in the country to hasten a post-Covid-19 economic recovery.During a virtual summit, the leadership of the two sides agreed to scale up defence and security ties, including the launch of a new maritime security dialogue, consultations on crisis management and deeper cooperation between the Indian Navy and the European Union Naval Force Atalanta, the EU’s counter-piracy military operation in the western Indian Ocean.With India’s Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Europol launching negotiations to combat organised crime and terrorism, the two sides decided to intensify cooperation to tackle terror and its financing, radicalisation and abuse of the internet for such activities. Indian officials said Pakistan’s support for terrorism aimed at India and other countries in the region figured in the discussions.While the joint statement and other documents adopted at the meeting, such as the strategic partnership roadmap till 2025, made no direct mention of New Delhi’s standoff with Beijing, many measures agreed on by India and the EU to strengthen multilateralism and protect a rules-based order appeared to be aimed at countering the rise of an assertive China.Modi emphasised the priority India attaches to foreign direct investment (FDI) and efforts to liberalise regulations and improve the ease of doing business, secretary (west) Vikas Swarup of the external affairs ministry told a news briefing.“He invited European businesses to utilise the opportunities in India and conveyed that Atmabirbhar Bharat {Self-Reliant India} is aimed at integrating domestic production with global supply chains,” he said.Though the two sides launched negotiations on a bilateral trade and investment agreement (BTIA) in 2007, talks stalled in 2013 over differences on market access and movement of professionals.Swarup said the two sides have now agreed to launch a high-level dialogue between India’s commerce minister and the EU trade commissioner to foster progress on “balanced, ambitious and mutually beneficial” trade and investment agreements, address trade irritants and discuss supply chain linkages. Though no time-frame was set for concluding these agreements, a meeting of the dialogue mechanism will be held “as soon as possible, in the next few months”, he added. Modi, who co-chaired the summit with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, said the India-EU partnership can play a key role in post-Covid-19 economic reconstruction and human-centric globalisation.The two sides, he said, are natural partners because of shared values such as democracy, respect for international institutions and multilateralism, at a time when there are “different types of pressures on the rules-based international order”.“Like you, I am committed to deepen relations between India and the EU. For this, we must adopt a long-term strategic perspective and an action-oriented agenda should be implemented within a stipulated time-frame,” Modi said.The European leadership noted that while the 27-member bloc is India’s largest trade and investment partner, India represented only 2% of EU’s total trade. India’s annual trade in goods and services with the EU is worth $140 billion, and European firms have invested more than $91 billion in the country.Von der Leyen said trade and investment agreements will have to ensure market access and avoid barriers. The EU side raised with Modi the need to make tough choices such as phasing out coal while discussing cooperation on climate change. The EU side also offered to share its experience in data protection legislation as convergence of standards will facilitate data flows, she said.Michel, who described India as an “indispensible partner” at a news conference, said India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2021-22 and to the G20 presidency in 2022 will allow the two sides to work together on multilateralism and keeping the global trading system open.Officials of both sides acknowledged that the India-China border standoff figured in the discussions, and that Modi shared his views on the current situation in the border areas.Without mentioning China, both Michel and von der Leyen assured India of EU’s support.Michel said: “The EU and India are more than economic partners – we are political partners committed to peaceful resolution of conflicts, security and rule of law...India can count on the EU and we count on India to be a key partner.”Von der Leyen added: “Today, our main message has been that the EU stands by India as friends and partners.”Asked whether India was more strategic than China for the EU, Michel replied the EU-China relationship was “complex” and the bloc supports all efforts to maintain channels of dialogue to find peaceful solutions. However, he added that India was a partner because both sides share the “same vision of globalisation inspired by democratic standards and principles of freedom, liberty and inclusivity”.The two sides decided to ramp up cooperation on Covid-19 vaccines and diagnostic and treatment tools based on their strengths in the production of pharmaceuticals and research and development. They agreed to work for the accessibility and affordability of tools and universal and affordable vaccines.The European Parliament has debated the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in the recent past and Michel said the EU side raised the matter with Modi during the meeting. “We trust the Indian institutions, we understand that the Supreme Court will have a role to play in order to assess this legislation,” he said.EU will continue a strong dialogue with India on human rights to exchange best practices and have the “best possible understanding about how to tackle this important issue”, he added.The two sides also welcomed the signing of a civil nuclear cooperation agreement whereby the Department of Atomic Energy and Euratom will cooperate in civilian nuclear applications in agriculture, healthcare and industry, radioactive waste management and nuclear security. The EU also welcomed India’s proposal to build a connectivity partnership that is open, sustainable and rules-based.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-eu-firms-to-invest-boost-economy/story-iIF88adB5QNoPGTEJg4SWM.html
16-07-2020||India||Delhi power tussle: Govt, L-G spar over panel for riots cases||Lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and the Delhi government led by Arvind Kejriwal are again locked in confrontation -- this time over the appointment of special public prosecutors (SPPs) in the high court to argue cases related to the communal riots in February and the protests against the citizenship amendment act (CAA).On July 10, the Delhi police had sent a proposal to the Delhi government recommending the names of six special public prosecutors including Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi to fight 85 cases related to the NE riots and the anti-CAA protests in the high court.However, the tussle began on Tuesday (July 14) when deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who currently also has temporary charge of the home department, rejected the Delhi police’s proposal, government officials said. “The proposal was rejected by the deputy chief minister saying that Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra and his team were capable enough of handling the cases,” said the official on condition of anonymity.The same day after Sisodia dismissed the Delhi police’s panel and sent back the file, the L-G summoned the file using his special powers, another official said.When contacted, neither the Delhi government nor the L-G office gave any official statement on the matter.The face-off comes barely a month after the L-G and the elected government in Delhi had strong disagreements with regard to the appointment of 11 public prosecutors appointed by the Delhi police in the lower courts for over 750 northeast Delhi riots cases. The L-G then had decided to refer the matter to President Ram Nath Kovind, citing persistent “difference of opinion” , following which the then home minister Satyendar Jain has approved the Delhi Police’s panel.Documents seen by HT suggest the confrontation, brewing since April, is over whose panel of public prosecutors should represent the state in the trials pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured. So far, the police have registered 752 FIRs and arrested 1,300 people in connection with the Hindu-Muslim violence.In the last controversy, the L-G, in a string of written communication between him and the Kejriwal government, had stated that the panel proposed by the Delhi Police should be notified and allowed to fight the cases because the riots “disturbed public order” in the capital and “effective prosecution” was needed “to restore faith of the general public and in the Delhi government”.The Kejriwal government wanted its own panel of “independent and technically qualified” special public prosecutors to be appointed to represent the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-power-tussle-govt-l-g-spar-over-panel-for-riots-cases/story-BVWUIounVKQotAouKAbDYM.html
16-07-2020||India||Rajnath to visit Ladakh Friday to assess military preparedness||New Delhi Defence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Ladakh on Friday to review military preparedness and take stock of the developments along the Line of Actual Control, people aware of the developments said on Wednesday, as India and China work on a framework to disengage at the border after a deadly clash last month.Singh will be accompanied by Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane during the defence minister’s first visit to Ladakh after the stand-off between the Indian and Chinese armies began in May.The government’s high-powered China Study Group (CSG) on Wednesday reviewed the latest developments in eastern Ladakh, with focus on the next stage of disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies following a 14-hour meeting between senior military commanders from both sides at Chushul to discuss the road map for reducing tensions along the LAC, people familiar with the developments said.Singh will also visit forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir on July 18, an official said on condition of anonymity. Naravane will accompany the minister.The military is keeping a strict vigil on the western front to deter Pakistan and prevent what could turn out to be a two-front conflict, as reported by HT on July 2.The minister will be in Ladakh two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an unscheduled visit to the sector on July 3. The PM then declared that the “era of expansionism” is over, sending a strong signal to China about India’s determination to defend its borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-to-visit-ladakh-friday-to-assess-military-preparedness/story-jaah6TTjBWNTodhjL58H1N.html
16-07-2020||India||Monsoon favourable, likely to cover deficiency soon, says IMD||The first 45 days of the four-month south-west monsoon so far have been favourable for agriculture with 17 states receiving normal rain, 10 receiving excess and two receiving “large excess,” rain, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Delhi, which had a deficiency of 46% until Tuesday, received rain in many parts of the city on Wednesday morning. Parts of Noida and Greater Noida in the National Capital Region (NCR) also received rain. “We are expecting moderate category rain on July 17, 18 and 19 which will help cover the deficiency. There is a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh and the monsoon trough is also likely to bring rains over the city,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.Only Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are in the “large deficient” category. Apart from Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, west Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Kerala and Dadra and Nagar Haveli are also rain-deficient. The rain deficiency in northwest India will be covered soon, according to IMD scientists. “As of now, there is a slight deficiency in northwest India which is likely to be covered. Rest of India has got very good rains. Rains will further improve in August and September,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD, Pune. Monsoon rains this year were marked by floods and extremely heavy (over 20 cm rain) in Assam, Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, landslides in Arunachal Pradesh and record rainfall in Saurashtra. A cool El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) neutral phase is prevailing, Pai said. El Nino is a climate pattern characterised by high sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean which are neutral now. El Nino years in India are linked to below-normal monsoon rains and higher than normal frequency of heat waves. Last year, weak El Nino conditionsled to a delayed onset of the monsoon according to scientists.A cool El Nino neutral phase indicates that the sea surface temperature is cooler than normal in the tropical Pacific Ocean. “There is no La Nina (La Niña is characterized by unusually cold ocean temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific) phase yet. But cool El Nino neutral conditions favour a normal monsoon over India. Further cooling will ensure more rains in August and September,” added Pai. IMD last month said there is an enhanced probability for development of weak La Niña conditions after the monsoon season, which begins in June and runs till the end of September.“Except for six subdivisions, the distribution of monsoon rains have been very good this year,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Under the influence of a strong lower level wind convergence along the west coast and an east-west shear zone, widespread and very heavy rains are likely in Konkan and Goa, Madhya Maharashtra and Gujarat during the next five days, IMD said in its Wednesday bulletin, adding that strengthening of lower level easterlies and the monsoon trough which is passing over parts of northwest India may cause widespread and heavy rains over the northern plains on July 18 and 19.IMD experts said this monsoon is marked by a lot of moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea as opposed to the Bay of Bengal and frequent oscillation of the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) to the north of its normal position. The normal position of the monsoon trough is between Ganganagar in Rajasthan and the Bay of Bengal.“We are seeing a high convergence of strong, moist westerly and southwesterly winds at lower levels from the Arabian sea. It happened between July 2 and 4, again from July 5 and 7 and now again we are seeing the same pattern so the west coast and Gujarat have got very good rains. No system has developed over the Bay of Bengal. Another feature of this monsoon is the frequent oscillation of the trough to the north and sometimes to the south of its normal position which gave us very good distribution of rains even in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Marathwada, Rayalaseema and Telangana,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the national weather forecasting centre. The monsoon trough is likely to move northwards again between July 19 and 20, which will likely lead to rains in the Himalayan foothills.Okha in Gujarat registered an all-time record with 48 cm of rain on July 7. On July 5, Khambala, Kalyanpur and Porbandar recorded 49 cm, 36 cm and 29 cm respectively. Mumbai received over 15 cm rain on Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning in two short spells.Predictions of a bountiful monsoon have spurred hopes of a rural sector-led economic recovery. The June-September monsoon is critical to agriculture and the wider economy. A poor monsoon hits incomes because agriculture employs nearly half of all Indians. The rains are a lifeline for about 60% of the country’s net cultivated area, which has no irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-favourable-likely-to-cover-deficiency-soon-says-imd/story-2wIywRvFrbuPkFW6XYXotK.html
16-07-2020||India||Military gets spl powers to expedite weapon purchases of up to Rs300 cr||New Delhi: Amid border tensions with China in Ladakh, the government on Wednesday authorised the armed forces to process cases for buying urgently-needed weapons, ammunition and equipment worth up to Rs 300 crore to meet their critical operational requirements, a defence ministry spokesperson said.The step has been taken to cut delays in the acquisition process. “This [delegation of powers to the armed forces] will shrink the procurement timelines and ensure placement of orders within six months and commencement of deliveries within one year,” the ministry said in a statement.The decision was taken at a special meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC). Headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, DAC is the ministry’s apex procurement body. The ministry said the special meeting was convened “considering the security environment due to the prevailing situation along the northern borders and the need to strengthen the armed forces for the defence of our borders”.India and China are in the middle of complicated negotiations on kicking off the next stage of disengagement between the Indian and Chinese armies in eastern Ladakh. Senior military commanders from the two sides held an hours-long meeting on Tuesday to discuss the road map for further reducing tensions that escalated when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops on June 15.The government is fast-tracking key purchases to plug gaps in the military’s capabilities. DAC on July 2 approved the purchase of weapons and ammunition worth Rs 38,900 crore. The purchases cleared included 33 new fighter jets for the Indian Air Force, which is grappling with a shortage of warplanes. The proposals green-lighted by the council also included buying of 21 MiG-29s from Russia, 12 new Sukhoi-30 fighters from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, homegrown Astra BVR air-to-air missiles, locally-developed land-attack cruise missile systems with a range of 1,000 km, indigenous rocket systems, and the upgrade of 59 MiG-29 jets.The cost of military hardware cleared for purchase on July 2 from the domestic industry is pegged at Rs 31,130 crore and the orders are expected to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Movement).In the midst of the border tensions, the army is also laying the groundwork to buy an additional 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles from the US. This proposed purchase follows an order for 72,400 assault rifles placed with the US last year and is expected to be made by invoking a key clause in India’s arms buying rules that govern speeding up purchases to meet urgent requirements. India signed the previous order worth Rs 700 crore in early 2019 and the deliveries of all the rifles have been completed. That order was also made through the fast track procedure prescribed in India’s defence procurement rules.INDEPENDENT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-gets-spl-powers-to-expedite-weapon-purchases-of-up-to-rs300-cr/story-ZNs0ylsNMvGIsTY58leODM.html
16-07-2020||India||Locusts arrive in Gujarat from Somalia via Pakistan||A relatively small swarm of crop-eating locusts has arrived in Gujarat’s Bhuj from Somalia via Pakistan, Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) said on Wednesday and added authorities were trying to prevent to it from moving to Rajasthan and other surrounding areas by spraying insecticides.“They may have come with the winds across the Indian Ocean to the Pakistan coast and then from there to Bhuj. We will control the [locust] population in Bhuj. Other swarms may also travel across the ocean in the coming days. There are two possibilities—they can migrate from Somalia to Yemen and then migrate from Yemen to Pakistan and reach the border areas, the other is direct migration across the ocean,” said LWO deputy director KL Gurjar.India has faced its worst desert locust invasions in decades this year and prompted the government to deploy helicopters and drones for spraying insecticide. The Centre has amended rules to allow state governments to use drones at night to help neutralise the locusts. The infestation has not caused much damage to crops.The kharif, or summer-sown crops, are vulnerable but Gurjar said their efforts to control the locusts have been intensified following FAO’s warnings.UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) on Monday warned the migration of locust swarms from Somalia to their summer breeding areas along both sides of the India-Pakistan border was imminent. More swarms were likely to form in Somalia in the coming weeks and India and Pakistan have been accordingly warned.The summer breeding has commenced along both sides of the border, where numerous swarms are present mainly in Rajasthan. Hatching and band formation will increase during July in Rajasthan and Gujarat as well as adjacent areas of Tharparkar, Nara and Cholistan deserts in Pakistan, FAO has said.Gurjar said the breeding has begun in otherwise arid Rajasthan as the state has received good rains. “We are trying to control the population through insecticides in the mating stage before they start egg-laying. [If] we do not manage to do that, then we try to control their population in the hopper stage before they start flying. Monsoon rains and maturity of locusts in India have coincided. The locusts are yellow in colour indicating their maturity and breeding potential,” said Gurjar.India Meteorological Department director-general M Mohapatra said the wind direction is south-westerly during the ongoing monsoon season and that is why locust migration can happen from that direction.Desert locusts usually fly with the wind and can travel up to about 100-150 km daily, according to FAO. They regularly cross the Red Sea, a distance of around 300 km. Crossing the Indian Ocean with the help of monsoon winds is part of the natural migration cycle of desert locusts. One square-km swarm can eat as much crop as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-arrive-in-guj-from-somalia-via-pak/story-0nA4kZ2w5B3GvyuCVYrLGI.html
16-07-2020||India||Lavasa may leave poll watchdog for ADB job||New Delhi: Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa, who was expected to take over as chief election commissioner in 2021, may leave the commission prematurely to join the Asian Development Bank (ADB) as vice president. The 1980-batch Haryana cadre officer of the Indian Administrative Service has almost two years remaining in his tenure as Election Commissioner and was in line to take as chief election commissioner (CEC ) from Sunil Arora. His early exit will give the other election commissioner Sushil Chandra a shot at the top post.Lavasa, 62, served in several posts with the government, including as secretary in the finance ministry. As CEC, he would have overseen the conduct of elections in West Bengal, Manipur, Goa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The Manila-based Asian Development Bank on Wednesday announced that 62-year-old Lavasa had been appointed as vice-president of private sector operations and public-private partnerships. The central government recommends nominees to postings at the multilateral lender, officials familiar with the matter said, although these are usually at the level of the executive director. According to former CEC N Gopalaswamy, Lavasa would have accepted the position before the announcement was made. “The bank would have written to him to get his consent,” Gopalaswamy said. “The bank would have only made the announcement after that.”According to a former joint secretary with the Union government familiar with the workings of the ADB, Lavasa is likely to have applied for the post. “Two kinds of appointments are made to the ADB,” the former joint secretary (JS) said on condition of anonymity. “The country recommends a JS-level officer or higher to the board of directors or one can apply to DoPT (department of personnel and training) to do a stint as a subject specialist.”The former officer added that Lavasa’s appointment would have been made “entirely on merit” and keeping in mind “regional balance’”. “It is a three-year tenure, which is close to what Lavasa had left with the Commission,” this person added. “The appointment could not have been made without in-principle approval from the government,” a senior EC official said on the condition of anonymity. Lavasa was appointed as the Election Commissioner in 2018. ECs generally serve in the commission for six years or till they reach the age of 65 years.People close to Lavasa said that he was approached by a search agency and he agreed to be considered for the post. “Mr Lavasa has a long and distinguished career in the Indian civil service. He is currently one of the Election Commissioners of India and previously served in a range of senior posts including as Union Finance Secretary of India; Union Secretary for the Ministry of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change; and Union Secretary for the Ministry of Civil Aviation,” ADB said in a statement. “He has extensive experience in public-private partnerships and infrastructure development at the state and federal levels, with deep knowledge on public policy and the role of private sector.”The people close to Lavasa said he is likely to accept the job. “It is a prestigious assignment and he was happy to be considered,’’one of them added on condition of anonymity. CEC Arora said he was not aware of the development.The last time an election commissioner quit the poll body was in 1973, when Nagendra Singh, the then chief election commissioner, resigned to join the International Court of Justice. Lavasa was one of the key dissenters when the poll body cleared prime minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for speeches that allegedly violated the model code conduct ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in April and May 2019. The model code regulates the behaviour of candidates, parties and governments during elections. In November last year , media reports said the goverment, in August, wrote to state-owned companies in the power sector asking them whether Lavasa “exercised undue influence” during his stint in the ministry. The letter pertained to 14 companies in which Lavasa’s wife Noel Lavasa, was a director. In September, media reports said Noel Lavasa and a few more of Lavasa’s relatives were being investigated by the income tax department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lavasa-may-leave-poll-watchdog-for-adb-job/story-qUXbahe8Y13F7OhKx4LJ3I.html
16-07-2020||India||One held for murder of BJP MLA, Mamata Banerjee writes to President Kovind||The investigation into the death of Debendranath Roy, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Hemtabad in Bengal’s North Dinajpur district, took a new turn on Wednesday afternoon when the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the state police charged Niloy Singh, an acquaintance of Roy, with murder. Singh was picked up from Malda district on Tuesday and interrogated for hours.The development came hours after chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, saying the BJP was “distorting facts” about the death. Roy won the reserved Hemtabad seat on a Communist Party of India (Marxist) ticket in 2016 and joined the BJP in 2019. Banerjee’s letter said it was a case of suspected suicide and had links with monetary transactions.Interestingly, the police found the names, phone numbers and photographs of Singh and Mahmood Ali, another acquaintance of Roy, in an apparent suicide note in the dead legislator’s pocket. The body was found hanging outside a roadside shop in Hemtabad on Monday morning. His left hand was tied with a rope. The handwritten note, which was leaked to the media, along with the post mortem report, held Singh and Ali responsible for Roy’s death. The criminal investigation department (CID) is hunting for Ali. Echoing BJP’s state and central leaders, Roy’s wife claimed that he had been murdered. She also said that Roy wanted to get into the rice trade and had given money to Singh and Ali. Singh was charged under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (crime caused by multiple people with a common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, said Pintu Ghosh, assistant public prosecutor at Raigunj court in North Dinajpur. He said the chief judicial magistrate ordered 10-day police remand for Singh although the CID sought a two-week remand.The BJP leadership said the development exposes the sorry state of governance in West Bengal “By pressing charges under Sections 302 against Singh the government has admitted that Roy was murdered while the chief minister claimed that he committed suicide. More people are involved. Otherwise the CID would not have brought charges under Section 34,” BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said.“This is a political murder and needs to be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The CID is influenced by the ruling party,” Sinha added.The 63-yer-old legislator’s body was found hanging on Monday morning about two kilometers away from his home. He left home around 1 am in the night with an unidentified person, his wife said. Demanding a CBI probe, BJP central leaders met Kovind on Tuesday. The party’s state leaders led agitations across Bengal for three days. Banerjee’s letter was handed to the President by Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien. He also talked to the President for 25 minutes.“I told the President that probe by a local cooperative bank in Raigunj has revealed that Rs 4.97 crore was deposited in the bank but documents relating to Rs 2.60 crore is not available. Roy was the secretary of the bank,” O’Brien told reporters in Delhi. “I am constrained to invite your kind and personal attention to a particular fact. This is in context of your meeting with a delegation of BJP who might have apprised you with some distorted facts” said the letter’s opening lines.“On receipt of post mortem report and on primary investigation West Bengal police has reported that it is a cause of suspected suicide and could be related to some local money transfer activities. The note found in a pocket of the deceased also names two persons who are allegedly found to be related to such money transfer activities in the locality,” Banerjee wrote to Kovind.“Therefore, I am sorry to say that it does not appear to be a political case as being projected by BJP,” she wrote.“Our government has taken all necessary actions immediately for comprehensive investigation. I have already handed over the case to CID for proper investigation. I would like to assure that West Bengal is a state where we always respect all political parties, their leaders and workers,” said the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-held-for-murder-of-bjp-mla-mamata-writes-to-prez-kovind/story-ZXffwX02qeYkMEGhoReBqO.html
16-07-2020||India||24 hours of twists and turns in Rajasthan political drama||Close to 8pm on Tuesday, two sacked Rajasthan ministers, Ramesh Meena and Vishvendra Singh, denied having engaged in anti-party activities and claimed they only raised issues of concern to the people, the first indication of a softening of their stand by Congress rebels led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.“We never went against the party. We had some issues, which we raised at the party forum, but they were not addressed,” Meena, who was food and civil supplies minister in the Ashok Gehlot government, said in the video posted on the microblogging site Twitter.Almost at the same time, Singh, who held the tourism portfolio, released a video in which he wondered why the Congress leadership had taken such a harsh decision. “I just drew the attention of the party towards failure to implement promises made in the manifesto…We never indulged in any anti-party activity or made any statement against the party,” he said.The conciliatory mood was reconfirmed by Pilot, who on Wednesday morning, in separate interviews, said he was not joining the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and was still with the Congress. His statement was seen by experts as an attempt to return back to the party-fold considering that the number of MLAs joining the Pilot camp remained unchanged at 22 even three days after the crisis started. Soon after Pilot’s interviews, Congress general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, wrote on Twitter: “Party’s doors aren’t closed on Pilot. May God give him good sense and he realizes his mistake. I pray that he gets out of that BJP’s trap,” he wrote.These conciliatory words were, however, short-lived as Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot lashed out at Pilot on Wednesday in the first direct attack on his former deputy. “You are the deputy CM and PCC {Pradesh Congress Committee chief} and you make deals with (BJP) people. You ask for mobile number and names and are involved in a conspiracy and then they give clarification that there was no horse trading. You were part of the conspiracy and what are you clarifying now,” Gehlot said to reporters outside Hotel Fairmont in Jaipur.Also read: Baseless, says Congress on reports of Rahul Gandhi’s purported comment on Sachin PilotThe CM had until Wednesday accused the BJP of trying to destabilise his government by offering up to Rs 20 crore each to Congress legislators. He also said that there was no reason to get upset with the Rajasthan police notice to record a statement by Pilot as it was part of the investigation process. “I have also got the notice,” Gehlot said. Within an hour of Gehlot’s interaction with reporters, where close to 100 legislators supporting the Congress government have been staying, Congress’s national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala addressed the media and asked Pilot and other MLAs to return to the party fold after admitting their “mistake”.“Sachin Pilot ji and other MLAs have to first come out of Manohar Lal Khattar’s (Haryana chief minister’s) protection and return to their home in Jaipur. Then only their concerns can be addressed,” Surjewala said in a reference to the rebels camping in a hotel in Gurugram . Also read: Congress gives Sachin Pilot a to-do list, asks him to prove his intentionsPolitical experts said the Congress was still keen on retaining a senior leader like Pilot in its fold despite what Gehlot said. “But these (statements) showed that they were willing to return home. The party’s statement on Wednesday morning and in Surjewala’s press conference also indicated that Congress was still trying to get them back to its fold,” said Avadhesh Akodia, a Jaipur-based political commentator. Prakash Bhandari, another Jaipur-based political analyst, said Wednesday’s remarks by Gehlot were the harshest he had made against Pilot. “Gehlot doesn’t have the reputation of talking through his hat. If he is saying he has evidence, he sure must be having evidence,” he said.Congress leaders said that it was highly unlikely that the party high command will accept Pilot’s demand for his return to Rajasthan politics. “There is a possibility that he may get a position in the central Congress team after some time. But his role now in Rajasthan politics would be very less,” a party leader said on condition of anonymity. There has been buzz that at least two Independent MLAs may return to Jaipur and join the Gehlot camp. This had not happened until Wednesday. A minister in the Gehlot cabinet told HT on condition of anonymity that at least six MLAs from the Pilot camp were in touch with the CM and may return soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-hours-of-twists-and-turns-in-rajasthan-political-drama/story-foW7gSnDQiijBGnbs49NRO.html
16-07-2020||India||India’s population could peak at 1.6 billion in 2048: Study||New Delhi India’s population will peak at 1.6 billion in 2048, after which it will steadily decline to 1.09 billion in 2100, according to an analysis that covered 195 countries in the Global Burden of Diseases 2017 study, findings that hold mixed economic as well as social implications for the country.According to the study, which was published in The Lancet journal, the world’s population will peak at 9.73 billion in 2064, after which it will shrink to 8.79 billion in 2100. The projections set the population peak at about 2 billion lower than the UN Population Division’s estimate of 10.9 billion at the end of the century.Both China and India, the world’s two most populous nations, will register population peaks before 2050, following which they will post sharp declines. In 2100, China’s population will be 51.1% of its peak population, and India’s will be down to 68.1% of its peak, said the analysis.The population of sub-Saharan Africa will triple from an estimated 1.03 billion in 2017 to 3.07 billion in 2100. North and the Middle East is the only other region forecast to host a larger population in 2100 than in 2017, with Asia and Eastern Europe recording the steepest declines. The populations of at least 23 countries, including Japan, Thailand, Italy, Spain, Portugal and South Korea, could decline at least 50%.“Our forecasts for a shrinking global population have positive implications for the environment, climate change, and food production, but possible negative implications for labour forces, economic growth, and social support systems in parts of the world with the greatest fertility declines,” said the study.Older populationThe global age structure will shift dramatically, with 2.37 billion people aged above 65 years in 2100, compared with 1.7 billion under 20 years, which underscores the need for liberal immigration policies in countries with significantly declining working age populations.“The decline in the numbers of working-age adults alone will reduce GDP {gross domestic product} growth rates that could result in major shifts in global economic power by the century’s end... While population decline is potentially good news for reducing carbon emissions and stress on food systems, with more old people and fewer young people, economic challenges will arise as societies struggle to grow with fewer workers and taxpayers, and countries’ abilities to generate the wealth needed to fund social support and health care for the elderly are reduced,” said first author Stein Emil Vollset,a professor at the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington in the US. In 2100, India will have the world’s largest working-age population of 578 million in the world, followed by Nigeria, China and the US. Although the number of working-age adults in India is projected to fall from 762 million in 2017, it is expected to be one of the few - if not the only - major power in Asia to protect its working-age population over the century to rise up the GDP rankings from the seventh to third, said the report. India is also forecasted to have the second largest net immigration in 2100, with an estimated half a million more people immigrating to the country in 2100 than emigrating.“To fully reap the benefits of this large working age population, called in demographic terms, the demographic dividend, it is critical to invest in quality health and adaptive education that empowers and equips young people to meet the needs of the job market,” said Argentina Matavel Piccin, UNFPA Representative to India.“The diverse fertility situations in the states combined with the inter-regional population dynamics in India present unique opportunities, which can be turned into a powerful engine for the overall socio-economic development, if a differential planning approach is adopted. Very few countries in the world boast of such a scenario of a significant staggered demographic transition. India can afford to fill shortage of labour in one part of the country with migrants from another part, hence reducing the usual cultural adaption periods that most cross-country and cross-continent migrants must go through before they can fully contribute to host countries,” added Piccin.Small familiesThe global total fertility rate (TFR is the average number of children a woman has in her lifetime) is predicted to decline from 2.37 in 2017 to 1.66 in 2100, which is well below the replacement rate of 2.1 births per woman.India’s TFR declined to below 2.1 in 2019, and is projected to have a continued steep fertility decline until about 2040, reaching a TFR of 1.29 in 2100, said the report.“The sustained decline in population size is an obvious outcome of educating and empowering women along with meeting their contraceptive needs and choices. Family planning services are likely to have an economic impact for families that extends beyond the reductions in fertility and improvements in health to many other aspects of their lives. If women’s needs for family planning and reproductive healthcare are met, along with other basic health and education needs, then population stabilization will be achieved naturally, not as a matter of control or coercion,” said Poonam Muttreja, executive director, Population Foundation of India, New Delhi.Liberal immigration policies could help maintain population size and economic growth even as fertility falls, said the study, which notes that some countries, such as the US, Australia, and Canada, are likely to maintain their working-age populations through net immigration.“We need a fundamental rethink of global politics. Greater multilateralism and a new global leadership should enable both migrant sending and migrant-receiving countries to benefit, while protecting the rights of individuals. Nations would need to cooperate at levels that have eluded us to date to strategically support and fund the development of excess skilled human capital in countries that are a source of migrants.... The projected changes in the sizes of national economies and the consequent change in military power might force these discussions,” said Professor Ibrahim Abubakar, University College London, UK, and Chair of Lancet Migration (who was not involved in the study), in a linked comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-population-to-peak-in-2048/story-GYGj9N4ZiVNlRDI8NKoJAI.html
16-07-2020||India||Gehlot’s statement confirms Gandhis’ ownership over Congress: Shekhawat||Rebel Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s declaration that he wouldn’t be joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was met with silence from the BJP on Wednesday. Pilot’s comments came a day after several BJP leaders said he was welcome to join the party.BJP leaders avoided commenting on Pilot’s statement and limited their response to blaming the Congress and the Gandhi family, in particular, for not being able to keep their flock together. The party also attacked Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot for trying to blame the BJP for an internal Congress rift.Also read: 24 hours of twists and turns in Rajasthan political drama“The very statement of Gehlot ji confirms the ownership of Gandhi family over Congressmen,” Union minister and MP from Rajasthan Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted. Shekhawat, among the BJP politicians who had said any leader with the people’s mandate was welcome to join the party, commented: “They blame every bit of their dispute on the neighbor, and when dealing with the neighbor, they curse the family members!”In response to Gehlot’s jibe at Pilot that “…speaking good English, giving good quotes and being handsome isn’t everything”, Shekhawat took a dig at the Gandhis, “Speaking good English does nothing, committing to family matters!” Shekhawat also clarified that his comment about welcoming Pilot into the party had been misconstrued. “What I had said was anyone who aligns with our party’s ideology and has the mandate of the people is welcome. It did not mean that we have laid out a carpet for anyone,” he said.The party also chose to remain silent on the issue of pushing the Gehlot government to prove its majority in the house. “We will let the issue play out before taking recourse to other democratic and legal options available to us. Right now what we are seeing is internal rift for which the BJP is being blamed,” said a senior leader in Delhi.In response to Gehlot’s comment that the Congress had proof of the BJP tying to topple the government, Shekhawat said the CM should furnish the proof and reveal who all were part of the conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-s-statement-confirms-gandhis-ownership-over-cong-shekhawat/story-pps72cacQRrK36dRwXWo7N.html
16-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Congress evolves 6-pronged plan to counter Sachin Pilot||As the face-off between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, intensified, the Congress dialled its prominent legal brains to guide the former’s team at every step even as the experts hold the latter in high regard, people involved in the matter.The legal experts evolved a six-pronged strategy to counter Pilot and his loyalists, which culminated in state assembly speaker CP Joshi’s move of sending a show-cause notice to them on Wednesday morning. The decision to hold two Congress legislative party meetings, keeping the doors open for Pilot even as he was incommunicado, stripping him of his portfolios but keeping him in the party, and preparing drafts of letters were all done in consultations with top party leader and lawyer Abhishek Singhvi.Gehlot , Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, and Avinash Pandey held frequent consultations with Singhvi, who was assisted by other lawyers. They relied on the Rajasthan’s state anti-defection law and the Constitution’s 10th schedule to make the disqualification case against Pilot and lawmakers loyal to him. “As the shadow of the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] loomed large, we realised that we have to try our best to protect the Congress government. We decided to ask for disqualification of Pilot and his loyalists from the assembly as it would reduce the numbers in the House and brighten the prospect of the Congress’ majority,” said a leader involved in the meetings who asked not to be named.Also read: 24 hours of twists and turns in Rajasthan political dramaThe Congress decided against expelling Pilot from the party as it would benefit him. Under the legislative laws, if lawmakers are sacked from a party, they remain members of legislative bodies as independents. For Gehlot, it was a chance to kill three birds with one stone. He could minimise the prospects of the BJP toppling his government, oust his arch-rival, and consolidate his position within the party, said a second Congress leader who spoke on condition of anonymity.  On Tuesday, Pilot called Singhvi and requested him to fight his legal battle, oblivious of the fact that he was actually helping the other side. “Singhvi revealed this and told Pilot that the honourable thing for him would be not to take [up] his case,” said a Singhvi aide who asked not to be named. The Congress on Tuesday dismissed Pilot as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit chief over his rebellion against Gehlot. It also removed two of his loyalists from the cabinet while accusing his camp of “conspiring” with the BJP to destabilise the government.PDT Achary, former secretary general of lok sabha said that the Congress wants to use the clause (a) of para 2 of the 10th schedule that says “if the member has voluntarily given up the membership of such political party.” “There is a vague area and that Congress might try to show that as Pilot didn’t come for two CLP meetings that were called to save thr government, he has shown his intent. But these interpretations can be challenged in court “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-evolves-6-pronged-plan-to-counter-pilot/story-w7rAWM8BnTMxp1NmL8M8UO.html
16-07-2020||India||House panel urges govt to cap coronavirus medicine prices||The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs, chaired by Congress leader Anand Sharma, has asked the Union government to regulate the prices of coronavirus medicines being made by various pharma companies, citing reports of black marketing of drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, people familiar with the matter said.The panel also told the government that hospitals and pharma companies are charging exorbitant amounts from the patients and that this “lobby” needs to be stopped, the people added.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, joint secretary in health ministry Lav Agarwal, and other senior officials the briefed the committee, which pointed out that locally made affordable drugs should be made available to the public. The home secretary informed the committee that letters have been sent to states asking them to take measures to stop the sale at higher than prescribed prices of life-saving drugs. The panel also stressed that there was a need to promote locally made drugs for the benefit of public. Sharma, the chairman of the committee, said in the meeting that the pandemic gives us a unique opportunity to come out with a report that can be a guiding force for any such health crisis in the future. Members of Parliament (MPs) from different parties also spoke about the issue of migrant workers and said that it must be ensured these labourers do not face such hardships in future, and suggested that they be covered under special welfare schemes to protect them in the event of job losses.The committee heard the government’s report on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic and the phased unlocking and resumption of economic activities.Bhalla told the committee that government has managed the Covid-19 crisis “successfully”. In a detailed presentation on steps taken by the government since early this year, he pointed out that India has one of the lowest mortality rates in the world.Luv Agarwal informed the committee that there are many estimates and researches on when Covid-19 will peak in India, but it is not right to make any estimate on the possible peak period as it might lead to either complacency or fear among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-urges-govt-to-cap-medicine-prices/story-NHu5KSJemfKvxkjXy49WsL.html
16-07-2020||India||One BTP MLA says he will back Cong, his party non-committal||The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) is likely to support the Congress government in case of a floor test in the Rajasthan assembly following Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, two functionaries said on Wednesday.Ramprasad Dindor, one of the two BTP lawmakers in the state, said they would support the Congress even as the party has asked them to stay neutral.Velaram Goghra, BTP’s Rajasthan chief, said the party has been giving issue-based support to the Congress and if the government meets their demands, they will consider supporting it in case a floor test. He added BTP voted for the Congress in the Rajya Sabha elections last month after the government promised to meet its demands.Two BTP members were among 101 lawmakers, who attended the Congress legislative party meeting at a Jaipur hotel on Tuesday. They later left the hotel saying they would take a call on supporting a political party at an “appropriate” time. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 72 lawmakers in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. Pilot’s camp has claimed to have the support of 22 legislators, including three independents.Goghra said their demands include the implementation of the Maharashtra model for the development of tribal areas in Rajasthan. Under the model, funds for tribal development are given to a tribal commissioner instead of various departments. “If Gehlot announces it as promised, then we can discuss with our high command and within the community and offer our support,” said Goghra. “Our accountability is to our people and whatever is in their interest, we will do. We need to have an understanding with the government to get benefits of schemes for our people.”Rajkumar Roat, the second BTP lawmaker, whose videos surfaced on Tuesday in which he claimed police were harassing him, said the party will take the final decision on supporting the Congress in a floor test.On Wednesday, Roat said he was not harassed. “...I had put out the videos, the incident was true but it was a case of mistaken identity by police. They did not recognise me,” he said.Roat on Tuesday said police snatched keys to his car and that he was under detention and several people were asking him to go with them.Pilot’s social media team circulated Roat’s video to highlight how the government was harassing lawmakers. The BJP, too, cited the videos to claim the government was intimidating the lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-btp-mla-says-he-will-back-cong-his-party-non-committal/story-1xNHQCMdmAKOllh5MTE34J.html
16-07-2020||India||Disqualification of Sachin Pilot, 18 others sought by Congress||The Congress’ chief whip in the Rajasthan assembly Mahesh Joshi wrote to speaker CP Joshi seeking the disqualification of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 members of the legislative assembly under the provisions of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution (popularly known as the anti-defection law). But it emerges that the party may have taken an expansive view of the anti-defection law. While Joshi confirmed to news agency PTI that disqualification proceedings have begun with notices being issued to the 19 legislators, efforts continued to convince Pilot, who reiterated on Wednesday that he doesn’t plan to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, to return to the fold -- although HT learns that chief minister Ashok Gehlot is keen to disqualify Pilot. Congress leaders involved in the strategy said on condition of anonymity that Pilot’s conduct, statements by his close aides and his absence from two meetings of the Congress legislature party in Rajasthan together make a strong case for his disqualification.Some constitutional experts say Pilot may take the legal route to respond to the disqualification notice and even seek the removal of CP Joshi as the speaker on the ground of partial conduct to gain more time. The disqualification of the 19 will reduce the effective strength of the House to 181, with a majority mark of 91, well below the 104 legislators Gehlot whose support Gehlot confirmed to the state’s governor on Tuesday. The 10th Schedule says that a lawmaker can be disqualified from the House “if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party” or “if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs or by any person or authority authorised by it in this behalf without obtaining prior permission of such political party.”Two of the Congress leaders cited above argued that the law can be extended to behaviour outside the House. “An elected lawmaker’s conduct, his speeches, his hobnobbing with rivals too can be counted as grounds for disqualification,” said one of them. “He skipped two meetings of Congress legislature party, his loyalists gave three interviews demanding trust vote are proof of his intention. There are several examples how Supreme Court considered such issues in the Ravi Naik and the BS Yediyurappa cases,” said the second leader. The BS Yediyurappa case related to the defection of Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) MLAs in Karnataka in July 2019 that resulted in the ouster of a coalition government headed by the two parties last year, paving the way for the BJP’s Yediyurappa to become CM. The court, while adjudicating on a petition challenging the disqualification of the 17 MLAs by the speaker on the grounds that they had “voluntarily given up their membership of the party, through their undisputed conduct”, partly upheld the presiding officer’s decision. The Ravi Naik case refers to former Goa CM Ravi Naik, and dates to 1994. In its judgement the Supreme Court said that lawmakers need not necessarily resign from their parties to attract disqualification under the 10th schedule, referring to the “conduct of a member” that indicates that “he has voluntarily given up his membership of the political party to which he belongs.”The emphasis here seems to be on conduct of the member but P Sreedharan, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, does not believe this will work in this case. “Disqualification on grounds of defection is mentioned clearly in para two of the 10th schedule: If he has voluntarily given up his membership or if he votes against the party or abstains from voting. The issues of not following the direction of the party is connected to the House only. So any whip issued for non-House activities can’t be a sufficient grounds (for disqualification).” For Rajasthan assembly speaker Joshi, too, these are testing times. In the recent past, Joshi has advocated that the speaker’s powers vis-à-vis the 10th schedule be curtailed and the decision to expel a member be left to political parties.In two conferences of presiding officers, he spearheaded the campaign to delink speakers from anti-defection issues because he said that speakers come under unnecessary political pressure and the courts have often tarnished the image of speakers in their rulingson defection issues. Now, Joshi himself has a high-profile defection issue—the first in 2020—on his table to decide on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disqualification-of-pilot-18-others-sought-by-cong/story-0tdHN1cCGvrTyCPZPivPfJ.html
16-07-2020||India||CBSE class 10 pass percentage rises marginally, fewer high scorers||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday released Class 10 examination results with an overall pass percentage of 91.46%, recording a marginal improvement over last year’s figure, even as the board did not announce a merit list in view of the circumstances triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Out of the 1,873,015 students who appeared for the Class 10 examination this year, 1,713,121 students cleared the test across 20,837 schools in the country, with the overall pass percentage 0.36 percentage points higher than last year. Of these, 150,198 students received “compartment” this year compared to 138,705 last year.As many as 184,358 and 41,804 students scored above 90% and 95% marks, respectively, 18% and 26.98% lower than last year’s figures.In Delhi, the overall pass percentage increased five percentage points from 80.97% last year to 85.86% this year. The pass percentage in private schools (90.19%) this year decreased by nearly three percentage points over last year, while that in government schools (82.61%) increased by 11 percentage points.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said: “Our children have made us proud again! After record breaking results of Class 12, upwards graph of Delhi Education continues in Class 10. Overjoyed that this year, results have improved to 82.61% from 71.58% last year.”CBSE’s controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said the increase in the number of “compartments” could be due to the increase in the number of students who took the test this year. “There seems to be no specific reason behind the dip [in the number of high-scorers]. One possible reason could be the stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic since the students were still preparing for their papers and taking exams at the beginning of March.”In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, CBSE postponed all Class 10 and Class 12 exams scheduled between March 19 and March 31 earlier this year. The move, however, had little effect on Class 10 exams that were scheduled to end on March 20. Only two exams were scheduled to take place on that day – Information and Communication Technology, and Computer Application.“CBSE has decided to replace the term ‘Fail’ by the term ‘Essential Repeat’. Hence, in the result declared, no ‘Fail’ term will be mentioned in the documents issued to the candidates and the result hosted on the website,” CBSE said. Board officials said this was done to ensure students did not feel discouraged about their performance amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In north-east Delhi, however, CBSE had to cancel exams on four days because of communal riots in February. Though the board announced in April that it would conduct six exams in north-east Delhi in July, they could not be held due to the Covid-19 outbreak.“After reassessing the situation and worldwide spread of Covid19, it was decided that board will no longer be able to conduct examinations including those to be conducted in North-Eastern Delhi,” CBSE said in a statement on Wednesday.For subjects for which exams could not be conducted, the board announced the results on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. For students who appeared in the exams in more than three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best three subjects have been be awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted.For students who have appeared in the exams in only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two performing subjects have been awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted.Gauri Shrivastava, 16, a student of a government senior secondary school in riot-hit Yamuna Vihar has scored 97.6% marks under the revised assessment scheme. While she appeared for her science, social science, mathematics and Sanskrit exams, the situation in north-east Delhi prevented her from appearing for her English and Hindi exams.Her father Vinay Shrivastava, who runs a business in Okhla, said his daughter would have scored more if she appeared for the remaining tests. “The riots broke out barely 500 metres from our place and though the atmosphere was tense outside, the thought of appearing for their papers kept my children distracted,” he said.Richa Sharma, principal of Sanskriti School, whose average score stands at 88.43%, said: “The results have been as per our expectation because most of the Class 10 papers had already taken place before the exams were cancelled. Though it is too early to comment, we haven’t seen any anomalies in the marking pattern till now.”While Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest pass percentage at 99.28%, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Pune secured the second, third, and fourth spots. Two Delhi regions (West and East) stood at 14th and 15th positions while recording pass percentages of 85.96% and 85.79%, respectively.Girls performed better than boys with 93.31% of them being promoted as compared to 90.14% boys across the country.At 99.23%, Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) schools recorded the best pass percentage among institutions followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JKV) at 98.66%. While government schools recorded a pass percentage of 80.91% across the country, the figure for private schools stood at 92.81%.After the results were announced, Union minister for human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal tweeted congratulatory messages to all stakeholders and reiterated that “student’s health and quality education are our priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-10-pass-percentage-rises-marginally-fewer-high-scorers/story-RZm5C6gz2OJDafcSdblS0N.html
16-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot accuses Sachin Pilot, BJP of conspiracy to topple govt||Hours after Sachin Pilot appeared to strike a conciliatory note on Wednesday by saying he would not join the Bharatiya Janata Party, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot accused his former deputy, without naming him, of being involved in a conspiracy to topple the state government. Pilot, who was on Tuesday removed as the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and Congress’s state unit chief for rebelling against Gehlot, denied he was going to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Pilot also rejected allegations that he was planning to bring down the government with the BJP’s help and added those saying so were trying to lower him in “the eyes of the Gandhis”. Also read: 24 hours of twists and turns in Rajasthan political dramaGehlot wasn’t impressed. “Money was offered. And who gave a clarification that nothing was happening? Those leaders, who themselves were involved and part of the conspiracy, are giving clarifications,” Gehlot said, without naming his deputy with whom he has an extremely strained relationship. “With us, you are deputy CM [chief minister] and PCC [Pradesh Congress Committee chief] and you make deals with people [BJP]. You ask for mobile number and names and are involved in the conspiracy... and then give the clarification that there was no horsetrading. You were part of the conspiracy and what are you clarifying now?”Gehlot insisted his team has proof that Congress lawmakers were being lured into a rebellion against the government. He said the attempts to topple his government have been going on for some time. He added the current crisis would have unfolded earlier had the party not been on guard.Also read: Congress evolves 6-pronged plan to counter Sachin Pilot“Horsetrading was being done in Jaipur; we have the proof. We had to keep people [lawmakers] at a hotel for 10 days...if we had not done that, the same thing that is happening in Manesar now would have happened back then,” Gehlot said, referring to Pilot and 18 legislators, who are staying at a hotel in Haryana’s Manesar. Gehlot said he has been in politics for 40 years and that he loves the new generation. “The future will be theirs. This new generation... they have become central ministers, state presidents. If they had gone through what we did in our time, they would have worked better,” said Gehlot amid criticism that the Congress’s old guard was not letting younger leaders grow. “Speaking good English or giving bytes is not everything. What do you have in your heart, what commitment do you have, this all is seen.” Gehlot said Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former president Rahul Gandhi and he himself all love young people.Pilot did not respond to the text messages or phone calls for comments on Gehlot’s charges.The Congress separately dissolved all district and block party committees in Rajasthan.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said Congress is leveling charges on BJP but they should look at their history, whenever they had been out of power from the centre, the party has disintegrated – from Devraj Urs to Sachin Pilot, the history is repeating. But every time they level charges on BJP and take a sideway out, instead of holding a introspection.He said the CM repeatedly is speaking of evidence of horse trading since Rajya Sabha polls but haven’t brought in the public. “Who is he trying to threaten? If he has evidence than present it,” he said.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said Gehlot is party’s strategist and manager in crisis. He is known for cool headed working and loyalist of Congress. He becoming aggressive shows to what extent he was compelled to give such statements. “Gehlot is an organizational man and emotional toward the party, the statements made against the party might have hurt him to speak in such aggressive manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-accuses-pilot-bjp-of-conspiracy-to-topple-govt/story-z0DbxAHNBNeMo5xSXCTTYJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Skill, re-skill, upskill to stay relevant: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said no matter how educated a person is, one must always be ready to acquire new skills. He said skill, reskilling and upskilling is the only way to remain relevant in the ever-changing market scenario. Speaking on the occasion of the World Youth Skill Day, Modi said, “The biggest strength of the millennials is their ability to get skilled.”Modi said the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has changed the work culture and started the concept of work from home. He added young people are acquiring new skills keeping in mind the new work culture and new nature of jobs. “People ask me business and markets are changing too fast; it is hard to remain relevant. In times of corona [Covid-19], this is even more relevant. My answer to that is to skill, reskill and upskill. To keep learning new skills is to reskill and continuing to scale it up is to upskill,” he said.Modi, who has stressed on self-reliance and the need for becoming employment generators, added: “Skill is something which you give yourself and which is timeless and keeps getting better with time. It is unique and makes you different from others.” He added it is self-reliance and also self employability.Modi underlined there is a difference between skill and knowledge and said people often confuse the two. “People get confused between knowledge and skill. You can watch on YouTube or read in books how to ride a bike; this is knowledge, but to ride a bike you need skill,” he said.Referring to the work opportunities for skilled people, he said there is a requirement for tens of thousands of skilled people, especially in the health sector. “...That is why we have started skill mapping. Information about which country needs skilled works in which sector will be available.”Modi referred to the portal for skill mapping of migrant labour that has been recently started. He added employers can connect with the labour at the click of a button. Modi said in today’s rapidly changing world, millions of skilled people are needed in many sectors. He also spoke about the skill centres opened by the government and how the number of Industrial Training Institutes was increased. “...skill development of more than 5 crore [50 million] people has been done. And this campaign continues,” he said.Modi reiterated that since there is a raging worldwide pandemic, people should remember to stay healthy, maintain social distancing and wear masks, and stop spitting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skill-re-skill-upskill-to-stay-relevant-pm-modi/story-g5Eldv97AVJd7iEVkKyfMP.html
16-07-2020||India||30% drop in use of firearms in serious crimes in Delhi: Police data||Ten days ago, the 28-year-old son of a retired Delhi police officer was shot to death by four assailants in a car, who fired more than a dozen shots at the sedan he was driving in outer Delhi’s Rama Vihar. A month ago, a 35-year-old cash collection agent was shot in the arm and robbed of Rs2.5 lakh by bike-riding gunmen in north Delhi’s Wazirabad.Until June 30, the city had recorded 292 serious crimes such as dacoity, murder, attempt to murder and robbery in which the criminals used firearms, which have been their preferred choice in Delhi, but the trend has declined in the first half of 2020 compared to the previous two years. During the same period (January 1 to June 30) in 2019 and 2018, there were 415 and 405 cases of dacoity, robbery, murder and attempt to murder, respectively, in which firearms were used, according to data shared by Delhi police.Police statistics show that the use of firearms in murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, and robbery cases reported between January 1 and June 30 this year posted a 30% decrease compared to the corresponding period of the last two years. Data show that firearms were used in 125 robbery and two dacoity cases while in 48 murder cases, guns were used in the last six months. Similarly, in 117 attempt to murder cases, pistols and revolvers were used.In 2019 till June 30, there were 225 robbery and five dacoity cases in which firearms were used. A total of 54 murders and 131 attempts to murder were committed using guns. During the same period in 2018, in 44 murders and 134 attempts to murder, pistols or revolvers were used while 222 robberies and five dacoities were committed using firearms. Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava said that efforts by the police personnel to catch criminals, especially those involved in the sale and supply of firearms, was a prime reason behind the decline in the use of firearms in Delhi.“Countering the trend of use of firearms has remained a top priority for me ever since I took charge of the head of the police force in February this year. I have a zero-tolerance policy against this gun culture and time and again it has been conveyed to my colleagues and other personnel during various meetings. We will continue our pursuit against gunrunners and criminals using firearms,” said Shrivastava. According to police records, a total of 1,051 cases of dacoity, murder, attempt to murder and robbery were reported in Delhi till June 30 this year. Of them, 292 cases involved the use of firearms, which means in nearly 28% of the incidents, pistols and revolvers were used. The firearms were mostly guns manufactured in illegal factories in Bihar’s Munger, Madhya Pradesh’s Burhanpur and Khargone and Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut and Aligarh, senior Delhi police officers said.In the remaining cases, criminals used knives and blunt objects such as iron rods, sticks, bricks and stones. The data related to use of these objects as weapons in crimes is not available but is being compiled, said a senior police officer related to the research cell, which collates data related to crimes in the city.Factors responsible for change in the trendThe Sars-CoV-2 virus outbreak followed by the lockdown has also contributed to the decline in the use of firearms and has affected the illegal business of smuggling and supply of such weapons into Delhi from other states, a senior police officer said.“Suspension of interstate bus services and limited services of passengers trains to and from Delhi due to the Covid-19 outbreak has hit the gunrunners’ business. They mostly preferred interstate buses and private vehicles for transporting illegal guns. But buses are still not operational and checking of private vehicles was intensified during and after the lockdown. The gunrunners have now begun using trucks carrying goods for smuggling of illegal firearms,” a special cell officer instrumental in busting many inter-state gunrunning rackets said, requesting anonymity.Police data shows that 1,172 firearms had been seized this year till June 30, which is 360 fewer than the number recovered during the same period last year. It is 149 more than the recovery of firearms made in 2018.“Their {police} conclusion that use of firearms decreased because the smuggling of such weapons was affected due to the lockdown is fallacious. In reality, Sars-CoV-2 virus outbreak resulted in a decrease in crimes not only in Delhi but other states as well,” said former Uttar Pradesh director general of police Vikram Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-drop-in-use-of-firearms-in-serious-crimes-in-delhi-police-data/story-plQoHaOfeYUkwbzhrAVUIP.html
16-07-2020||India||Delhi high court gives police time to go through Sunanda Pushkar’s tweets||The Delhi high court on Wednesday gave the police time to go through the Twitter posts of the late Sunanda Pushkar after the city police’s counsel said the department had not seen the tweets nor was it relying on them in the case related to her death.Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a hotel room on January 17, 2014 following which the police charged her husband and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor with abetment to suicide, among other charges. Justice Manoj Ohri was told by the Delhi police counsel that her tweets were not a part of the record or the charge sheet filed in the case and if Tharoor wanted to rely on them, they were in the public domain and he can access them.The court was hearing a plea by Tharoor seeking directions to the Delhi police to preserve the Twitter account and posts on the microblogging site by Pushkar prior to her death.Appearing for Tharoor, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa submitted that the tweets were part of the electronic record before the trial court in the form of Pushkar’s laptop and mobile phone. He said all the police have to do is put it up as evidence before the court as an indicator of her state of mind prior to her death. Pahwa also said that Pushkar’s cause of death was “inconclusive” and this was relevant because four autopsy reports and three medical board reports had not been able to confirm till date whether it was a case of suicide or homicide. Pahwa has said that report was not conclusive on the reason for the death, the police had gone for psychological autopsy in 2017 , a process which involves acertaining the state of mind prior to the death. He contended that if the police relied on the tweets, the case would be closed. “Instead, they relied on the witness statements, recorded by the police, who has referred to Pushkar’s tweets while commenting on her state of mind,” he said.After hearing both sides, the high court gave time to the police to file its submissions along with case law on the issue raised by Tharoor in his plea and listed the matter for hearing on September 18.Tharoor, in his application, said the tweets and Twitter timeline of Pushkar were of utmost importance in the case and as she was not alive, there was an apprehension that they may be deleted, denying him a crucial right to exonerate himself from the charges levelled against him.The plea referred to Twitter’s policies as per which it can delete the accounts of users who have been inactive for a prolonged period of time.The police had earlier told the court that Pushkar was suffering from mental agony because of a strained relationship with her husband. It had then charged Tharoor with domestic violence (498A) and abetment to suicide while claiming that Pushkar had a scuffle with her husband and bore various injury marks a few days before her death.Tharoor has consistently denied all charges, calling them preposterous and motivated. When asked for his reaction on Wednesday’s hearing, the Congress MP said, “My counsel has already argued for me in the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-gives-police-time-to-go-through-sunanda-s-tweets/story-prNLWwmKF4ZNP0u8lvWaMJ.html
16-07-2020||India||Congress gives Sachin Pilot a to-do list, asks him to prove his intentions||Having secured the Ashok Gehlot-led government, the Congress on Wednesday maintained its hard stance on Sachin Pilot and told him to reject the hospitality of the Haryana government and come back to Jaipur to prove his claim that he did not want to go with the Bharatiya Janata Party.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala’s call for evidence came in a video message put out by the party that started with declaring that the BJP conspiracy to topple the Gehlot government had failed.Surjewala then listed what Sachin Pilot, who he pointedly and repeatedly referred to as a youth leader - should do to prove his intentions.Also read | ‘Come back to your home in Jaipur’: Congress to Sachin Pilot after his ‘not joining BJP’ remarkReject the hospitality of the BJP-led Haryana government and come back to your home in Jaipur, Surjewala said, asking Pilot to get Congress legislators sequestered in two Gurugram hotels where, he said, they were being guarded by Haryana’s security forces. The remarks indicate hardening of the stand of the central leadership after Ashok Gehlot claimed that he has proof of his involvement in toppling the governmentCome back and you can talk to the leadership about all the issues that you have directly, not through the media, he said.But Surjewala made it clear that the party didn’t think that Pilot’s effort to reduce the Gehlot government to a minority was a stand-alone effort. He underlined the various efforts that had been made over the last five days to retain Pilot.In the last five days, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress leadership in a large-hearted gesture kept all doors open for Sachin Pilot. The top leadership - a reference to the Gandhi family - and two Congress Working Committee members told him that if he still supported the Congress, he should at least tell the media waiting outside his hotel that you stand with the Congress. This message was conveyed by the Congress leadership half-a-dozen times and by two Congress Working Committee members, a dozen more.But Sachin Pilot did not make this statement.It was only after all these efforts to placate Sachin Pilot didn’t convince Pilot and the lawmakers supporting him that the Congress, “with a heavy heart”, had to act.Pilot was yesterday sacked as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and state party chief. The Congress also started the process to disqualify Pilot and 18 lawmakers who had skipped the two Congress legislature party meetings from the state assembly. Pilot and his supporters have been given time till Friday to respond to the notice.Surjewala’s message to Pilot came hours after Ashok Gehlot lashed out at his younger, “ambitious” colleagues, a clear reference to Sachin Pilot, who he accused of colluding with the BJP. Gehlot said he had proof that some people from the about the involvement of his party colleagues.“We have proof that horse trading was being committed. Money was offered. And who gave clarification that nothing was happening? Those leaders, who themselves were involved and part of the conspiracy, were giving clarifications,” Gehlot said, claiming that he has evidence of horse trading taking place.“With us, you are Deputy CM and PCC and you make deals with (BJP) people. You ask for mobile number and names and are involved in conspiracy and then they give clarification that there was no horse trading. You were part of the conspiracy and what are you clarifying now,” he said, clearly determined that the party does not come under pressure to go easy on Sachin Pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-gives-sachin-pilot-a-to-do-list-asks-him-to-prove-his-intentions/story-4npN2M1LqUqUyhrecnr6kO.html
16-07-2020||India||3 green youth movements allege digital censorship||The websites of three environmental, youth and student movements have been blocked since June 29, the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) said on Monday.These include fridaysforfuture.in, the India arm of a global climate movement started by Swedish youth activist Greta Thunberg in 2018 and known widely for its school strikes against global warming; letindiabreathe.in and thereisnoearthb.com--Indian movements focused on various environmental issues including air pollution.Two of them - Fridays For Future and Let India Breathe - have approached the Internet Freedom Foundation for legal help after they received messages from National Internet Exchange of India (NIXI) which manages the operations of in. registry for the government.LetIndiaBreathe was informed by their domain registrar that their domain was placed on hold by NIXI, which neither gave reasons for its action nor provided an opportunity for a hearing, according to Apar Gupta of IFF.“We are seeing a spike in cases of internet censorship during the Covid-19 pandemic when the internet is one of the few mediums to engage and interact. Such blocking of websites is a violation of fundamental right to speech and expression and directive principle of the state policy on protection of environment,” said Gupta. Fridays For Future on Monday posted a statement on its social media accounts which read: “We are a group of students and youth working advocacy on the climate crisis and ecological breakdown…we felt it was our duty to engage with the public when the draft consultation for environment impact assessment (EIA) was open and feedback was invited by the government. We launched a feedback process in fridaysforfuture.in but since July 10 2020, the website has been inaccessible.”Incidentally, all three youth movements were running campaigns on the environment ministry’s draft EIA 2020 notification. The draft has been in the eye of a storm because it is expected to overhaul the process of environmental regulation of infrastructure projects and has contentious clauses on regularising projects that violate environmental norms and shortening the time period for public hearings.IFF has sent a legal notice to NIXI on the issue.“That we submit that such actions are violative of the existing Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers and .IN registry guidelines as well as the fundamental rights of the collective who operate and the public participants who exercise their fundamental rights. It is specifically asserted that no specific notice, hearing or opportunity for defence has been provided till date. There is no information about any legal order… such actions smack of arbitrariness, secrecy and are prima facie illegal especially given that contact details and email addresses for the website are prominently displayed on the homepage,” the notice reads.Yash Marwah, founder of Let India Breathe said, “We haven’t been told why our website is on hold. But since March some 2 lakh visitors have seen our website. We were running a campaign against the draft EIA 2020. We were demanding that it be replaced by a progressive law.”Meanwhile, an official of NIXI said that they take action against a website only if asked by a law enforcement agency to do so.“We don’t take any action on our part unless a law enforcement agency asks us to do so. I haven’t looked at the details of these cases but it should be because some law enforcement agency has directed us,” Shubham Saran, General Manager, NIXI said.Responding to the news of blocking of websites of the three groups, RP Gupta, secretary, environment ministry, said, “ “We are not aware of these developments.”In an interview to HT last month, Gupta had said the ministry had received 30,000 comments on the draft EIA 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-green-youth-movements-allege-digital-censorship/story-TSipMNu23ASOcBhATX2jIK.html
