18-07-2020||India||In Bihar, paid isolation facility at hotels for Covid-19 positive healthcare workers||The Bihar government has decided to extend paid isolation facility in hotels to doctors and healthcare workers who test positive for Covid-19 if they do not have adequate facilities at home.The health department, in its order issued on Saturday, said it would pay for the hotel stay, including food, of all such frontline corona warriors. It, however, capped the expenditure to a maximum of Rs 4,000 per day in hotels of Patna, Rs 3,000 for hotels in districts, which were divisional headquarters, and Rs 2,500 for other districts.It also authorized district magistrates to negotiate with the management of respective hotels and get rooms at cheaper rates.The order said that doctors and healthcare workers, who test positive or show symptoms of the virus, would be given priority in admission at medical college hospitals, depending on the severity of the case.The department has already decided to earmark 100 beds for Covid-19 patients in each of its nine medical colleges and hospitals across the state.The department had on June 23 allowed home isolation facility, with certain riders, for Covid-19 asymptomatic doctors and healthcare workers. However, Saturday’s order said that many frontline workers stayed in rented accommodation and may face difficulty in self isolation besides quarantining other family members. The facility of paid isolation at hotels was for such frontline workers, said the order issued by Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Uday Singh Kumawat. The department had also issued an order on June 24, allowing paid isolation facility at select hotels to Covid-19 patients who wanted to avail it.Though the government order did not specify the number of healthcare workers who have so far been infected by the virus, it, however, acknowledged the fact that many employees at government hospitals and district health offices had tested Covid-19 positive of late.The Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has claimed that over 200 healthcare workers, including doctors, had so far tested positive for the virus in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-paid-isolation-facility-at-hotels-for-covid-19-positive-healthcare-workers/story-d5LkdVt0pgMmXWKzSxO5HJ.html
18-07-2020||India||Forensic experts recreate encounters of Vikas Dubey, henchmen, scene by scene||Forensic science laboratory (FSL) experts on Saturday reconstructed events leading to Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his close aide Prabhat Mishra’s fatal encounters. The FSL team was headed by senior analyst AK Srivastava.The reconstruction went on for the entire day and the proceedings were also attended by the special task force (STF) team, led by its Kanpur unit chief Tej Bahadur Singh. Singh and his team members demonstrated how Dubey escaped after the vehicle carrying him overturned in Sachendi and how he was pursued. With weapons drawn, the team members were taken to the exact locations, where they had positioned themselves after spotting Vikas Dubey in Sachendi and Prabhat Mishra in Bhauti, Panki.Also Read: Vikas Dubey escaped from police custody 22 yrs ago, old FIR traces gangster’s pastSingh showed how he fired at Vikas Dubey and how he fell on the ground on the morning of July 10 after allegedly attempting to escape from an overturned police vehicle when being brought back from Ujjain, where Madhya Pradesh police had arrested him from Mahakal temple a day before.Prabhat Mishra, one of the 22 named accused in Kanpur ambush case, was arrested from Faridabad with two 9mm pistols looted from the policemen and 44 live rounds. He was allegedly killed in an exchange of fire with STF when he attempted to escape after snatching a constable’s pistol near Kanpur.Srivastava, who is a ballistics expert in charge at FSL, told reporters that the encounters scene was being re-created scientifically to cross examine the details mentioned in two FIRs filed following the two encounters and the evidence available. “Our local units have already done the groundwork and every aspect will be analysed in a scientific way,” he said. On Friday, the FSL team visited Kashi Ram Nivada village, where the police had neutralised Dubey’s aides Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, for the reconstruction of the encounter scene. Meanwhile, SSP Kanpur Dinesh Kumar P said Kanpur police personnel were also part of the reconstruction exercise and explained their roles to the team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forensic-experts-recreate-encounters-of-vikas-dubey-henchmen-scene-by-scene/story-vJl8vJZxJgkdXBwjjxVstM.html
18-07-2020||India||Rajasthan girl found hanging: Locals allege gang rape, seek arrest of accused||Locals in Rajasthan’s Jalore blocked streets on Saturday demanding arrest in the case of a 21-year-old girl, whose body was found hanging on Friday morning from a tree in an isolated place in Sayla police station area.“On Thursday night, the family members had lodged a missing report, after which the girl was found hanging from a tree on Friday morning following which the family members were informed about the recovery,” said a police official from Jalore, who didn’t wish to be named.The police official added that the family members lodged a complaint alleging the deceased was abducted on Thursday night and later gang raped by five to six local men.On Saturday morning, residents, along with the local BJP MP Devji Patel, gathered at the Sayla police station area demanding arrest of the accused. Superintendent of police (SP) Shyam Singh spoke to the family and the local MP in an attempt to control the situation.“We have told the family members that a fair investigation is being done in the case. So far two accused have been detained,” Shyam Singh said.The BJP MP demanded quick action in the case.“I am extremely distressed to hear of the heartbreaking incident involving the daughter of Jalore district. I am standing for justice for the victim and her family. The district administration has been instructed to take strict action against the accused,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-girl-found-hanging-locals-allege-gang-rape-seek-arrest-of-accused/story-LHHtpLWHbXCaVesrzZhh4I.html
18-07-2020||India||Opposition slams Odisha govt’s move of sending doctors from tribal areas to Ganjam||At a time when Covid-19 cases are spiralling out of control, opposition Congress and BJP have slammed the Odisha government’s move of sending doctors from tribal districts of the state to the Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam calling it a huge mismanagement of the health crisis.A few days ago Odisha had posted 130 doctors from tribal districts such as Malkangiri, Koraput, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Bolangir and Kalahandi to Ganjam that has reported over 5,280 Covid-19 cases, around 30 per cent of the total coronavirus cases of Odisha. Ganjam, also the home district of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, has failed to get a grip on the Covid-19 situation with 80-90 per cent of the cases now being reported from all over the district, triggering fears of community transmission.However, the government’s move of sending doctors from the tribal districts, already reeling under shortage of doctors has come in for sharp criticism. Malkangiri district Congress committee president Govind Patra said the transfer of 10 doctors from the district to Ganjam was unfortunate. “Malkangiri has now 122 active Covid-19 cases and cases are being reported from the urban areas. The situation in Malkangiri is very critical and we have acute shortage of doctors. The government should not have sent doctors from here,” Patra said.He said the district has 93 doctors as against total sanctioned posts of 197. “Similarly, 20 percent of the total health workers appointed in the district are yet to be appointed. In such a situation, the doctors and health workers are somehow managing the scene. If the government wanted more doctors in Ganjam, it could have requisitioned private doctors,” Patra elaborated.Similarly, in Kalahandi where 73 of the sanctioned posts of 107 specialist doctors in government hospitals are lying vacant, former union minister Bhakta Charan Das slammed the government move. “The government simply escalated the Ganjam crisis by getting migrant workers from other states without testing them. Now that the government has mismanaged the health crisis, it is triggering another crisis in backward districts like Kalahandi by getting doctors from there,” said Das.BJP leader Bhrigu Buxipatra too criticised the government move of sending doctors from tribal districts to Ganjam. “The government never had a strategy in place to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Now with the rise in cases in Ganjam, it has started taking whimsical decisions. This would lead to major health crisis in districts like Koraput,” he said.In Nabarangpur district, which has 106 doctors from sanctioned posts of 256, the decision to send 19 doctors from there to Ganjam was criticized by former Congress MP Pradip Majhi. “Tribal dominated districts have several health issues including malaria, Japanese Encephalitis and other diseases. If the government does not withdraw its order, we will be forced to resort to a strike and agitation in the coming days,” said Majhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-slams-odisha-govt-s-move-of-sending-doctors-from-tribal-areas-to-ganjam/story-XgaBvkHYicZ9WsXvHRbRqI.html
18-07-2020||India||Two elderly Covid-19 patients die in Tripura, fourth case in July||Two more Covid-19 patients died in Tripura on Saturday, becoming the fourth death case in July. A 72-year-old woman having complaints of diabetes and hypertension was referred to state-run GBP hospital in Agartala on Friday by a local hospital in Gomati District. She died on Saturday afternoon. Few hours after her death, a 62-year-old Covid-19 patient, brought to the GBP hospital on July 16, died. Total six death cases of Covid-19 patients have been recorded so far including one patient who committed suicide. Two days ago, a 38-year-old man died at GBP Hospital, a day after he was tested positive with coronavirus. Similarly, a 72-year-old Covid-19 patient died in the hospital a day after his coronavirus test report came positive. In the first week of June, deaths of two Covid-19 patients were recorded including one patient who committed suicide in the GBP hospital.The state got total 2498 Covid-19 patients of whom 1735 were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-veteran-covid-19-patients-die-in-tripura-fourth-case-in-july/story-HSfBjZKyuYSmq8BBQDhuEL.html
18-07-2020||India||Sikh community leader Nidan Singh Sachdeva released from captivity in Afghanistan||Nidan Singh Sachdeva, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan, who was kidnapped in Paktia province on 22 June 2020, was released from captivity followed by efforts made by Afghanistan government and community elders, ministry of external affairs said on Saturday.While expressing its appreciation for the efforts made for his release, the foreign affairs ministry reiterated its concern over continued targeting of minorities by terrorists at the behest of their “external supporters”. “We convey our appreciation to the government of Afghanistan and tribal elders from the area, whose efforts secured the return of Nidan Singh. Targeting and persecution of minority community members by terrorists at the behest of their external supporters, remains a matter of grave concern,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted, without explicitly naming Pakistan.Nedan Singh, a helper at a local gurdwara, was kidnapped by unidentified persons in Paktia province in eastern Afghanistan last month leading to a strong condemnation from the Indian government.The government had since been in touch with authorities in Afghanistan for his release and also to ensure the safety, security and well-being of the minority community in Afghanistan.The abduction followed the killing of around 30 members of the Sikh community in a terror attack on a place of worship in Kabul on March 25. The attack was claimed by the Islamic State, though Indian officials pointed out the role of Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Taiba.Afghanistan’s Sikh minority has dwindled to a few hundred families after being targeted by the Taliban and other groups in recent decades. Most of the Sikh minorities in Afghanistan live in Kabul, Jalalabad and GhazniPost his abduction, the Afghan Sikh community in the United States had also urged for his release and requested the Indian government to grant them legal entry with long-term residency multiple-entry visa.In a letter on May 4, Congressman John Garamendi, co-chair of the Sikh Caucus, and 25 others stated that the Sikh community continues to be under “grave” threat from Islamic State terrorist attacks directed at Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-community-leader-nidan-singh-sachdeva-released-from-captivity-in-afghanistan/story-Bi54Y6yDzPTRngp2SbC3eJ.html
18-07-2020||India||India praises Afghan govt for efforts to ensure release of abducted Sikh leader||India on Saturday conveyed its appreciation to the Afghanistan government and tribal elders for their efforts in ensuring the release of a Sikh leader who was kidnapped last month.Nidan Singh Sachdeva, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh minorities of Afghanistan, was kidnapped in Chamkani district of Paktia province on June 22. He was released from captivity on Saturday, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.The statement didn’t give details about the circumstances of Sachdeva’s release or who had abducted him.“We convey our appreciation to the government of Afghanistan and tribal elders from the area, whose efforts secured the return of Mr Nidan Singh,” the statement said.“The targeting and persecution of minority community members by terrorists at the behest of their external supporters remains a matter of grave concern,” it added.The statement also noted that through a recent decision, “India has decided to facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-praises-afghan-govt-for-efforts-to-ensure-release-of-abducted-sikh-leader/story-n4kwmcxdKsbW71uJ98P7vO.html
18-07-2020||India||India summons Pakistani envoy over death of 3 civilians in LoC ceasefire violation||India on Saturday summoned the charge d’affaires of the Pakistan high commission to lodge a strong protest over the death of three civilians in firing by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC). A total of 21 Indians have been killed and 94 more injured in 2,711 unprovoked violations of the ceasefire along the LoC by Pakistani forces this year, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Pakistani charge d’affaires was told three civilians, including a child, were killed and another child was injured in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistani forces in Krishna Ghati sector in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday night. The dead belonged to the same family.“India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistan forces,” the statement said.“India also protested Pakistan’s continued support to cross-border terrorist infiltration into India, including supporting cover fire provided by Pakistani forces,” it added.The statement said Pakistan was called upon to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LoC and the international boundary.The LoC has witnessed intense exchanges of fire after bilateral ties have fallen to new low. India has also accused Pakistan of backing the infiltration of terrorists across the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-summons-pakistani-envoy-over-death-of-3-civilians-in-loc-ceasefire-violation/story-dkNbv88MYwLKe1cPBOtIHK.html
18-07-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases soar, Kerala begins ‘cluster care strategy’||As the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala continues to rise, the state government has decided to implement a ‘cluster care’ method to target the affected areas and start its first plasma bank in Malappuram district, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday.The locally-transmitted cases are more than 60 per cent in the last few days and that is a clear sign of an impending explosion, the chief minister also said.“A cluster is formed where there is a burst in cases. We will isolate the particular area and testing, treatment and quarantine will be strengthened in these clusters. Earlier in Malappuram and Kasaragod ‘cluster care’ strategy worked well,” CM Vijayan said. He also said special attention will be given to the coastal belt which is in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic. “For the next 10 days, all coastal hamlets in the state will be treated as containment zones. Only essential services and health workers will be allowed to function,” CM said, adding that one oxygen cylinder will be kept in all police stations for people to use it in emergency situations. The lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram, among the worst cities of Kerala, will be extended to 10 more days, CM Vijayan said. He also said that Kerala has 299 hotspots now.With 593 new cases, the total increased to 11,659 in the state. Out of this, 6,841 are active cases and 5,175 recovered. The state reported two more deaths which took the death toll to 42. Among the infected are 19 health workers and eight paramilitary and police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-soar-kerala-begins-cluster-care-strategy/story-an6CNH6XuIwBBH1RbKxOsO.html
18-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases cross 3-lakh mark, Mumbai’s count is now over 1 lakh||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 infections crossed the 3 lakh-mark on Saturday and climbed to 3,00,937 with the addition of 8,348 new patients, the state health department said.At least 144 people succumbed to the viral infection, taking the death toll in the worst-hit state to 11,596. Of the total deaths, 86 fatalities are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.A total of 5,306 patients were cured and discharged during the day. With the fresh batch of recoveries, the number of people who have recovered from the highly infectious disease has risen to 1,65,663.ALSO READ | Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 7% higher than national average at 70%Maharashtra at present has 1,26,926 active cases, according to health department data. More than 15,22,564 samples have been tested for the infection in Maharashtra till date.Maharashtra’s recovery rate now stands at 55.05 per cent while the mortality rate is 3.85 per cent. Mumbai’s recovery rate has increased to nearly 70 per cent, which is 7 per cent more than the registered national average, Union health department data has indicated.Mumbai’s recovery rate is nearly 15 per cent more than that of the state of Maharashtra, which is low at 55.05 per cent.Financial capital Mumbai crossed the one lakh-mark with the addition of 1,186 new cases on Saturday. The number of Covid-19 cases in the city now stands at 1,00,350 while the death toll rose by 65. With the 65 new fatalities, Mumbai’s death toll has increased to 5,650.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 10.38 lakh, death toll at 26,273Pune city has surpassed Mumbai recording 1,589 new Covid-19 cases during the day while neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad Township saw 642 new cases.In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the number of cases in the Kalyan-Dombivali belt mounted by 518 to 17,640 in 24 hours while the number of cases in Thane has reached 16,894.In other parts of the state, the tally of coronavirus cases rose by 228 in Nashik and 214 in Aurangabad. Kolhapur district has 227 cases, Solapur district 151, Pune district 307, and Jalgaon district 182.A total of 7,40,884 people in Maharashtra are currently under home quarantine while 45,552 are admitted in institutional quarantine across the state, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-cases-cross-3-lakh-mark-mumbai-s-count-is-now-over-1-lakh/story-PskASGzOsnkOJiw0bghmnK.html
18-07-2020||India||In Bihar, 14,000 migrants seek counselling to overcome lockdown blues||Nearly 14,000 migrant labourers who returned to their natives places in Bihar from other states during the Covid-19 lockdown have sought counselling and psychological help from mental health professionals in the last three and a half months, shows the data of the Bihar State Health Society (BSHS).Most of them were reported to have been suffering from depression, anxiety, apprehensions and sleeplessness.Among 38 districts of the state, Banka had the maximum number of such cases. Altogether 1,847 migrants in Banka have sought counselling facility between April and first fortnight of July this year.Muzaffarpur was next where 1,744 migrants consulted counsellors during this period, followed by Gopalganj (1,539) and Arwal (1,348).Araria reported the minimum number of such cases (15) while the capital Patna reported a modest 253 cases.The BSHS has been running a mental health programme for the migrants affected by Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. In April this year, it had started ‘Ummeed’, a counselling and medical treatment facility for mental health problems among migrant labourers, people in health quarantine and isolation centres. All district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and quarantine centres and isolation centres were asked to provide necessary counselling and psychiatrist support services to Covid-19 affected people. “Since April 5 to July 16, 2020, we have 13,930 mental health cases. But the actual number must be much higher. We all know that a large number of people don’t understand they need counselling and mental support services. Many migrant labourers may not be aware of this,” Preeti Bajpai, state consultant, mental health programme of the BSHS, said.“We also involved ASHAs (accredited social health activists) or the community workers and ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) who are the village level female health workers, the first contact person between the community and health services. They intimate us about the cases,” she said.Nipurnh Gupta, communication officer, Unicef, said these ASHAs and ANMs were given online orientation training. “They are also making migrants aware about mental health treatment facilities created for them by the government,” she said.Dr Rajesh, the monitoring and evaluation officer, mental health programme at the BSHS, said the effort has been to reach migrants located even in remote areas “We knew the loss of income and jobs among them, insecurities and isolation would affect their mental health,” he said. To mitigate all this, there was the need of mental health services, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-14-000-migrants-seek-counselling-to-overcome-lockdown-blues/story-jxQmhahb6CU0gpqKN5jjkL.html
18-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey escaped from police custody 22 yrs ago, old FIR traces gangster’s past||Gangster Vikas Dubey had escaped from police custody after he and some of his men were arrested in Shivli area of Kanpur Dehat, way back in 1998. Dubey’s escape was aided by a crowd that outnumbered the policemen, who were taking him to the police station, reveals an old FIR, a copy of which is in HT’s possession.The police had arrested him in two cases of attempt to murder and violence from Bikru village, which then fell under Shivli police station.According to the FIR filed by senior sub inspector Brijendra Singh on May 9, 1998, the crowd surrounded the police jeep and freed accused Vikas Dubey and Deepu Dubey. The two accused also assaulted the policemen with the assistance of the crowd before escaping, it claimed.The FIR noted that policemen suffered injuries and their uniforms were torn. Singh had commented that Vikas Dubey was pradhan (head) of the village and people feared him so much that no one could muster courage to testify against him. The FIR was found during the ongoing investigation into the past of the now slain gangster, who, it seems, had a history of murderous assaults on the police. IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal said the current status of this case in the court was being looked into.Vikas Dubey was killed on the morning of July 10, while he allegedly tried to escape from police custody, while being brought back to Kanpur from Ujjain. The dreaded gangster was nabbed while on the run after plotting a deadly ambush of eight policemen on July 3 near his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikas-dubey-escaped-from-police-custody-22-yrs-ago-old-fir-traces-gangster-s-past/story-LZIjeJhLxrzv3U8Y52hjzO.html
18-07-2020||India||‘Community spread has started and the situation is bad’: IMA Chairman||With one million people getting affected by Covid-19, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) is of the view that community spread has started and the situation is pretty bad.While speaking to ANI, Dr V K Monga, the Chairman of IMA Hospital Board of India said, “This is now an exponential growth. Every day the number of cases is increasing by more than around 30,000. This is really a bad situation for the country. There are so many factors connected with it but overall this is now spreading to rural areas. This is a bad sign. It now shows a community spread.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the latest update by the Union Health Ministry, the total confirmed cases reached 10,38,716. There are 3,58,629 active cases and 6,53,751 cured/discharged/migrated. A total of 26,273 deaths have been registered to date.Dr Monga further said, “Cases are penetrating down into towns and villages where it will be very difficult to control the situation. In Delhi, we were able to contain it, but what about interior parts of the country in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Madhya Pradesh (which may be the new hotspots)?”“All these issues are very important and the state governments should take full care and seek help of the Central government to control the situation,” Monga said.As many as 1,34,33,742 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till July 17. Of these 3,61,024 samples were tested on Friday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.ICMR is ramping up testing facilities regularly. At present, 885 government laboratories and 368 private laboratory chains are conducting Covid-19 tests across the country.“This is a viral disease that spreads very fast. To contain the disease there are only two options. Firstly, 70 per cent population contracts the disease and gets immune, and other is getting an immunisation,” stated Monga.Vaccination, being the greatest hope to contain Covid-19, India’s two indigenous vaccine makers would be starting human trials soon.“There has to be phases of trials then human trial, then efficacy and side effects. Also, importantly it has to be seen how long this immunity will last because most of the patients are unable to go beyond three months of immunity,” said Dr Monga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-spread-has-started-and-the-situation-is-bad-observes-ima/story-I85IQfOvsUhdV9prHsrGbI.html
18-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Congress, BJP sharpen attack on CM Vijayan||The multi-agency team probing the Kerala gold smuggling case on Saturday carried out several raids in the state and detained many for questioning, a senior officer familiar with the developments said, adding the scope of inquiry will be widened by probing political and bureaucratic patronage to smuggling syndicates.“Without strong patronage such a thriving syndicate can’t function in the state. Our inquiry will cover terror angle, hawala and political and bureaucratic patronage also. This time we will get to the bottom of the racket,” said the official.The National Investigation Agency-led probe in the matter is generating enough political heat in the state. “We have nothing to fear. Let the guilty be punished. Some people are in a race to arrive at a conclusion but their designs will be short-lived,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, adding there was a concerted bid to tarnish the image of the government. Those who are cheering will have to repent in the end, he said criticising the opposition.The BJP and the Congress were unsparing in their criticism .“Role of two high-ranking officials in the CM’s office, his former secretary M Sivasankar and former IT fellow Arun Balachandran, are out. Now the CM can’t wash off his hands,” said BJP state president K Surendran.“Since powerful aides have gone it is time for him to follow,” said state Congress chief Mullapally Ramachandran.The customs had seized 30 kg gold from a baggage addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Later, the probe was handed over to the NIA.Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Enforcement Directorate, Intelligence Bureau and Income Tax are part of the ongoing investigation.Meanwhile, a gunman of the Kerala police posted at the United Arab Emirate consulate allegedly tried to end his life on Friday, a day after he was reported missing by his family. But the customs suspect that this accident was aimed at covering up his alleged link with the gold smuggling racket. A senior official of the customs said the gunman will be questioned after his release from the hospital.The man was working at the consular office for the last three years and before this he was posted at the immigration department at the Thiruvananthapuram airport. In the leaked call details of Swapna Suresh, second accused in the case, there were many calls to him and customs suspect he knew about the racket and accepted a share in return. The CM has denied reports that the consulting agency PricewaterHouseCoopers (PHC) was dropped from the state ‘e Mobility Hub’ project. Earlier there were reports the CPI(M) central leadership was not happy with the way the state government engaged many international consultants and contract agencies. But he denied this report saying it was sheer imagination of some newsmen.The state police had filed a cheating case against Suresh, PHC and a placement agency Vision Technology on July 13. During investigation it was found that Suresh had produced a fake degree certificate to secure a job at the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited, a state government undertaking. PHC and Vision Technology were authorised agencies responsible for verifying her educational documents, said the police. The case was registered under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) 465 forgery and 471 (using as genuine a forged document).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-congress-bjp-sharpen-attack-on-cm-vijayan/story-VJZEsjodODcsJUTl6zQ2ML.html
18-07-2020||India||Security forces kill three militants in J-K’s Shopian district||Three militants were killed in an encounter in South Kashmir’s Shopian district on Saturday morning, the army said. The shootout began after the army, police and the CRPF launched a joint operation at Amshipora village in Shopian district. “As the search and cordon operation was underway, it turned into an encounter in which three unidentified militants were killed. The militants fired from a cowshed of the lone house located in an orchard,’’ the army spokesman said.Police said that identification of the militants is underway and the DNA samples were taken from bodies of the slain militants.This was the second encounter in south Kashmir in the last 24 hours. On Friday, three Jaish-e-Mohammad militants were killed in Kulgam district including a Pakistani commander, who was identified as Waleed by the police and was believed to be an IED expert. Police said that Waleed was active in the area for the past 18 months and had escaped four cordon and search operations in the recent past.The bodies of militants are not being handed over to their family members due to the Covid-19 pandemic for the last three month.. They are instead buried in Baramulla, Kupwara and Ganderbal districts, at times in the presence of the family members.In June, security forces had killed 48 militants in various encounters in the Valley. It was the highest number of casualties that the militants had suffered in a month this year. Most of them were killed in four districts of south Kashmir. Since January this year, 136 militants have been killed in different encounters across Kashmir. Among them were top commanders of different militant outfits including Hizbul Mujahideen, operational commander, Riyaz Naikoo.The police and army has now compiled another list of the top militant commanders who are active in the Valley and according to the IG Kashmir, Vijay Kumar the militants will be neutralized.Top police officials recently said that fresh militant recruitment has come down in the first six months. However, reports from the ground suggest that despite the killing of militants in the encounters, new recruitment is still taking place, especially in south Kashmir. Security forces have said that they won’t harm the youth who return to their homes. But several youth who have gone missing, have not paid heed to the calls of their families and forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-kill-three-militants-in-j-k-s-shopian-district/story-hcqcjQ1rOdi0oINXvhfIoJ.html
18-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: With 1,475 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi’s count jumps to 1.21 lakh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi logs 1,475 new Covid-19 cases, 26 deaths mark lowest fatality count since June 9Delhi logged 1,475 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the national capital’s coronavirus count to 1,21,582, the state health department said on Saturday. The 26 new fatalities have taken the death toll due to the viral infection to 3,597. Read moreCBDT’s new Form 26AS will remind taxpayers to file major financial transactionsThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has introduced a new auto-generated ‘Form 26AS’ which will handhold taxpayers while filing their ITRs in a faceless manner from the current assessment year , an official statement said. Read moreWould you forgive a cheating partner? Survey finds that most wouldRemember the good old days when concepts like one woman man, and one man woman not only existed but were actually sought after? People craved true love, a life partner, just that one person to spend their life, have adventures and grown old with. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput knew about Dil Bechara’s streaming release, was ‘very happy’ about it: Mukesh ChhabraFilmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, whose first film as director, Dil Bechara, is slated for release on Friday, has spoken about the last conversation that he had with actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sushant died by suicide on June 14, at the age of 34. Read moreCERT-In issues warning about a credit card skimming campaign that is targeting e-commerce websitesThe Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) has issued a public warning about a credit card skimming campaign that is targeting sports, health and e-commerce websites. CERT-In explained in an official post that hackers are targeting websites that are hosted on Microsoft’s IIS server that is running on the ASP.NET web application framework. Read moreKapil told me ‘Rahul don’t commit to anything now’: Dravid explains how he became India A coachBatting great Rahul Dravid says legendary all-rounder Kapil Dev’s advice helped him to explore options after his retirement before eventually taking up the coaching job of India A and Under-19 sides. Read moreForget ‘everything is cake’, this woman’s hand is a banana. WatchOver the past few weeks, cakes have taken over the Internet by being everywhere and everything. This even gave rise to the ‘everything is cake’ meme. But while you continue getting surprised over random objects turning out to be cake, here’s a post that will leave you just as - or maybe more - impressed. A makeup artist managed to turn her hand into a banana and her creation has stunned thousands. Read more‘Students shouldn’t have Covid stamp’: HRD minister on college exam decisionUnion Human Resource Development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal commented on the University Grants Commission to make final examinations in universities compulsory. During a conversation with Shashi Shekhar, editor-in-chief, Hindustan, Pokhriyal said that students will suffer if they graduate without giving final semester examinations and a ‘Covid stamp’. He also expressed confidence that the states currently opposing the move would see the Centre’s logic. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-with-1-475-new-covid-19-cases-delhi-s-count-jumps-to-1-21-lakh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VPu7XDhxhaJxzc0JjVF1fK.html
18-07-2020||India||Four die while cleaning effluent tank at Gujarat textile factory||Four workers died after inhaling a poisonous gas while cleaning a chemical effluent tank at a textile factory in Ahmedabad district on Saturday, the police said.The incident took place on the premises of Vishal Fabrics, a unit of Chiripal Group, in Koth area of Dholka town.“Four workers died after inhaling poisonous gas inside the chemical waste tank when they entered to clean it,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police Nitesh Pandey.Further probe was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-die-while-cleaning-effluent-tank-at-gujarat-textile-factory/story-7m6gRSzJB4vc5LQh99BmEJ.html
18-07-2020||India||District collectors to decide on imposing lockdown in Chhattisgarh amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh, the cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday authorized district collectors to take a call on imposing lockdown in their respective areas keeping in mind the spread of the virus. The decision was taken by the Chief Minister during a special cabinet meeting at the chief minister’s office in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the state.Agriculture minister Ravindra Chaubey briefing the media after the meeting said that Covid-19 testing will be doubled by the health department in the next few days and the number of Covid-19 beds will also be increased.“The Chief Minister has decided to increase manpower like technicians, lab attendants doctors, ANMs in the health department to contain the virus,” he said. The minister further said that depending upon the situation in a district the District Collector has been authorized to impose full lockdown or curfew like closure to check the spread of the virus.“However, the collector has to inform people of the district three days prior to the curfew,” Chaubey said.“The collectors are authorized to impose complete curbs (lockdown), with the following things in mind. Firstly, it will be under Section 144 & the Epidemic Act, and shall not be called ‘lockdown’ officially but prohibitory orders. Secondly, it will be for large urban areas only, not for rural areas and thirdly the containment zones must be strictly enforced in the area where the infection has been found and not just by putting up a couple of barricades,” said a senior IAS officer present in the meeting.Earlier this week, Chhattisgarh health department issued a fresh list of red, orange, green zones, spanning 112 blocks in 25 districts, amid a spike in coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases in the state. Only Sukma, Gaurella-Pendra-Marwahi and Dhamtari districts do not feature in the state health department’s latest advisory.On Saturday, the state government also decided to impose penalties ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 for spitting in public places and violating home quarantine and social distancing measures.The government had earlier fixed a fine of Rs 100 for not wearing face masks in public places.For violating home quarantine instructions, a fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed.Owners of commercial institutions and shops will be liable to pay Rs 200 in penalty if social distancing protocols are flouted in their facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/district-collectors-to-decide-on-imposing-lockdown-in-chhattisgarh-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-3QadzP0f8KGgDhmnko4jDI.html
18-07-2020||India||Rajasthan regional outfit gives Ashok Gehlot two reasons to cheer||The rebellion-riddled Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan received a boost on Saturday with two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) pledging their support to the government in a reversal of the party’s earlier stand of neutrality announced on Monday.The MLAs, Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad, held a joint press conference with newly appointed state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara unequivocally declaring their support to Ashok Gehlot on his assurance to meet their demands related to the development of the state.The support is significant given the thinning of government majority due to an ongoing rebellion by former deputy chief minister and state party president Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs supporting him.Also Read: Sanjay Jain, linked to alleged horse trading in Rajasthan, arrestedThe assured support of BTP MLAs could be crucial in a possible floor test to save the government. It is also significant since the regional party had on Monday issued a whip directing its MLAs to take a neutral position during the present political turmoil. “We had supported the Congress in the Rajya Sabha elections on the condition that our demands related to the development of our areas will be met. We have again held discussions with the chief minister on those demands and we have been assured that the demands will be fulfilled,” BTP MLA Roat said.Earlier in the day, Gehlot received a list of demands from the BTP MLAs and their party functionaries. Gehlot later tweeted to say that BTP had announced its support to the government.Dotasara confirmed the meeting.Also Read: ‘Rajasthan paying for discord in Congress’: BJP’s Vasundhara Raje“BTP MLAs and their party leaders held discussions with the chief minister. They were already with us and have reassured their support to the Ashok Gehlot government,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Ramprasad said his party believed in “issue-based” politics and was against “toppling an elected government”. Congress has a total of 107 MLAs, including the 19 rebels who could lose their seats in the assembly if they are disqualified by the speaker.The party claims that the Gehlot government has support of 109 MLAs, including Congress, independents and other supporting party legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-receives-shot-in-the-arm-with-btp-mlas-pledging-support-to-government/story-xadwDUWSO0zcWjKAcxjO1H.html
18-07-2020||India||India will pay huge price for govt’s cowardice in Ladakh, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi fired another salvo at the Centre on Saturday over its handling of the face-off with China in Ladakh. In a tweet, he said India will pay a huge price because of the government’s “cowardly actions”.“China has taken our land and GOI is behaving like Chamberlain. This will further embolden China. India is going to pay a huge price because of GOI’s cowardly actions,” he said in his tweet.The former Congress president tagged Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s speech in Lukung near the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh on Friday during which he said progress has been made in talks with China for a solution to the border standoff but he cannot guarantee to what extent it would be resolved.Singh went on to say that no power in the world could grab even an inch of Indian territory.On July 3, in a thinly-veiled reference to China’s attempt to intrude into Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the “age of expansionism is over” and applauded the troops posted in the Galwan Valley for showing “fire and fury” to the enemies.Rahul Gandhi has been targeting the government ever since the clash of June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troopers dead in Galwan valley.Gandhi and the Congress party have also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi several times to specify where the clash had occurred and if the Chinese did not intrude into Indian territory then where did the Indian soldiers die? The Congress has also accused the government of being economical with the truth about the ground situation in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-pay-huge-price-for-govt-s-cowardice-in-ladakh-says-rahul-gandhi/story-rPzVXWazRwciYIbbnBOSTM.html
18-07-2020||India||Amethi self-immolation case: Congress, AIMIM leaders among 4 named in conspiracy||Congress’s Anup Patel and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s (AIMIM) Qadeer Khan were among the four persons booked for hatching a criminal conspiracy and instigating two women from Amethi to attempt self-immolation in front of Vidhan Bhawan here on Friday evening, Sujeet Pandey, commissioner of police (CP), Lucknow, said a day after the incident occurred amid growing criticism of worsening law and order in the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh (UP) government.Asma and her son Sultan, who were the relatives of the two victims, have also been booked, Pandey added.Qadeer Khan, AIMIM’s Amethi district president, and Asma were arrested, he added.Efforts were on to arrest the remaining two accused after a first information report (FIR) was registered against them at Hazratganj police station in this connection, Pandey said.Sultan is also an AIMIM member.Earlier on Friday evening, a woman (50) and her daughter (28) set themselves ablaze in front of gate number 3 of Vidhan Bhawan.They suffered serious burn injuries and are undergoing treatment at Lucknow’s Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civil Hospital.Doctors said the mother and the daughter suffered over 80% and 30% burn injuries, respectively.Pandey said the mother and the daughter had a dispute over a drain with four locals at their native place in Jaamo, Amethi district, on May 9.He said the warring parties lodged first information reports (FIRs) against each other over the dispute.The two women believed that the police were partial towards their rivals and did not initiate any action against them, Pandey said.He also said the duo initially approached AIMIM’s Khan for help in the case and later met Congress’s Patel at the party office in Lucknow through Asma and Sultan on July 4.Pandey said the two women had revealed in their statements to the police that the AIMIM and the Congress leaders suggested that they attempt self-immolation in front of Vidhan Bhawan in a bid to draw the attention of those in the higher echelons of power to their grievances.Pandey said they were brought to Lucknow by Asma and Sultan and coached about how to set themselves ablaze.Sultan had informed some electronic media journalists to cover the women’s self-immolation bid, the Lucknow top cop added. He said the accused wanted to highlight the matter to gain political mileage.Congress spokesman Patel, one of the accused in the case, said: “Two women had met me to highlight their problem some time ago. That day I had helped them connect with media persons in a bid to make them narrate their ordeal. I had not been in any touch with them since then. The accusations levelled at me by UP Police are baseless and concocted. I didn’t invite any media person to cover the unfortunate incident on Friday. The government and the state administration are trying to hide their incompetence by blaming the opposition.” “For over a year, several Congress leaders and cadres have been framed. The law and order situation in UP is in shambles. Congress leaders are being tortured for questioning the government. They are being framed and imprisoned,” he said in a press statement.“I am a soldier of Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra and state chief (Ajay Kumar) Lalluji. Truth and honesty are my virtues. All charges against me are fake and fabricated. I pray for the speedy recovery of the victims,” he said.Congress MLC (member of legislative council), Deepak Singh said: “The government is attempting to frame a Congress spokesman to hide its sins amid the worsening law and order situation in the state.”Khyati Garg, superintendent of police (SP), Amethi, also told media persons that four policemen were suspended for dereliction of their duties.The station house officer (SHO) of Jaamo police station, a beat in-charge sub-inspector (S-I) and two constables have been suspended for negligence in the case related to the victims.The SP said a departmental probe has been initiated against the four suspended police personnel in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amethi-self-immolation-case-congress-aimim-leaders-among-4-named-in-conspiracy/story-OXzdvVW63fnuIJjuiikImL.html
18-07-2020||India||Kerala unveils dual strategy to neutralise community transmissions||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated on Saturday that community transmission of Covid 19 infection had begun at two places in the state capital while adding that 60 percent of all coronavirus cases in the state could be traced to local transmissions.Vijayan’s statement comes on a day when Kerala reported 593 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths over the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 11,659 including 6,416 active cases under treatment. 173 fresh cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram in the last 24 hours.“Community spread of coronavirus has been confirmed at two places in Thiruvananthapuram. Everyone should strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines to break the chain,” Vijayan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Friday, CM had named Poonthura and Pulluvila in Thiruvananthapuram as areas where community transmission of the disease had begun. He added that areas in the immediate neighbourhood of these places had also seen a rapid increase in the number of contact cases.In the backdrop of community transmissions, State health minister K K Shailaja announced the implementation of “cluster care” method to bring the situation under control, according to PTI. The method essentially involves strengthening of testing, treatment and quarantining inside the identified hotbeds or clusters to prevent the disease from spreading beyond a particular area.“We must keep in mind that the clusters are formed just before the community transmission,” Shailaja said in a release. A cluster is defined as an area that has witnessed an “unexpected surge in Covid-19 cases” The disease may be reported en masse in people who work or live in that particular area.According to the health minister, there are 87 clusters including 70 active clusters in Kerala. The remaining 17 are contained clusters.“Two of such clusters have reported community transmission and the people there need to cooperate with the health department,” she said.Community transmission phase of the contagion is considered dangerous since it marks a stage, when tracing the source of a new infection becomes nearly impossible, leading to a very rapid increase in positive cases.She also added that the strategy was to “break the chain” of transmission from one cluster to another by “thoroughly locking the clusters.” The minister called for more attention to containment efforts in coastal areas.Thiruvananthapuram district’s coastal areas have been divided into three critical containment zones. According to an order released by the district administration, the zones will be kept under complete lockdown from 12 midnight of July 18 to midnight of July 28 for a period of ten days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-goes-for-cluster-care-and-coastal-lockdown-to-block-community-transmissions/story-HptzBWXtnaKwvh0Px6jjCL.html
18-07-2020||India||Kerala to go in for ‘cluster care’ method to contain Covid-19 spread||As the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala are on the rise, the state government has decided to implementa “cluster care” method to mitigate the spread of coronavirus, state health minister K K Shailaja said on Saturday. The minister said testing, treatment and quarantining will be strengthened inside the “clusters” in order to stop the spread of the virus beyond a particular area. “Those in the clusters must strictlyfollow the health protocol including wearing of masks, social distancing, handwash, use of sanitisers etc. We must keep in mind that the clusters are formed just before the community transmission,” Shailaja said in a release. A cluster is formed when there is an “unexpected surge in Covid-19 cases” at a particular area or a region. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Friday said that community spread had occurred in Poonthura and Pulluvila in Thiruvananthapuram and its nearby places have seen a rapid increase in the number of contact cases. The health minister said that there are 87 clusters in the state of which 70 are active clusters and 17 contained clusters. “Two of such clusters havereported community transmission and the people there need to cooperate with the health department to bringthose regions from the cluster classification,” she said. Contact tracing of the cluster is started based on the fact that there is at least one case where the source is unknown and more than two unrelated cases in an area. “It can be a market, hospital, coastal area, an institution, a ward, panchayat or a tribal area. The disease may be reported en masse in people who work or live in that particular area,” she said. She also said the state government and the health department was trying to “break the chain” of transmission from one cluster to another by “thoroughly locking the clusters.” “We need to give more attention to coastal areas.Inside the clusters, local transmission is more than 50 per cent, but outside the clusters it is below 10 per cent. We should prevent clusters forming and the community spread of the infection,” Shailaja said. She was speaking to reporters after inspecting the over 700-bed Covid-19 first line treatment centre set up at the International Convention Centre inside the Greenfield stadium here. The health department said that when a cluster is formed, a rapid response team will be set up which will engage in contact tracing and conduct testing on the basis of primary, secondary contacts. A region will be declassified as a cluster only if it is confirmed that there is no new case within 7 days after the last positive case in that area was detected. Kerala on Saturday reported 593 fresh Covid-19, of which 364 cases were through contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-go-in-for-cluster-care-method-to-contain-covid-19-spread/story-H4azaLXiZn57803bGUVh8L.html
18-07-2020||India||Thiruvananthapuram’s coastal areas go under lockdown to curb Covid-19 community transmission||A day after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said community transmission of Covid-19 was detected in Thiruvananthapuram, the government on Saturday slapped a 10-day complete lockdown in three critical containment zones in the district’s coastal areas.Thiruvananthapuram District Collector Navjot Khosa said the decision the decision to designate coastal areas into three critical containment zones was taken in view of community spread of Covid-19 in those areas of the district.“The zones will be kept under complete lockdown from 12 midnight of July 18 to midnight of July 28. The existing lockdown relaxations shall not be applied and strict lockdown measures shall be in force for a period of 10 days in these areas,” the District Collector’s said in her order.Earlier in the day, Kerala health minister KK Shailaja said that the rate of community transmission in Covid-19 clusters in the state is more than 50%.Shailaja said the government was turning its focus on coastal areas to break the chain of transmission of the disease.“We are trying to break the chain of transmission from one cluster to another. We are thoroughly locking the clusters. We need to give more attention to coastal areas,” she said.On Saturday, Kerala reported 593 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths taking the tally to 11,659 out of which 6,416 are active cases.Thiruvananthapuram reported 173 of the new cases, Vijayan said.Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been on the rise since the first week of May when expatriates and people working in other states began returning home.Kerala which was the first state to report Covid-19 in India in January had almost flattened the curve in the first week of May when it had brought down the number of active cases to less than one hundred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thrivananthapuram-s-coastal-areas-go-under-lockdown-to-curb-covid-19-community-transmission/story-JiTQP7Mmof8c319qJN5zTI.html
18-07-2020||India||Delhi logs 1,475 new Covid-19 cases, 26 deaths mark lowest fatality count since June 9||Delhi logged 1,475 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the national capital’s coronavirus count to 1,21,582, the state health department said on Saturday. The 26 new fatalities have taken the death toll due to the viral infection to 3,597.This is the eighth consecutive day when over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi.A day earlier, on Friday too, the national capital had reported 26 deaths, the lowest single-day Covid-19 fatality count since June 9. Yesterday, at least 1,462 new Covid-19 patients had been added to Delhi’s coronavirus tally.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 10.38 lakh, death toll at 26,273The number of active cases on Saturday was 16,711, down from 17,235 on the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 Covid-19 cases, which remains the highest till date.In a few Delhi hospitals, children who have been showing symptoms of Kawasaki-like syndrome have been admitted recently. Doctors at these hospitals have said that there is presumably a link with the Covid-19 infection.Kawasaki disease is an illness with an unknown cause that leads blood vessels to become inflamed. It affects children, mostly aged below five.According to Dr Dhiren Gupta, Senior Consultant, pediatrics department at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH), this is part of an emerging disease called ‘multi-system inflammatory syndrome’ or the MIS, which began in the United Kingdom and cases were also reported by the Centre for Disease Control (CDC) in the United States.ALSO READ | Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 7% higher than national average at 70%“In India, such trends were seen first in Mumbai and now in Delhi too. In half of the cases, it is more serious than a regular case of Kawasaki,” Dr Gupta said.He also said “there is a link” with Covid-19 and that in some cases the antibodies react and cause problems.India’s Covid-19 count surged to 10,38,716 on Saturday while 6,53,750 patients have recovered from the disease so far, according to data by the Union Health Ministry.The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 26,273 in the country with 671 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logs-1-475-new-covid-19-cases-26-deaths-mark-lowest-fatality-count-since-june-9/story-zQRi4PeYKmz5ceyYHUPk0O.html
18-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot claims support from regional party MLAs amid Rajasthan crisis||A regional party with two MLAs that withdrew support from the Congress government in Rajasthan has announced that it will now back chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The CM received letters of support from the Bharatiya Tribal Party this evening.“Both the Bharatiya Tribal Party of India (BTP) MLAs announced their support to the government by meeting with their state executive officials and discussing their demand,” Ashok Gehlot tweeted after the party called on him.  भारतीय ट्राइबल पार्टी (बीटीपी) के दोनों विधायकों ने उनकी प्रदेश कार्यकारिणी के पदाधिकारियों के साथ मुलाक़ात कर और अपने मांगपत्र के साथ चर्चा कर सरकार को समर्थन देने की घोषणा की। pic.twitter.com/a2783tQYDoVelaram Goghra, BTP’s Rajasthan chief, had said earlier that the party has been giving issue-based support to the Congress and if the government meets their demands, they will consider supporting it in case it comes to a floor test. He added the BTP voted for the Congress in the Rajya Sabha elections last month after the government promised to meet its demands.The two BTP members were among 101 lawmakers that attended the Congress legislature party meeting at a Jaipur hotel on Tuesday. They later left the hotel saying they would take a call on supporting the party at an “appropriate” time.BTP legislator Rajkumar Roat on Tuesday said police snatched keys to his car and that he was under detention and several people were asking him to go with them. The video soon went viral. Pilot’s social media team circulated Roat’s video to highlight how the government was harassing lawmakers. The BJP, too, cited the video to claim the government was intimidating the lawmakers.On Wednesday, Roat said he was not harassed. “...I had put out the videos, the incident was true but it was a case of mistaken identity by police. They did not recognise me,” he said.Claiming the support of over 100 MLAs, Gehlot has alleged that his former deputy Sachin Pilot has been conspiring to dislodge the government from the day of its formation in December 2018. The CM, in an interview to a TV channel, said Pilot had only 12-15 MLAs with him. With the addition of two more MLA, Gehlot, it appears, has further improved his numbers. In the 200-member house, the majority mark is 101. The BJP has 72 MLAs and has been watching the developments in the state. The Congress has accused the BJP of trying to dislodge the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-claims-support-from-regional-party-mlas-amid-rajasthan-crisis/story-bNOJZV0Vf29hRqJv0dPq4O.html
18-07-2020||India||Ram Temple Trust invites PM Modi to lay foundation stone, construction may begin on Aug 3 or 5||The Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya could begin on either August 3 or August 5 once Prime Minister Narendra Modi accepts the invitation sent by the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust to lay the foundation stone, a trust official said on Saturday.  “We have suggested two auspicious dates -- August 3 and 5 -- for the prime minister’s visit based on calculations of movements of stars and planets,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the spokesperson of Ram Mandir Trust president Nritya Gopal Das was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Another Trust official, Kameshwar Chaupal said that they have asked the PM to choose one date. “We have sent to the Prime Minister two dates to choose from - either 3rd August or 5th August - as the date to lay down the foundation of the Ram Temple. The construction will begin on the date he deems fit,” ANI quoted Kameshwar Chaupal of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust as saying.The trust met in Ayodhya earlier today especially to decide the date for beginning of the construction. It also announced that soil testing has begun for the laying of Ram Temple’s foundation.“Larsen & Toubro is collecting samples for soil testing. Drawings of the temple’s foundation will be made on the basis of the strength of soil 60 m below. Work to lay down the foundation will begin on the basis of the drawing,” news agency ANI quoted Champat Rai, General Secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust as saying.In another important decision, the trust decided the nitty-gritty of procuring marbles and bricks for the construction.“Today it was decided that bricks will be provided by Sompura Marbles bricks. Larsen & Toubro will carry out their work and the work related to bricks will be carried out by Sompura Marbles. Together, they’ll build a grand temple,” Rai was quoted as saying by the agency.On the front of raising money for temple construction, Rai added that the trust was planning an outreach to 10 crore families across 4 lakh localities in the country after the Monsoon season gets over.Fixing a date in August for the “bhoomi poojan” for starting the construction of the temple, delayed due to the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, was on the agenda of the meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soil-testing-for-laying-ram-mandir-s-foundation-begins-and-other-important-updates/story-ZIKQ9b66fO59wV39A26vZK.html
18-07-2020||India||Bengal govt to start measuring oxygen levels of home-quarantined Covid-19 patients||The West Bengal government will be procuring more than 10,000 oximeters to start measuring oxygen levels of home-quarantined people so that citizens could be discouraged from occupying hospital beds.The ground level health workers, including ASHA workers and civic health workers will be equipped with these oximeters along with thermal guns. They will move from door-to-door and measure the oxygen level and body temperature of people quarantined at homes and safe houses.“We have already procured around 2000 oximetres. Another 10,000 would be procured. This is a new initiative we are taking on the advice of the chief minister to discourage people from occupying hospital beds. The ASHA workers have been doing house-to-house surveys to detect ILI and SARI cases. Now they will also check oxygen levels,” said a senior official of the state health department.Current guidelines say that Covid-19 patients have to be admitted to hospitals if their oxygen saturation drops to 90% or below (normal is 95 to 100%). Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms or with critical co-morbidities are advised to get admitted in hospitals. Patients with mild symptoms are treated at home. A series of steps, starting from setting up of ‘safe houses’ and launching ‘satellite health centres’ in hospitals, have been taken to keep hospital beds free for critically ill patients.“But the demand for hospital beds is rising as the disease is spreading. Everyone wants to be admitted in a hospital even if the person is asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. We are getting calls almost every day,” said a senior bureaucrat of the state government.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) too will purchase oximeters to randomly check the oxygen levels of residents through its ground level health workers.“While some councillors in their individual capacity have already purchased the machines and have started checking the oxygen level of quarantined people, the civic body would be purchasing oximeters to start checking the oxygen level of residents,” said Atin Ghosh, former deputy mayor and presently a member of the board of administrators that run the KMC.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also asked housing societies to purchase oximeters so that residents can regularly check the oxygen level in their blood.“The housing societies may keep two to three oximeters in their offices so that anyone can check the level of oxygen in the blood. The number of Covid-19 cases in housing societies is rising and this would discourage people from going to hospital if their oxygen level is above the required limit,” she said earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-start-measuring-oxygen-levels-of-home-quarantined-covid-19-patients/story-99f9Lt1JQ9eUoRZOa3KBuO.html
18-07-2020||India||CBDT’s new Form 26AS will remind taxpayers to file major financial transactions||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has introduced a new auto-generated ‘Form 26AS’ which will handhold taxpayers while filing their ITRs in a faceless manner from the current assessment year , an official statement said.The new form has been introduced to ensure that taxpayers will no longer forget to mention major financial transactions such as cash deposits and withdrawals, investments in shares and mutual funds, and property transactions in their annual income-tax returns (ITRs). Form 26AS is an auto-generated financial statement that includes taxation-related information, including details of high-value transactions. The form earlier used to give limited information related to tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) besides certain additional information including details of other taxes paid, refunds and TDS defaults.The CBDT explained that the income tax department already receives information such as cash deposit and withdrawal from saving bank accounts, sale and purchase of immovable property, time deposits, credit card payments, purchase of shares, debentures, foreign currency, mutual funds, buy back of shares, cash payment for goods and services as per the Income-Tax Act since 2016.“Now all such information under different SFTs [Statement of Financial Transactions] will be shown in the Form 26AS,” the statement said.A finance ministry official requesting anonymity said, the faceless system aims to handhold taxpayers for ease of filing returns. It will also reduce litigations as genuine taxpayers will not miss filing any transaction in their ITRs. Besides, it will nudge such taxpayers who tend to conceal these details to make full disclosures. Archit Gupta, founder and CEO at ClearTax said the move will provide access to both filers as well as the government to the taxpayer’s complete list of financial transactions. “In the near future, details of financial transactions related to the stock markets may also be included,” he said. ClearTax is a financial technology platform providing tax and investment-related solutions.According to Gupta, ‘Form 26AS’ earlier had an Annual Information Report (AIR) of transactions. Now, it will have details of Significant Financial Transaction (SFT). “Taxpayers will have access to details of all SFT filed by specified entities against their PAN (permanent account number),” he said.CBDT said that the ‘Form 26AS’ for any taxpayer will now display fields such as type of transaction, name of SFT filer, date of transaction, single or joint party transaction, number of parties, amount, mode of payment and remarks.Gopal Bohra, partner at tax consultancy firm NA Shah Associates LLP said, “The new form will enable the taxpayer to have all important information available while preparing the tax return so that the chances of committing any error will reduce significantly.”According to Pranjal Kamra, the CEO of legal and financial service firm Finology, the new form has enlarged the scope of reporting to include financial transactions such as sale of shares, redemption of mutual funds and sale of property. “This would not only facilitate reportings but would also desist those taxpayers who inadvertently conceal financial transactions while filing their IT returns.”“The government is putting all its effort to make the economy transparent and to curb all the illegitimate financial transactions. The introduction of new form 26AS is a massive step forward in this direction,” said Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbdt-s-new-form-26as-will-remind-taxpayers-to-file-major-financial-transactions/story-1Ud04wHZdBFVQTBAYZKq3L.html
18-07-2020||India||‘Covid-19 cases went up last week, but no community spread’: Bihar minister||With the number of Covid-19 cases witnessing a sharp hike in Bihar in the last 7-8 days, the state health system is under stress and the Nitish government is facing attack from the Opposition for allegedly fudging figures. The government is accused of not being able to ramp up testing and improve facilities. A Central team, under joint secretary Lav Agarwal, has been dispatched to take stock of the situation and work out ways to prevent further spread.In an interview with HT, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Saturday said the state government was constantly increasing testing and facilities in hospitals.Here are edited excerpts from the interview: Q. A recent incident of an undersecretary in the health department breathing his last at AIIMS Patna has gone viral. There are allegations that he could not get a bed on time. Is the Bihar health system under stress?I have asked for a probe into the matter and gave clear instruction that such incidents should never recur. It is a fact that the number of Covid cases has gone up fast in the last 7-8 days, but the number of serious cases is not that high. There are around 2800-2900 beds in four dedicated Covid hospitals at AIIMS, NMCH, medical college & hospital at Bhagalpur and Gaya to deal with serious cases. Besides, there are other facilities. At present, the number of serious cases is not that high, but we are augmenting facilities.Q. The government has now allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic patients. But how would they be monitored?Various telephone numbers have been publicised through which people can seek medical advice. In case of any emergency, people can dial 102 for an ambulance, which will take the patient to the nearest hospital. There is no need to panic. The government is constantly working to upgrade facilities.Q. Opposition has been raising the issue of low testing and growing positive cases in Bihar? Is there fear of community spread?Now, we are testing over 10,000 samples every day and it will be further increased. We have also developed facilities for rapid antigen testing. Soon, more RT-PCR machines and TruNat machines will also come to add pace to testing. More testing will lead to more detection and more positive cases. But our recovery rate continues to be good. In the last 7-8 days, the number of cases has gone up, but there is nothing like community spread.Q. But many a time testing has to be closed if a couple of persons at the testing centres get infected?Yes, that is as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). If anyone is infected, the entire centre has to be sanitised before going ahead with further testing, else one may get faulty results.Q. Why private hospitals are not coming forward, as in other states, to supplement government efforts? Is the government planning to issue any directive?It is a matter of service. Stern directives will not solve the problem. We have again requested all the private hospitals to earmark 20% of the beds for isolation wards for Covid patients. We can only request them. We are ramping up our own facilities. All medical colleges have been asked to earmark 100 beds for Covid patients. Asymptomatic patients will also be kept at isolation centres at sadar hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals and covid care centres.Q. There is growing concern due to the increasing number of doctors, healthcare staff, officials and political leaders getting infected. Why it is happening.It is because the doctors and healthcare staff are the front-rank Corona warriors and they have higher chances of contracting infection. Politicians and officials are also coming in contact with people and so are exposing themselves.Q. What does Bihar expect from the Centre now that a team is coming?The Centre has been extending help. There are many states which are facing higher number of Covid cases than Bihar at present. The team under joint secretary will help us learn for the experiences in other states so that we will incorporate best practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-went-up-last-week-but-no-community-spread-bihar-minister/story-5ef7c89AdX36u9Hn3fsQ8N.html
18-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM underlines 3 super spreaders’ role in triggering Covid-19 spike||Uttarakhand chief minister on Saturday justified the weekend lockdown clamped in four districts of the state to cut the chain of Coved-19 transmissions while highlighting the threat posed by super spreaders, which if not detected on time, can lead to an undetected spiral in the number of infections.Trivendra Singh Rawat said not one but three super spreaders were eventually found in US Nagar district, which had emerged as the new hotbed of Coronavirus disease in the state. He said one single super spreader, a domestic worker, was responsible for infecting at least 49 people. “There were 3 super spreaders in Udham Singh Nagar which caused a rise in Covid 19 cases there. Problem was that there was no information about domestic workers and a domestic worker infected 49 people,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: Eyeing national security, Uttarakhand, ITBP to improve border infrastructureDehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar are the four districts that will observe a hard lockdown on the weekends to curb the rise in the number of cases.Rawat said that the lockdown implemented in US Nagar has been successful.The state government has not only announced the lockdown in the four districts but has also sealed Haridwar’s border with Uttar Pradesh till July 20 in view of rising coronavirus cases.Also Read: Uttarakhand will retract controversial order on Ganga stretch, but can’t say whenThe government has however exempted all essential services apart from industrial units, agricultural and construction activities, liquor shops and hotels. It has also allowed movement of people and vehicles associated with these activities.In order to regulate the flow of tourists into the state, all visitors from other states are now required to register on the Smart City web portal prior to their travel. Their registration documents will be verified at border check posts.Uttarakhand currently has 4,102 Covid-19 cases. The government has barred any devotee from outside the state from taking a dip in the holy Ganges. A violation of this order will result in mandatory 14-day quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-underlines-3-super-spreaders-role-in-triggering-covid-19-spike/story-HNpGYQyg2rX9eSMUgCsL2M.html
18-07-2020||India||Andhra adds 3,963 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike of 52 deaths take toll to 586||Andhra Pradesh recorded a staggering 3,963 new Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the southern state’s coronavirus count to 44,609, the state health department said on Saturday. The fresh coronavirus cases have registered the highest single-day spike so far in the state. With the 52 new fatalities, the death toll due to the viral infection in Andhra has now risen to 586.In the last 24 hours, 23,872 samples were tested, of which 3,963 turned positive, close to 18 per cent.Among the fresh cases reported on Saturday, none of the patients were from other states or countries, according to figures released by the Medical and Health Department of the state.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 10.38 lakh, death toll at 26,273Nearly 994 new cases were detected in East Godavari district and another 550 patients were found in Kurnool district, taking their total to 5,499 and 5,681.Twelve deaths were reported from East Godavari district, the highest in a single day in a district till date, according to the medical bulletin.On Saturday, 1,411 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state.Andhra Pradesh currently has 22,260 active Covid-19 cases after a total of 21,763 coronavirus patients recovered from the infectious disease.India’s Covid-19 count surged to 10,38,716 on Saturday, while 6,53,750 patients having recovered from the disease so far, according to data by the Union Health Ministry.The death toll due to Covid-19 in the country climbed to 26,273 with 671 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.At present, there are 3,58,692 active Covid-19 cases in the country, while 6,53,750 people have recovered so far and one has migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-adds-3-963-new-covid-19-cases-highest-spike-of-52-deaths-take-toll-to-586/story-RDFrQTfrhvofNZxgs1ozSL.html
18-07-2020||India||74-wheel truck with 70 tonnes of cargo covers 1,700 km to reach Kerala in 10 months||A juggernaut, carrying 70 tonnes of autoclave on 74 wheels, rolled on for 10 months, covering 1,700 kilometres from Nashik, Maharashtra, and finally reached its destination on Saturday -- Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), the country’s premier space research institute, in Thiruvananthapuram.Usually, a truck, covering a similar distance spanning five states, takes a maximum of seven days to reach its destination.But the giant-on-wheel was a mean machine, which kept other vehicles off the roads when it was on the move and in every district of the five states that the heavy-duty truck covered it was escorted by police vehicles in a bid to guard the state-of-the-art machinery.The mammoth journey that had started on September 1, 2019, had its share of spin-offs. The vehicle’s arduous trek ensured pot-holed roads were repaired, overgrown branches of trees were pruned and electric poles were removed to make way for the gargantuan vehicle.While at two places, iron girders had to be installed to ensure its smooth passage across rickety bridges.The tenure of the journey also got extended because of the unprecedented raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, which led to the imposition of nationwide lockdown restrictions from March 25 in a bid to contain the pandemic.“Lockdown made our movement miserable. In Andhra Pradesh, our vehicle was held up for a month due to lockdown. Later, our agency had to intervene. But, still, it was a challenging task. Fortunately, engineers and mechanics were at hand in our team of 30 that accompanied the Volvo FM heavy-duty truck,” said Subhash Yadav, an employee of a private agency that was assigned to shift the autoclave from Nashik to VSSC.The machinery took up the bulk of the vehicle’s space because it measured 7.5 metres in height and 7 metres in width, he added.“The aftershocks of the viral outbreak were felt during the momentous journey. For instance, in Kerala, an old lady urged us to make Covid-19 vaccine rather than send rockets to space. Many of us made the entire journey on foot. It was a challenging experience for us,” said another team member.A VSSC official said the heavy machinery would not be dismantled. The autoclave would be used to manufacture large aerospace products for various programmes and it is expected to be commissioned in July after making necessary modifications, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/74-wheel-truck-with-70-tonnes-of-cargo-covers-1-700-km-to-reach-kerala-in-10-months/story-WZQe8zwFPDKavfxPoqbu0N.html
18-07-2020||India||PM Modi condoles death of eminent mathematician C S Seshadri||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condoled the death of eminent mathematician C S Seshadri, saying his work in algebraic geometry will be remembered for generations.Seshadri died in Chennai on Friday. He was 88.“In the passing away of Professor C S Seshadri, we have lost an intellectual stalwart who did outstanding work in mathematics. His efforts, especially in algebraic geometry, will be remembered for generations,” the prime minister wrote on Twitter. “Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-eminent-mathematician-c-s-seshadri/story-nJhPi5V6LsZaTTZjdxsowM.html
18-07-2020||India||Assam floods affect 54 lakh people across 30 districts; death toll at 76||Nearly 54 lakh people have been affected across 30 districts of Assam due to massive flooding, state’s disaster management authorities informed on Saturday. At least 76 people have lost their lives in the disaster.“76 deaths and 53,99,017 people affected across 30 districts due to floods till July 17,” said Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).Due to the state’s fluvial landscape, Assam witnesses floods every year in the monsoon season which often results in loss of lives and damage to crops. According to the report by ASDMA, over 2.4 lakh hectares of agricultural land has been affected so far in Assam, while 3,014 villages are underwater.The flood-affected districts include Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Sonitpur, Darrang, Baksa, Nalbari, Barpeta, Chirang, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, Dhubri, South Salmara, Goalpara, Kamrup, Kamrup Metropolitan, Morigaon, Nagaon, Hojai, Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Sivasagar, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Karbi Anglong, West Karbi Anglong and Cachar.So far, the government has evacuated 76,003 people from the flood-affected areas. A total of 552 camps have been established under the relief work.Amid the reports of Assam’s grim situation, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi expressed solidarity with the northeastern state and said he is confident that the people will overcome the natural disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-floods-affect-54-lakh-people-across-30-districts-death-toll-at-76/story-SXOrtmN3wfHvNzVjArLn6L.html
18-07-2020||India||Yuva Sena moves SC against Centre’s decision to hold final year exams||The Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court on Saturday against the Centre’s decision to hold final year examinations for colleges and universities in September amid the Covid-19 pandemic .“Today Yuva Sena has filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court with a humble prayer to save lives of lakhs of students, teachers, non teaching staff and their families by asking the UGC to not be stubborn about enforcing examinations when India has crossed the 10 lakh cases mark,” tweeted Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray who heads the Yuva Sena.He also described the decision of the University Grants Commissions’ (UGC) “bizarre”.“The petition is for each and every student across the country, being forced to appear for an examination in an absolutely bizarre judgement of the situation by UGC and non flexibility when it comes to human safety.”In another tweet, he said if students still feel the need to appear for an examination, they voluntarily may do so in a post-Covid scenario.“We believe that academic excellence can’t be judged by 1 examination and for academic excellence, we must calculate the aggregate marks of the past semesters. Beyond which, if students still feel the need to appear for an examination, they voluntarily may do so post-Covid,” he said.Varun Desai, Yuva Sena’s secretary, in a video released on Saturday said that despite writing letters to the UGC and the ministry of human resource development, they have not received any replies. Desai said, “Maharashtra government has already cancelled the final year examinations and we want that decision to be taken for the entire country. In the last 10-15 days, we have received messages from lakhs of students seeking our support in this.” The Congress, a coalition partner in the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra also supported the decision. Satyajeet Tambe, president of the Maharashtra State Youth Congress said that they support the decision. He tweeted, “Conducting exams in the background of the #COVID__19 is the culmination of insensitivity).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yuva-sena-moves-sc-against-centre-s-decision-to-hold-final-year-exams/story-HB3u91n6GNkxmwxSgHxQWN.html
18-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot Vs Gehlot: Audio clips to be sent for forensic verification as BJP seeks CBI probe||Rajasthan police has decided to send the controversial audio clips, allegedly containing evidence of the BJP’s involvement in horse trading of state MLAs to destabilize Ashok Gehlot government, for forensic verification.The move comes amid BJP’s counter-offensive, demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to find out if the audio clips were recorded illegally through unauthorised phone tapping of legislators and politicians at the behest of the Rajasthan government. The developments in the past 24 hours have put the limelight on the clips, played out by the Ashok Gehlot camp claiming it to be the evidence of the involvement of some MLAs supporting Sachin Pilot, in a plot to bring down the Gehlot government.“FIR has been registered under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The audio clips will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for verification. After the report comes and it is verified, we will make the alleged people undergo a voice test,” Alok Tripathi, director general (DG) of Rajasthan’s anti corruption bureau (ACB) was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: ‘Not on speaking terms with Sachin Pilot for last 18 months’: Ashok GehlotThe senior ACB official said Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, on Friday, handed over the audio tapes to the ACB along with names of three individuals--Bhanwar Lal, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh—alleging their involvement in horse-trading attempts.The attempts by the state’s special operation group (SOG) to question Sachin Pilot and 18 of his loyalist MLAs camping at a hotel in Haryana’s Manesar town, failed yesterday since the MLAs had reportedly left the hotel by the time SOG was permitted by Haryana police to enter the premises.The SOG wanted to take voice samples of a few MLAs in Sachin Pilot’s camp.Earlier today, Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra suggested that the police in BJP-ruled Haryana had blocked Rajasthan police helping MLAs to move out.“Rajasthan SOG team was made to wait by BJP government’s Haryana police until the MLAs inside the resort in Manesar were moved out through a secret door,” he said while addressing a press conference in Jaipur today.Also Read: Even Rajiv Gandhi was handsome, spoke good English: Rebel Cong MLA takes jibe at Ashok GehlotThe party had earlier demanded the arrest of Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat, alleging that he is heard in one of the audio clips discussing the plot to bring down the Congress government in the state.Shekhawat has denied any involvement and said that the voice on the clip is not his. The BJP has sought a CBI probe to find out if phones of politicians and MLA were tapped illegally. Former Rajasthan chief minister and senior BJP leader Vasundhra Raje, too, hit out at the Congress and said that the people of Rajasthan were made to bear the brunt of the infighting in Congress. She added that the Congress was attempting to put the blame on BJP for failure to keep its own house in order.The battle on the legal front between the two factions will resume on Monday, with continuation of arguments in the Rajasthan High Court on a petition filed by Sachin Pilot seeking dismissal of disqualification notice served on him and 18 of his supporter MLAs. The court has barred the speaker from taking any action till 5:30 pm on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-vs-gehlot-audio-clips-to-be-sent-for-forensic-verification-as-bjp-seeks-cbi-probe/story-39jheQlaMfBQmUTH7jV1XM.html
18-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 7% higher than national average and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At 70% Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 7% higher than national averageWith Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally hovering close to the one lakh-mark, the recovery rate of the country’s financial capital has increased to nearly 70 per cent, which is 7 per cent more than the registered national average, Union health department data has indicated. Read moreEye on China, Modi-Abe Summit could be held in October; Philippines nextIndia and Japan have restarted discussions to firm up dates for the annual summit between prime ministers Narendra Modi and Shinzo Abe, possibly around October. Read moreRicha Chadha reveals what she was paid for Gangs of Wasseypur, cites examples of actors who were left destitute in final yearsActor Richa Chadha in her blog has highlighted an important financial aspect of filmmaking. She has said that in India, actors aren’t given residuals (royalties, essentially) for their work, and this might perhaps be the reason why many yesteryear actors were reportedly left destitute in their final days. Read moreMS Dhoni just took away the series from Pakistan: Kamran Akmal lauds India’s ‘best wicket-keeper’Pakistan wicket-keeper Kamran Akmal termed MS Dhoni as India’s best-ever keeper batsman. Akmal said Dhoni’s performance and ability to play match-winning innings with such consistency set him apart from the rest. Read moreVidya Balan on how her life changed in 2008: ‘Acceptance of the self happened’Vidya Balan laughs with abandon as she juggles question on math ahead of debuting as ‘the Human Computer’ in Shakuntala Devi. Read morePune Police shares picture of ‘dangerous content’. Have you seen it yet?Police departments across the country often use Twitter to put forth essential messages for people. From creative to hilarious, they employ various methods to ensure that the posts strike a chord with netizens. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: The Covid PuzzleWhen Amitabh Bachchan tweeted that he had Covid, my reaction was the same as that of most people: shock, concern and a silent prayer that the actor would fight the Corona virus as effectively as he has fought the various health issues and ailments that have plagued him over the last 50 years. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-is-7-higher-than-national-average-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WDlO0N3SbOvjwt9bu5O5yH.html
18-07-2020||India||Cops step up combing operation in north Telangana after Maoist activity intensifies||The anti-Maoist forces of the Telangana police have intensified their combing operations in the forests of north Telangana; following reports that Maoists have increased their activities in these tribal belts in a bid to regain their hold on Telangana.The combing operations are directly supervised by state director general of police M Mahender Reddy, who had been touring the districts of Mancherial, Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad and Mulugu districts bordering Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh from where the Maoists usually enter Telangana.On Saturday, the police released posters across the border areas of these districts along with the names of top Maoist leaders who have been actively leading 12 area committees in Telangana.Peddapalli area committee covering Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mahabubabad and Warangal (rural) districts is led by Kankanala Raji Reddy; Eturnagaram Mahadevpur area committee by Reena; Venkatapuram-Vajedu area committee by Ungi, Yellandu-Narsampet area committee by Mangu; Mancherial-Kumaram Bheem area committee is led by Mailarapu Adelu alias Bhaskar; Mangi area committee led by Lingamma; Indravelli area committee by Warghese; Chennur-Sirpur area committee by Narasimha Rao; Charla-Sabari area committee by Sammakka alias Sarada; Manugu area committee by Rasool; Bhadradri Kothagudem-East Godavari divisional committee by Sambaiah; and Telangana action committee led by Bade Chokka Rao alias Damodar.Apparently, these area committees have been activated and entrusted with the task of recruiting more youth and tribals into the Maoist cadre which is facing shortage. “The Maoists appear to have taken advantage of the Covid-19 crisis prevailing in the state which has forced the district administration and the police force to divert their attention to tackle the pandemic,” a senior police official said.Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy, who stayed put in Mulug for the second consecutive day on Saturday, told reporters on Friday that the Maoists had intensified their activities in the tribal habitations in the past few weeks luring innocent Adivasis and creating fear among them over the progress being witnessed.He said the police department had intensified their combing operations with 500-odd police personnel and the movement of the squad was being tracked, he said, adding that the police had cordial relations with the people while taking part in anti-Maoist operations. “We are going to thwart their attempt to regain a foothold in Telangana by all means,” he said and urged the Adivasis not to extend support to the Maoists by providing them shelter and food.On Tuesday night, the police forces had an exchange of fire with the Maoists near Thokkuguda village of Thiryani block in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. A five-member squad led by Maoist party Telangana committee member Mailarepu Adellu alias Bhaskar, who carries a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh, managed to escape from the spot.On Friday, CPI (Maoist) Telangana state committee spokesperson Jagan issued a statement, accusing the Telangana police of attempting wipe out the party by targeting innocent Adivasis and arresting sympathisers.“While our party has been observing self-restraint by not indulging in assaults in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic, the security forces of the state and central government have been unleashing a reign of terror in the tribal areas,” Jagan alleged.He warned that if the police did not stop attacks on the Adivasis and Maoist party activists, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders would be punished severely in the people’s court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-step-up-combing-operation-in-north-telangana-after-maoist-activity-intensifies/story-zA7b8dgG25qFKjxSnBZvZL.html
18-07-2020||India||Sanjay Jain, linked to alleged horse trading in Rajasthan, arrested||The special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police said Saturday that it has arrested Sanjay Jain alias Sanjay Bardia whose name purportedly figured in audio tapes linked to alleged horse trading to dislodge the Ashok Gehlot government.Jain was called for questioning on Friday on the basis of the Rajasthan chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s complaint to SOG that he was one of the three persons, whose names figured in three audio tapes that had surfaced the previous evening and was purportedly involved in horse trading. He was arrested late on Friday night charges of conspiring to topple the Congress government.“Jain was arrested on Friday night,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general of police ATS-SOG.The SOG had booked him and two others on Friday on charges of destabilizing the government under section 124A (sedition) and 120b (criminal conspiracy of the Inidan Penal Code.Jain, who belongs to Loonkaransar town in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district, has been described as a power broker and is perceived to be close to both Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. The BJP has called for a CBI probe into the audio tapes.Jain, whom the Congress accused of being a BJP leader, is a former block president of the Indian Youth Congress. The BJP claims Jain is still a Congress member.His father, too, was a local Congress leader and his family has been a supporter of the party for almost a decade, said a Congress supporter from Bikaner, requesting anonymity.“Jain was also appointed as the secretary of the district Congress in Bikaner (rural). He came in contact with Congress leadership in 1993 when Balram Jakhar was elected as the Member of Parliament (MP) from Bikaner and he became a close aide to the veteran Congress leader. Jakhar would stay in his house in Loonkaransar while on a campaign trail, as his house was the only place in town that had an air-conditioner,” said the supporter quoted above.He said Jain was often seen at Raj Bhavan in Bhopal, when Jakhar was the Madhya Pradesh governor.A close friend of Jain said that after coming in touch with the former chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhra Raje during the 2003 assembly elections, Jain moved to Jaipur, which helped him expand his network in political circles -- cutting across party lines and bureaucracy.“Jain has developed enormous contacts in both the Congress and the BJP using his immense networking skills. He owns a beverage factory in Dubai and was planning a similar venture on his plot along the Bikarner-Jaipur highway near Sikar. His primary focus is to become rich,” his friend said.Jain had uploaded several pictures on social media flaunting his proximity with BJP top brass.Laxman Kadwasara, the former district president of Congress, Bikaner (rural), said Jain is more interested in expanding his business than politics.“Though I haven’t met him in the last few years, I have heard a lot about him,” said Kadwasara.State BJP president Satish Poonia alleged that Jain is a Congress leader. “He has been a block president of Congress in Bikaner,” he said.An SOG official said that Jain had come to Jaipur on Thursday amid the high political drama over the fate of the Gehlot government before he was called for questioning on Friday and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-jain-linked-to-alleged-horse-trading-in-rajasthan-arrested/story-Ym8Ba8eXO1A5Ie2naqaGtK.html
18-07-2020||India||Eye on China, Modi-Abe Summit could be held in October; Philippines next||India and Japan have restarted discussions to firm up dates for the annual summit between prime ministers Narendra Modi and Shinzo Abe, possibly around October. The summit is expected to focus on an expansionist China that has been attempting to change the status quo on its borders with India, and in the East China Sea around the Senkaku Islands, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The Modi-Abe summit, initially scheduled to be held last December in Guwahati, was put off due to protests in Assam over the passage of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) law. Discussions on the next date were paused after the virus that originated in China spread across the world soon after, killing over 600,000 people and grounding the world economy.But as the world suffered, China’s Xi Jinping went on an overdrive to expand its territory in the South China Sea and its land border with India. It has lately initiated the process to get its army to disengage along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh but the troop withdrawal process has been a slow and deliberate process.A defence white paper by the Shinzo Abe government released this week counted China’s aggressive moves in the East China Sea and the South China Sea and its “relentless attempts” to alter status quo by coercion as a key concern.The Abe government, which had taken a lead role in crafting the quadrilateral security dialogue process in the Indo-Pacific region, also noted that a regional cooperation framework “had not been sufficiently institutionalised” in the Indo-Pacific region. The Quad comprises the United States, Japan, India and Australia with the door open for others to join in.During the summit, India and Japan are also expected to formalise a logistics sharing pact, Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreement, that would give militaries of the two countries access to each other’s bases.Japan would get access to major Indian naval bases including the Andaman and Nicobar islands, which lie near the Malacca Straits through which a large amount of Japan’s but also China’s trade and fuel supplies is shipped. It would also help India’s naval ships to send ships further to counter China’s expanding presence in the Indian Ocean. India had signed a similar agreement with the US, and has firmed up the pact with Australia, the other members of the Quad.A government official said the summit could be held in October, not earlier. It is not certain yet if PM Abe would travel to India for the summit as had been planned earlier or hold the summit meetings over video conference.India is expected to also deepen strategic ties with other ASEAN countries that have also been at the receiving end from Beijing. “We expect a meeting between PM Modi and Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte shortly,” the official said, adding that it could also be held in October. President Duterte was supposed to travel to India in March but the bilateral meeting was postponed due to the global pandemic. Apart from growing defence cooperation, India and Philippines are expected to join hands to ensure free navigation and over-flights in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-china-modi-abe-summit-could-be-held-in-october-philippines-next/story-540zSW1OKaqGjTIxTJ141O.html
18-07-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries exceed active cases by 2.95 lakh, says health ministry||India’s actual Covid-19 caseload is 3,58,692, while close to 18,000 people have recuperated from the disease in 24 hours taking the number of recoveries to 6,53,750 which exceed active cases by 2,95,058, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.Medical attention is being provided to all active cases, either in home isolation or in hospitals for severe cases, it said.In a statement, the ministry said, “The last 24 hours saw 17,994 Covid-19 patients recovering. The recovery rate is now 63 per cent.” Timely, proactive, and graded strategy initiatives for effective coronavirus infection management in the country, led by the Centre and implemented by the states and Union Territories, have ensured that the actual Covid-19 caseload remains manageable, it said, adding that expansion of hospital infrastructure continuously has aided in increased recoveries.Cumulatively, 1,34,33,742 swab samples have been tested till now, of which 3,61,024 were carried out on Friday raising the number of tests per million to 9734.6, the ministry said.The Centre continues to support and supplement the efforts of the state governments by sending teams of experts to areas witnessing increase in caseload, it said. With a surge in daily fresh Covid-19 cases in Bihar, West Bengal, Assam and Odisha, the Union health ministry has asked these states to make renewed efforts to suppress the transmission as well as to keep case fatality rate below one per cent.With these states imposing lockdowns anew, the health ministry emphasised that the curbs should be utilised to focus on containment, surveillance and testing in the containment and buffer zones for early detection of cases and fatality management.A central team has been deployed in Bihar to assist the state in assessment of Covid-19 management and to provide all necessary support.The team comprising Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal, Dr S K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control and Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor of medicine at AIIMS, New Delhi, will reach Bihar tomorrow.“The focus of the containment strategy remains on house-to-house survey, perimeter control activities, timely contact tracing, surveillance of containment and buffer zones, aided by effective clinical management of severe cases through a standard of care approach,” the ministry said.The latest testing strategy of the Indian Council of Medical Research allows all registered medical practitioners to recommend testing. RT-PCR tests and rapid-antigen point of care tests, boosted by TruNat and CBNAAT have contributed to a surge in the number of samples tested, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-exceed-active-cases-by-2-95-lakh-says-health-ministry/story-DBQCV9IpP2kqOjEOCCFZGM.html
18-07-2020||India||‘Rajasthan paying for discord in Congress’: BJP’s Vasundhara Raje||It is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan have to pay for the infighting in Congress, former BJP chief minister Vasundhara Raje tweeted on Saturday, commenting on the crisis that has seen two top leaders from the ruling party in the state squabbling in public. #RajasthanFirst pic.twitter.com/tkOKWCi2SzThe former CM spotlighted the coronavirus situation in the state, the locusts attack, crime against women that she said are few among many that have been plaguing the state and its people, drawing a sharp distinction with the present concerns of the state government.Raje urged the leaders from the ruling party to “not drag BJP” and its leaders’ names in this political churning in the state. The former CM also told the ruling government that the “interests of people must remain paramount”. She ended her tweet with #RajasthanFirst. BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal, who heads the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), on Thursday accused Vasundhara Raje of rallying Congress lawmakers in support of Ashok Gehlot, whose government is battling a rebellion from his former deputy, Sachin Pilot.Adding further drama to the political turmoil in the state, the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the state police registered two criminal cases after audio tapes were made public in which a rebel Congress MLA is purportedly talking to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and a middleman about toppling the Ashok Gehlot government.The Congress alleged today that rebel Rajasthan lawmakers of the Sachin Pilot team currently camping in the BJP-ruled Haryana are now being moved to Karnataka, another BJP state. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that when the special team of the police reached the Haryana hotel to collect the voice samples of the legislators in the case of audio tapes, the police was stopped at the gates first. Then by the time the state police was allowed to enter the premises, said Khera, the lawmakers had escaped. On its part, the BJP has demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the allegations made by the Congress in Rajasthan that it has audio tapes to prove that the BJP was in collusion with rebel Congress leaders to bring down the Gehlot government.CM Gehlot has been insistent that his former deputy, who ruled out that he is joining the BJP, has been working in collusion with the opposition party to bring down his government.The feud between the two leaders reached its apogee when Pilot, 42, was asked to record his statement with the police probing the case of an alleged attempt to bring down the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-paying-for-discord-in-congress-bjp-s-vasundhara-raje/story-V03tmrcJLvQVOvLLUAM1gK.html
18-07-2020||India||Twitter sent notice to reveal if any Indians were targeted in global VIP accounts hack||Indian government has issued notice to social media giant Twitter asking the microblogging website to share full details of the recent unprecedented hacking of global high-profile users accounts including information on Indian users affected by the hack and the data impacted, according to news agency PTI.The agency quoted its sources to claim that the Indian government’s cyber security agency CERT or Computer Emergency Response Team has contacted Twitter for information on the sensational incident that has raised serious questions on the security of data on extremely popular social media platform and triggered investigations by the federal police of the United States.CERT is the nodal national agency for responding to computer security incidents.In a massive hacking incident, around 130 high-profile accounts including those of democrat leader and US presidential nominee Joe Biden, former US President Barack Obama, entrepreneur Elon Musk, philanthropist and business magnate Bill Gates and rapper Kanye West were compromised earlier this week.The New York Times has, however, reported that the hackers were young men and had no links to state or organized crime. The paper’s claim is based on interviews conducted with four hackers, involved in the incident, who shared logs and screenshots to back up their accounts of the sensational security breach.The paper claimed the attacks were not the handiwork of a single country like Russia or a sophisticated group.Twitter, which is conducting a parallel investigation into the incident, had earlier tweeted to say that approximately 130 accounts were targeted and for around 45 of these accounts, the hackers were able to gain control and then send Tweets.Fake posts were sent from several of these accounts including those belonging to Apple, Uber, Kanye West, Bill Gates, Barack Obama on Wednesday asking people to send virtual currency bitcoin into email accounts mentioned by the hackers.These fraudulent posts gave 30 minutes for people to send $1,000 in cryptocurrency bitcoin, promising they would receive twice as much in return.More than $100,000 worth of bitcoin was sent to email addresses mentioned in the tweets, according to Blockchain.com, which monitors crypto transactions.Twitter said it appeared to be a “coordinated social engineering attack” by people who successfully targeted some of our employees with access to internal systems and tools.The NY Times report claims a hacker with the name Kirk initiated the scheme with and he was the one with access to Twitter accounts.The young hackers told the paper that they stopped serving as middlemen for Kirk when he started targeting high-profile accounts.Twitter said that a small number of its employees’ credentials were hacked to gain access to the company’s internal systems through two-factor protections enabling them to log in, send tweets and reset the password for some accounts.It also confirmed that the hackers downloaded account information for eight accounts using “Your Twitter Data” tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-sent-notice-to-reveal-if-any-indians-were-targeted-in-global-vip-accounts-hack/story-jtIrtiT57eL9QFoC7pfLbK.html
18-07-2020||India||Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 7% higher than national average at 70%||With Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally hovering close to the one lakh-mark, the recovery rate of the country’s financial capital has increased to nearly 70 per cent, which is 7 per cent more than the registered national average, Union health department data has indicated.Mumbai’s recovery rate is nearly 15 per cent more than that of the state of Maharashtra, which is low at 55.62 per cent.In mid-June, the Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 50 per cent, when civic body Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched its Mission Zero under the Rapid Action Plan to contain the spread of coronavirus.The recovery rate improved to 57 per cent on July 1 and to around 70 per cent on July 15, the official statement said.Data from the Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) on Friday said, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai currently stands at 24,307, while 67,830 patients have recovered from the viral infection till date.According to the BMC, the number of coronavirus cases in Mumbai city on Friday rose to 98,979, while the death toll due to the Covid-19 pandemic touched 5,582.Dharavi, the largest slum in Asia with a population of around 6.5 lakh, had emerged as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the city. However, it only had 102 active cases on Friday.The World Health Organization (WHO) had last week praised the efforts taken by the BMC to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection in Dharavi.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had also said last Saturday that 82 per cent of patients in Dharavi have recovered from the viral infection. With a record 34,884 people testing positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count surged to 10,38,716 while 6,53,750 patients have recovered from the disease so far, according to data by the Union Health Ministry.The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 26,273 with 671 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.At present, there are 3,58,692 active cases in the country, while 6,53,750 people have recovered so far and one has migrated.“Around 62.94 per cent of patients have recovered so far,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-70-mumbai-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-is-7-higher-than-national-average/story-3WboHw58voyHZp3HN7BcbL.html
18-07-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally rises to 16,701, death toll now 86||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally rose to 16,701 with 591 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 86 with three more patients succumbing to the disease, a Health Department official said on Saturday.Two men from Ganjam, aged 63 and 60, and a 48-year-old woman from Gajapati died of coronavirus infection. “Regret to inform the demise of three Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals,” the official said. The woman was also suffering from obesity and sleep apnea, he said.Of the total Covid-19 fatalities, 52 were reported from Ganjam, followed by Khurda (13), Cuttack (8) and Gajapati (3), while two each were from Angul and Puri, and one each from Baragah, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Rayagada and Sundergarh districts.Besides, twenty-six patients have died in Odisha, but their deaths were due to “non-Covid reasons”, the official said.The new 591 cases were reported from 25 districts.Of the fresh cases, 394 were detected in different quarantine centres and 197 during contact-tracing exercises, the official said.Contact tracing and follow-up actions are underway, he said.The maximum of 182 fresh cases were reported from Ganjam, the worst-hit district by the coronavirus pandemic, 121 from Khurda, 38 from Cuttack, 35 from Bargarh, 22 each from Jagatsinghpur, Nabarangpur and Mayurbhanj, 20 from Sambalpur, 19 from Jajpur, 18 from Sundergarh, 13 from Balasore and 11 from Nayagarh.Other districts also reported new cases but numbers are in single digit, the official said.Odisha now has 5,259 active cases, while 11,330 patients have so far recovered from the disease.The health department had conducted 8,155 tests on Friday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-16-701-death-toll-now-86/story-fLMRVJapd2L1CZ5SiUNIZL.html
18-07-2020||India||With 739 fresh cases in 24 hours, Bihar’s Covid-19 tally nears 25,000||Bihar reported a total of 739 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 24,967, the state health department said on Saturday. The state has seen over 200 deaths while the number of recoveries in the state is over 14,000. Coronavirus cases in Bihar are on a rise with the Centre expressing concern over the surge. The Union Health Ministry has directed the government of Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and Assam to take necessary steps to suppress Covid-19 transmission and keep the fatality rate below 1 percent.The move came after a virtual meeting was held by Union Health Secretary on July 15 to review the Covid-19 situation in these states, news agency ANI reported.Also read: Community transmission at over 50% in Covid-19 clusters, says Kerala health minister“Renewed efforts are needed to suppress the transmission as well as to keep case fatality rate below 1 percent. The state should utilise the lockdown to focus on containment, surveillance and testing in the containment and buffer zones as the key strategy for early detection of cases and fatality management,” Union Health Ministry’s Lav Agarwal said in a letter to the Principal Secretaries (Health) and Secretary (Health) of these states. The letter stated that in Bihar, cases are rising with almost 450-500 fresh infections being reported daily and 80 percent of the total active cases in the state were reported in the last seven days.Districts like Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Begusarai and Munger are reporting a higher number of cases while Saharsa, Gaya, Paschim Champaran, Jamui, Arwal, Saran and Khagaria are the emerging hotspots.The letter noted that the overall Covid-19 testing is very low in the state vis-a-vis national average and an increasing trend in case positivity rate on a weekly basis is also a cause of concern, the letter read.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-739-fresh-cases-in-24-hours-bihar-s-covid-19-tally-nears-25-000/story-zaAfyqgY1zMW7kQNM69PLN.html
18-07-2020||India||‘Rajiv Gandhi was handsome, spoke good English’: Rebel MLA’s jibe at Gehlot||Vishvendra Singh, who was recently removed from Rajasthan Cabinet, on Saturday took a jibe at Ashok Gehlot saying that even former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was handsome and well-versed in English. “Even former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was handsome and used to speak good English,” Singh tweeted in Hindi. Singh had tagged Sachin Pilot in his tweet. हैंडसम तो पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री राजीव गांधी जी भी थे... और अंग्रेजी भी अच्छी बोलते थे...!!#BusKehRahaHu @SachinPilotThis tweet came following Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s remark on July 15, when without naming Pilot, he said leaders from new generation have become Union ministers and state chiefs without much toil.He said speaking good English, giving good bytes and being handsome is not everything.“Speaking good English, giving good bytes and being handsome isn’t everything. What is inside your heart for the country, your ideology, policies, and commitment, everything is considered,” he added.Rajasthan Congress continues to remain in turmoil after simmering differences between Sachin Pilot and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot came out in the open.On July 14, Pilot was sacked from the posts of Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and state PCC president.Gehlot has blamed the BJP for attempting to destabilise the state government by poaching MLAs.A controversy had broken out in Rajasthan after Special Operation Group (SOG) sent a notice to Pilot to record his statement in the case of alleged poaching of Congress MLAs in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-rajiv-gandhi-was-handsome-spoke-good-english-rebel-cong-mla-takes-jibe-at-sachin-pilot/story-I6sOYSF1L7VOCvCKaml6LL.html
18-07-2020||India||‘Not on speaking terms with Sachin Pilot for last 18 months’: Ashok Gehlot||In a big reveal, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said he has not been on talking terms with his former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot since the past 18 months and that Pilot was plotting to topple his government from the first day. However, the CM also added that if the rebel Congress leader, who insists he is not joining the BJP, were to come back to the party, “he will welcome him with a hug”.In an interview to a TV channel, Gehlot said, “There was no dialogue between us since the last one and a half years. A minister who doesn’t talk to the chief minister, doesn’t take his advice, keeps no dialogue with him... There can be opposition but dialogue is necessary in a democracy,” he said.Claiming the support of over 100 MLAs, Gehlot said Pilot has been conspiring to dislodge the government from the day of its formation in December 2018. The CM said Pilot had only 12-15 MLAs with him.“My government is sitting with over 100 MLAs but you want to topple that and form a government with support of the BJP. People will never forgive you,” Gehlot said.The CM said the entire matter was very unfortunate and the internal quarrel should have been resolved internally. “If you do politics in connivance with your rivals then what is left in democracy,” he said.On the notice issued by the Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan police over alleged attempts to bribe the MLAs before the Rajya Sabha elections to topple the state government, Gehlot said notices have been served, even one to him, but an environment is being created that poor Pilot has got a notice.“Our party is the complainant and 10-12 notices have been served. We have not named him. We have said there was a conspiracy by the BJP to topple the government, why is he going around giving clarifications?” said Gehlot.The CM said Pilot and his MLAs had planned to flee on June 10 but Gehlot learnt of their plan and thwarted it and had to keep all MLAs under lockdown in a resort.“They were planning to leave at 2 am. I had to save the government. I woke up all the collectors at 1 am and I asked all party leaders to reach Jaipur the next day and almost all of them reached. Then these people realised the truth and started saying there was no conspiracy and there was no need for placing MLAs under lockdown. But I had proof then and I have proof now,” he said.Gehlot said Pilot initially wanted to join the BJP but his MLAs were not willing so he thought of forming a third front, a new party to finish the Congress in Rajasthan.Referring to Pilot and BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress three months back, Gehlot said the younger leaders should show patience and trust the leaders.“You should not betray the party, the party has given you so much. I have been a three time central minister, three time PCC chief, three time AICC general secretary and three time CM because I went through the grind in the NSUI and Youth Congress. Leaders from our generation worked hard and stayed loyal to the party and its ideology and so we are where we are today,” said Gehlot.The Congress veteran underlined that he had become chief minister because people wanted it and it was eventually decided by the high command. “If I felt that the public and MLAs were not with me, I would have myself told the high command,” he said.“People say we are seniors now and we should sit at home. But this talk is irrelevant. We too were juniors when we joined and we are still active today. Now people say they should sit at home. If we leave politics, what will we do?” he said.Asked what would happen if Sachin Pilot were to return to the Congress, Gehlot said he would welcome him with open arms. “He was three years old when I became MP for the first time. I have ties with his family going back decades. I will welcome him with a hug.”Asked if there was a question mark on the leadership of Rahul Gandhi as leaders perceived close to him were leaving the party, Gehlot said: “There’s no question mark on his leadership but on the thought process of these leaders.”He said these younger leaders have not learnt to rough it out in politics but have got a chance due to the untimely demise of their fathers.On Rahul Gandhi’s statement that those who want to leave are welcome to go, Gehlot said he supported it. “Those who want to leave, should leave. Those who do not have commitment towards the party... they are liabilities who are just waiting to grab posts... those who are committed don’t get a chance. Those who are opportunists and traitors, if they leave then a new form of the party will come forth,” said Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-on-speaking-terms-with-sachin-pilot-for-last-18-months-ashok-gehlot/story-39B8u59XTh6m3rRIlvEZkO.html
18-07-2020||India||Covid took ‘gigantic form’ in UP as govt didn’t pay attention to testing, contact tracing: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the rapid rise in coronavirus cases, alleging that the disease has taken a “gigantic form” as the Yogi Adityanath dispensation did not pay attention to key containment measures such as testing and contact tracing. The Congress general secretary has been criticising the state government’s response to the Covid-19 crisis, alleging that it is indulging in propaganda, instead of dealing with the pandemic. “Despite almost three months of lockdown and all claims of the UP government, coronavirus cases have increased sharply in 25 districts of UP in July,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. There has been a jump of 200 per cent in Covid-19 cases in three districts of UP, 400 per cent in three districts and above 1,000 per cent in one district, Priyanka Gandhi said. “According to media reports, 70 per cent of the Covid-infected people in Prayagraj died within 48 hours of testing positive,” she said. “We were afraid of this and therefore, at the beginning itself, we had written a letter to the Chief Minister of UP and gave constructive suggestions in this context and also raised the issue of maximum testing,” she said. The disease has taken this “gigantic form” because of the lack of attention to testing, delay in giving reports, juggling of data and not doing contact tracing properly, Priyanka Gandhi alleged. The UP government has no answers on these issues, she added. Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 38 deaths, its highest single-day spike in coronavirus fatalities, raising the toll to 1,084 while 1,919 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 45,363, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-took-gigantic-form-in-up-as-govt-didn-t-pay-attention-to-testing-contact-tracing-priyanka-gandhi/story-0q5gjRuZ3Aafy8X5RnA7uN.html
18-07-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu asks people to promote Indian tradition of living, working together||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday appealed to people to preserve and promote the Indian tradition of living and working together and asked them to follow the philosophy of ‘sharing and caring’. Addressing an online event to mark the birth centenary celebrations of the 25th ruler of the erstwhile Mysore kingdom Jaya Chamaraja Wadiyar, Naidu called for celebrating the knowledge, wisdom, patriotism and vision of all great rulers and statesmen who shaped the history. Describing Jaya Chamaraja Wadiyar as an able administrator, the vice president said he built a strong, self-reliant and progressive state in pre-Independence India. Naidu said Jaya Chamaraja Wadiyar was a democrat at heart and a people’s ruler who always wanted to remain in touch with them and ensure their wellbeing. Crediting him with leading India’s transition to being a strong democracy and contributing to the unity and integrity of the nation, the vice president called him a perfect blend of ancient values and modernity. “The greatest tribute which we can pay to stalwarts like Sri Jaya Chamaraja is to preserve and promote this grand cultural tradition of India of living together and working together, for the country, the world and the entire humanity,” he said concluding his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-asks-people-to-promote-indian-tradition-of-living-working-together/story-TrX97a58x3izRPahrIssKP.html
18-07-2020||India||Community transmission at over 50% in Covid-19 clusters, says Kerala health minister||Kerala health minister KK Shailaja said Saturday that the rate of community transmission in Covid-19 clusters in the state is more than 50%.“Today, there are 84 clusters in Kerala. Inside the clusters, local transmission is more than 50%, but outside the clusters it is below 10%. We should prevent cluster forming and community spread of infection,” Shailaja said, according to ANI.On Friday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had confirmed that community transmission of Covid-19 was detected in two coastal hamlets of Thiruvananthapuram, Shailaja said the government was turning its focus on coastal areas to break the chain of transmission of the disease.“We are trying to break the chain of transmission from one cluster to another. We are thoroughly locking the clusters. We need to give more attention to coastal areas,” she said.Kerala had seemed to get a hold on the spread Covid-19 and brought down the number of active cases to below 100 in the first week of May before fresh cases began to rise as expatriates and people working in other states began returning home. In the last couple of weeks, new cases of Covid-19 have risen exponentially taking the state’s tally to over 11,000 and the number of active cases to more than 6,000.On Friday, Kerala reported the highest single-day spike so far with 791 new cases of Covid-19. The pandemic has claimed 40 lives so far in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-at-over-50-in-covid-19-clusters-says-kerala-health-minister/story-UOVbamcVbOjltrA9GMX08M.html
18-07-2020||India||Rajnath Singh visits forward post, offers prayers at Amarnath cave shrine during J-K visit||A day after a trip to Ladakh, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday visited a forward post near the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district.Singh was accompanied by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.“Visited a forward post near LoC in Kupwara District of Jammu-Kashmir today and interacted with the soldiers deployed there. We are extremely proud of these brave and courageous soldiers who are defending our country in every situation,” the defence minister tweeted.Singh also tweeted several photographs and a video interacting with Indian Army soldiers. जो बोले सो निहाल... pic.twitter.com/PK578l7MonBefore that, he visited the holy cave of Amarnath, considered to be one of the holiest shrines in Hinduism, and spent about an hour at the temple complex.“Feeling extremely blessed after praying at Shri Amarnathji Holy Cave in Jammu and Kashmir,” he tweeted later along with a video which showed him praying with several army officials.His trip to the holy cave comes on the second day of his visit to Jammu and Kashmir. Singh had reviewed the overall security scenario in the Union Territory on Friday with the top military brass.Singh, who is on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, had landed in Leh on Friday morning and was briefed on the security situation in the sensitive sector including the actual position of troops on both sides of the contested border. He also witnessed a series of combat manoeuvres at nearby Stakna featuring C-130J special operations aircraft dropping paratroopers, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters, T-90 tanks, infantry combat vehicles and Mi-17 helicopters.Singh had said that the progress in negotiations with China should help resolve the ongoing border dispute but he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”.He also said that no power could “touch or grab even an inch of Indian territory” while addressing soldiers at Lukung on the western bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the current border tensions.Lukung is 43km from Finger 4 on the northern bank of Pangong lake.He added that India had neither attacked any country nor grabbed anyone’s territory or hurt their self-respect.“But if anyone attempts to hurt India’s self-respect, we will not tolerate it and will give a befitting reply,” he said. The defence minister had also asked the officials of the armed forces at a high-level meeting to maintain a strict vigil along the LoC with Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-visits-forward-post-offers-prayers-at-amarnath-cave-shrine-during-j-k-visit/story-2J8ccNV1Afa67B40tBeRUK.html
18-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: Accused held by SOG shared proximities with BJP, Congress||The special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police arrested Sanjay Jain alias Sanjay Bardia late at night on Friday on charges of toppling the Congress-led government.Earlier in the day, Jain was called for questioning on the basis of the Rajasthan chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s complaint that he was one of the three persons, whose names figured in three audiotapes that had surfaced the previous evening and were purportedly involved in horse-trading to dislodge the Ashok Gehlot-led government.Jain, who belongs to Loonkaransar town in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district, is a power broker and is perceived to be close to both Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.Jain, whom the Congress has accused of being a BJP leader, is a former block president of Indian Youth Congress.Also read| Rebel Rajasthan lawmakers being moved to BJP’s Karnataka: CongressHis father, too, was a local Congress leader and his family have been a supporter of the party for almost a decade, said a Congress supporter from Bikaner, requesting anonymity.“Jain was also appointed as the secretary of the district rural Congress in Bikaner. He came in contact with Congress leadership in 1993, when Balram Jakhar was elected as the Member of Parliament (MP) from Bikaner and he became a close aide to the veteran Congress leader. Jakhar would stay in his house, whenever he visited Loonkaransar, as his home was the only place in town that had an air-conditioner,” said the supporter quoted above.He said Jain was often spotted at Raj Bhavan in Bhopal, when Jakhar became the governor of Madhya Pradesh (MP).A close friend of Jain said that after coming in touch with the former chief minister and BJP leader Vasundhra Raje during the 2003 assembly elections, Jain moved to Jaipur, which helped him to expand his network in political circles -- cutting across party lines -- and also bureaucracy.Also read: BJP demands CBI probe into audio tapes released by Congress amid Rajasthan crisis“Jain has developed enormous contacts in both the Congress and the BJP using his immense network skills. He owns a beverage factory in Dubai and was planning a similar venture on his plot along the Bikaner-Jaipur highway near Sikar. His primary focus is to become rich,” his friend said.Jain has uploaded several pictures on social media flaunting his proximity with BJP leaders.Laxman Kadwasara, the former district president of Congress, Bikaner (rural), said Jain is more interested in expanding his business than politics.“Though I haven’t met him in the last few years, but I keep hearing a lot about him,” said Kadwasara.State BJP president Satish Poonia alleged that Jain is a Congress leader. “He has been a block president of Congress in Bikaner,” he said.A SOG official said that Jain had come to Jaipur from Bikaner on Thursday amid the high political drama over the fate of the Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-accused-held-by-sog-shared-proximities-with-bjp-congress/story-mvFXxzn0ISvJN7D0ToZpGL.html
18-07-2020||India||Govt blocks fraudulent GST refund claims worth Rs 1,875 crore||The government has blocked fraudulent Goods and Services Tax (GST) refund claims worth Rs 1,875 crore involving 1,377 exporters after their addresses could not be traced, a Union finance ministry official said.“This number of risky exporters, also, includes seven exporters accredited as star exporters,” the official said requesting anonymity. The government rates export houses on the basis of their performance and accord them one to five stars.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has instructed its officials to verify the correct refund of input tax credit (ITC) by such risky exporters on the basis of pre-defined risk parameters, he added.According to the official, while CBIC is focusing on quick disbursal of pending refunds to exporters, it also uses data analytics to identify “risky” exporter entities that take input tax credit fraudulently and monetise it by paying Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) and claiming a refund on that. Imports of goods and services are treated as inter-state supplies and attract IGST.“The verification exercise is aimed at preventing unscrupulous exporters from defrauding the state exchequer and bringing a bad name to the exporting community at large,” he said.CBIC has, however, assured all genuine exporters that they would continue to get their refunds in a timely manner in a fully automated environment, he said.The official said a total of 7,516 exporters figure in the risky exporters’ list to date. “IGST refund worth Rs 1,363 crore is suspended in respect of 2,830 risky exporters. Adverse reports have been received in respect of 2,197 risky exporters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-blocks-fraudulent-gst-refund-claims-worth-rs-1-875-crore/story-ROVXRgu0dDv8N3wi6S8EAM.html
18-07-2020||India||PM Modi sent strong message to global community on ECOSOC agenda: Jaishankar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sent out a strong message to the international community of on shaping the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) agenda, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said Saturday.“A strong message to the international community of India’s role and contribution: PM @narendramodi on shaping the ECOSOC agenda. ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas, Sabka Vishwas’ - resonating with the core SDG commitment of leaving no one behind,” Jaishankar tweeted.In another tweet, he also underlined Modi’s call for reforming the global multilateral system to enhance the UN’s relevance and effectiveness.“Making the fight against the COVID-19 a people’s movement. Economic package of over 300 billion dollars. Vision of a self-reliant & Resilient India, integrated with the global economy. Call for reformed multilateralism with a reformed UN at its center,” Jaishankar wrote.In his address on Friday, Modi recalled India’s support to the ECOSOC and UN’s developmental work, and how they are tied to India’s own domestic agenda. “Today, through our domestic efforts, we are again playing a salient role in achieving Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals. India is also supporting other developing countries in meeting their Sustainable Development Goals,” he said.Modi went on to stress that India’s motto of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas, Sabka Vishwas” resonated with the core SDG principle of leaving no one behind. The PM spoke at length about India’s efforts to expand access to sanitation, bring about gender parity in elementary and higher education, and empowering women through financial inclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sent-strong-message-to-global-community-on-ecosoc-agenda-jaishankar/story-qTCRPJJeH2XJBcopzI4Q0M.html
18-07-2020||India||Indian Railways moves to ease congestion on busy routes||Indian Railways is carrying out work to reduce congestion on various routes, informed Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board while speaking to media.“A total of 7 routes have been identified as High-Density Network (HDN), which has a total length of 11,295 km. There is 60 per cent traffic on these routes. Therefore, we are taking steps to reduce traffic on these routes,” he said.“The railways plan to electrify and double the HDN and highly utilised networks (HUN) network, with a length of 34,642 km, by March 2024,” he added.Yadav also talked about the steps about making the process transparent and informed that, “General Conditions of Contract (GCC) thoroughly revised; Bonus clause for early completion, EPC Standard Tender Documents, IR-Works Contract Management System an e-portal for handling all works contracts launched, Online drawings approval portal (E-DAS) made operational, Portal for E-Commissioner for Railway System sanctions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-moves-to-ease-congestion-on-busy-routes/story-Fch49yEhimBfxNcJE3w0rI.html
18-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BSP supremo Mayawati calls for President’s rule in Rajasthan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mayawati wades into phone tapping row in Rajasthan, seeks President’s ruleBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati weighed in on the alleged phone tapping row in Rajasthan accusing chief minister Ashok Gehlot of acting illegally and calling for President’s rule in the state. Read moreRam temple’s construction date, plan on agenda as trust members meet todayThe date for the construction of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya will be discussed on Saturday as members of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will meet in the temple town. Nripendra Mishra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s former principal secretary and also the chairperson of the committee for the construction of the temple, will be present at the meeting. Read more‘Fits the bill’: How Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has emerged in Rajasthan politicsFrom being at the frontline of the BJP’s offensive against the Ashok Gehlot government to being accused of playing a key role in the alleged conspiracy to dislodge the Congress dispensation, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has come to the fore as the central figure in Rajasthan’s political space. Read moreEC seeks suggestions on conducting poll campaigns amid Covid-19The Election Commission of India has asked national and regional political parties to send in their views and suggestions by July 31 on how to conduct election campaigns and public meetings amid the Covid-19 pandemic. This comes as Bihar is set to go assembly polls later this year amid the Covid-19 crisis. Read moreChina takes over companies linked to disappeared financierChinese regulators will assume control of nine financial firms that are linked to a financier who was taken from a hotel in Hong Kong by Chinese authorities in 2017 and hasn’t been seen in public since. Read moreWaqar Younis recalls incident when Inzamam stood up for Azharruddin and confronted abusive fan in 1997Remember the sight of Inzamam Ul Haq going into the crowd and confronting an abusive fan in the 1997 Sahara Cup? Well, turns out there was more to the infamous story than Inzamam getting riled up for being called “aaloo” (potato). Read moreHow to make space for new emails if your Gmail storage is fullStorage issues on Gmail are nothing new, especially if you use the service as your main email driver. You might have seen a notification on the page or app warning you that your storage is full and that you need to delete older emails to get new ones. Read moreHappy birthday Bhumi Pednekar: 6 times the actor changed looks to get into her characterActor Bhumi Pednekar is an oddity in Bollywood - a person who went from casting other people for roles in Yashraj Films to being cast herself as a leading lady in a film. Bhumi is a classic instance of never letting go of one’s dreams. Read moreHappy Birthday Priyanka Chopra Jonas: The fashionista’s red carpet journeyDoes Priyanka Chopra Jonas even need an introduction anymore? The stunning desi girl took India by storm when she won the title of Miss World 2000 at the tender age of eighteen. The Sky is Pink actor is the personification of beauty with brains, and has floored the world with her immense acting talent, wit and intelligence. Read moreFirefighters rescue dog stuck in drainpipe for 3 days, people shower praiseIn today’s edition of stories-that-can-make-you-smile, we have the rescue story of a dog. Sophie, a two years old mix fell down into an 18 inches deep drainpipe where she remained stuck for three days. However, thanks to the firefighters of Santa Barbara County the furry creature is now rescued and out of danger. Read moreWatch: Stunning visuals of Indian paratroopers jumping out of plane over Ladakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bsp-supremo-mayawati-calls-for-president-s-rule-in-rajasthan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-teKzicc8oe9uogwvD8pGnI.html
18-07-2020||India||BJP MLA files FIR against Surjewala, Dotasra for allegations against Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Laxmikant Bhardwaj, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from Rajasthan, has filed a police complaint against Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and new state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra for naming Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in an alleged bid to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government.On Friday, Surjewala at a press conference had alleged that three audiotapes, which had surfaced the previous evening and quickly went viral on social media, had unmasked the BJP’s bid to unseat the democratically elected government.He said in the audiotapes revealed that the rebel Congress member of legislative assembly (MLA) Bhanwarlal Sharma, who has since been suspended, BJP leader Sanjay Jain and Union minister Shekhawat were making deals to topple the Gehlot government.Also read: BJP demands CBI probe into audio tapes released by Congress amid Rajasthan crisisHT could not independently verify the authenticity of the three audiotapes.The special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police filed two first information reports (FIRs) against Shekhawat and the other two leaders, who have been accused by the Congress and on the basis of a complaint filed by the chip whip of Rajasthan assembly Mahesh Joshi, shortly after Surjewala’s allegations.The BJP has consistently denied any role in the horse-trading or a bid to overthrow the Gehlot government and has maintained that it’s the Congress’s internal power struggle for which the opposition party has needlessly been dragged into. Shekhawat, too, has denied that it was his voice caught on the audiotape and offered to co-operate for any probe.On Friday night, Bhardwaj, along with BJP leaders Surendra Singh Naruka and Ashok Shekhawat, filed a complaint in the Ashok Nagar police station in Jaipur against Surjewala, Dotasra, and Joshi, alleging that they were making provocative and insulting statements against BJP leaders on the basis of which the SOG had filed fake cases under section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Shreemohan Meena, station house officer (SHO), Ashok Nagar police station, said that the complaint was received on Friday night and it is being looked into.Bhardwaj has demanded that the Congress leaders’ arrest under Sections 469 (forgery for the purpose of harming reputation), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 195 (giving or fabricating false evidence), 500 (punishment for defamation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 505 (statements conducting to public mischief), 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 166A (public servant disobeying law) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also read: Mayawati wades into phone tapping row in Rajasthan, seeks President’s ruleIn the complaint, Bhardwaj said Surjewala, Dotasra, and Joshi have been making baseless and provocative statements to tarnish the BJP’s reputation.He alleged that the Congress is deliberately blaming the BJP to divert the people’s attention from the party’s ongoing internal power struggle.He further alleged that a conspiracy was hatched by Lokesh Sharma, officer on special duty (OSD) to Gehlot with the intent to tarnish BJP’s reputation and fake audiotapes were made, depicting that his party leaders were enticing rebel Congress lawmakers with crores of rupees to switch sides.Bhardwaj said MLA Sharma had shared the three audiotapes with media persons through WhatsApp at around 8:25 pm on Thursday.A report in a local daily had also reported that the audiotapes were released by Sharma, said Bhardwaj.Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said: “The BJP was conspiring to overthrow the Gehlot government. Now, it has resorted to making all kinds of allegations against us because it has been exposed.”The Gehlot government has plunged into a political turmoil following a revolt by Sachin Pilot, who has since been sacked from the dual posts of deputy chief minister, Rajasthan, and state Congress president.Pilot and 19 rebel Congress lawmakers, who owe allegiance to him, have been camping at ITC Grand Bharat Hotel in Manesar, Haryana that has emerged as a playground for political parleys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-files-fir-against-surjewala-dotasra-for-allegations-against-gajendra-singh-shekhawat/story-DTTBGFKdWj6hQffoXilYyK.html
18-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh crosses 40,000-mark, witnesses surge in active cases: Covid-19 state tally||India’s Covid-19 tally surged past 103,8716 on Saturday adding over 34,884 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. As many as 671 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours taking India’s coronavirus death toll to 26,273. Over 62 percent of Covid-19 patients have recovered across the country which accounts for 653,750 recovered patients.South Indian states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. Karnataka is now the fourth affected state in the country after Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Andhra Pradesh is another state which has more active cases than the national capital, over 19,000, besides Karnataka. The state tally crossed 40,000 on Saturday.Here’s taking a look at the state tally:The big 5Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Gujarat are currently the top five worst-affected states in the country. In Maharashtra, Covid-19 cases have crossed the 2 lakh mark while the national capital has reported 120,107 cases till date. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 fatalities stand at 11,452 while in Delhi, 3,571 people have succumbed to death.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 10.38 lakh, death toll at 26,273Tamil Nadu is the state with second-highest coronavirus cases in the country and has witnessed 160,907 infections and 2,315 deaths so far. Karnataka has seen a rapid surge in Covid-19 infection and has one of the high rates of active cases. So far, the state has witnessed 55,115 coronavirus cases till date while 1,147 have died in the state. Gujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 46,430 on Saturday. The state has seen 32,973 people recover from coronavirus while 2,106 people have died.Rising numbersUttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal are states where Covid-19 numbers are rapidly rising. The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 45,163. In Telangana, 42,496 have been infected from the virus till date. Andhra Pradesh has reported 40,646 Covid-19 patients till date while as many as 38,011 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal so far.Rajasthan has reported 27789 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 530 while 19,502 patients have recovered.Other statesHaryana’s Covid-19 tally stands at 24,797 while Bihar has reported 23,589 coronavirus infections till date. In Madhya Pradesh, the number of cases has touched 21,081, Assam stands at 20,646 and Odisha’s is at 16,110. Jammu and Kashmir has over 12,000 while Kerala has reported 11,066 cases till date. In states other than these, the coronavirus tally is 10,000 or less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-crosses-40-000-mark-witnesses-surge-in-active-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-H1VAVPAQhO98H6Yevm6ERP.html
18-07-2020||India||Mayawati wades into phone tapping row in Rajasthan, seeks President’s rule||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati weighed in on the alleged phone tapping row in Rajasthan accusing chief minister Ashok Gehlot of acting illegally and calling for President’s rule in the state.In a tweet shortly after the BJP sought a CBI probe into the Congress’ allegations that it has audio tapes to prove that the BJP was in collusion with rebel Congress leaders to bring down the Gehlot government, Mayawati accused Gehlot of being a serial offender.“Rajasthan Chief Minister first violated the anti-defection law and betrayed the BSP by admitting its MLAs into the Congress. And now he apparently made another illegal decision by tapping phones,’ Mayawati tweeted.The Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan Police registered two first information reports on Friday alleging a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state after the party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi lodged a complaint citing three audio tapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot.Amid the tug of war between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot now being played out in the Rajasthan High Court, Mayawati said the Governor should recommend President’s rule in the state.“The Governor of Rajasthan should take effective cognizance of the continuing political deadlock, mutual disturbance and instability in the government and recommend imposition of President’s rule in the state so save democracy,” she said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-wades-into-phone-tapping-row-in-rajasthan-seeks-president-s-rule/story-iBpgXx4uuII4szSQtW4dpM.html
18-07-2020||India||Rebel Rajasthan lawmakers being moved to BJP’s Karnataka: Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged that rebel Rajasthan lawmakers of the Sachin Pilot team currently camping in the BJP-ruled Haryana are now being moved to Karnataka, another BJP state.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that when the Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan police reached the Haryana hotel to question the legislators in the case of audio tapes - where BJP leaders, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, can be heard conspiring with MLAs from the Pilot camp to topple the state government - the lawmakers gave the police a go-by. The state police has registered two FIRs in the matter involving audiotapes. Govind Singh Dotasra, the new Rajasthan Congress unit chief, also alleged that the special team of the Rajasthan police was made to wait by BJP’s Haryana police unit until the MLAs inside the resort were moved out. The police arrived at the hotel on Friday evening to collect voice samples of the leaders heard scheming in the offending tapes about bringing down the Gehlot government.The Congress spokesperson once again reached out to rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot, who has maintained that he is not joining the BJP, and underscored that the party doors are not closed on him. At the same time, he questioned why are celebrated BJP lawyers representing him and the dissident MLAs camping in the BJP-ruled state.A short while earlier, the BJP demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the allegations made by the Congress in Rajasthan that it has audio tapes to prove that the BJP was in collusion with rebel Congress leaders to bring down the Gehlot government.In another development, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati weighed in on the alleged phone tapping row in Rajasthan and accused chief minister Ashok Gehlot of having acted illegally and called for President’s rule in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-rajasthan-lawmakers-being-moved-to-bjp-s-karnataka-congress/story-nLCn4uHjq2bLyxGlxyRc5K.html
18-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: ACB files case against another rebel Cong lawmaker||The Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday registered a case against rebel Congress lawmaker from Sardarshahr Bhanwarlal Sharma, one Gajendra Singh and power broker Sanjay Jain under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988. Sharma, who has since been suspended by the Congress, belongs to sacked Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s camp and is allegedly one of the kingpins to make a concerted bid to dislodge the Ashok Gehlot-led government.A day earlier these three persons were booked by the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police on the basis of a complaint filed by the chief whip of Rajasthan assembly Mahesh Joshi.“A case has been registered against Sardarshahr MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain under Section 7 (public servant accepts or attempts to take bribe) and 7A (public servant obtaining undue advantage) of the PC Act, 1988, on the basis of a complaint filed by chief whip of Rajasthan assembly, Mahesh Joshi,” said an ACB official.The basis of the complaint is the surfacing of three incriminating audiotapes on Thursday evening, which quickly went viral on social media amid the uncertain fate of the Ashok Gehlot-led government following a protracted power tussle with Congress rebel Pilot’s faction.In one of the audiotapes, a rebel Congress lawmaker, who Joshi claims to be Sharma, is purportedly talking to a middleman and a person named Gajendra Singh about toppling the Gehlot government.The ACB official said Joshi has identified Sharma because he has been familiar with his voice, as he has been associated with the party for many years. However, he has been unable to identify the two accused. “His complaint was based on the three audiotapes of purported conversations that elaborate the bid to destabilise the Gehlot government,” the official added.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the three audiotapes.While lawmaker Sharma, who is the eye of the raging political controversy, is incommunicado, as his mobile phone is switched off.The SOG arrested Sanjay Jain alias Sanjay Bardia late at night on Friday on charges of toppling the Congress-led government.“Jain was arrested under section 124A (sedition) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said a SOG official.While in another audiotape, Vishvendra Singh, who is also a Pilot supporter and a member of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLA), can be heard purportedly speaking to another agent in his bid to topple the Gehlot government.It could be heard that one person is talking about more legislators are needed to dislodge the Gehlot government and another person exuded confidence that the current dispensation would not last long.Another conversation estimated that the Gehlot government’s longevity is not more than 10-15 days.The SOG is also investigating another case related to sedition against two persons, who have been arrested, on the basis of intercepts of two mobile phones that pertain to an alleged bid to oust the Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-acb-files-case-against-another-rebel-cong-lawmaker/story-nDEAfItVSCkxtCBHH3Qw3N.html
18-07-2020||India||Security forces received inputs about terrorists planning to target Amarnath Yatra: Report||Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have inputs about terrorists planning to carry out an attack on Amarnath Yatra, an Army officer said on Friday, but asserted that “systems and resources” were in place to ensure that the annual pilgrimage goes on unhindered. The officer said it was only befitting that Friday’s encounter, in which three terrorists, including a self-styled commander of the Jaish-e-Mohammad, were gunned down, took place just four days before the yatra is set to commence on July 21.Also read: Defence minister Rajnath Singh offers prayers at Amarnath cave shrine“There are inputs that terrorists would try their best to target the yatra, but we have got our systems and resources in place to ensure that it goes on unhindered and peacefully,” Brigadier Vivek Singh Thakur, Commander, Two Sector, said in a press conference in south Kashmir. “We remain committed to ensure Amarnath Yatra will be conducted peacefully without any hindrance and the security situation will continue to remain under control,” he said.Brigadier Thakur said the stretch of national highway 44 which will be used by the yatris continue to remain sensitive.“This axis is a bit sensitive. The yatris will take up this axis to go up to Sonamarg (Ganderbal) and this (Baltal) is the only route which will be active to go up to the Amarnath cave,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-received-inputs-about-terrorists-planning-to-target-amarnath-yatra-report/story-TNI7WcdE5VY887e9yIOzUO.html
18-07-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh offers prayers at Amarnath cave shrine||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday visited the holy cave of Amarnath and offered prayers. Singh spent about an hour at the temple complex there. The Amarnath cave is considered to be one of the holiest shrines in Hinduism and hundreds of thousands of devotees make an annual pilgrimage to it across challenging mountainous terrain. His trip to the holy cave comes on the second day of his visit to Jammu and Kashmir. #WATCH Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, and Army Chief General MM Naravane offered prayers at Amarnath Temple, earlier today pic.twitter.com/jI3HB5ZJAg On Friday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the overall security scenario in Jammu and Kashmir with the top military brass, officials said. He asked the armed forces to give a fitting reply to any “misadventure” by Pakistan. At a high-level meeting, the defence minister had also asked the armed forces to maintain a strict vigil along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-offers-prayers-at-amarnath-cave-shrine/story-Dfdt5ClBenIiy8qhzcigdM.html
18-07-2020||India||‘Fits the bill’: How Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has emerged in Rajasthan politics||From being at the frontline of the BJP’s offensive against the Ashok Gehlot government to being accused of playing a key role in the alleged conspiracy to dislodge the Congress dispensation, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has come to the fore as the central figure in Rajasthan’s political space.Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala accused Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the member of Parliament from Jodhpur, during a media address on Friday of being caught on tape conspiring with rebel Congress legislators to bring down the Gehlot government.Shekhawat, the Union water minister, has denied the charge and sought a probe against, asserting that it was not his voice on the tapes.The 52-year-old’s presence as the key player in the political events unfolding in Rajasthan is being read as an indication of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s high command’s decision to give new leadership a chance to make its presence felt in the state. Lending weight to this perception is the comparison being drawn between Shekhawat’s all-out offensive and the telling silence of former chief minister and BJP heavyweight Vasundhara Raje.The former chief minister has been conspicuous by her silence on the political controversy that has erupted in the state.A BJP functionary speaking on the condition of anonymity said the process of cultivating a new and younger set of leaders has already been set in motion and Shekhawat’s “prominence” in the state’s politics is in line with the party’s decision to encourage younger leaders.“There are leaders who have had several terms in positions of authority and it is only natural that a newer line of leaders is allowed to take the place going forward. But it does not mean that the senior leaders are being dispensed with. Otherwise, a Shivraj Singh Chouhan would not have been given a fourth term as CM,” the functionary cited above said.Raje’s silence notwithstanding, her clout in the state has been crucial to the party’s fate at the hustings. It was Raje’s support base that helped her have her way in deciding the party’s state unit president, even as the central leadership had preferred Shekhawat.However, there have been questions whether the tape controversy put a dent in the minister’s graph that seemed to be on the incline.A party colleague, who did not want to be named, said allegations and counter-allegations are part of the political process and Shekhawat has created a space for himself in the state as well as at the national level.“He was picked to head a ministry that has some critical work cut out for it, considering how water for all is a priority of the central government. He is also well versed in the RSS ideology and with the guidance of the central leadership, we will overcome the challenges,” the second functionary said.Rajasthan-based political commentator Narayan Bareth said the BJP leadership has been trying to infuse fresh blood in the state’s political unit and Shekhawat fits the bill. “He is an ideal candidate, he has roots in the RSS and is courteous to senior leadership and his caste also works in his favour,” Bareth said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fits-the-bill-how-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-has-emerged-in-rajasthan-politics/story-dSqoOlQzQSHVJqBG50ZBEK.html
18-07-2020||India||No impediment in granting temporary parole to POCSO convicts, says Bombay HC||A Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has observed that there is no impediment in releasing persons convicted under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, on parole in a bid to decongest prisons and correctional homes amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“Considering the language of the notification dated May 8 and particularly in view of the fact that the offence under POCSO Act, 2012, is not mentioned in the proviso, which bars for grant of parole, there should not be any impediment for releasing the petitioner on parole,” said a two-member HC bench, comprising Justice AS Chandurkar and Amit Borkar, while granting 30-day parole to a convict (27), who is a lodged in Central Jail, Amravati, Maharashtra.The bench was referring to the notification issued by Maharashtra home department by which Rule 19 of the Maharashtra Prisons (Bombay Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959, has been amended to allow decongestion of prisons by granting certain convicts parole and furlough following the Covid-19 outbreak.The bench saw merit in the argument made on behalf of the convict that under the proviso to the amended rule conviction under the POCSO Act, 2012, it is no longer a disqualification for availing parole or furlough.The proviso to Rule 19 states that prisoners convicted for serious economic offences or bank scams or offences under special Acts (other than Indian Penal Code) such Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), 1999; Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002; Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act (MPID), 1999; Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985; and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 2019, which provide for additional restrictions on grant of bail, shall not be released on parole or furlough.The bench said there was no impediment for the convict to avail of the relief “considering the language of the proviso and particularly in view of the fact that the offence under the POCSO Act, 2012, is not mentioned in the proviso which bars for grant of parole”.The bench also noted that some other POCSO convicts have been released by the jail authorities on parole that further bolstered the petitioner’s case.The convict had moved the HC after his plea for parole was rejected by the jail authorities. He had sought parole to attend to his critically ill sister, but the jail authorities rejected the plea on the ground that he had not submitted any proof that substantiated her illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-impediment-in-granting-temporary-parole-to-pocso-convicts-says-bombay-hc/story-pa3iKW2ORVL1VcVYWOgBfK.html
18-07-2020||India||Ram temple’s construction date, plan on agenda as trust members meet today||The date for the construction of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya will be discussed on Saturday as members of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will meet in the temple town.Nripendra Mishra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s former principal secretary and also the chairperson of the committee for the construction of the temple, will be present at the meeting.“He will come with a date that has been approved by the Prime Minister,” news agency ANI reported quoting an unnamed source.Mishra reached Ayodhya on Thursday along with KK Sharma, the trust’s security adviser and the Border Security Forces’ (BSF’s) former director general, and met various members.Reports have said the construction of the Ram Temple is likely to begin in August after it was stopped amid the coronavirus pandemic.The trust’s president Nritya Gopal Das has sent a letter to Prime Minister Modi to invite him to conduct the ‘Bhumi Pujan’ of the Ram Mandir on the occasion of its foundation laying ceremony, his spokesperson Mahant Kamal Nayan Das has said.Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will be present on the occasion of the beginning of temple construction.The construction of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya has been defining issue for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and was on its election manifesto for more than two decades.The Ram Janmabhoomi Trust was formed by the central government after the Supreme Court’s directive on November 9 last year to facilitate the construction of a temple.While the construction ceremony was supposed to be celebrated with many Union ministers, chief ministers and other important dignitaries in attendance, the list of attendees is likely to have only PM Modi, Bhagwat, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, few ministers and MPs from the region because of the coronavirus pandemic.The members of temple trust said while the programme of ‘Shilanyas’ has been done at ‘Singh Dwara’, it was not a proper ceremony.“Bhoomi pujan will be done at the garbha griha to begin the temple construction. This is the formal beginning of the temple construction for which invites have been sent out,” ANI quoted another source as saying.Ved Prakash Gupta, the BJP legislator in Ayodhya, said efforts are on to bring the Prime Minister to Ayodhya to inaugurate the construction of Ram Mandir.Gupta said if the Prime Minister comes to Ayodhya, its destiny will change and the dream of making Ayodhya like the Vatican City will come true.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-s-construction-date-plan-on-agenda-as-trust-members-meet-today/story-PZ7FAKQMjxpxE6XLhoS5yO.html
18-07-2020||India||Bombay HC to hear PIL challenging clearances for highway, railway expansion||The Bombay high court (HC) at Goa has taken cognisance of a public interest litigation (PIL), challenging the approvals granted by the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and its state counterpart for three major infrastructure projects that are likely to cause adverse environmental impact, and directed the Chief Wildlife Warden, Goa and other state government authorities to respond to the petition by July 24, the next date of hearing.The three infrastructure projects are the double-tracking of South Western Railways, the expansion of national highway (NH) 4-A and a 400 kilo-volt power transmission line, whose 3.5-kilometre stretch will pass through the protected areas of Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary in a bid to augment power supply between Goa and Karnataka.The projects will cut across the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park, an integral part of Goa’s nature and hinterland tourism, and are set to claim 170 hectares (ha) of pristine forestland in the ecologically fragile Western Ghats.Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park are Goa’s oldest and largest bio-diverse reserve and are home to many tourist attractions such as the 12th Century Tambdi Surla temple carved out of basalt rock, gurgling Devil’s Canyon, and Dudhsagar Falls.The PIL, filed by the Goa Foundation, has alleged that the approvals are in violation of the mandate given by Article 48A of the Constitution and the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and are also contrary to public policy and the recommendations made by NBWL, which comes under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC).“The mandatory prior approval of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has also not been obtained,” the plea stated.“The approvals have been granted without proper consideration and examination of the proposals and studies submitted. The environmental impact assessments of the projects, wherever done, have been shoddily carried out, with little or no proper evaluation on the impact on the wildlife habitat, including its biodiversity. No cumulative impact assessment of the three projects collectively has been carried out,” it added.The petition prayed for quashing the approvals that have been granted by the authorities concerned.The railway project is the biggest of the three infrastructure ventures, whose impact is likely to be felt in 113.857 ha of forestland in the protected area and felling of 18,541 trees.The second project -- the four-laning of the existing two-lane highway (NH—4A) -- that was constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka will cost another 31.015 ha of forestland and the felling of 12,097 trees.Lastly, the power project, which proposes to provide additional electricity feed to Goa from the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL).The projects, which have been in limbo for the past six years for pending mandatory clearances, were approved during the 57th meeting of the standing committee of the NBWL on April 20. The meeting was held via video-link amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The South Western Railway authorities have submitted an undertaking and have made provisions for eight underpasses for the crossing of wild animals in consultation with the state forest department, but these concessions have failed to impress the environmentalists and activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-pil-challenging-clearances-for-highway-railway-expansion/story-2VkfVxDTfAy4RLXhtjeCpK.html
18-07-2020||India||EC seeks suggestions on conducting poll campaigns amid Covid-19||The Election Commission of India has asked national and regional political parties to send in their views and suggestions by July 31 on how to conduct election campaigns and public meetings amid the Covid-19 pandemic. This comes as Bihar is set to go assembly polls later this year amid the Covid-19 crisis. Several opposition parties of Bihar urged the Election Commission on Friday to assure voters that the upcoming assembly polls, amid the pandemic, do not become a “super-spreader event”. Also read: ‘Free and fair elections’: Election Commission, Bihar opposition discuss poll concerns“Accordingly, you are requested to kindly send your views and suggestions latest by July 31, 2020, so that necessary guidelines may be firmed up for the election campaign by candidates or political parties for the conduct of election during pandemic period,” it said in the letter to the parties.“The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the state badly. In capital city Patna, as many as 89 containment zones and over 16 districts have been put under lockdown for another 15 days with effect from July 16,” the opposition memorandum said.The term of the current Bihar Assembly ends on November 29 and a new assembly has to be constituted before that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-asks-political-parties-to-send-suggestions-on-conducting-poll-campaigns-amid-covid-19/story-Uabp10O5YXsvCmBsViER0N.html
18-07-2020||India||BJP demands CBI probe into audio tapes released by Congress amid Rajasthan crisis||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday lashed out at the Congress and demanded to know if the phones of state leaders in Rajasthan are being tapped amid an alleged conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. The party also demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the allegations made by the Congress in Rajasthan it has audio tapes to prove that the BJP was in collusion with rebel Congress leaders to bring down the Gehlot government. “Is phone tapping not a legal issue? Were the standard procedures laid down followed for phone tapping? The chief minister should answer if the state machinery was misused and if there is a veiled emergency in the state,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said during a press conference. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had briefed the media on Friday about the existence of tapes where BJP leaders including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat can be heard conspiring with rebel MLAs from the Sachin Pilot camp to topple the state government. Surjewala’s allegations were refuted by the BJP as well as Shekhawat, who asserted that the voice on the purported tapes was not his.Patra alleged that there is a conspiracy within the Congress party and the blame is being pinned on the BJP. “Our morality is crystal clear and we work as per the Constitution. Which is why we want a CBI probe,” Patra said.“These are serious questions that we want to ask the Rajasthan Congress and Ashok Gehlot,” the BJP tweeted as well.“1. Was phone taping done? The Congress govt in Rajasthan must answer. 2. Is it not a sensitive and legal issue, if phone taping has been done? 3. Assuming that you’ve taped phones, was the SOP followed? The people of Rajasthan want to know whether their privacy has been compromised. 4. Did the Congress govt in Rajasthan use unconstitutional ways to save themselves when they found themselves cornered? 5. Is phone of any person who is related to politics is being tapped?” it asked.Rajasthan police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) on Friday registered two first information reports (FIRs) alleging a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state.The FIRs came the party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi lodged a complaint on Thursday night citing three audio tapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot.Soon after the FIRs were registered -- with several charges including “sedition” -- the Congress demanded the arrest of Union water minister Shekhawat, rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, and alleged middleman Sanjay Jain. The Congress also suspended Sharma and former tourism minister Vishvendra Singh from the party and sought an explanation about the tapes.HT could not independently verify the veracity of the tapes. The tapes were shared with media persons over WhatsApp from unverified numbers.The FIR and the charges come in the middle of a raging political battle in the state between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-audio-tapes-released-by-congress-amid-rajasthan-crisis/story-5UCDSalfbdcGn9tPJM0cUJ.html
18-07-2020||India||Thunderstorm, rain likely in parts of Uttarakhand, Haryana, says IMD||Moderate rainfall or thundershowers are very likely to occur in parts of Uttarakhand, North Rajasthan, northeastern states along with other regions on Saturday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.“Latest satellite imagery shows moderate to intense convection over parts of Uttarakhand, North Rajasthan, South Punjab, Haryana, West UP, Bihar, South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, northeastern states. Thunderstorm/lightening with rain likely over these areas,” said IMDThunderstorm with rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Muzaffarnagar, Hastinapur, Bijnor, Saharanpur, Nazibabad, Roorkee, Narwana and Chandpur during the next two hours, IMD tweeted on Saturday morning. “Thunderstorm with rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Hastinapur, Bijnor, Hapur, Garhmukteshwar, Kaithal, Amroha, Sambhal, Shamli, Saharanpur, Nazibabad, Roorkee, Narwana and Chandpur during the next 2 hours,” IMD added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-rain-likely-in-parts-of-uttarakhand-haryana-says-imd/story-CZdqI7c4PHVnw2jf3l9UnN.html
18-07-2020||India||SIT focusing on 9 points in Kanpur encounter case||The special investigation team (SIT), headed by Additional Chief Secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, in-charge of probing the Kanpur encounter case is focusing on nine points at the start of the investigation process.The SIT will submit the report to the administration by July 31 in connection with the case.The SIT is taking note of the actions taken against Dubey till date in connection with the various cases registered against him, it is also taking into account the complaints against him by the residents of Chaubepur and the actions taken in this regard by the station house officer, and other officials of the district.It is also seeking evidence of any lapses which occurred in taking action against the deceased Dubey and his aides under the Gangster Act, NSA etc.The team will also seek to find out how even after being involved in multiple crimes Dubey and his aides had arms licenses and firearms in their possession. The properties, businesses of the gangster, and his aides will also be accounted for by the SIT.The SIT probing the Kanpur encounter case, in which eight police personnel were killed when they went to arrest gangster Vikas Dubey, will record statements of people regarding the case from today till July 25, according to government sources.The statements will be recorded on nine points on which the investigation is underway and anyone who has information regarding the case can contact the SIT, government sources said. The SIT will not be recording statements on Saturday and Sunday as there is a lockdown on those days in the state.Dubey was arrested by the Madhya Pradesh Police in Ujjain on July 9. He was on the run and had come to the city to offer prayers at the Mahakal temple.Dubey was killed in an encounter by the Uttar Pradesh Police on July 10 after he “attempted to flee”.The gangster was the main accused in the encounter that took place in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, in which a group of assailants opened fire on a police team, which had gone to arrest him. Eight police personnel were killed in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-focusing-on-9-points-in-kanpur-encounter-case/story-2xQW9pQWGGywhbknPZwmcJ.html
18-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 10.38 lakh, death toll at 26,273||India recorded more than 34,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for two days in a row as the country’s infection tally mounted to 1,038,716, Union health ministry data showed on Saturday.There were 34,884 fresh Covid-19 cases and 671 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. On Friday, the country recorded 34,956 cases of the coronavirus disease.There are 358,692 active cases of the viral disease and 26,273 people have succumbed to Covid-19 to date.The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease crossed the 650,000-mark after 17,994 patients were cured between Friday and Saturday morning. The recovery rate was at 62.93%, down from Friday’s 63.33%, as 653,750 patients were cured in a single day.Also read| First phase trial of Covaxin, India’s Covid-19 vaccine, starts on 375 people: ReportThe government has said that India, the second-most populous country in the world, has 727.4 cases per million. Globally, the cases per million population in India are four to eight times less than some European countries, it added.The case fatality rate (CFR) at 18.6 deaths per million of the country is one of the lowest in the world.“It is also notable that less than 1.94% of the cases are in ICUs, 0.35% cases are on ventilators and 2.81% cases are on oxygen beds,” it said.Even as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi are reporting thousands of Covid-19 cases every day, four eastern states have emerged as the biggest concerns for the Centre in tackling the coronavirus crisis.West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and Bihar have shown high case positivity rates despite low levels of testing and the emergence of new virus clusters and several new cases within containment zones have underlined gaps in a containment strategy.While all four states have a lower death rate than the national average, officials feel the four states need to do much more. These four states have been asked to plan a better containment and surveillance strategy, among other steps. The central government also wants other states to appoint senior government officials to keep an eye on each large hospital treating Covid-19 patients, public and private.It wants them to follow the Mumbai and Delhi approach to dealing with issues related to difficulties in hospital admission for Covid-19 patients, grievances with how hospitals treat patients and other such issues. Zydus Cadila is looking to complete clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D, in seven months, the company’s chairman said on Friday. The drug firm had on Wednesday started the clinical trials of its vaccine candidate with the first human dosing.Also read| Coronavirus crisis: A million that changed India in countless waysBharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), which developed India’s first potential indigenous coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, has said the first phase of testing has begun on 375 people. Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, reported on Saturday that Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company has said that human trials of Covaxin started on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-past-10-38-lakh-death-toll-at-26-273/story-a3klg2XHGaH3959ghgSu3K.html
18-07-2020||India||As Assam battles Covid-19 and floods, thousands of volunteers play crucial role||When PK Sharma, a renowned doctor in Tinsukia, a commercial hub of upper Assam, died on Wednesday due to Covid-19 complications, condolences poured in from all over.But when it came to performing the last rites of the 75-year-old, the local administration had to seek help from five men who volunteered after the health and municipal workers refused for fear of contracting the coronavirus disease.Dressed in personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, the men, who are members of Assam’s nearly 14,000-strong Pratirodhi Bondhu, a cadre of volunteers created by the state government, gave the doctor a dignified farewell.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“This is the first cremation of a Covid patient we had to perform in our district. After municipal workers refused to conduct the last rites, we requested the Pratirodhi Bondhus, and the five youths volunteered,” Bhaskar Pegu, Tinsukia’s district deputy commissioner, said.The five men, all college students, are now under quarantine and awaiting their swab test results for Covid-19. Once that comes, they want to return to helping others during the coronavirus pandemic as well as the floods ravaging most districts of the state.“I’ve never done last rites. But the moment I heard no one was coming forward to perform the last rites of the deceased doctor, I volunteered. It felt nice to be associated with the task,” a 19-year-old, one of the five volunteers, said on condition of anonymity.The need for a dedicated group of volunteers engaged in non-medical activities related to Covid-19 who can support the local administration and the frontline workers was felt a few months ago when the pandemic first struck Assam.Since the state is ravaged by floods each year, the volunteers were also expected to help the disaster management authorities in the districts in managing Covid-19 vis-à-vis floods—without any remuneration.“We came up with the idea and issued an appeal in April seeking volunteers for Covid-19 related work. There was an overwhelming response and 16,000 people came forward within 4 days,” Pankaj Chakraborty, state project coordinator of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), said.While most of the volunteers were students above 18 years of age or unemployed youths, ASDMA also received applications from doctors involved in private practice, other professionals and even popular Olympic boxer from the state, Shiva Thapa.“Besides advocacy and awareness as well as helping in Covid and flood work the aim of engaging the volunteers was to provide emotional and psychological support to senior citizens and children in these trying times and act as bridges between community and administration,” said Chakraborty.The volunteers are being engaged for a minimum of 10 days to maximum 60 days till September and were provided online training on basics of Covid-19 and hygiene, mental health and counselling and risk communication and community engagement before they started performing their assigned tasks.“While frontline workers like doctors, healthcare personnel and police are leading the Covid-19 battle, the role of these volunteers is also very commendable. In our district they are engaged in flood relief, helping police in enforcing social distancing and now even assisting with performing last rites,” Ruby Gogoi, district project officer of the disaster management authority in Tinsukia, said.Though it was not part of their assigned tasks, some volunteers also got involved in evacuating people and maintaining order when Oil India Limited’s natural gas well in Baghjan witnessed a blow out on May 27 and caught fire on June 9.Till Friday, Assam had recorded 21,864 Covid-19 cases with 14,105 recoveries and 51 deaths. Floods in the state since May have claimed over 100 lives—76 due to drowning and 26 due to landslides.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority, at present more than 35 lakh people in 28 districts are still affected by the floods and over 51,000 uprooted are taking shelter in relief camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-assam-battles-covid-19-and-floods-thousands-of-volunteers-play-crucial-role/story-fzAbUii9BKpw4QO6BmZTKL.html
18-07-2020||India||Paratroopers’ dive over Ladakh mountains wows nation, netizens say ‘josh is high’||Among many army drills that defence minister Rajnath Singh witnessed during his visit at the border in Leh on Friday, one was an exhilarating, spine-chilling act of paratroopers jumping off a C-130J Super Hercules aircraft over Stakna in eastern Ladakh. Singh witnessed the paratroopers land while he watched the feat from the ground. “Witnessed the Fire and Fury,” Singh tweeted out. In a viral video, which was released on Friday evening, the paratroopers could be seen jumping off the aircraft with no reluctance or inhibition. One of the first paratroopers made the jump, twisted mid-air and waved back to the camera. Also read: Rajnath Singh watches military exercise by T-90 tanks at 11,000 ft in LehThe video got the adrenaline rushing in people. Netizens have been awe-struct by the display of courage and heroism. One social media user tweeted out saying, “Josh is high”. “Long live The Indian army !!” tweeted another user. Watch | Stunning visuals of Indian paratroopers jumping out of plane over Ladakh“We Are Ready. Today Fellow Paratroopers tested their routine skills in Ladakh. Jai Hind,” tweeted former Special Forces officer Major Surendra Poonia.  Witnessed the Fire and Fury of the Indian Army during the Para Dropping and other military demonstrations at Stakna near Leh today. Also, I got the opportunity to interact with them. I am proud of these brave and courageous soldiers. pic.twitter.com/WYJzx6z6ShThe daredevil act came as the Indian Army showcased its T-90 tanks and armoured combat vehicles as defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the situation at the border on Friday. Army tanks carried out military exercises in Singh’s presence in Stakna, a forward post in eastern Ladakh. Singh later interacted with the personnel and gave an address. The defence minister landed in Leh on Friday morning and is on a two-day visit to Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir along with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paratroopers-diving-over-ladakh-mountains-stuns-country-netizens-say-josh-is-high/story-2bjDUxgSwqba9AcFRQePWO.html
18-07-2020||India||First phase trial of Covaxin, India’s Covid-19 vaccine, starts on 375 people: Report||Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), which developed India’s first potential indigenous coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, has said the first phase of testing has begun on 375 people, according to a report on Saturday.Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, reported that Bharat Biotech has said that human trials of Covaxin started on July 15. The Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company has jointly developed the vaccine with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV). Twelve hospitals in different parts of the country are carrying out this test.The vaccine manufacturer has said that these are randomised double-blind clinical trials, Hindustan reported. Some of the people who have volunteered will be vaccinated and some will be given a placebo.However, neither the volunteers nor the researcher knows who has been given the vaccine. They come to know who was injected with the vaccine only after the test period is over.During the first phase of the trial, it is checked whether the people who have been vaccinated develop any adverse effect in their body.Whether the vaccine works against the coronavirus disease will not be known at this stage, which is assessed in the second stage.The hospitals where the vaccine trials have started include All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, AIIMS Patna, King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belgaum, Gillurkar Multispeciality Hospital in Nagpur, Rana Hospital in Gorakhpur, SRM Hospital in Chennai, Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad, Kalinga Hospital in Bhubaneswar, Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur and a hospital in Goa.ICMR had written to 12 institutes where human trials are to be held for the vaccine, Covaxin, ordering them to secure necessary approvals from internal committees and recruit people for clinical tests by July 7.Bharat Biotech is among the seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines. It was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin phase 1 and phase 2 human trials to test the vaccine for efficacy and safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-phase-trial-of-covaxin-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-starts-on-375-people-report/story-B6PjvEIG802stUjuuYXxGJ.html
18-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR asks states to ramp up rapid antigen testing in districts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ICMR tells states to scale up rapid antigen testingThe chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked states to scale up testing in districts, using the antigen-based method. The medical body also told states to identify centres that will conduct these tests, saying it had received requests from public sector undertakings (PSUs), government and private facilities, temples and others to initiate antigen-based testing for the diagnosis of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreRs 50 lakh to family of those dying during Covid-19 duty in OdishaThe Odisha government on Friday announced the family members and next of kin of anyone drafted into Covid-19 duty who succumbs to the infection would be eligible for the ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50 lakh. Similarly, the family members of the ASHA and Anganwadi workers will get the monthly pension till their retirement age. Read moreFour eastern states emerge as worries in anti-Covid battleFour states in eastern India have emerged as the biggest concerns for the Narendra Modi government in tackling the Covid-19 crisis. West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and Bihar have shown high case positivity rates despite low levels of testing, and the emergence of new virus clusters and several new cases within containment zones have underlined gaps in containment strategy. Read moreUnited States carries out third federal execution in four daysThe US Justice Department on Friday (local time) carried out its third federal execution in four days after the punishment was revived by the Trump administration following a 17-year hiatus. Officials executed Dustin Lee Honken at a federal penitentiary in Terre Haute, Indiana, on Friday afternoon. Read moreCovid-19 aftermath: IPL 2020 all set to move out of IndiaCovid-19 could push the Indian Premier League (IPL) out of India and to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) again after 2014. The Apex Council of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) was apprised of the challenges of holding IPL in India in the time of rising novel coronavirus cases. Read morePriyanka Chopra will mint millions in 2020: A rundown of every project she’s working onPriyanka Chopra is probably looking at the most eventful year of her professional career, as the actor turns 38 on Saturday. Priyanka recently signed a two-year multimillion-dollar deal with Amazon to produce a variety of content, in different languages. Read moreIs that sanitiser bottle safe for you to carry?Sanitiser is a necessity today. But, how safe is it to have a sanitiser in say a car that’s parked in a high temperature zone or in a luggage that will be checked in during air travel? Isn’t the alcohol content in sanitisers high enough to be a cause of accidents such as fire hazards? Read moreMeghalaya Police posts puntastic tweet about busting truck carrying 500 kg of marijuanaMeghalaya police has caught the attention of tweeple after sharing a tweet riddled with puns about a recent drug bust. In their tweet, Meghalaya police mentioned how they caught a truck carrying 500 kg of marijuana. However, instead of sharing a simple tweet about the incident, they posted one which has since left people laughing out loud. Read moreWatch: Namit Das, Anindita Bose on dealing with competition, rejection | Aur BataoIn the latest episode of ‘Aur Batao’ RJ Stutee speaks to Namit Das and Anindita Bose about their new web series, Mafia. The actors open up on dealing with competition and rejection. Aur Batao is not your regular photoshopped chat show but makes hanging out with celebs a different (and fun) ballgame. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-asks-states-to-ramp-up-rapid-antigen-testing-in-districts-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QC2IhpJAfz3QS5d6ePsB3H.html
18-07-2020||India||Delhi’s active Covid-19 cases among lowest in top affected cities||Six months into the coronavirus pandemic and India has seen its Covid-19 tally soar over 10 lakh and is the world’s third worst-affected country. While some of the top affected states in the country are showing signs of the virus slowing down, new hotspots are emerging from states like Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh where Covid-19 infections are cases on the rise.Some of the states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, which reported a spurt in coronavirus infections initially, have now fallen further low on the tally with states like Telangana, Karnataka jumping higher. Karnataka recently overtook Gujarat as the fourth worst-hit state in the country.Besides metropolis like Mumbai and the national capital, newer hotspots are emerging in the country in cities like Bengaluru and Hyderabad.A massive chunk of India’s coronavirus load comes from the top affected cities - most in Maharashtra. At least half the 330,725 active cases in the country, as of Wednesday night, were reported from just 10 cities, with a third of all such cases coming from Maharashtra.Also read: Coronavirus crisis - A million that changed India in countless waysA district- and state-wise analysis of active coronavirus infections by HT showed that urban centres, or city districts, are significantly more affected by the virus and account for a majority of the active cases; just the 10 cities account for more than 50 percent of all active cases in the country.Among the top 10 cities based on active cases, Delhi has the lowest proportion of active cases – 15.2 percent.Here’s a list of top affected cities in the country:DelhiThe national capital is among the worst hit in the country. Although the total Covid-19 cases here run in lakhs, over 1.1 lakh, the active cases in Delhi are fewer than many other badly-hit cities - over 17,000.MumbaiIndia’s financial capital and entertainment hub has been among the top Covid-19 hotspots ever since the virus first broke out in the country. It has reported nearly a lakh total cases while the active number of cases here stand at 23,948. ThaneThis is Maharashtra second worst affected city with has reported over 71,000 positive cases of coronavirus till date. The active number of coronavirus infections here 36,468.PuneWith nearly 50,000 cumulative coronavirus cases, Pune is the third worst-hit city in Maharashtra. The city has reported 29,583 active cases of coronavirus so far.BengaluruKarnataka has witnessed a dramatic surge in its Covid-19 number and is now the fourth top affected state in the country after Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. A major chunk of its Covid-19 cases come from Bengaluru which, so far, has reported over 27,000 cases of coronavirus. The active cases in Bengaluru stands at over 20,000.Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad are among other cities across the country with a heavy of coronavirus cases. In Hyderabad, nearly 99 percent of cases reported, which over 30,000, are currently active. Tamil Nadu’s capital city Chennai has reported over 83,377 coronavirus cases till date of which over 15,000 are active in nature. Gujarat’s Ahmedabad, which has reported nearly 24,000 Covid-19 cases till date has over 15 percent of its total cases as active patients. Nearly 40 percent of Kolkata’s coronavirus cases are active. The Bengal capital has reported over 10,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-active-covid-19-cases-among-lowest-in-top-affected-cities-covid-19-city-tally/story-iVPsyrKCHCP6dBAwhgyfJO.html
18-07-2020||India||Rs 50 lakh to family of those dying during Covid-19 duty in Odisha||The Odisha government on Friday announced the family members and next of kin of anyone drafted into Covid-19 duty who succumbs to the infection would be eligible for the ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50 lakh.Similarly, the family members of the ASHA and Anganwadi workers will get the monthly pension till their retirement age.More than 600 corona warriors have tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha so far.Earlier, the state government had announced the ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh for policemen, doctors, nurses, ASHA workers and Anganwadi workers engaged in Covid-19 duty.In a separate notification, the government said family members of Anganwadi workers dying on duty will get a monthly pension of Rs 7,500 a month while the kin of deceased ASHA worker will get a monthly pension of Rs 5,000.Two days ago, an ASHA worker in Khurda district died while distributing medicines and in May a 50-year-old ASHA worker in Angul district died while spreading awareness messages on the coronavirus disease. Last week, an Anganwadi supervisor succumbed to Covid-19 at his home in Ganjam district.Bhubaneswar on Friday saw a record single-day surge of 124 cases on a day Odisha’s tally crossed 16,000. Bhubaneswar, which has so far seen over 1,000 Covid-19 cases, went under lockdown from July 17 night till July 31 barring a gap of seven hours every day.In Odisha, Covid-19 cases have surged over the last 10 days with an average positivity rate of 9. At least 600 cases have been reported on an average during the period.At least 33% of the total cases are from local contact indicating community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-50-lakh-to-family-of-those-dying-during-covid-19-duty-in-odisha/story-gwHlsZeztvsMyBfhPzIAZO.html
18-07-2020||India||Day after killing Jaish commander, security forces gun down 3 terrorists in J-K’s Shopian||At least three terrorists were killed in an ongoing gunfight with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian districts, officials said on Saturday.The encounter had started early in the morning at Amshipora area of Shopian, a police spokesperson had said earlier.Police on Friday had claimed to have killed three terrorists in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, including a Jaish-e-Mohammed commander believed to be an IED expert.Vijay Kumar, Kashmir’s inspector general of police, had recently said the security forces have prepared a list of group of top commanders who will be tracked and neutralised in the coming months.Security forces had killed 48 terrorists, most of them in the four districts of south Kashmir, in June during various encounters in the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-killing-jaish-commander-security-forces-gun-down-3-terrorists-in-j-k-s-shopian/story-McwuvWocb6cQI3Qkv8js5K.html
18-07-2020||India||Goa CM Sawant on sticky wicket as pressure mounts from governor, critics over Covid-19 handling||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant faced flak for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic as the state began its first of a three-day lockdown on Friday. Besides opposition parties and civil society, which have been his regular critics, the chief minister has to now contend with Goa’s Governor Satyapal Malik, who has called on the government to plug “shortfalls” in its Covid-19 response as well as members of his own party who have begun to question the handling. Malik said late on Thursday that the “synergy” between ministers in the government was lacking and that the Covid-19 response was being held back “due to political reasons”.“I have now told them to come together and work and not criticise each other... There needs to be synergy among the ministers and among the officers. It’s not there (to the extent it should be), there needs to be more especially during a crisis,” Malik said. “Even though I am raising issues, I do not have any vested interest. I have no elections to fight. When I raise the issues, do not make it a prestige issue saying that the governor has asked questions. The governor can definitely ask. Because the one seated above the governor will ask me. And if I give wrong information, you (the chief minister) will not like it. So I ask, in order that I can have the right information and where I can make corrections, I will and the reporting that I do to those at the top, will be right,” he said.“If I mislead the PM, home minister—these days I also need to keep the president informed—it will be wrong. So what’s the hassle? This is my duty, don’t make an issue out of it. The press should also not make an issue that I have called this meeting to give them schooling,” the governor added. The comments, which came immediately after a meeting he had summoned of the chief minister, health minister and some officials, upped the pressure on Sawant who had been insisting that the state’s response to Covid-19 is more than adequate. Sawant, who for long was insisting that another lockdown would do the state no good, made an about-turn and announced Goa would undergo a three-day weekend lockdown.Insiders say the move was to placate the governor who expressed his worry about the fast surging Covid-19 cases and deaths on account of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The lockdown, despite being announced more than 24-hours before it comes into effect, prompted panic buying by local residents, who are still scarred by Sawant’s extension of the Janata Curfew in March with his own abrupt and severe lockdown that left people no time to even buy the necessities and prompted the hashtag #Goastarves. “Today’s mad rush in markets across Goa can definitely be a corona booster, effects of which will be seen in the next eight days. People had to be informed properly in advance that grocery stores and milk will not be shut,” Dattaprasad Naik, a BJP spokesperson, said. Prompted by the governor’s remarks, the opposition stepped up its attacks on the chief minister. “It is now clear that the defective government headed by Dr Pramod Sawant has lost even the faith and trust of the constitutional head of the state. The local BJP government has lost it completely on all fronts and don’t deserve even a minute to continue in power which they grabbed by using unfair means,” Girish Chodankar, Congress’ Goa unit chief, said. Goa, which had through much of April and May recorded only seven cases all among those who were entering from outside, saw a surge in July which has only grown with the number of Covid-19 cases standing at over 3,000 and 20 deaths.The containment and micro containment zones in the state, which were only one six weeks ago, are now nearly a dozen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-sawant-on-sticky-wicket-as-pressure-mounts-from-governor-critics-over-covid-19-handling/story-dyQbyDjp7xlCC1tRqDao4J.html
18-07-2020||India||Delhiwale: A windowless poet’s pandemic poem||Hers is an extraordinary room. It is without a window. “I miss the day light... miss seeing the world outside,” admits Tanisha Saxena, talking on WhatsApp video. A Master’s student in English literature, Ms Saxena, 22, is sitting in the said room this afternoon. It is her study. Here, she often writes poems. “The absence of windows does save me from distraction, and I’m really able to concentrate on my reading and writing,” asserts the young woman.The windowless chamber, however, is not hers alone. Ms Saxena lives with parents in a three-room flat in south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar, and is obliged to share the room’s utility with her father, who runs a business of greeting cards. In fact, the desk in the corner is crammed with her books as well as father’s printing stuff. She rarely sits on that table. Her favoured place is the bed—a mattress laid down on the floor—with the pillow doubling up as “my true table.”Looking about herself, the woman talks of how tough it is to stay at home. She feels that people these days, on social media, are constantly talking about doing productive things while confined to home. As if there was a competition of how productive one can be while indoors. It has taken a toll on her. But she has a coping mechanism—poetry. “I feel an unbearable pressure of doing things when I actually don’t feel like doing them at all. It is then that the poems I have written help me regain my confidence.”Ms Saxena is also fast learning the fragility of things. “Earlier I would have ambitious ideas for my future; now I try to make only short-term plans.” For a long time, she was looking forward to that faraway day when she would have a job, that would enable her to make savings to fund a dream world trip. “But now it’s like... what do I have to do tomorrow.”Ms Saxena wrote a poem in the early days of the pandemic, even as she was learning to live with the “constant fear of contracting the virus.” She agreed to share it with us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-windowless-poet-s-pandemic-poem/story-QkpPY1e8SWErZQL6bWAxFP.html
18-07-2020||India||Eyeing national security, Uttarakhand, ITBP to improve border infrastructure||The Uttarakhand government and Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) on Friday decided to improve critical infrastructure, promote tourism and civilian settlements in the border areas of the state keeping in mind the national security.In a meeting with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, ITBP chief S S Deswal raised issues pertaining to reverse migration, road, mobile and power connectivity, approvals for acquiring land for ITBP infrastructures and promotion of tourism including water sports in remote areas in the backdrop of the recent border clashes with China following PLA’s incursions. Uttarakhand’s border with China extends to 350 km. The ITBP has its presence on 42 BoPs (border outposts) in Badahoti and Mana Pass.People familiar with development said Rawat has committed to work in coordination with ITBP for realisation of the objectives. Officials in Uttarakhand CM’s office, who did not wish to be named, said Rawat announced ~10 crore under chief minister border areas development project and instructed officials to ensure that the state complemented the national developmental schemes for the region.“The CM told officials that creation of infrastructure and facilities will help in stopping migration from border areas. He added that stopping this migration was important from the point of view of the country’s security,” the officials quoted above said.Several defence and strategic experts recently spoke about the need for increasing human settlements and tourism activities in border areas which could act as the second line of defence.The chief minister also instructed officials to urgently outline a project to provide power connection to ITBP posts in remote border areas in the state. He said the Central government will be requested to help set up mobile towers in these regions for uninterrupted communication. He also instructed the Dehradun district magistrate to make available 15 acre land for the setting up of ITBP’s frontier headquarter, added officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eyeing-national-security-uttarakhand-itbp-to-improve-border-infrastructure/story-UKZOI5g5xzJ5KDnCCM8V7K.html
18-07-2020||India||Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone gets green nod||The union environment ministry has approved the zonal master plan for the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone notification that stretches from Gaumukh to Uttarkashi covering an area of 4179.59 sqkm, the ministry said in a statement on Friday.In a review meeting on the chaardhaam road project chaired by Nitin Gadkari, minister of road transport and highways where he called for quick disposal of pending issues like land acquisition and environmental clearances, environment minister, Prakash Javadekar said that the ministry has approved the ZMP which will help expedite the chaardhaam road project.Uttarakhand CM, Trivendra Singh Rawat; Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Gen (Retd) V K Singh also attended the meeting.“The ZMP is based on watershed approach and includes governance in the area of forest and wildlife, watershed management, irrigation, energy, tourism, public health and sanitation, road infrastructure, etc. The approval of ZMP will give a boost to conservation and ecology of the area and also to undertake developmental activities as permitted under ZMP. The approval will also pave way for faster execution of the Chaardhaam Project,” environment ministry’s statement said.But approval of the ZMP could make the entire Bhagirathi region extremely vulnerable to natural disasters, activists and experts said.The Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone notification was first issued by the environment ministry on December 18, 2012. After years of protests by local environmentalists, the notification sought to protect the entire fragile Himalayan region by restricting hydropower projects of over 2 MW, riverbed mining and change of land use. The notification was however amended on April 16, 2018 following Uttarakhand government’s objections that the notification was ‘anti-development.’The 2018 amendment said: “a number of representations have been received from various stakeholders to allow activities that promote sustainable development while ensuring environmental protection in the Bhagirathi Eco-sensitive Zone,” and hence it approved land use change to meet the local needs including civic amenities and” other infrastructure development in larger public interest and national security with the prior approval of State Government with due study of Environmental Impacts.” It also allowed cutting of hills in eco-sensitive areas with proper study and construction on steep slopes in exceptional cases for the benefit of the community. The ministry has approved the ZMP in line with the 2016 amendments.“Haven’t we learnt anything from the 2015 Kedarnath tragedy? The Himalayas are extremely fragile mountains. The rocks still haven’t consolidated completely. Hill cutting will definitely destabilise hills, if there is forest loss debris would flow into the river affecting the river and making the entire region extremely vulnerable to landslides. Also, beyond 1800 to 2000 metres altitude its mostly moraines (unconsolidated glacial debris). If there is a cloudburst these will add to landslides. Plus, the Himalayas are in seismic zone V a major earthquake can happen anytime. What is the purpose of the chaardhaam road? If it’s entirely strategic then a single lane road will suffice,” said Shashi Shekhar, former secretary, union ministry of water resources who has dealt with various legal matters on the Bhagirathi Eco Sensitive Zone during his tenure in the ministry.“This is the last pristine stretch of Ganga - which is why for the conservation of Bhagirathi, an ESZ in the entire watershed was announced. I hope that the government of Uttarakhand will not bulldoze its own agenda of so-called development and maintain the sanctity of the ESZ through the ZMP. GoU’s response to ESZ so far has not been positive so far - the ESZ monitoring committee has virtually been made non-functional,” said Mallika Bhanot of Uttarakhand based Ganga Ahvaan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhagirathi-eco-sensitive-zone-gets-green-nod/story-WLHZU0KqfjnshkZnsh82ZL.html
18-07-2020||India||Coronavirus reaching hinterland real challenge for health care||When Santosh Kumar developed a cough and mild fever on July 6, he knew what to do. His village of Chakai, a collection of 200-odd residents in Bihar’s impoverished Araria district, was buzzing with news of the coronavirus and the 35-year-old shopkeeper suspected he contracted the infection.But when he reached the local hospital in Jokihat, he was told there were no facilities to test for the virus. The next day, he took a bus to Araria, and spent five hours at the district hospital before a nurse came to take his swab. “It was not easy for me to undergo a test as there was no one in the district hospital to take notice,” said Kumar, who runs a small hardware shop.On July 9, a phone call from the administration told him the test was positive, and he was admitted to an isolation centre at Forbesganj the next morning. At the centre, he met Mithu Kumar, Rinki Devi and Suraj Kumar – all residents of Araria district – who narrated similar tales of difficulty in getting tested. “When you are infected with the coronavirus, you better rely on god,” said Mithu Kumar. Across the largely rural district where manual and agricultural labour are the main sources of employment, quacks — who have long capitalised on the poor health care system in the region — have come up with “corona cures” overnight. “We don’t know where to go for a test if I catch a cold or I am sick with fever,” said Munna, 40, who goes by one name. “We still take medicines from quacks.” The district has 213 infections but even in villages with patients, there is little awareness of distancing protocols or the need to wear masks. The 100-bed district hospital has 11 regular doctors on roster against a sanctioned strength is 46. There are 15 nurses out of sanctioned 60. The government says it has ramped up facilities to battle the infection. “We are doing our best for the patients infected with coronavirus,” said Araria civil surgeon Madan Mohan Prasad Singh. Officer in charge of Araria, Shambhu Kumar, said the administration will start testing at the block level in two days. “We are just waiting for kits,” he said.Araria is not alone. Four months into the pandemic in India, the virus has travelled from urban centres into the hinterland, where a fractured health care system, low awareness and abject poverty are emerging as major impediments in the battle against Covid. Of India’s over one million cases, nearly a third are from 658 districts where the share of rural population is more than 40%, and a quarter of the cases is in the 584 districts that have more than 60% rural population. This means that while the majority of the infections are being reported from urban centres rural India is dealing with a significant caseload. This is a heavy burden because some of the states with the largest rural populations such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, also have the lowest per capita hospital bed or doctor availability. In Bihar, which has the largest share of rural population — only 0.11 beds and 0.39 doctors are available per thousand people — as opposed to 0.46 and 1.54 for Maharashtra, the worst-hit state. “Of course, there is an increase in cases in rural areas and that was to be expected. After the lockdown lifted, and jobs remained elusive, millions travelled home without facilities for testing, contact tracing and isolation,” said Dr Vivekananda Jha, executive director of The George Institute for Global Health, Delhi.Testing is another problem. Compared to 38,188 tests per million in Delhi and a national average of 9,908 tests per million, Bihar conducted 2,907 tests, Uttar Pradesh, 5,891 tests and Odisha 8,287 tests per million. “In cities, however crowded, migrants live and work with others who are relatively young, but when they go back to their multi-generational families and communities, they infect the old and vulnerable who have very often poor or no access to health systems,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bhubaneswar.Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which are the two biggest sources of migrants, also have daunting health care challenges. The health infrastructure of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, for example, is 2.5 times lower than Kerala’s, according to Niti Aayog’s State Health Index 2019. In many of these regions, decades of chronic underfunding of health care has brought the crisis to a head. For people living in rural areas, where private facilities are usually few, the government allopathic doctor-patient ratio is 1:10,926, shows the National Health Profile 2019 data. In the past two months, states have attempted to scale up facilities. In Bihar, for example, health minister Mangal Pandey said there are now 441 Covid Care Centres. “All six medical college and hospitals have been asked to arrange 100 beds for Covid patients and 40,000 rapid testing kits have been sent to districts,” he added.Experts agree there has been a degree of improvement over the years. “Some progress has certainly been made in improving service delivery in rural areas, but the focus has been largely on maternal and child care, with some good work in malaria and TB control. But by and large, the infrastructure capacity to cope with infectious diseases in terms of trained personnel, laboratory support and good district and sub district level hospitals continue to be poor. A lot more focus and investment is needed,” said K Sujatha Rao, former Union health secretary. A survey done by the National Health Authority, which runs the government’s flagship Ayushman Bharat health assurance programme, found 22 of 101 accredited private hospitals had remained inactive and 81 declined to provide Covid-19 treatment.The bigger fear than rising cases in rural India, experts said, is the possibility of infections going unrecorded. “It’s clear that testing is low in these states, and transmission will remain high as people are not tested. We have experience, not from coronavirus infection but other disease, which people get ill and die in rural areas without going to a hospital and the cause of death is not recorded,” said Jha. “Unless we test, isolate and treat and strengthen primary health care more widely, coronavirus in rural areas will remain unrecorded,” he said.(additional reporting by Vijdan Mohammad Kawoosa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-reaching-hinterland-real-challenge-for-health-care/story-Sri6eu0sddql0rFvPD7uxL.html
18-07-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: A million that changed India in countless ways||When India encountered its first case on January 30 in Kerala, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seemed like an abstraction — an unknown infection in a corner of China that seemed to have created a scare of sorts. But it wasn’t “our problem”. When, in early March, a Delhi resident — who had returned from Europe; whose children studied in an elite school in Noida; and who went out for a meal to Hyatt — tested positive, that abstraction became a reality for urban middle class Indians. Suddenly, it was not someone else’s problem. Covid-19 had hit home.  Five-and-a-half months later, a million Indians have been infected by Sars-Cov-2. Over 25,000 Indians are dead due to the disease. And India has changed. India’s governance structure has confronted the most serious multi-dimensional crisis in its history. Its political life is on the verge of a potential transformation, both in form and substance. Its public health system has emerged as the most critical determinant of the nation’s ability to fight and revive. Its economy has gone through an unprecedented contraction. Its governing economic philosophy has shifted. Its companies have been forced to reconfigure their businesses.That’s not all. The country’s labour has gone through a humanitarian tragedy, more severe than it has ever experienced. India’s poor have got poorer, the rich have not got richer, and the middle class has seen opportunities shrink, jobs disappear, and incomes get depleted. Its professionals have had to reconfigure the very idea of what it means to work and how. Its children have been forced to adapt to a new education system, where going to school itself is an elusive prospect. Its young adults are graduating, but with nowhere to go. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFinally, India’s rich social and family traditions have transformed. Its relations with the world have undergone a reset, driven by the imperatives of managing the pandemic while securing the country. And its citizens have changed the way they live, eat, travel, interact, and work, perhaps irreversibly. This then is a story of a virus, a million cases, and the creation of a new pattern of State-citizen and citizen-citizen engagement, a new political system, a new economic paradigm, a new social framework, a new citizenry, and, in many ways, a new national imagination. There is a caveat, however. This pandemic-induced rupture has not wiped away the past — but retained elements of it; there is, thus, continuity. A new post-pandemic India is taking roots, but old India has not gone away. The State’s centralityIn the new post-pandemic India, the State is more powerful and present in everyday life than it was in pre-pandemic India. From when people can leave their neighbourhood to when children can go to school, from where people can shop to where they can travel, from what they need to do if they are feeling unwell to the penalties they have to pay for flouting official directives, from when businesses can open in the day to where they can source supplies from or export, the State’s writ is larger than ever before in influencing the public and private sphere. Also read | Covid-19: A million and a manifestoTo be sure, this is not exclusively an Indian phenomenon; nor necessarily a negative one — the pandemic required the State to step in and regulate society in ways which would prevent the spread of the infection and ensure common good. In cases where the State did not fulfil this role — the United States is an obvious example — the situation is a lot worse. But to think that only three decades ago, a reform process which hinged on the retreat of the State in India’s political economy commenced, it is remarkable to see how powerful the State apparatus indeed is.The centrality of the State is most acutely reflected in the health care system. People may have seceded from the realm of state services by turning to private services for basic needs, but the pandemic has shown no one can truly secede from the larger public health system. It is the web of the health ministry, state governments, government hospitals in each district, government doctors and health care personnel which has provided the first line of response. The private sector has chipped in — but even the conditions under which it can do so have been determined by public health authorities. This expansive role of the State also required new ways of working. From the Prime Minister holding video conferences with chief ministers to the cabinet secretary convening a meeting of all chief secretaries digitally, from rolling out the Aarogya Setu app to track infections to the deployment of officials from a range of departments for contact tracing, the State has had to adapt, embrace technology, divert its resources for the most urgent tasks at hand, and realign priorities . But through all of this, it has also become clear that Indian State’s capacity is woefully inadequate. Its investment in key areas which are central to its mandate — such as health — is way too limited. Its coercive apparatus has a tendency to go overboard, as during the enforcement of the lockdown. It is slow to respond to immediate needs of the most vulnerable citizens (migrants being the most obvious example), and it lacks the required domain expertise needed for emergencies. The centrality of class Even as the pandemic has shown both the overwhelming presence of the State and its inadequacy, it has also led to tremendous suffering — and in the process, highlighted, and reinforced, the existing inequalities of Indian society. The pandemic affected every citizen, but it affected some more than others. If you were a migrant worker living in a Mumbai slum — with your factory shut, with no wages, with no accommodation, with your family hundreds of miles away in Bihar or eastern Uttar Pradesh, with no transport to go back home — you suffered. If you were a small roadside vendor in Delhi — with your tea stall closed, with your landlord in an unauthorised colony asking you to vacate your room immediately, and with the only way to get home being a long arduous walk back for hundreds of miles — you suffered.Also read | Covid-19: Appoint officials to monitor hospitals, Centre asks statesIf you were a small business owner — whose imports had collapsed, supply chains were disrupted, factory was closed, orders had dried up, and entire financial planning had collapsed — you suffered. If you were a child, born in a poor family, in a village, going to a government school which shut down, dependent on the mid-day meal which was no longer provided, and where the idea of online classes could barely be imagined, you suffered. If you were a salaried professional who just lost a job — and you struggled to pay back your monthly interest on that loan for a recent car, or fees for your school children, or rent for the house — you suffered. This tragedy of human suffering — caused both by the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb its spread — will remain entrenched in public memory and private stories for years to come. It has shown the importance of class. It has brought to light the vulnerabilities of millions of migrant workers. It has shown the essential nature of State welfare programmes, which have acted as the only, limited cushion in trying times. And it has shown that how, when decisions are taken at a policy-level, the human cost is not always adequately factored in.Contours of politics If the State has been central, and if the economic suffering has been tremendous across spheres, can politics be far behind?The pandemic has forced political parties to recognise that the old ways of engagement with citizens is gone, at least temporarily. Crowded mass rallies will only be a memory. But this does not mean that the engagement with citizens will end. Indeed, the pandemic had already forced a reset, with parties embracing digital technologies to interact with workers, mobilise citizens, and push out their messages. It is not a neat substitute. It cannot replace the human touch, essential in politics. But it will be the norm, and those who adapt it quicker will have the advantage.But the pandemic has the potential to change the substance of politics, too. Political parties recognise that the response to Covid-19 will be a defining element of their legacy if in power. And that is why the rush to claim credit, to show that the country — or a particular state — is doing better than others, is visible on part of ruling parties, and the rush to critique the response is apparent on part of the Opposition. But the key question is how the discourse on issues will now shape up. For citizens, public health, livelihoods, welfare, formal jobs with a degree of security, income support in difficult times is, now, a matter of life and death. If these become central themes of Indian politics, then the country may be on the verge of a reset, for the better. Life of a citizenWhat has changed in these six months is also the life of an ordinary citizen. If you are a young professional, you live and work differently. Online meeting platforms are central to your work life, as is the idea of working from home. Attending weddings online, or socialising with your friends on a web platform with a drink, is the new normal. If you are a student, online classes are central to your education, the nature of exams has changed, and the memory of playing with friends in your school ground is just that — a memory. If you are an old retired couple, going for a walk is suddenly a risk, and your children don’t visit you for the fear of exposing you to the disease. These fundamental shifts in the lives of citizens are changing society. The pandemic has restructured social interactions, and transformed the manner in which social bonds are sustained or individuals form groups. It has, at a micro level, allowed resident welfare associations to dictate your life. At a macro level, it has created new associations — of class for instance — but also reinforced old associations, of more parochial identities as people slide back into their own families, caste networks, and communities. All of this will alter social frameworks, in ways difficult to anticipate at the moment.In the post-pandemic India, Indians will have to be ready for a more uncertain and fragile future. All assumptions lie challenged, all old ways of living lie broken, and the security of the past lies shattered. What will emerge from this debris will depend on how, and when, the world, and India is able to fight off the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-million-that-changed-india-in-countless-ways/story-SVZjAdodFvXKDCfSsb97EO.html
18-07-2020||India||Four eastern states emerge as worries in anti-Covid battle||Four states in eastern India have emerged as the biggest concerns for the Narendra Modi government in tackling the Covid-19 crisis. West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and Bihar have shown high case positivity rates despite low levels of testing, and the emergence of new virus clusters and several new cases within containment zones have underlined gaps in containment strategy.According to senior government officials, West Bengal has recorded an average of 1,600 new cases a day in the last two weeks and the count for the last five days alone constitute 90% of all active cases in the state.In the same period, Bihar has recorded an average of 450 cases a day, and 80% of its total active cases have come over the past week. Patna, Nalanda, Bhalagpur, Begusarai, Munger and Gaya are among the districts reporting a large number of cases. In Assam, 80% of all active cases have been recorded in the last 14 days while Odisha has reported an average of 500 cases for the past four weeks now. The coastal state’s Ganjam district — home to chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s constituency Hinjili — accounts for 37% of all virus cases in Odisha.While all four states have a lower death rate than the national average, officials feel the four states need to do much more.These four states have been asked to plan better containment and surveillance strategy, among other things. “We asked them to check the source of such high numbers. If a substantial number of cases are recorded from containment areas, then you have to change containment strategy,” a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-eastern-states-emerge-as-worries-in-anti-covid-battle/story-0G57GigZHElT1ETBIrdPoI.html
18-07-2020||India||Zydus looks to complete clinical trials of vaccine in seven months||Drug firm Zydus Cadila is looking to complete clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D in seven months, the company’s chairman said on Friday. The company had on Wednesday started clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate with the first human dosing. The firm is looking to complete phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in the next three months and submit the data to the regulator, Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj R Patel said in a statement. Depending on the study outcomes, and if the data is encouraging and the vaccine found effective during the trials, it could take a total of seven months for the trials to be completed and for the vaccine to be launched, he added. The aim would be to cater to the Indian market first, Patel said. “The company is open to exploring partnerships with pharma companies across geographies, however it may be too premature to comment on this at this point in time,” he added. Earlier this month, Zydus had received approval from the national drug regulator to initiate human trials for its Covid-19 vaccine contender.India hit a million Covid-19 infections on Thursday, after recording over 36,000 cases in a single day, becoming only the third nation to do so, after the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-looks-to-complete-clinical-trials-of-vaccine-in-seven-months/story-Yg5DNxWbgCISjPqvSliceM.html
18-07-2020||India||Covid-19: A million and a manifesto||India crossed a million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday. I expected it to happen over the weekend; HT’s data person (for all things related to Covid-19) Jamie Mullick got it right, though. At the current rate of growth, India could cross the two million case mark sometime in early August, with many of the cases coming from populous states whose health care systems will find it difficult to cope with the challenge. Irrespective of the efficacy of its measures, the government was proactive in the early run of the pandemic in India. As the country enters a critical phase (the disease is beginning to spread fast in hitherto less affected regions), here is a 10-point manifesto for the government to consider.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTest more. I’ve previously suggested a target of 50 million by August 15. That may be difficult now, but I’m told a million tests a day are well within India’s reach. India has conducted around 13 million tests so far according to worldometers.infoAt a million a day, it will reach the 50-million mark in 37 days; by the middle of October, it would have conducted 100 million tests, covering a little over 7.5% of its population. That should do.Enforce the wearing of masks. And hand hygiene. And social distancing. After three-and-a-half months of wearing masks (perhaps even gloves), using sanitizers, washing hands, and social distancing, everyone is tired. It is beginning to show — but the results could be disastrous.Draft a vaccine plan. What is our vaccine plan? Have we invested in vaccine companies? Or have we struck deals with them the way the US has, doling out billions in return for dibs on a vaccine when it is developed? Have we placed advance orders? I think this is the best way to spend the money that has been collected by the PM Cares Fund.Appoint a chief scientist — or a Covid Commissioner. We desperately need one to orchestrate the scientific and health care response to the coronavirus disease and to ensure that science, and established scientific processes drive our response to the pandemic. (Some readers and the government may have a question about this. I have an answer: Do we?)Appoint a data czar. And make all data — testing, geographical spread of the disease, availability of hospital beds, results of clinical trials — public.Reintroduce daily briefings on how India is doing. Take questions. And share information openly and transparently on caseloads and deaths, gaps in the health care system, the policy response, and scientific and medical developments.Frame rules for focused lockdowns. As the virus rages through India, a new bunch of hot spots will emerge, showing clusters of infection. The only way to deal with these is to lock them down — but using a standard protocol that builds on learnings from the 68-day national lockdown.Give children enrolled in a school under the Right to Education scheme a device on which they can access classes (which have all gone online). Actually, why only them, give one to every school-going child who doesn’t have a device.Announce another stimulus — one that actually underwrites (or funds) businesses, and puts cash in the hands of people. Even fiscal hawks won’t protest too loudly at the use of helicopter money in this situation.Convene Parliament and parliamentary committees. The pandemic is a once-in-a-lifetime crisis that has affected every sphere of life (and work). Parliament and its committees cannot afford to sit it out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-a-million-and-a-manifesto/story-mvVxcWQ8GwmSLUGhnlLecN.html
18-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand will retract controversial order on Ganga stretch, but can’t say when||Uttarakhand government has said it will retract the controversial order by the previous Congress government declaring a stretch of the Ganga river as an escape channel and not mainstream river. The decision was taken amid mounting pressure from seers and saints.Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and state government spokesperson, blamed the then Congress-led Harish Rawat government for the whole fiasco, saying it hurt religious sentiments of millions of Hindus.“Definitely we (BJP government) will scrap the previous government’s decision on Ganga stretch in Haridwar. Already, various legal aspects are being considered. But, exactly when it will be retracted, I can’t say as of now. But it will definitely be overturned and the ancient old status of Ganga stretch at Har-Ki-Pauri will be restored” said Kaushik.The Congress-led government had issued an order declaring Ganga stretch from Sarvanand Ghat, Bhoopatwala till Shri Daknesheswar Mahadev temple, passing through sanctum sanctorum of Brahama Kund, Har-Ki-Pauri as an escape channel on December 14, 2016.This meant Har-Ki-Pauri ghat was not on the main river Ganga course and thus did not come under NGT directive prohibiting construction activities within 100 metre of the Ganga river.Former chief minister Harish Rawat said the controversial order was passed to safeguard the interests of local traders and commercial activities but later he realized it was a “mistake”.The delay in scrapping the order has infuriated the priests, saints and Ganga Sabha –which manages the affairs of sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri.Last week former chief minister Harish Rawat sought an apology from the saint community and urged BJP-led state government to nullify the December, 2016 order.Despite the pressure, it’s not an easy task for the BJP government as interests of many politicians, businessmen, hoteliers, lodge, dharamshalas, ashram owners and traders will get affected due to this step.A large number of these stakeholders are either close to BJP or Congress office bearers, party workers or are in close touch with top party leaders and even with Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS).Social-RTI activist JP Baduni, who has filed applications regarding Har-Ki-Pauri and Ganga pollution issues, pointed out that certain traders close to the political parties, who view Ganga through the commercial point of view, had earlier pressurised the Congress government to pass this order and are now lobbying with the BJP to ensure the order doesn’t get nullified.Notably, way back in 2011-12, Nainital High Court had given directives for the demolition of commercial buildings and establishments falling under the 200-metre periphery of Ganga riverbed.Later in 2015, National Green Tribunal (NGT) prohibited the construction of any commercial building within 100 metre of Ganga river bed, which led to the Congress-led state government issuing the order on December 14, 2016 to safeguard interests of the affected people.A senior official privy to the development said that for the past three years, the state government has been dwelling on ways to nullify the order but at the same time, interests of hotel owners, builders, traders and noted saints, who have numerous-dharamshalas at core Har-Ki-Pauri zone, also have to be taken care of.Aggrieved by the delay in retracting the order, several Akhadas have expressed their displeasure and warned of boycotting Mahakumbh if it is not nullified by this year.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of all the major Akhadas, has decided to raise this issue again with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, when the next meeting on Mahakumbh affairs is held.To put pressure on the state government for time-bound invalidation of the previous Congress government order, the Ganga Sabha, which manages affairs of Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats, has now decided to take the legal route.Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said on past several occasions they have apprised the CM TS Rawat and cabinet minister Madan Kaushik in this regard but despite assurances, officially nothing concrete has been done.“If in the coming weeks this escape channel order is not repealed we will be moving the apex court as this is a matter related with sacred Ganga whom we regard as mother and deity,” said Jha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-will-retract-controversial-order-on-ganga-stretch-but-can-t-say-when/story-HPmc4wBffTP3dtB6jxbKgJ.html
18-07-2020||India||Large parts of Assam’s Elephant Reserve mined without wildlife nod||Coal India Limited (CIL) had opened and mined 73.2 hectares (ha) of forest area in Assam’s Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve without wildlife or forest clearance, the minutes of the latest meeting of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) have revealed.NBWL, which comes under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), is considering diversion of 98.59 ha of reserve forestland from Assam’s Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve for Tikok opencast coal mining project by North-Eastern Coal Field, a unit of CIL.Earlier, NBWL members had said that CIL had mined a part of the forestland, measuring 57.2 ha, years ago without seeking its clearance.NBWL had directed CIL and Assam government to submit a mine reclamation plan for the area, which had been broken up. It had also sought a feasibility report on underground mining for the remaining unbroken tract of land in a bid to ensure that the biodiversity of the rich biosphere is not affected.The minutes of NBWL’s 58th meeting on July 3, which were released on July 13, had noted that out of 41.39 ha unbroken area, 16 ha have also been broken up by CIL, and as a result, 25 ha remain unbroken.NBWL has recommended that the mining activity be stopped immediately and deferred the matter till further discussions with CIL.“Yes, they (CIL) have mined in more areas than earlier known. I had brought this to the notice of the government as soon as I had learned about it. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Assam, also confirmed this during the meeting,” said R Sukumar, an ecologist at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and a member of NBWL.“CIL had broken up 57.2 ha years ago and mined it without any permission, in violation of laws. They have been directed to (pay) penalty for this and submit a mine reclamation plan. The plan they have submitted includes trees from central India, which is not even the native biodiversity of Assam. CIL has been asked to come back again with a proper plan,” Sukumar had said in April, when CIL’s application was first considered. “The rest of the area borders Arunachal Pradesh and it cannot be broken up. The standing committee has told them (CIL) that forests there cannot be opened up,” he had said.“We don’t have any response on this as of now,” said a CIL senior official.“There’s a huge problem in governance if expert bodies incharge of protecting the environment have to rely on illegally operating projects to reveal truths to them. But we all know this very well by now. The important question is what do we do with these institutions now that only serve as channels to legitimise and justify illegal projects?“Any project can circumambulate around these institutions and clean up its past deeds,” said Manju Menon, senior fellow, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi.NBWL is also considering the diversion of 10.45 ha of forestland for doubling of Tinaighat–Castlerock– Caranzol passing through Karnataka’s Dandeli - Anshi Tiger Reserve, which will lead to clearing of forests in the eco-sensitive areas of the Western Ghats.NBWL is awaiting the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) site report to take a call.Among other significant proposals, the NBWL also heard five proposals for sand mining within a five-kilometre (km) radius of Rajaji National Park in Uttarakhand.NBWL asked the Uttarakhand government to resubmit the proposals after carrying out a study of the cumulative impact of sand mining around Rajaji National Park.It recommended diversion of 63.13 ha forestland for laying of 132-kilovolt (KV) transmission line from Rilo to Seijosa passing through the buffer zone of Pakke Tiger Reserve, which is located at three-10 km away from the critical tiger habitat in Pakke Kessang district of Arunachal Pradesh.Pakke is also a natural habitat for several species of hornbills in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/large-parts-of-assam-s-elephant-reserve-mined-without-wildlife-nod/story-NFh0yNncJ3PiUePrlUGJ7J.html
18-07-2020||India||Talks with China on but no guarantees: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that the progress in negotiations with China should help resolve the ongoing border dispute but he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”, underling that progress in resolving the tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nuclear powers has been a challenging and arduous process.Addressing soldiers at Lukung on the western bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the current border tensions, Singh also said that no power could “touch or grab even an inch of Indian territory”. Lukung is 43km from Finger 4 on the northern bank of Pangong lake.The defence minister’s comments came a day after India said the complex disengagement process with China on the LAC is specifically aimed at preventing “face-off situations”, and any unilateral attempts to change the status quo on the disputed border won’t be accepted. Two days after senior military commanders from both sides met at Chushul, the Indian Army on Thursday said complete disengagement is an “intricate process” requiring “constant verification”.Singh, who landed in Leh on Friday morning, was briefed on the security situation in the sensitive sector including the actual position of troops on both sides of the contested border, people familiar with the developments said. He also witnessed a series of combat manoeuvres at nearby Stakna featuring C-130J special operations aircraft dropping paratroopers, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters, T-90 tanks, infantry combat vehicles and Mi-17 helicopters — with the military imagery meant to signal India’s resolve and readiness to deal with any eventuality in the region. The combat drills he saw in Stakna demonstrated “the application of integrated combined force in high altitude terrain”, said one of the officials cited above.Singh, who was accompanied by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, recalled the brutal clash in Galwan valley on June 15 and paid tribute to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the skirmish. He added that India had neither attacked any country nor grabbed anyone’s territory or hurt their self-respect. “But if anyone attempts to hurt India’s self-respect, we will not tolerate it and will give a befitting reply,” he said. He said India’s leadership was strong and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was capable of taking decisions.While Singh said that nothing could be better than finding a solution to the dispute through dialogue, and that process was on at the military and political level, military affairs experts said the minister’s comments on not being able to guarantee the outcome of the talks pointed to the complexity of the dialogue process. “It clearly highlights the complications and difficulties in the negotiations between the two sides. The comments also indicate that India and China have not been able to narrow down their differences on Pangong Tso and Despsang,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General (retired) DS Hooda.“The minister has indicated that while disengagement has begun, the larger issue of de-escalation is the tough task ahead and contingent on Chinese behaviour now and in the future,” said Sameer Patil, member, international security at Gateway House, a Mumbai-based foreign policy think tank.Officials and experts indicated the army is preparing for the long haul as disengagement isn’t likely in the short term.India’s high-powered China Study Group (CSG) on Wednesday reviewed the latest developments in eastern Ladakh, with the focus on the next stage of disengagement following the 14-hour meeting between the corps commanders on July 14.The disengagement -- which began earlier this month after talks between the two Special Representatives -- national security adviser Ajit Doval and foreign minister Wang Yi on July 6 -- involves rival troops pulling back a specified distance from face-off sites, with further retreat taking place in phases as the plan progresses on a verifiable basis on the ground every 72 hours.The focus of the current military talks is to reach consensus on easing tensions between the two armies in Finger Area near Pangong Tso and Depsang plains, as well as pulling back weapons and equipment from “friction points” in other sectors.A fifth meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, is expected to be held in two weeks to take things forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-on-but-no-guarantees-rajnath/story-tCcZvzpvI7AdOFeJNRkJPL.html
18-07-2020||India||JeM commander among 3 killed in J&K gunfight||Srinagar: Police claimed to have killed three terrorists in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, including a Jaish commander who is believed to be an IED expert.Police said in the early hours of Friday, Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) units, army and the police killed three terrorists, including Waleed, a Pakistani national, in village Nagnad Chimmer in Kulgam district after a five-hour encounter .Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said Waleed had been active in J&K for the past year and a half and was one of the most wanted terrorist in the Valley. Waleed was also an IED expert and the terrorists were affiliated with Jaish.Three soldiers, who were injured in the encounter, are being treated at the Army’s Base hospital. Police spokesman said the terrorists were hiding in a house and opened fire on the search party.He said that Waleed alias Abu Bakar alias Abu Mavia of Pakistan was category A+ militant. ‘’The identities of the other two deceased is being ascertained. Incriminating material including arms and ammunition has been recovered from the site of encounter.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jem-commander-among-3-killed-in-j-k-gunfight/story-joH7VkQhNALGKgQWAnk40K.html
18-07-2020||India||New Rajya Sabha MPs to take oath on July 22||The newly elected members of Rajya Sabha will be administered oath or affirmation on July 22 said persons aware of the details. Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu has decided to proceed with the oath-taking ceremony keeping in view the resumption of meetings by the department related parliamentary standing committees of both the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and the interest expressed by the new members to participate in such meetings, Naidu’s office said in a statement.An MP can participate in the meetings and other house proceedings only after being administered the oath of affirmation; even though they are eligible to draw salaries and other benefits.For the first time, the oath-taking ceremony will be carried out in the chamber of the House during inter-session. “Subscribing to oath or affirmation is usually done either during the session or in the chamber of the Chairman of Rajya Session, if the House is not in session,” the statement said.Among the MPs who will be administered the oath or affirmation are Dr. K. Keshava Rao and Shri Tiruchi Siva who chair parliamentary committees, and cannot convene the meetings of their respective committees unless they are administered the oath.Sixty one members from 20 states who have been elected to the Rajya Sabha will be administered oath in the chairman’s chamber after following the requirement of social distancing and only one family member or guest will be allowed to accompany the MP.The MPs were informed of the decision by the secretary general of Rajya Sabha and those who fail to turn up will be administered oath or affirmation during the ensuing monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-mps-to-take-oath-on-july-22/story-vaVnJ2WhnC7Ei9Oh28bqHI.html
18-07-2020||India||Rahul slams govt, Jaishankar hits back||New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday the country’s troubled economy, foreign policy and neighbourhood had emboldened China to take an aggressive stand against India, prompting external affairs minister S Jaishankar to question the foreign policy decisions of the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government.The former Congress president made the remarks in a video released on Twitter on the India-China border standoff, part of his efforts to share his thoughts on national issues through short videos.“The question is why have Chinese chosen this particular time to move? Why have Chinese chosen to violate the LAC [Line of Actual Control] with India at this point in time? What is it about India situation that has made China act in such an aggressive way? What is it about this moment in time that has allowed Chinese to have the confidence they can move against a country like India?” he asked.“To understand that you have to go into multiple spaces. Countries are protected not by one particular thing but by a confluence of forces, by a confluence of systems. A country is protected by its foreign relationships, it is protected by its neighbourhood, it is protected by its economy, it is protected by the feeling that its people have, the vision that its people have,” Gandhi said.“And what has happened over the last six years is that in all those areas India has been disturbed and disrupted,” he added.Jaishankar responded to Gandhi’s remarks in a string of 10 tweets, highlighting the foreign policy efforts of the government and its measures to improve India’s standing in the world community and the steps taken to improve infrastructure along the disputed border with China.The minister also questioned several foreign policy decisions by the Congress-led UPA government, such as the inclusion of the Balochistan issue in a joint statement issued after a summit meeting with Pakistan at Sharm el-Sheikh in 2009, and its handling of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.Gandhi has been critical of the government’s handling of the standoff with China, and asked it to come clean on alleged intrusions by Chinese forces in Ladakh and the disengagement process.He attacked the government’s foreign policy and the “soured” relationship with neighbours such as Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bhutan, saying ties had become transactional.“Our relationship with the outside world used to be with multiple countries. We had a...strategic partnership with America...That is very important. We had a relationship with Russia. We had a relationship with Europe. And these countries used to help us manoeuvre in the world,” he said.“Today our relationship has become transactional. We have a transactional relationship with the US. We have disturbed our relationship with the Russians. We have a transactional relationship with Europe,” added Gandhi.Earlier, other than Pakistan, the entire neighbourhood partnered with India, he said. “Today Nepal is angry with us. If you go to Nepal and you speak to the Nepali people they are furious with what has happened. Sri Lankans have given a port to the Chinese. Maldives is disturbed. Bhutan is disturbed. So we have disrupted our foreign partners, we’ve disrupted our neighbourhood,” Gandhi contended.However, Jaishankar said India’s major partnerships are stronger and its international standing higher, as reflected by regular summits informal meetings with the US, Russia, Europe and Japan. “India engages China on more equal terms politically,” he said.“We speak our mind more openly now. On #CPEC, on #BRI, on South China Sea, on UN-sanctioned terrorists, etc,” he tweeted. The government has also addressed the “border infrastructure imbalance legacy”, he said. “Compare 2014-20 with 2008-14. Budget up by 280%, road building by 32%, bridges by 99% and tunnels by 6 times,” he added.Turning to the neighbourhood, Jaishankar said the agreement on Hambantota port between Sri Lanka and China was concluded in 2008 and the issue should be taken up with “those who dealt with it”. India’s difficult ties with the Maldives, after New Delhi had “watched President [Mohamed] Nasheed being toppled in 2012, now stand transformed”, he added.The land boundary issue with Bangladesh had been settled in 2015 by the NDA government, opening the way to more development and transit, and terrorists no longer find safe haven there, he said. Nepal, he added, was getting prime ministerial visits after 17 years and a swathe of developmental projects in power, fuel, housing, hospital and roads.Bhutan finds India a “stronger security and development partner” and “unlike 2013, they don’t worry about their cooking gas”, Jaishankar said. In Afghanistan, India has completed projects such as Salma dam and the new Parliament building, expanded training and connectivity, he said.“And #Pakistan (that you skipped) surely notes the difference between Balakot & Uri on the one hand, and Sharm-el-Sheikh, Havana & 26/11 on the other. Ask yourself,” Jaishankar said in the last of the 10 tweets.The reference to Balakot and Uri pointed to the 2019 airstrike at a terrorist camp at Balakot in Pakistan after the Pulwama suicide bombing and the 2016 surgical strike at terrorist camps across the Line of Control after an attack on Indian soldiers in Uri. At the 2009 Sharm el-Sheikh summit, the Indian side had agreed to the inclusion of a reference to terrorism in Balochistan, which was later used by Pakistan to imply that India was fomenting unrest in the restive region.Gandhi also criticised the government on the economy and unemployment.“We have the worst economic growth in 50 years with no end in sight, absolute disaster. Unemployment is the highest in 40-50 years. So, our strengths have suddenly become our weaknesses,” he said.Gandhi said the Congress had repeatedly asked the government to inject money into the economy and announce a financial package for small and medium businesses, but it refused to do so.“We told them listen, for God’s sake inject money into the economy. Fire the economy and do it immediately, protect the small and medium businesses. They refused to do it,” he said.He added, “So, today you have a country which is economically in trouble; in trouble as far as foreign policy is concerned; in trouble with its neighbours; and that’s why the Chinese have decided that this is possibly the best time to act and that is why they have acted.”Later, Gandhi tweeted: “Since 2014, the PM’s constant blunders and indiscretions have fundamentally weakened India and left us vulnerable. Empty words don’t suffice in the world of geopolitics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-slams-govt-jaishankar-hits-back/story-JqVrVrcriK8zlUMYJSA45N.html
18-07-2020||India||Pakistan offers 3rd consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav||Pakistan on Friday again offered to provide consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, a day after Indian officials walked out of a meeting saying they weren’t given unhindered contact with the former Indian Navy officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying.The offer was made by foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi while speaking to a TV news channel. He said the consular access could be provided as early as Friday or Saturday and Pakistan would agree to the terms set by the Indian side.There was no immediate response from the Indian side to the offer.He also claimed the Indian side had engaged in a “drama” by walking out of Thursday’s meeting Jadhav. He contended the Indian officials were allowed to meet Jadhav without any glass partition between the two sides and without any recording of the meeting.“Today, you are making the excuse that you want to meet him without any security personnel being present. Even that will be done,” Qureshi said, speaking in Urdu.On Thursday, two Indian officials registered a protest and walked out of the planned meeting with Jadhav, and New Delhi accused Islamabad of breaching its assurance of providing unimpeded and unconditional access to the former naval officer.Pakistan offered consular access to Jadhav for only the second time since he was detained in March 2016. But when the Indian officials went to meet him, they found Pakistani officials with “an intimidating demeanour” near Jadhav and a camera being used to record the conversation.The Indian officials had gone to talk to Jadhav about filing a review petition in Islamabad high court against his death sentence by the deadline of July 20, but were prevented from obtaining his written consent for arranging his legal representation, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.Qureshi, however, contended that despite being offering all concessions, the Indian officials left without hearing Jadhav. “India’s ill intentions have come to light. They didn’t want consular access. [Jhadav] kept asking the Indian diplomats to talk to him and they left,” he said.Foreign Office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui reiterated Pakistan’s offer to India to file an appeal in the Islamabad high court against Jadhav’s death sentence. “It is hoped that India will cooperate with the Pakistan court in giving full effect to the [International Court of Justice’s] judgement,” she said.In a separate development, Qureshi said he had recovered from Covid-19 and resumed his duties. He paid tribute to healthcare and frontline workers for being Pakistan’s “backbone in the fight against this pandemic with unyielding commitment and dedication”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-offers-3rd-consular-access-to-kulbhushan/story-JIaQa3QalbkTsdr0ZO9ZPP.html
18-07-2020||India||Southern states achieve UN goals on Maternal Mortality Ratio||India’s southern states have achieved the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals target of bringing down Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) below 70, shows the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) findings for 2016-18. All-India MMR in 2016-18 stood at 113. India’s MMR was 130 and 122 in 2014-16 and 2015-17, respectively. Among states, Kerala has the lowest MMR at 43. This value was the highest in Assam at 215. The ‘Empowered Action Group’ (comprising of Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand) and Assam had an MMR of 161.While regional divergences in MMR remain, a look at long-term trends in MMR shows that the situation has been improving in high MMR states.See Chart 1: MMR in different state groups The World Health Organization defines maternal deaths as “the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes”. MMR is number of maternal deaths for every 100,000 live births.To be sure, the headline numbers given in the latest SRS bulletin need to take read with a caveat. The MMR values have been predicted within a 95% confidence interval, and the range varies significantly for individual states. For example, Assam’s MMR range is from 133-297, while Kerala’s is from 10-77. Women between the ages of 20 and 29 account for 65% of maternal deaths in India. Women in this age-group had a share of 23% in non-maternal deaths, the SRS data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-states-achieve-un-goals-on-maternal-mortality-ratio/story-3VTbg3VvRQxMrn7kT68ADM.html
18-07-2020||India||Kerala smuggling case: Gunman at UAE consulate tries to kill himself; safe||A gunman of Kerala Police posted at the United Arab Emirate consulate allegedly tried to end his life at nearby Thumba on Friday, a day after he was reported missing by his family.The police said that the condition of the policeman, who was found lying near his ancestral home with his wrist slit, was now stable and he was recuperating at a private hospital. The policeman had gone missing from his home on Thursday night, and a police complaint had been filed by his family, police said.“We found him lying in a pool of blood. He was conscious and muttered he didn’t do anything wrong,” a neighbour who did not wish to be named, said. The policeman’s last call was traced to somewhere near his house, which led the police to search for him in the vicinity, where they found him in a vacant plot.The policeman went missing from his home a day after gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh’s call records were leaked to the press.Suresh, who is currently in judicial custody, had reportedly made calls to the policeman at least three times on July 5, the same day that 30 kilograms of 24-carat gold was seized by the Customs department from a baggage addressed to the UAE consulate.The gold worth around Rs 15 crore was received at the airport here as a diplomatic cargo addressed to a consulate official, who has since left the country. Rashed Khamis Ali Musaiqri Alshemeli, the consulate attache, left the country mid-week, amid reports that he had been called back.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is in charge of the probe has filed a First Information Report against five persons, including UAE-based Fazil Fareed, whom they suspect forged the country’s seal and emblem to ensure diplomatic protection for the baggage. Four of the accused, including Suresh, have been arrested, under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act which is usually invoked to deal with terrorists and those who pose a threat to the integrity of the nation. The agency suspects that money from the smuggled gold was being used to fund terror operations.The policeman, who attempted suicide, was earlier posted in the airport and has been with the UAE consulate since 2017. Police suspect he feared being questioned or made an accused in the audacious gold smuggling case. The policeman’s brother said he was under tremendous pressure after he was reportedly threatened him. “He looked very tense after smuggling incident came to light. Two days ago, two motorcycle-borne people came to his house and threatened him. He was worried after this. He told some of his friends that the smuggling syndicate suspected his role for tipping off the authorities,” his brother said. A police officer said his statement will be recorded and handed over to the NIA, which is investigating the smuggling case. Indian Administrative Services officer M Sivasankar, the chief minister’s former prinicipal secretary, was suspended from service on Thursday after he was grilled by the NIA for his alleged links with Suresh. Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front has said it will bring a no-confidence motion against CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s government over the smuggling. “The chief minister cannot get away by suspending his secretary. The needle of suspicion is on him now,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led alliance has a comfortable majority of 98 lawmakers in the 140-member Kerala assembly. “The governments’ popularity after its perfect virus management really worries the Opposition. So it is creating a smokescreen raising allegations,” said CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.The Customs separately carried out raids in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts and detained four more people in connection with the smuggling case. At least 12 people have already been arrested by the agency till now.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-smuggling-case-gunman-at-uae-consulate-tries-to-kill-himself-safe/story-7nBQlb4bRwGZwChYc46JGI.html
18-07-2020||India||Vikas Dubey’s killing, Telangana encounters different: Police||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s killing on July 10 cannot be likened to the 2019 killings of four men accused of raping and murdering a 26-year-old Hyderabad veterinarian, the Uttar Pradesh government said in an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court on Friday. The submission came days after the court, in response to a plea demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the killings of Dubey and his accomplices, on Tuesday indicated that it may order a judicial probe into them since “we have done it in the other case pertaining to Telangana”. In that case, the court in December constituted a three-member commission to investigate the killing of the four days after they were arrested . The Telangana police have insisted the four accused were killed in an exchange of fire on December 6 after they allegedly broke free and snatched the weapons of the police when they were taken to the crime scene. The UP affidavit maintained that Dubey was killed in retaliatory firing when the state police’s Special Task Force (STF) was trying to recapture him when he fled after a car bringing him from Madhya Pradesh, where he was arrested for his alleged involvement in the July 3 killing of eight policemen in Kanpur, overturned following an accident. “The facts of the present [Dubey] case are completely and diametrically different from the facts emerging in the incident which took place in Hyderabad.”The affidavit argued that the four accused were not hardened criminals unlike Dubey, who faced 64 criminal cases including those related to murder, attempt to murder, and dacoity. It added that the Uttar Pradesh government on July 12 appointed a one-member judicial commission to probe the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur as well as that of Dubey . It added that there was no accident in the Hyderabad case. In this instance, there was an accident that led to Dubey’s escape that culminated “in the encounter”, it added. The affidavit said the accident was real and not sham, while insisting that the circumstances itself establish the truth. “A herd of cattle was passing through the road and heavy rain led to the accident which was beyond the control of anybody. There is clinching material evidence which establishes that the vehicle skid on the wet road. Policemen have also sustained injuries due to accident as well as firearm injuries inflicted by the criminal,” the affidavit said. “All four police persons in the vehicle got seriously injured and lost consciousness.”The affidavit said Dubey snatched a pistol from inspector Rama Kant Pichauri and escaped. It added that an STF team, which was part of the convoy taking Dubey to Kanpur, reached the spot under deputy superintendent TB Singh. The affidavit said the team chased Dubey, who fired nine rounds. TB Singh was hit on the chest but survived as he was wearing a bulletproof jacket, it added. The affidavit said Dubey was repeatedly asked to surrender but he ignored the warnings and kept firing and left two STF personnel wounded. “In defence, the STF fired six shots at Vikas Dubey. Three shots hit him. He was then rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead.” It rejected claims that Dubey surrendered in Madhya Pradesh (as video clips suggested) and added he was arrested.Politicians, former police officers, and rights groups have demanded a probe into Dubey’s killing, saying the police version of what happened does not add up. Five people linked to Dubey were killed between July 3 and July 9.“The only difference I can see between the UP encounter and the Hyderabad encounter is that the UP government has set up its own judicial commission to inquire into the Dubey killing. However, the commission has been asked to go into a lot of other issues as well related to Vikas Dubey and has been given a really wide ambit. The time frame given (of two months) and the fact that the report will be given only to the UP government does not give me too much confidence about whether truth will come out from this process”, said Alok Prasanna Kumar , Senior Resident Fellow at Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. “The table in the affidavit comparing the two encounters is amusing. It seems to suggest that the encounter killing of Dubey was more credible than the Hyderabad encounter and somehow seems to insinuate that the Hyderabad encounter was fake. The grounds cited in the affidavit to claim that UP encounter was different (from Hyderabad encounter) does not hold much water in the eyes of law”, said Supreme Court lawyer MF Philip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-t-gana-encounters-different-cops/story-l24xt8B3Ngq5TvMk5WgYvN.html
18-07-2020||India||Need human-centric globalisation: PM Modi at UN ECOSOC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday pressed member states of the United Nations to use the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to reform the global multilateral system in ways that enhances its relevance and effectiveness, and make it the basis for a “new type of human-centric globalisation”.The United Nations was born 75 years ago to deal with the “furies” of the Second World War, the Prime Minister said addressing a high-level meeting of the UN Economic and Social Council. “Today the fury of the pandemic provides the context for its rebirth and reform. Let us not lose this chance,” he said.As a soon-to-be member of the UN Security Council, India will play its role in full support of the UN agenda, “with our deep commitment to maintaining global harmony, to improving socio-economic equity, and to preserving nature’s balance”, said the Prime Minister in his virtual speech in English.This was the first time Modi addressed UN members after India’s thumping victory in the June 17 election to the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member for a two-year term starting in January, 2021. India will get into the UNSC loop for documents and papers starting August, purely as an observer to prepare it for its upcoming term.India has called for reforming the global multilateral system to reflect changed realities of the contemporary world. It has campaigned for reforms of the UN Security Council to expand its permanent membership with a seat for itself. And it has also sought reform of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other global bodies to make them more contemporaneous.“Today, while celebrating 75 years of the United Nations, let us pledge to reform the global multilateral system to enhance its relevance, to improve its effectiveness to make it the basis for a new type of human-centric globalization,” Modi said.The theme of the high-level segment of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), on the 75th Anniversary of the founding of the UN, was ”Multilateralism after COVID19: What kind of UN do we need at the 75th anniversary”. India held the inaugural presidency of ECOSOC (Sir Ramaswami Mudaliar, in 1946), and Prime Minister Modi delivered the keynote address virtually at the 70th anniversary of the collective in January 2016.In his Friday address, Modi recalled India’s support to the ECOSOC and UN’s developmental work, and how they are tied to India’s own domestic agenda. “Today, through our domestic efforts, we are again playing a salient role in achieving Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals. India is also supporting other developing countries in meeting their Sustainable Development Goals,” he said.The Prime Minster went on to say, India’s motto of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas, Sabka Vishwas” resonated, for instance, with the core SDG principle of leaving no one behind. And he spoke at length about efforts made in India to expand access to sanitation, bring about gender parity in elementary and higher education, and empowering women through financial inclusion.Modi said it was India’s health care system that had helped it fight the Covid-19 epidemic. India had the best recovery rate in the world, as a result, he added.On fighting climate change, the Prime Minister spoke of India cutting 38 million tonnes of carbon emission annually and went on to highlight its role in the setting up of the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.Modi also spoke about India’s role in the region as a “first responder”. India has extended medical and other assistance to over 150 countries in the fight against COVID, and had set up a SAARC COVID emergency fund for the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-human-centric-globalisation-pm/story-TDDbElYEhdrtCHYkBV3MyJ.html
18-07-2020||India||HT Salutes: Travelling for miles to feed the hungry||Dasari Durga Rao, a 34-year-old fish merchant, lives in the Ranigari Thota Colony on the banks of Krishna river in Vijayawada town of Andhra Pradesh.Affected by polio when he was two, Rao has been displaying a large heart in feeding the migrant workers and poor people, ever since the country has gone into lockdown nearly three months ago to contain the spread of Covid-19.His schedule is fixed. Each morning, Rao rises at 4 am, gets on his three-wheeler Scooty (specially designed as he was affected by polio at age two) and travels to Guntur town about 40 km away. There, he sets up shop at a footpath near the main market vegetable and sells the fish. “Since I bring good quality fish, I have dedicated customers who don’t go anywhere else,” he said.“Luckily, my business has been going on comfortably and I haven’t suffered any loss till now,” he said. Fish, like mutton and chicken was an essential item during the lockdown.On an average, Rao earns Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 a day during the weekdays and a little more on Sunday when the sales are higher. “On Sundays, I start my activity at 1 AM because of the demand,” he said. He’s usually done with the sales a little after noon time.Back home, he gives Rs 2500 – or one-fourth of his savings – to his wife, Nagalakshmi. The rest, he said, he spends on buying food and ration for the poor and hungry.“Every day I used to watch hundreds of migrant workers, along with their children, walking for miles on the Guntur-Vijayawada national highway (NH-16) and I felt bad about them. Similarly, I have come across several families who have been starving due to lack of work and any support from the government. So, I thought of doing whatever little I can to mitigate their hunger,” he said.Three times a week, after winding up his fish trade for the day, Rao returns home on his Scooty to pick up food packets. He then rides all along the Guntur-Vijayawada route to distribute these packets, which contain rice, lentils, curry and sambar. He ties these packets in plastic trays, and attaches them to his vehicle with rope.Earlier, Nagalakshmi would cook the food and pack it. “Soon, I started serving a lot more people. So I engaged a cook from a restaurant. On an average, I’d say we have been feeding 400-500 people a day. That comes to around Rs 16,000 a day,” he said.Rao has been doing this since the lockdown was first imposed in the last week of March.Rao has also distributed groceries and vegetables to the underprivileged. “I kept getting calls from far-off places like Machilipatnam, so I would make the trip to distribute groceries to the poor families there,” he said.Machilipatnam is at least 70 km from Vijayawada.Durga Rao, who studied up to Class 10, inherited the fish-selling business from his father, who died in 2010. “Earlier, I used to work with a prawns’ merchant, but after my father’s death, I got into this fish-selling which has become my livelihood now,” Rao, a father of three school-going daughters, said.Rao was inspired to do philanthropy three years ago after an incident that changed his life. Here’s what happened:“One day, I was having lunch after selling fish when an old woman came to me with a begging bowl. I gave her a ten-rupee note and I thought I had done a great favour to her. She quietly left the place and sat under a tree right in front of me. She stared at me for a long time. After I finished my lunch, I went up to her and found that she was dying right in front of my eyes. Then I realised that she died of hunger and I could have saved her life by parting with some food,” he recalled.“It was then I realised that feeding the hungry was the purpose of my life. Since then, I decided to earmark three-fourths of my earnings only to feed the poor,” he said.Durga Rao also gets a government pension as a person living with a disability which amounts to Rs 3,000 a month. He uses all of this for his philanthropy.He opened a Facebook page to request people to support his endeavour. “Ten people helped me during this lockdown period: some donated a couple of rice bags and others offered cash ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000,” he said.“If I can get at least 10 people around me to help the needy, I will feel fulfilled,” he said.Hindustan Times and Facebook have partnered to bring you 15 stories of HT Salutes. HT is solely responsible for the editorial content of this series. This is the concluding piece in this series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travelling-for-miles-to-feed-the-hungry/story-3MOgxI6rqTeIiHzYZY1j7O.html
18-07-2020||India||Not enough MPs turn up, parliamentary external affairs panel meet called off||A two-day sitting of the parliamentary standing committee dealing with external affairs was cancelled because not enough members of parliament turned up for the meetings, according to MPs that Hindustan Times spoke to. The physical meeting was scheduled at the Parliament’s annexe.This comes just days after an official who attended last Tuesday’s public accounts committee meeting tested positive, leading to several MPs who attended the meeting having to quarantine themselves. Five MPs that Hindustan Times spoke to cited Covid-19 for their inability to attend the meeting.The 31-member panel is headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s PP Chaudhary was supposed to meet to discuss and adopt the draft report on “The Registration of Marriage of Non-Resident Indians Bill”. However, at the scheduled time, only five MPs turned up at the annexe . Apart from the chairman, there was Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, BJP’s Manoj Tiwari and Meenakshi Lekhi and TDP’s Jaydev Galla who travelled all the way from Telangana for the meeting that didn’t happen.A Lok Sabha official said a panel meeting has to have at least a third of its members in attendance. “It was cancelled because it didn’t have the quorum which in this case was at least 10,’’ this person added on condition of anonymity. Ever since Parliament adjourned in March just before a lockdown was announced to fight the spread of the disease, parliamentary panel meetings were also suspended. They restarted last week.Four Congress MPs that head parliamentary panels, Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Adhir Chowdhury have all argued for these meetings to go online but there are security concerns stopping that from happening.”I thought it was very safe,’’ said Dasgupta, explaining his decision to attend the meeting. “There was social distancing and the room in the Annexe is big enough for everyone to be accommodated with these restrictions.’’But the BSP’s Ritesh Pandey disagreed: “I chose not to go,’’ he said speaking from Almora. “I told them that it was better to hold the meeting at a time when the (case) numbers were down.’’While Pandey chose not to come, the Revolutionary Socialist Party’s member NK Premachandran had no choice. He was caught in the new lockdown in the Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. “He cannot travel out of the state due to travel restrictions,’’ said an aide who answered his phone. Adilabad MP Soyam Babu Rao said that a Covid awareness event in his constituency prevented him from attending the meeting.It wasn’t immediately clear how many members had informed the secretariat or the chairman about their inability to attend the meeting.‘I was all set to come but my driver’s mother died of covid. I stayed back because we had to get him tested. Fortunately, he tested negative,’ said BJP MP Poonam Mahajan.‘‘I have children in my house,’ said RJD MP Misa Yadav, ‘I just didn’t think it was worth the risk. Maybe if they discussed something relevant like the India Nepal issue which is very important for me and my constituents but not some NRI marriage bill.’’”I think the second lockdown in many places has created problems,’’ said Tiwari, ``However, we cannot have online meetings. Standing committees are secret and we cannot guarantee that if we move it online.’’Jaydev Galla didn’t respond to HT’s queries, and a spokesperson for the Speaker Om Birla’s office said they would revert with a comment. While a monsoon session is expected before September, the demand for online attendance is only growing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parl-external-affairs-panel-meet-called-off/story-RcY93lYjh2PH4FB0p30dKJ.html
18-07-2020||India||ICMR tells states to scale up rapid antigen testing||The chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked states to scale up testing in districts, using the antigen-based method. The medical body also told states to identify centres that will conduct these tests, saying it had received requests from public sector undertakings (PSUs), government and private facilities, temples and others to initiate antigen-based testing for the diagnosis of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“With the use of antigen tests, more and more tests are being carried out. It is absolutely necessary that all such testing data is uploaded… all government hospitals/labs and all private NABH/ NABL hospitals and labs may initiate antigen testing… ICMR has been receiving multiple requests from various public sector units, small private/government facilities, temples etc. for initiating this testing,” Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, ICMR wrote in his letter on Thursday. The research body has also created a set of common log-in credentials for each district, to avoid individual organisations, labs or hospitals having to enter data of all confirmed cases separately on the ICMR portal. The credentials will be shared with all approved government and private facilities.The states have also been directed to link each identified antigen testing facility with a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) centre to conduct confirmatory tests.Rapid antigen detection is non-confirmatory. Those who test negative could be tested through an RT-PCR test for confirmation. RT-PCR tests are considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing.The states have also been directed to appoint a nodal person to interact with the research body and ensure all testing criteria is fully adhered to by the state and the designated facilities.Dr Bhargava directed states that all facilities, both government and private, that are capable of performing antigen-based tests for Covid-19 should be assessed and approved.“… algorithm for interpreting the antigen test should be followed wherein all positives can be labeled as true positives and symptomatic negatives should be subjected to RT-PCR... all testing points should be appropriately linked.”Symptomatic patients who return negative results will be tested at the RT-PCR facility linked to the antigen test centre.“District-wise login credentials should be shared with all antigen testing sites (government and private) so that data can be entered into the ICMR portal on a real-time basis... ensure aforementioned steps to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, so that precious lives are saved, and livelihoods are protected, too,” wrote Dr Bhargava.ICMR had advised use of antigen-based testing for quick detection of Covid-19 patients in containment zones and hospitals. The first kit by a south Korean company, SD Biosensor, was validated jointly for use in India by ICMR and Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on June 14.Virologists say mass testing is the key to identify and isolate those infected so that the disease doesn’t spread.“The way ahead is to test as many people as possible, to be able to track and isolate those people who are infected so that the disease spread is contained. If you isolate them in time, the spread in the community will be curtailed,” said Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-tells-states-to-scale-up-rapid-antigen-testing/story-XvWeylvJsWXxlOdMFBL3AP.html
18-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Appoint officials to monitor hospitals, Centre asks states||The Central government wants other states to follow the Mumbai and Delhi approach to dealing with issues related to difficulties in hospital admission for Covid-19 patients, grievances with how hospitals treat patients , and other such -- by appointing senior government officials to keep an eye on each large hospital treating Covid-19 patients, public and private.“In Delhi, the Kejriwal government even publicized the name and contact number of the nodal government officer of a hospital,” said a senior central government official who asked not to be named.Last week, in Pune, a 44-year-old security guard who tested Covid-19 positive died as his family couldn’t find an ICU bed for treatment for six days. In Kolkata, complaints were lodged with the local authorities after a private hospital deployed bouncers at the entrance.Also read| Covid-19: A million and a manifestoEarlier this month, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned private hospitals and accused some of them of lying about the number of beds they had for patients of the coronavirus disease.The need to monitor private hospitals was discussed at several levels of the union government including at a meeting chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba this week and, subsequently, at meetings between experts and ministry officials and the states.“We are encouraging states to adopt a new hub and spoke model for the benefit of Covid patients. The model, implemented in Delhi and Mumbai, has seen less refusals and better bed management,” said a senior official involved in the process who spoke on condition of anonymity -- referring to a model popularised by the logistics and aviation industry where everything gets shipped or everyone gets flown to a hub from where the products or people are sent on to their eventual destination. In this case, the flow isn’t physical, though -- but of information.District magistrates are expected to act as hubs, and senior government officials, under them, as spokes. This system can also help in screening of patients and admitting only those who need hospital care, added the second official.Better hospital bed management or allotting beds to only those who actually require to be hospitalized and can’t manage from home is an integral part of India’s battle against Covid-19. As the focus of the government has shifted rapidly from containing Covid numbers to lowering death rates, the new model is likely to be actively pursued by many states.Also read: ICMR tells states to scale up rapid antigen testingThe centre is also asking states to monitor ambulance services including their refusal rates and time taken to bring patients to hospitals.Last week, at a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was decided to sharpen focus on ramping up tests and keeping the mortality rate low. Better hospital management, improved ambulance service and shorter triage period are some key parts of the government’s strategy to keep the mortality rate low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appoint-officials-to-monitor-hospitals-centre-asks-states/story-fjmAF1ZPZgXsU9cW3R3jBL.html
18-07-2020||India||India to stockpile oil in US reserves||India is set to begin stockpiling crude oil in American strategic reserves to shield itself from any supply disruptions arising out of geopolitical reasons, and allow the purchase and storage of a large quantity of crude when international oil prices plunge, officials said on Friday.“We are in an advanced stage of discussions for storing crude oil in the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve to increase India’s strategic oil stockpile,” petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said.This was one of the key outcomes of a virtual meeting between Pradhan and US energy secretary Dan Brouillette as part of the second US-India Strategic Energy Partnership (SEP) ministerial on Friday. HT first reported the move on Thursday. “The sides [India and the US] signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to begin cooperation on Strategic Petroleum Reserves operation and maintenance, including exchange of information and best practices,” an India-US joint statement, issued after the SEP meeting, said.An Indian official said, requesting anonymity, that state-run Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd (ISPRL) and other expert agencies involved in ensuring the country’s energy security may take this MoU forward and lay the road map for the collaboration with the US. ISPRL operates three crude oil storage facilities in India with a combined capacity of 5.33 million tonnes, enough to meet the country’s energy requirement for 9.5 days.While making his opening remarks at the second ministerial on Friday evening, Brouillette said, “We are beginning to collaborate on strategic petroleum reserves ...” He said the two countries are collaborating on various other projects such as nuclear energy and energy efficiency in buildings and appliances.“Apart from fostering bilateral energy trade and investments, we are seeking to align energy cooperation with energy security, expand energy and innovation linkages across our respective energy sectors, facilitate increased industry and stakeholder engagement as well as institutions of excellence from both countries,” Pradhan said.He added bilateral energy trade between the two countries jumped significantly in just three years with bilateral hydrocarbons trade touching $9.2 billion in 2019-20, which is 10% of the overall bilateral trade.Experts described the move to store crude in American strategic reserves as strategically significant since India imports more than 80% crude it processes. It had $101.4 billion crude import bill in 2019-20.“The move will not only ensure uninterrupted energy supply in the event of geopolitical turmoil but also protect the country from unprecedented oil price volatility as was seen in 2008 that caused immense stress on the exchequer,” CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former central council member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, said. International crude oil prices saw a record jump at $147 per barrel in July 2008, only to plunge to $40 a barrel again in December that year.Anupam Manur, assistant professor at the think tank Takshashila Institution, said, “To keep a stockpile of crude oil in the US-based strategic reserves is an extremely beneficial move. If the idea of maintaining a strategic reserve of petroleum is to mitigate risk and ensure energy security, the objective can be truly achieved by diversifying our strategy. It is in India’s interest to geographically diversify the storage of our petroleum reserves. Beyond this, we should also look at getting into strategic partnerships with Oman, UAE, Sri Lanka, and Japan for our SPR [strategic petroleum reserve] storage strategy.”Recently, due to supply exceeding demand, international oil prices plunged as low as $19.33 per barrel on April 21. Taking advantage of the low international prices, India filled its three strategic reserves to the brim with an average cost of about $25 per barrel. International crude prices soon moved north after the produces’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, particularly Russia (together OPEC+) -- resorted to unprecedented output cut. Currently, benchmark Brent crude is hovering around $43 a barrel. The US is increasingly becoming a key partner in India’s energy security. India has been importing oil and gas from the US since 2017. In just two years, the US has become one of the top 10 sources of crude oil imports for India.“Ideally, India should have strategic reserves for at least 90 days. Although it is developing its own storage capacities, it can currently store 5.33 million tonnes (MMTs), or 39 million barrels of crude oil, in the three existing caverns,” a second official said requesting anonymity.The three underground caverns are located in Vishakhapatnam, Mangalore and Padur. The government has approved the construction of two more strategic crude oil reserves with a total of 6.5 million tonnes of capacity at Chandikhol in Odisha and Padur in Karnataka. The proposed facilities will provide additional storage capacity for 11.57 days of requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-stockpile-oil-in-us-reserves/story-5gcViA55uyn1ABD0YtCFgK.html
18-07-2020||India||Two FIRs filed after audio tapes stir row||The Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan Police on Friday registered two first information reports alleging a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state after the party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi lodged a complaint on Thursday night citing three audio tapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot.Soon after the FIRs were registered -- with several charges including “sedition” -- the Congress demanded the arrest of Union water minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, rebel Congress MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma, and an alleged middleman Sanjay Jain. The Congress also suspended Sharma and former tourism minister Vishvendra Singh from the party, and sought an explanation from them about the audio tapes.Shekhawat, who is fast emerging as one of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) prominent Rajasthan leaders, denied it was his voice on the audio clips, which were uploaded on social media on Thursday night, and said he was ready to face any investigation. The BJP, meanwhile, dismissed the tapes as “manufactured” by the Congress, which was “frustrated at its inability to keep its house in order”.HT could not independently verify the veracity of the tapes. The tapes were shared with mediapersons through WhtasApp from unverified numbers.The FIR and the charges come in the middle of a raging political battle in the state between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who was also the president of the party’s state unit until he was divested of both posts by the Congress on Tuesday.Gehlot, who has the support of at least 101 MLAs in the 200-member assembly -- they are all staying at the Fairmont hotel in Jaipur -- has blamed Pilot of conspiring with the BJP to bring down his government. Pilot, who has at least 21 MLAs supporting him -- they are at the ITC Grand Bharat in Manesar -- has maintained he and his allies are only opposed to Gehlot’s “dictatorial” ways and have nothing to do with the BJP.On Friday afternoon, an SOG team went from Jaipur for Manesar to record statements of Sharma and other Congress legislators staying at the ITC Grand Bharat. “We have sent the team to record the statements to further investigate the complaint,” said the SOG’s additional director general of police, Ashok Rathore.“Joshi has named three accused -- identified as Gajendra Singh, Bhanwarlal Sharma and Sanjay Jain -- on the basis of the recording he had in one complaint. In the second complaint, he has not named anybody,” Rathore said.The FIRs lodged by police identified Sharma as a Congress legislator and mentioned the names Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain. Though the FIR did not say Shekhawat, the Congress allegations against him appeared to link him to the complaint.On Friday, Surjewala said it is clear the BJP made attempts to topple the elected Congress government in the state. “Instead of fighting with China and Covid-19, Narendra Modi government is working to loot power,” he said. He demanded that the involvement of others, including leaders holding posts in the Central government, in the conspiracy should be made part of the SOG investigation. He also read out transcripts of the purported conversations. “The voice is not mine. Let the investigation happen,” Shekhawat told reporters in Delhi.Congress chief whip Joshi, who went to the SOG office to get copy of the FIRs, said it will be good if the voice on the tapes did not turn out to be the Union minister’s. “Otherwise, it would be a blot on democracy. He (Shekhawat) should come on his own to the SOG and give his voice samples. The MLA should also give the voice samples,” Joshi said.An SOG officer said on condition of anonymity that Joshi would be called to record his statement about the source of the recordings. Notices in this regard would be issued soon. “Call records of some suspects have been obtained and were being examined,” the officer said. This is the third FIR registered by SOG in the investigation related to an attempt to topple the Congress government. In the first FIR, on July 10, it named two BJP members, Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh, for allegedly trying to bribe legislators. On July 11, the SOG issued notices to Pilot and Gehlot to record their statements. It turned out to be the trigger that set off the ongoing political drama in the state, with Pilot saying that this was Gehlot’s attempt to “humiliate” him. The BJP’s Rajasthan president, Satish Poonia, said It is unfortunate that the CM’s residence has become a “source for leaking the fake audio and tarnish image of political leaders”.“If the tapes are genuine, why is the government not getting a CBI probe done?” Poonia asked.Pilot and his 18 Congress MLA supporters, have been served show-cause notices by the Rajasthan assembly speaker that mark the beginning of disqualification notices against them. The MLAs have challenged the move in high court, which will resume hearing the matter on Monday.Political analyst Bhanwar Meghwanshi said, “If the SOG is not able to reach a conclusion then for the first time in the history of Rajasthan, to settle political score an agency has been used.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-firs-filed-after-audio-tapes-stir-row/story-b3RGS4u3ax1dWMbP1HEIgI.html
18-07-2020||India||Stand-off between Rajasthan, Haryana police at Manesar resort||A five-member special police team from Jaipur was surrounded by dozens of Haryana police personnel outside a luxury resort in Nuh on Friday, a rare stand-off between police departments of two states that took place as fallout of the political battle playing out in Rajasthan. A special operations group (SOG) squad had arrived from Jaipur on Friday evening when they were surrounded by their Haryana counterparts while still in their white SUV. They were attempting to enter the ITC Grand Bharat resort where several MLAs from Rajasthan have gathered as part of a rebellion of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. The team, which arrived to question one of the MLAs in connection with an audio recording that suggested a possible attempt to break the government in the state, was initially stopped for around one-and-a-half hours before it was allowed to enter the resort. “None of the MLAs were there. We searched the entire resort but failed to find them,” said an SOG officer, who asked not to be named. Another Rajasthan police official said that the MLAs were shifted to another hotel in Gurugram, about eight kms from ITC Grand Bharat. The Rajasthan police team almost entered the premises since most of the cops deployed by Nuh police retreated to their buses around 200 metres from the hotel entry. But as the Rajasthan squad arrived, a large posse of Nuh police reached the gate and formed a ring outside the hotel. The police team was asked to stay outside the hotel premises and wait for permission but it was only after Inspector Jitender Kumar, SHO, Tauru police station intervened and asked the cops from neighbouring states to retreat that they moved. Jitender Kumar, SHO, Tauru police station said that they had no role in stopping the police team and it was the hotel staff that had checked their documents and asked them to wait before entry. “We have nothing to do with their entry,” he said. “We came to know at the spot that a team from Rajasthan had come to investigate a matter but the local police had no information in this regard. We did not stop anyone from entering the hotel and later the police team was allowed entry by the management,” said Narender Bijraniya, SP, Nuh. Hotel officials deployed at the spot when asked about the issue said that the police team did not have permission to enter the resort. A senior ITC Hotels executive did not respond to requests for a comment on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stand-off-between-raj-hry-police-at-manesar-resort/story-fxDR6sYYNueKzd4NzU4yiL.html
18-07-2020||India||High Court gives rebel Congress MLAs 4-day breather||Sachin Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs got a four-day breather as the Rajasthan high court on Friday directed that no action be taken against them until Tuesday, while deferring the hearing of their plea challenging the state assembly speaker’s disqualification notices.The speaker assured the court that he would not act till 5.30pm on Tuesday on the notices issued to dissident legislators over their failure to attend two Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings. The bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta also asked Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who had filed a complaint before the speaker, to respond to the dissidents’ petition by Saturday. Senior lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the speaker, will resume his arguments at 10am on Monday. Senior counsel Harish Salve and Mukul Rohtagi, representing Pilot and others, completed their side of arguments. “Propriety demands that when the matter is in court action should not be taken. We have assured the court that the speaker will not take any action till the matter is being heard by the division bench,” said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for the speaker. “The speaker will not take any action till Tuesday as it would not be justified as the issue sub-judice.”The MLAs, who moved the court challenging the notice issued to them by assembly speaker CP Joshi on July 14 seeking an explanation on why they should not be disqualified from the assembly, told the court that ruling party legislators disagreeing with the manner of functioning of the chief minister cannot be construed as indicating their intention to leave the party so as to trigger the anti-defection law.Criticising the party leadership is an exercise of freedom of speech and cannot be a ground to disqualify a lawmaker on the grounds of defection, Salve added in his submission. “Raising disagreements is an exercise of freedom of speech and will not amount to defection,” he said. The petitioners through their counsel, Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, contended that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session and that airing of grievances against party leadership cannot be construed as voluntarily giving up party membership under 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth schedule of the Constitution.The petition challenged the speaker’s notice, which was based on a complaint by Mahesh Joshi, that the MLAs should be disqualified from the Rajasthan assembly for defying the whip.In his complaint to the speaker, Mahesh Joshi sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under Clause 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. This clause provides for disqualification of MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House.Mahesh Joshi cited the absence of the dissident MLAs in two Congress legislature party meetings of July 13 and 14 despite specific direction to attend the same along with hostile and prejudicial conduct against the Congress party, as indication of the dissidents’ intention to leave the party. But the dissident camp said Pilot had never indicated any intention to leave the Congress party.A party whip’s directions with respect to acts outside the house will not trigger anti-defection law envisaged in the tenth schedule of the Constitution, Salve submitted.“Party whip is not applicable when it comes to meetings at homes and hotels, it applies only to proceedings within the assembly”, he argued. He also submitted that though Pilot and other dissident MLAs had raised their voice against the manner in which chief minister Ashok Gehlot was functioning, the same cannot be construed as defection. Singhvi questioned the maintainability of the plea stating that it is a settled position of law that courts cannot interfere with the disqualification proceedings under tenth schedule until the speaker gives a decision. A challenge in court to a speaker’s notice to show cause, is premature, he said.The dissidents have stated in their petition that speaker’s notice is an attempt to stifle the voice of the petitioners who are seeking a leadership change within the party in a democratic way. They alleged any grievances regarding the functioning of the government were not tolerated by the chief minister Gehlot. The claimed that the chief minister called a legislature party meeting on July 13 without providing any specific agenda and levelled certain baseless allegations against them. Subsequently, they were issued notices by the chief whip for not attending the meeting, said the petition.“The undue haste and swiftness exhibited by the authority (speaker) concerned in taking cognisance of the said complaint (by the party whip) leaves no doubt in the minds of the petitioners that the move is aimed at arriving at a foregone conclusion leading to the disqualification of the petitioners,” it addedBoth Congress and BJP spokespersons declined to comment on court’s proceedings saying the matter was sub-judice.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the court’s order was is a temporary relief. “The day’s development will not come as a shock to the government but to the dissidents as they had gone to the court with hope of getting relief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-gives-rebel-cong-mlas-4-day-breather/story-TnD4vJwibu2SROhfErA91J.html
18-07-2020||India||Covid-19 connect: Dealing with isolation in social distancing through art||“Working from home has been a mixed bag of fun. For our little family of four, getting to spend more hours together has been great,’’ writes Francis from Kenya. Himani, a teacher from Mumbai, says, “I recently made my students draw themselves as potatoes to show them what they’d look like if they chose to eat unhealthy during the quarantine.’’ Whereas, Estefania, a consultant in the USA, describes, “My son continues to go back and forth between his dad’s house and mine, which underscores the bond we have as a blended family.” Many such stories, dotted in a grid pattern, are narrated on an Instagram handle called 6ft love, which aims to bridge the six feet physical distance through emotional connections.   "Calamity, illness, death — these are unavoidable fates, inevitable visitors, always in the neighbourhood, somehow still surprising when they come knock. All we want, I think, is to forget that they’re on their way. To run outside, revel, play. But we know too vividly that when suffering isn’t at our door, it’s breaking down someone else’s. . . .I’m trying to nourish my capacities for generosity and moral clarity to keep up with times that promise to exact more and more of both." — Rega, Writer/Content Creator (Mumbai, India) __ Let’s create the world’s largest Social (Distance) Network! Send us your #6ftlove story—a personal experience with social distancing—and we’ll illustrate and add you to the grid! You can share using #6ftlove or DM @6ftlove: 1. A picture of yourself (we will use for illustration) 2. A personal quote about social distancing (3–7 sentences) 3. First name, profession, city/town 4. Follow @6ftlove OR submit your #6ftlove story via the link in the bio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Founder/Art Director: Sabah Usmani (@sabzimandi) Illustration: Diana Ang (@deedoodl) #blogger #writer #socialmedia #covidkindness #socialdistance #socialdistancing #flattenthecurve #illustration #cartoon #blogging #coronavirus #covid19 #lockdownindia #indialockdown #lockdown #stayhome #staysafe #gratitude #healthyathome #regajha #socialnetwork #6ftapart #designagainstthevirus #covidopenbrief #mumbai #uncovid19brief #worldhealthorganization #covidmemes @who @unitednations @un @talenthouseA post shared by  6ftlove (@6ftlove) on Apr 2, 2020 at 4:46pm PDTThe motivating factor to start this page was: To have a space full of kind messages and stories so that people don’t feel alone! The trans US-India team that has conceived this page includes urban planners Sabah Usmani, Sera Tolgay, Akemi Sato, designer Mira Khandpur, illustrators Diana Ang, Aashti Miller and Nikita Notowidigdo, and an environment and social specialist Daphne Yin. Every day, this Insta page profiles an individual’s story, including an illustration and a quote of how they are navigating the outbreak and dealing with physical distancing. “We are gathering stories spanning a diversity of experiences, backgrounds, and geographies. We welcome stories submitted in any language, and include quotes in their original language alongside an English translation. We aim to create the world’s largest Social (Distance) Network. I felt that there was a need to spread the message that just because we are practising physical distancing, it doesn’t mean we can’t be social or connect with people, be it our loved ones or strangers,” says Sabah Usmani, the brain behind this project. The team has so far profiled stories from more than 18 countries, 37 cities, and 50 professionals ranging from doctors and domestic workers to logistics operators, comedians and writers.The desire to document the quarantine and connect people also inspired three advertising professionals in Spain’s Barcelona to start Covid Art Museum on Instagram. The page displays artworks submitted by people across the world, created on different coronavirus themes spanning from toilet papers to social distancing. Emma Calvo, Irene Llorca and Jose Guerrero, the founders of this project, share, “Few days into the quarantine in Spain, and we realised that people were sharing artworks that they created during their isolation. We could sense a movement here and asked ourselves what would happen with all of this art. We didn’t want these artworks to be forgotten; so we came up with the idea of a digital museum, to make them more accessible to people all over the world.’’   by @vitu_od _________________ Follow for more: @CovidArtMuseum Share your artwork with us #CovidArtMuseum The world’s 1st museum for art born during Covid19 quarantine #CovidArt #Covid19 #QuarantineArtA post shared by  CAM The Covid Art Museum (@covidartmuseum) on Jul 3, 2020 at 1:22pm PDTThis team receives around 200 proposals every day from the world over. “The aim is to create a Covid Art Museum to serve as an archive to remember using art that collective feeling as it was expressed by people during the confinement. And, it can also be a meeting point between artists and other professionals in the creative world, generating fruitful connections,” adds Calvo.Back home in India, a team at Sunaparanta Goa Centre for the Arts — soon after lockdown — started brainstorming ideas on how to stay connected with their audience. What emerged from this search is the Surviving SQ (self-quarantine) series. A part of the series is Pallavi Paul’s Share Your Quiet project, which had invited people in isolation to share 10 second sound bytes of silence or old sounds that were forgotten, or new ones that have been discovered during this time. “The recordings we collected were streamed on Mondays as a symphony of silence. We received entries from more than 850 individuals from places as far as Norway, Serbia, Japan, New Zealand, New York, Milan, and Paris to as close as Panjim in Goa,” shares Leandre D’souza, curator at Sunapatra, adding, “We wanted to discover beauty in the emptiness of public spaces. What got us started is the desire to engage actively with our community, and encourage a more participatory, thought-provoking and introspective dialogue with them.” Author tweets @Bhagat_MallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-connect-dealing-with-isolation-in-social-distancing-through-art/story-vOk94i1uL4RE3nZsAhyOGP.html
18-07-2020||India||Use data to predict upcoming hotspots, says epidemiologist who predicted million cases in mid-July||Within weeks of the outbreak beginning in early March, mathematical and epidemiological models predicted that India was on track for a high case load given its large population and dense cities. “The first million has happened in four months, the next million will happen before the end of next month if we give in,” says Bhramar Mukherjee, the head of the Biostatistics department at University of Michigan in an interview to HT. Mukherjee and academics from two other American universities were part of an India study group that first predicted India’s high caseload will reach to the levels it has now. Edited excerpts:Your initial projections included assumptions about how the outbreak would pan out in India and these now appear to have come true. Can you explain to us how you arrived at the results?Several things that led to the accuracy of our projections:(1) We updated our projections daily and our model got calibrated with more data on the ground each day. By May, it was robust and ran like a well-oiled machine. Initially it had larger uncertainty. I still do not trust long term projections (beyond two months) very much.(2)We made assumptions about the reproduction number when India comes out of lockdown under two scenarios of cautious return and moderate return. For forecasting we set R (reproduction number) at 1.2 and 1.5 respectively. Coincidentally the national R has stayed between 1.2-1.3 for the last one month. That also explains the agreement.(3)We quickly realised national data was masking state level trends so started to predict which states should be alert through state-level models. Our metrics dashboard is a very cohesive public health summary.What could authorities and the general public in India have done to have undercut the predictions you and your team made?First, centralised isolation. It is hard to self-isolate in Indian households. This can prevent household transmission and cluster transmission in high density neighbourhoods and large households. For populous countries like India, this is critical. Second, India must ramp up testing and carry out symptom tracking in absence of testing.There should be an integrative leadership that coordinates between different sectors of healthcare, public health, social support and economy. The measures must earn trust from the public around data and information.India should have data-driven policy making at a granular level. It is data deficient in the health sector and that is hurting us.And lastly, there should be a balance between alarmism and denial. We need to accept that this is a long haul. We cannot surrender to destiny. We are all tired but we have to keep at it.What part of the current data would you particularly like to draw attention to in order to slow the next million cases and what should India focus on?It is very crucial that the results of population-based large sero-surveys are released soon. Existing data should be used to:(a) Flag states/metros at nascent stages of growth and impose strong measures including punctuated and modulated lockdown. This cannot be done when infections are already leading to large case-counts, as these come with a lag. What you see as cases today happened as infections two weeks ago.(b) Scale up Covid-testing and treatment facilities. The healthcare system is fragile. Everyone cannot fall sick at the same time and still have a bed, oxygen. Anticipate emerging peaks, deploy resources in a data-driven way.(c) Before imposing lockdown, quantify what a two week lockdown will do for you, how much can you ramp up testing and Covid treatment? How many infections can you delay? Lockdown is not the cure or a default strategy. We need to re-lock only when necessary. A long term effective control of the virus will automatically revive the economy.With 400,000 active cases, we will never be able to afford a long enough lockdown to get the cases to 100s.While the million cases prediction has come true, the government has said that it has reduced fatalities and slowed the growth of the epidemic. Would you agree with the assessment?The first million happened in 4 months, I expect India to hit 2 million by the end of August if things are going as they are, even if Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu bring it under control as they seem to be closely inching toward.The low case fatality rate is a positive factor in favour of India but in India, a very large percentage of deaths are not medically reported. Even if they are, cause of death is often misclassified. Case fatality rate is a ratio of the number of deaths divided by the number of cases. Neither do I believe the numerator, nor the denominator, so I would not rely on the ratio to rescue me from this long and painful crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-data-to-predict-upcoming-hotspots-says-epidemiologist-who-predicted-million-cases-in-mid-july/story-y59IGsvwp5d47l2AuaEqqM.html
