19-07-2020||India||First heavy rain of season leaves the Capital flooded||At least two people drowned in separate incidents as showers that lashed Delhi on Sunday morning triggered water-logging in several low-lying areas, stranded commuters and vehicles on flooded roads, and washed away several structures with storm water drains overflowing in the wake of the first spell of heavy rains in the national capital this monsoon. Delhi, which logged a rain deficit of 55% from June 1 till Saturday, witnessed heavy showers for three hours early in the morning. According to weather officials, south Delhi’s Safdarjung station recorded 74.8mm rainfall during the day, its highest for a single day in July in five years. Before this, the station recorded 93.8mm rainfall on July 11, 2015.Delhi Ridge and Lodhi Road also saw 86mm and 81.2mm rainfall, respectively, data from the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre showed.Rainfall between 64.5mm and 124.4mm is considered “heavy” rain by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Most of the heavy rain we received today was between 5.30am and 8.30am... moderate category rain is expected again on July 20 night or July 21 early morning,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.A 56-year-old man, Kundan Singh Mehra, drowned as he tried to navigate his tempo through eight feet-deep water on the Minto Road underpass near central Delhi’s Connaught Place, the police said.“He tried to manoeuvre his vehicle through the water, but couldn’t make it,” said Rajender Dubey, assistant commissioner of police (Barakhamba Road).Mehra sat on his submerged mini truck for several minutes before his death, according to a video clip that was authenticated by his family members who said passersby did not try to rescue him. Fire officials, who rescued three others stranded there, said they were unaware there was a fourth person.Mehra’s body was later spotted by a linesman working nearby.The area near Minto Road railway bridge, which has become emblematic of the annual water-logging issue in the Capital, went under water. Photos on social media showed a Delhi Transportation Corporation (DTC) submerged under the bridge.Dramatic videos also showed people wading through knee-deep waters, several structures collapsing due to gushing drain water in Anna Nagar near ITO in central Delhi, and traffic chaos on arterial roads hours after showers relented.“Since my childhood I have seen almost every year, photographs of DTC bus submerged in water under Minto bridge during monsoon. Why can’t engineers, town planners & civic agency officials fix it? Let only one agency, whose name should be prominently displayed there, own & fix it,” senior Delhi Police officer Muktesh Chander, who was the former chief of the traffic police, said on Twitter.In another incident, a 28-year-old labourer working at a scrap yard died after falling into three-feet-deep water in south-east Delhi’s Srinivaspuri, the police said.A boy, 8, is believed to have been swept away in river water in south-east Delhi’s Jaitpur, but the police said there was no clarity if this was a rain-related death.At least 20 trees were uprooted in Sunday morning showers and two buildings in east Delhi’s Lakshmi Nagar and Shanti Mohalla in Gandhi Nagar collapsed, fire department officials said.The police said one of the three domes of the 197-year-old Mubarak Begum mosque in Hauz Qazi in old Delhi was severely damaged in the rain. “No one was around the mosque when it happened. There have been no injuries due to the damage,” said a Delhi Police official.Even as authorities rushed to manage the chaos, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal responded to criticism by opposition parties, and said all government and civic agencies must work together in the Capital instead of indulging in blame-game at a time when the city is battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“This year all agencies, which include the Delhi government and the municipal corporations, were completely invested in managing corona. They have faced a lot of difficulties due to Corona. This is no time to get into any blame game. All agencies must join hands in fulfilling their responsibilities. We will make all efforts to clear areas where waterlogging is reported at the earliest,” the chief minister wrote on Twitter.Citing images of the submerged bus at Minto Road, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Badarpur MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri questioned Kejriwal on his promise to make Delhi a world-class city. “In a short spell of rain, Delhi roads are flooded with water. Who is responsible for the death of the person [at Minto Bridge]?” Bidhuri tweeted.On criticism that the Delhi government failed to de-silt drains – a process that is normally undertaken by authorities before monsoon — Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and vice-chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board Raghav Chadha said the work was delayed due to Covid-19.The traffic police issued advisories for commuters after vehicles came to a standstill along key stretches such IP Estate Marg (central Delhi), Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg (central Delhi), Dhaula Kuan (south Delhi), Mayapuri Chowk (west Delhi), Panchkuian Road Gol Chakkar (central Delhi), and near Apollo Hospital (south-east Delhi), among others, due to water-logging and uprooted trees. Most jams cleared up by the evening.Experts have said although Delhi received heavy rainfall, the damage in the national capital was disproportionate to the amount of rain. “The topography of Delhi is such that we should never see flooding here... The reason we see such flooding even after a couple of hours of rain is because we are not allowing the water to find its own path. We have not taken care of the natural drainage...,” said Manoj Mishra, convenor of NGO Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-heavy-rain-of-season-leaves-the-capital-flooded/story-KV1qRLW9n477qyy1iyLtIN.html
19-07-2020||India||UGC set to issue norms for online degree courses||Universities having an accreditation rating of 3.26 and above will be eligible to begin online degree courses and those with a score of 3.01 and above will be able to do the same after getting requisite nods, as the University Grants Commission (UGC) gets closer to issuing regulations for giving a boost to internet-based education.“The UGC has finalised the regulations that have been sent by the HRD ministry to the Law ministry for vetting. Once the regulations are issued, the way for a large number of universities to start online degree courses would be paved,” a person familiar with the development said.Once the UGC guidelines are issued in the coming weeks, it would be easier for varsities to begin online degrees from the next academic session, which is likely to begin in November-December.The UGC, in an earlier meeting, had discussed the modalities for imparting online degrees.“The Commission has been of the view that universities with high accreditation be allowed to impart degree courses online. The ones in the highest category (with a rating of 3.26 and above) will have to only give intimation about the courses they want to start. Others, in the second rung, will be allowed after they take permission,” said the person cited above.Significantly, there is a view that to ensure quality, there may be an initial cap on the number of online degrees universities may offer. Universities are accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), with those receiving a rating of 3.26 and above, out of four, awarded A++ and A+ status. Those with a rating of 3.01 to 3.25 are ranked A, as per the range of institutional cumulative grade point average.The human resources development (HRD) ministry has been focusing on online education, especially in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry is also looking at the concept of setting up a virtual university, which has been recommended in the draft National Education Policy (NEP).Among other initiatives, the UGC is also developing its own app, for easier accessibility to students and educators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-set-to-issue-norms-for-online-degree-courses/story-2Dd6gqGFrSaiswjm4AlW3O.html
19-07-2020||India||Father dumps stillborn in canal after AP villagers protest burial||A man in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district had to dump his stillborn child into an irrigation canal after villagers allegedly refused to let him bury her in the local graveyard over fears that she might have contracted the coronavirus disease, the police said on Sunday.According to police, Shamsha Vali, a resident of Kotapadu village of Sirivella block, took his pregnant wife, Madar Bee, to Nandyal government general hospital on Friday. She gave birth to a stillborn girl on Saturday morning.The couple wanted to bury the body after returning to their village, Nandyal rural police inspector Sudhakar Reddy said.However, the villagers refused to allow the body into the village fearing the risk coronavirus infection, Reddy said. Many Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the Nandyal hospital.Following this, Vali was forced to dump the infant’s body in Kurnool-Cuddapah Canal at Chabolu village on his way to his native village. Some locals later found the body floating in the canal and informed the police, who fished the out body. From a tag on the infant’s body, the police were able to track the parents. The police were able to convince the villagers to let the couple give a proper burial to the infant in the village graveyard. “We have not booked any case in this regard,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-dumps-stillborn-in-canal-after-ap-villagers-protest-burial/story-YoTiHtuOQmegEqYpbHiL9I.html
19-07-2020||India||Parents’ views sought on resuming schools||New DelhiThe human resource development (HRD) ministry has written to the states to seek and furnish feedback from parents on when they would like schools to reopen– August, September or October - and what their expectations are for the resumption of lessons after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown.Significantly, the ministry has written to states and Union territories at a time when the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has completed its examination process. The CBSE has also reduced its syllabi for the Covid-19-hit academic year.According to a letter sent on July 17 to the education secretaries of all states and union territories, the HRD ministry wants parental feedback on when they would be comfortable with schools reopening. August, September or October? What are parental expectations of schools as and when they reopen? HT has reviewed a copy of the letter.The ministry is also preparing detailed social distancing norms for schools to avoid transmission of the virus.There has been concern among parents as well as students about the safety of physical classes. The HRD ministry may provide broad contours for the proposed reopening, leaving it to the states to decide on the actual opening of schools depending on the Covid-19 situation. Education falls in the concurrent list of the Constitution, which means both states and the Centre jointly work in the area.Earlier, during a meeting with states, school education secretary Anita Karwal had given an outline of what school life can be like post-Covid-19.Waiving mandatory attendance for students, holding staggered classes, and providing breaks to different classes at different time were among the suggestions that officials of the human resource development ministry and state education departments had considered.Among the measures that the HRD ministry has considered are encouraging students who can log in to classes online to stay at home, doing away with morning assemblies, ensuring the transport facilities follow social distancing norms,not having a lunch recess for all classes at the same time, use of masks and sanitisers and avoiding sports or cultural activities .The ministry will also come up with detailed norms for residential schools. The HRD ministry has also released norms for online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-views-sought-on-resuming-schools/story-LrTgSkrP66K5GwDuPF7QuN.html
19-07-2020||India||Assam floods: Relief camps battle to keep Covid at bay||GUWAHATI: Amid floods that have affected over 2.5 million people in 24 districts of Assam and claimed 84 lives, the state has to deal with the additional challenge of curbing the spread of coronavirus disease pandemic in 521 relief camps across the state. No Covid case has been reported from these relief camps yet, officials said. “In view of Covid-19, we had issued guidelines in May itself on management of flood relief camps. District administrations have followed those rules, but floods this year have been unrelenting, making it tougher for them,” said Pankaj Chakraborty, project coordinator of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).Over 50,000 displaced people have taken shelter in the 521 relief camps in 24 of the 33 districts of the state.The local administrations are trying to implement a new set of rules, which require safety and social distancing among inmates of these camps. As per the guidelines, district officials have been told to identify additional relief camps according to the population density of villages to earmark space for social distancing. Unlike earlier when 3.5 sq m of space in relief camps was earmarked for each person, the figure was doubled to 7 sq m to ensure there’s one metre’s distance between two camp inmates.Golaghat district project officer Ronney Rajkumar, disaster management authority, said, “There are 22 relief camps in our district at present and 3,240 persons are staying there. We have provided face masks, sanitisers, soaps at the relief camps. Though we have had cases of inmates suffering from cough, cold etc, no one has been found Covid-19 positive yet.” “We have been staying at a relief camp since July 13. Local officials informed us about maintaining hygiene and social distancing and we are trying to follow as much as possible,” Ramen Doley, a farmer in Golaghat, who is staying at a relief camp at Mungilal lower primary school, in Golaghat district, along with 126 other inmates.About the arrangements made at relief camps in Barpeta, district project officer Nandita Dutta, said, “We have 52 relief camps at present and over 6500 persons are staying in them. Our personnel are ensuring all safety and social distancing protocols are followed. Health workers are visiting camps and conducting tests on those showing symptoms. No one has been found infected yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-floods-relief-camps-battle-to-keep-covid-at-bay/story-GTFCFfxEldGWn7judZXQBL.html
19-07-2020||India||Central team tells Bihar to manage its hospitals better, increase capacity amid Covid-19 surge||A three-member Central team has asked the state to ensure better management of its hospitals and increase their capacity given the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the state.Citing Bihar’s case doubling rate, which was around 12 days, the team cautioned the state to prepare itself to admit new cases in hospitals as they were rising alarmingly.Bihar with 26,379 cases, after 1,412 new infections were added on Sunday, could be looking at touching 50,000 cases in the next 12 days and 1 lakh in the next 24 days from now if the case doubling rate remained the same.The Central team asked the state government to brace up for this challenge by creating capacity in hospitals to accommodate a rising number of patients while also improving its patient pick-up system through ambulances.The Central team also stressed on increasing testing capacity in the state through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), which was the confirmatory test for Covid-19. For this, it stressed on creating greater capacity for RT PCR. Bihar has the lowest testing rate in India.The Central team also visited the Patliputra indoor stadium where the MSF (Medecins Sans Frontiers or Doctors Without Borders) has supported a 100-bed Covid-19 treatment facility.It also visited a medical college hospital in Patna, besides the Rajeev Nagar locality to assess a containment zone, before leaving for Gaya late in the evening. The team would return to Delhi on Monday.As the Centre stressed on RT-PCR tests, the state government assured to provide on demand testing facility to all Covid-19 symptomatic patients.“Testing target is not relevant anymore as the government has decided to provide on demand testing facility to all Covid-19 symptomatic patients up to primary health centre (PHC) level,” said Anupam Kumar, secretary Information and Public Relations Department (IPRD), at a media briefing on Sunday.District hospitals had initiated the facility of rapid antigen Point of Care (POC) testing. “The facility will be extended at sub-divisional hospitals on Monday and to PHCs this week itself,” said Bihar health secretary, Lokesh Kumar Singh during the joint media briefing. Around 500 people were screened in Patna on the first day Saturday, after the government introduced the rapid antigen POC test in Patna through 25 testing centres and five mobile testing vans.Together with rapid antigen POC test, RT-PCR, TrueNat and CBNAAT-based testing, Bihar tested 10,276 samples on Saturday as against 10,502 on Friday. The state health department has stopped sharing break-up of tests.Two deaths were reported in the state, one each from Khagaria and Saran, as per the Covid-19 bulletin shared by the health department through its Twitter handle.Seven deaths were reported from the AIIMS-Patna and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), the two designated Covid-19 hospitals in Patna.Singh said 836 people had recovered during the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 16,597. The state’s recovery rate of 62.91% was almost at par with the national average of 62.86%.Patna recorded the highest number of Covid infections, which rose by 119, with 62 cases on July 18 and 57 on or before July 17, as per a tweet of State health department. The cumulative cases in Patna had climbed to 3,696, followed by Bhagalpur (1,601), Muzaffarpur (1,151), Siwan (1,102) and Begusarai (1,076). Among other cases reported on Sunday, Rohtas accounted for 112, Samastipur 90, Muzaffarpur 64, Nalanda 62 and Gaya 59.Covid-19 patient gives birth at AIIMSA 25-year-old woman, suffering from Covid-19, gave birth to a baby girl at the AIIMS-Patna on Sunday.“This was the first caesarean section delivery done on a known Covid-19 patient at our institute,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the AIIMS-Patna.“The woman was admitted on Saturday evening with leaking amniotic fluid at full term pregnancy. Our team of specialists, comprising Dr Monika Anant, Dr Ritu, Dr Swmkar, Dr Sompraph and anaesthesiologist Dr Neeraj Kumar and Dr Mithun waited over 12 hours for spontaneous labour, with full monitoring of mother and baby. Suspecting foetal distress, our team decided on C-section delivery. Mother and baby (weighing 3kg) are both doing fine,” said Dr KumarThe husband of the woman had tested positive in June before recovering on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-tells-bihar-to-manage-its-hospitals-better-increase-capacity-amid-covid-19-surge/story-9UDanNUf1ft8rO9jqZ6CPP.html
19-07-2020||India||Senior IPS officer from Manipur who shot himself flown to Delhi for treatment||Arvind Kumar, Additional Director General (ADG – law and order ) of Manipur police who sustained critical injury after he allegedly shot himself on Saturday, was flown to New Delhi in an air ambulance on Sunday, officials said.Kumar who was undergoing treatment in Raj Medicity, a private hospital in Imphal was flown in an air ambulance for further treatment at Delhi’s All India Institute iof Medical Sciences (AIIMS) around 4.30 pm. Chief Minister N Biren Singh who had visited the hospital to see Kumar, tweeted, “During my visit, I have interacted with Shri Arvind Kumar, IPS, ADGP (L&O), Manipur Police, who was injured in an unfortunate incident yesterday. Currently, his condition is stable and out of danger. May good health envelop him; I wish him a speedy recovery.”Kumar, a 1992 batch Manipur cadre IPS, allegedly shot himself with his service weapon at his official quarter located at 1st Manipur Rifles battalion premises. Kumar was sent back to his home cadre earlier this year after serving in the Intelligence Bureau as its joint director in New Delhi, officials said. He was in charge of the armed police and was given the responsibility of law and order in Manipur on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-ips-officer-from-manipur-who-shot-himself-flown-to-delhi-for-treatment/story-B0YH81LYDckmXRwawDgGSJ.html
19-07-2020||India||PM Modi calls Uttarakhand CM, assures help for Covid-19 positive soldiers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat over the phone to enquire about Covid-19 infected soldiers in the state and gave necessary directions to curb the spread of the virus in the state, officials said. The development came after CM Rawat on Saturday indicated that so far a total of “110 army personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state out of which about 100 cases have emerged in the past 3 to 4 days”.According to an official in the state secretariat privy to the development, “PM Modi spoke to CM Rawat in the afternoon in which he enquired about the health condition of the army personnel affected by Covid-19 virus.”“During the conversation he asked the CM to provide every possible help to the army personnel in terms of treatment with proper coordination between the state government and army,” said the official. He said the CM assured the Prime Minister of providing all possible help to the Covid-19 affected army personnel and said, “We are in constant touch with the army authorities and providing them with all the facilities required for treatment.”On Saturday, the CM had said, “Contact tracing of the infected army personnel is being done which will not be so difficult as their travel history is specified.”During the conversation with PM Modi, he informed him that in the past few days the number of cases in the state have increased but the “situation is under control”.JC Pandey, public relations officer for the Uttarakhand health department said that the health department is tracing the contacts of army personnel who have tested positive to ensure the virus doesn’t spread further among their families.Ten army personnel had tested positive on July 18, eight on July 1, one army staff tested positive on June 30 and two army personnel tested positive on June 13. In April, an army doctor had tested positive for Covid-19 from Chakrata area in Dehradun.Later on Sunday evening the CM informed about the measures being taken to curb the spread including increasing the number of tests and surveillance.“The surveillance has been increased with the help of ASHA and Aanganwadi workers by moving house to house to check if anyone has any symptoms of the virus,” he said. “In Uttar Kashi district surveillance has been done four times. In other districts including Nainital, Rudraprayag, Almora, Chamoli and Tehri Garhwal, it has been completed three times while in Bageshwar, Champawat, Pauri Garhwal and US Nagar it has been done twice. In the remaining three districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Pithoragarh, it has been done once,” said Rawat. On increasing the number of tests in the state, he said, “This week 2,487 samples were collected every day for testing in comparison to 1,660 samples taken per day last week. Also, our testing rate per million is 9,981 which is significant.”Till Saturday, Uttarakhand reported 4,276 Covid-19 cases of which 3,081 people have recovered while 1,108 are still active. Total number of deaths due to Covid-19 is 52 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-uttarakhand-cm-assures-help-for-covid-19-positive-soldiers/story-5U4OyuFF3hn2pHNP7YvZoJ.html
19-07-2020||India||Congress attacks govt on Rajnath’s remarks||New Delhi: The Congress launched another attack on the Narendra Modi government on Sunday, seeking an explanation on defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s remark that he couldn’t guarantee to what extent tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh could be resolved, and hit back at foreign minister S Jaishankar. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In a tweet, Gandhi said: “BJP has institutionalised lies. 1. Covid19 by restricting testing and misreporting deaths. 2. GDP by using a new calculation method. 3. Chinese aggression by frightening the media. The illusion will break soon and India will pay the price.”The Congress cited Singh’s remarks during his Ladakh tour, where the defence minister said on Friday: “Talks are underway to resolve the border dispute but to what extent it can be resolved I cannot guarantee. I can assure you, not one inch of our land can be taken by any power in the world. If solution can be found by talks, there is nothing better.”Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “Has Modi government accepted Chinese transgressions and also admitted that they have no solution to push the Chinese back into their own territory behind the LAC between India and China?”While Surjewala emphasized that “national security or territorial integrity of India” can never be compromised, Anand Sharma, senior Congress leader and member of the Rajya Sabha, tweeted that he was “amused” by Jaishankar’s defence of a “directionless foreign policy”. Sharma targeted Jaishankar after the latter’s point-by-point rebuttal of Rahul Gandhi’s video interview on how Modi’s policies had weakened India. “Neighbourhood first has been a priority of India’s foreign policy but sadly derailed by a cavalier approach,” Sharma said, pointing out that: “India & Nepal have historically shared a relationship bases on trust, friendship, and mutual respect. The present drift and tension are a matter of national concern. Foreign minister cannot have the luxury of denial but should answer for the failures.”After Jaishankar compared Balakot and Uri-- instances of cross-border action military against terrorists—to the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks – to show how the latter had gone unpunished, Sharma tweeted, “Dr Jaishankar’s reference to Mumbai terror attack was oddly out of place. As India’s Ambassador and senior diplomat, he was articulating India’s position which, for political expediency, he has chosen to criticize and disown. ““Do I have to remind that Indian Army, Airforce and Navy existed before May 2014 and their heroics and valour respected globally. Army belongs to the nation and fights under the tricolour. Advising in national interest. Do not politicise or monopolise our defence forces,” tweeted Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attacks-govt-on-rajnath-s-remarks/story-XR59DqyCxuc2v9jFcygqZL.html
19-07-2020||India||On Ladakh visit, Rajnath met soldiers who fought off PLA||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh met soldiers from the 16th battalion of the Bihar regiment who fought off numerically superior Chinese troops in the remote Galwan Valley on June 15, and acknowledged their bravery in the presence of the military’s top brass, people familiar with the development said on Sunday. Singh returned to Delhi on Saturday after a two-day tour of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir that included visits to forward locations and also saw him interact with soldiers deployed there.A new video from Lukung on the western bank on Ladakh’s Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the current border tensions with China, showed the minister having tea with soldiers from 16 Bihar. In the clip, the minister is seen mingling with the soldiers who were introduced to him by 14 Corps commander Lieutenant General Harinder Singh who can be heard telling the minister that the commanding officer killed in the skirmish was from their unit.The infantry battalion’s 37-year-old commanding officer, Colonel B Santosh Babu, was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered but according to India’s assessment the PLA suffered twice as many casualties.Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades. Recalling the Galwan Valley skirmish in his speech, Singh said on Friday that while he was delighted to meet the soldiers at Lukung, he was deeply pained by the loss of 20 Indian soldiers in the clash. Paying tributes to the brave-hearts, he said they not only protected India’s border but also the honour of 1.3 billion Indians and their sacrifice would not go in vain.The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6 pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to reduce rising border tensions.The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.In Ladakh, Singh said that the progress in negotiations with China should help resolve the ongoing border dispute but he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”, underlining that progress in resolving the tensions along the LAC between the two nuclear powers has been a challenging and arduous process.Singh also said that no power could “touch or grab even an inch of Indian territory”. Lukung is 43 km from Finger 4 on the northern bank of Pangong lake.India last week said the complex disengagement process with China on the LAC is specifically aimed at preventing “face-off situations”, and any unilateral attempts to change the status quo on the disputed border won’t be accepted. Two days after senior military commanders from both sides met at Chushul, the Indian Army on July 16 said complete disengagement is an “intricate process” requiring “constant verification”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-ladakh-visit-rajnath-met-soldiers-who-fought-off-pla/story-JUs6yWeCUg5q55hCB4SwNI.html
19-07-2020||India||India likely to deploy Rafale jets in Ladakh||NEW DELHI: The Indian Air Force could deploy its new Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh sector as part of an overarching plan to strengthen India’s military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation, and disengagement has turned out to be a challenging process, people familiar with the development said on Sunday, ahead of a key IAF commanders’ meeting this week.Acting on a special request by the IAF, France is speeding up the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India and six jets are likely to land at their home base in Ambala on July 27 --- instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch.“Air and ground crews have undergone full training on the aircraft including advanced weapons systems over the last one year in France,” one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.The IAF is looking at means to operationalise the Rafale in the quickest possible time and the new fighters could be deployed wherever there is a requirement, including Ladakh, he said.The possible role of Rafale fighters could be discussed at the IAF commanders’ conference in New Delhi from July 22 to 24 where the air force brass is expected to focus on the ongoing border row with China, the IAF’s preparedness and new purchases that have to be made to stay prepared for any eventuality, said a second official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity.India-specific enhancements on the jets include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest a worrying slide in the air force’s combat capabilities.The arrival of the Rafale will add punch to the IAF’s capability, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“For sure, there will be a period of integration with other systems, and it (Rafale) would be put to use as the operational planners deem fit,” Bahadur said.According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected in April-May 2022. Future deliveries will also be accelerated.France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year.In the Ladakh sector, the IAF is projecting its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers getting airborne regularly for demanding night-time missions from a forward base in the area.The air force’s MiG-29 fighter jets, Sukhoi-30s, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters are among the platforms that are undertaking night missions in the mountainous terrain.The Indian Rafales will be equipped with Meteor beyond-visual-range missiles whose no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium range air-to-air missiles....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-deploy-rafale-jets-in-ladakh/story-NM1NqjmB2vVdMZxUJZoZPJ.html
19-07-2020||India||Indian Oil’s 300,000 bpd east coast refinery to be shut for 3 weeks||Indian Oil Corp Ltd’s 300,000 barrels per day refinery on the country’s east coast to be shut for three weeks for maintenance, the top district administrative official told Reuters on Sunday. “The Indian Oil refinery in Paradip will remain shut from July 25 to August 15 for maintenance,” said Sangram Keshari Mohapatra, the top bureaucrat in the district of Jagatsinghpur, where the refinery is located.As per the company’s request, a shutdown order has been issued,” he said, adding the refinery was last shutdown completely in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-oil-s-300-000-bpd-east-coast-refinery-to-be-shut-for-3-weeks/story-4OgRSFJY6yRXu8pJ1gYt1K.html
19-07-2020||India||Bengal CM’s nephew asks youth to reach out to Covid-19, Amphan victims, draws flak||‘Banglar Jubo Shakti’ (Bengal’s youth power), an ‘apolitical’ platform announced in June by Abhishek Banerjee, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Youth Congress president, has drawn criticism from opposition parties within 24 hours of the young leader’s announcement that more than five lakh young men have registered as members and they will help people in distress.Addressing the members on social media on Saturday, Banerjee, a Lok Sabha member, said they can owe their allegiance to any political party but their sole job would be to serve Bengal. “Take an oath to help people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and Cyclone Amphan in every possible way,” said Banerjee, citing the life and works of Swami Vivekananda, Subhash Chandra Bose and other prominent Bengalis. Though Banerjee said that it did not matter if the members belonged to the CPI(M), Congress or the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) he reiterated several times that they would have to save the state from “oshubho shakti” (evil force). “Bengal must win. We have to fight till the last drop of our blood. You have to prove that your first allegiance is to this land,” he said, not mentioning the BJP as a political rival or the 2021 assembly elections even once. The platform, TMC leaders said, is the brainchild of political strategist Prashant Kishor, who was roped in by Mamata Banerjee after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The poll results indicated that a sizeable chunk of young voters supported the BJP. For the ruling party, this is a cause for concern before the crucial assembly polls where alleged nepotism in distribution of cyclone relief funds and mismanagement in health sector can be raging issues. “Each ‘jubo joddha’ (youth warrior) will have to select 10 families of his or her choice and help them for the next few months. Once you select the families you cannot alter your choice. We will help you in every possible way. We will launch a forum where each member can discuss their problems using their ID and password. I too will look after 10 families,” said Banerjee.He also made it clear that people can join the TMC through the platform.“Those who want to join politics will be given the opportunity. If they show the right potential they can work at any level. I am willing to leave my post for one of them,” said Banerjee.He said members of the platform will have to convince the families why they want to help them and stay connected with them through WhatsApp groups. “Five lakh members can connect to 50 lakh families. There will be more members and thus, more families. I will personally monitor this,” said Banerjee.The BJP leadership has mocked Banerjee for launching the programme.“Where was he in the last four months? Suddenly he has made a comeback with five lakh new youth workers and five lakh old workers decamped with money sent for cyclone relief. This platform is a copy of what the BJP has already done. We have taken food and medicines to people all these months,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. Panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, who led the state Youth Congress decades before the birth of the TMC, defended Banerjee.“If Dilip Ghosh is criticizing it, it means this is the path to follow. As a young leader Abhishek has said the right things. He has given a call, asking everybody to join the movement,” said Mukherjee.Political analysts, however, feel that an operation of this scale can succeed only if its face is Mamata Banerjee.“This is basically an exercise to overhaul the machinery of the TMC. It is not easy to execute an operation of this scale. It can succeed only if the TMC chief leads it herself,” said political observer and columnist Suvashis Maitra.“Jubo Shakti is the name of the 54-year-old mouthpiece of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (youth front of the CPI-M). Abhishek Banerjee has even stolen the name. We have served a legal notice. It seems there is no end to looting by the TMC,” said Sayandip Mitra, state secretary of DYFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-s-nephew-asks-youth-to-reach-out-to-covid-19-amphan-victims-draws-flak/story-NoVC4XQQ18BhG1epQyaSuN.html
19-07-2020||India||Rajasthan’s SOG at Manesar again to quiz rebel MLA allegedly named in audio tape||A team of the Special operation Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan police has again reached Manesar in Haryana late Sunday evening to quiz Sardarshahar MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma whose name had surfaced in one of the audio tapes which Rajasthan government says is proof of attempted horse trading. “Acting on a tip-off, a team has been sent to Manesar to question Sharma. A notice has been sent to the residences of Sharma in Churu and Jaipur,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general of police, SOG.He added that in the first case of toppling the government registered on July 10, notice has been sent to a person identified as Karni Singh.“Many important details have been obtained from Jain. We are verifying that,” Rathore said.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot claims the rebel MLAs were acting in tandem with the BJP to bring down his government.But Pilot has refuted the allegations and denied that he was joining the BJP.This is the second time in three days that the SOG has showed up to quiz Sachin Pilot loyalists.On Friday evening, there was heavy drama at the hotel in Manesar where the dissident Congress MLAs are staying after an SOG team was not allowed to enter the premises by the Haryana Police. They were eventually allowed to enter the hotel.The SOG had registered two first information reports (FIRs) after two audio tapes surfaced in which a Congress lawmaker was purportedly talking to a middleman and a person named Gajendra Singh about toppling the Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cops-at-haryana-hotel-to-probe-sachin-pilot-camp-s-mla-bhanwar-lal-sharma-over-leaked-audio-tapes/story-jQ12kanvwPaqjUMZowFbRN.html
19-07-2020||India||Mob torches vehicles, attacks police in Bengal after teenager’s ‘rape and murder’||Chopra in North Dinajpur district in north Bengal turned into a battleground on Sunday afternoon, hours after a 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered. But police said the post mortem revealed that she died of poisoning.The girl had appeared for the class 10 state board examination this year.Local people torched three government buses and two police vehicles and vandalised a number of other vehicles. Shouting “we want justice,” the mob also attacked policemen while Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders took up the issue alleging that the girl belonged to a family of BJP supporters and thus became a target of goons backed by the ruling Trinamool Congress party. At least 30 people, including some police personnel, were injured in the pitched battles. Tension was palpable in the area till late evening. Watch: Police fire teargas to control violent protests in West Bengal The area where the alleged rape and murder took place comes under the Chaturagaj-Sonapur gram panchayat area of the Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency. She was found by the roadside early in the morning, around 700 metres away from her home, and taken to Chopra hospital and subsequently to Islampur sub-divisional hospital where doctors pronounced her dead.The family of the victim claimed that a mobile phone and a cycle of the suspected murderer were recovered from the spot but a police officer who requested anonymity said “A bottle of poison was also found.”Local people and BJP supporters blocked the Chopra state highway for hours. In the afternoon, they blockaded NH-31. When police tried to remove the roadblocks, the protesters hurled stones. Several clashes ensued and police had to use baton-charge tear gas shells to bring the situation under control.Kartik Chandra Mondal, additional superintendent of police, Islampur said, “The body has been sent for post mortem examination.”The elder brother of the girl alleged that his sister was raped and murdered because his family supports the BJP. He claimed that he is a local BJP leader and blamed the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the incident.Surajit Sen, vice president of the BJP Uttar Dinajpur district committee said “TMC-backed miscreants committed the heinous crime.” Gautam Deb, state tourism minister condemned the murder and blamed the BJP for resorting to dirty politics over her death.Deb said “Two state ministers and a member of Parliament will visit the girl’s house. We are with the family.” Darjeeling’s BJP MP Raju Bista said, “Local people informed me that she was raped and poisoned. In the past few years, Chopra has seen exponential rise in illegal infiltration and crime. This was once a peaceful region.”The West Bengal Police on Sunday night said in a series of tweets that preliminary report of the post mortem examination pointed at death caused by poisoning and did not show any sign of rape. The tweets also said that the girl’s family did not lodge any complaint and police acted on its own. “Today morning Islampur PD received a reliable information about the death of a young girl of Chopra PS area. Family members or any other associated persons didn’t inform Police. Police contacted the family and sent the body for Post Mortem,” said one of the tweets. “Inquest by a magistrate and videography of the Post Mortem was done. As per the PM report cause of death is “effect of poison”. No injury marks anywhere in the body has been found. There is no sign of sexual or physical assault. Though law and order problem has been created over the issue, yet no complaint has been lodged with police,” the police said in another tweet.The incident in Chopra happened six days after Debendranath Roy, a BJP legislator from Hemtabad in North Dinajpour was found hanging around two km away from his home. The BJP has demanded a CBI inquiry, calling it a political murder. Chandima Roy, the legislator’s wife has moved the Calcutta high court demanding CBI enquiry. The state CID has arrested one man in the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-torches-vehicles-attacks-police-in-bengal-after-teenager-s-rape-and-murder/story-LbxPYuyVgmEcfoEdVFbA1K.html
19-07-2020||India||Feel motivated after shooting in Varanasi: Chandan Roy Sanyal||After wrapping up his 15-day shoot for the film ‘Woh Teen Din’, actor Chandan Roy Sanyal left Varanasi on Saturday. Now in mandatory 15-day quarantine in his home in Mumbai, the actor feels positive and motivated.Talking about taking up an outstation assignment during the ongoing crisis, Chandan said, “If we don’t step out and take up work then the film industry or any other industry for that matter will die down! Once we step out, then only we will be able to learn how to tackle the problem. It’s not just about a fit body it’s more about our mental health,” said the ‘Jab Harry Met Sejal’ actor over the phone.Supporting his decision to join the shooting, he said, “Post shoot, I’m feeling happy, healthier and content. Now I feel it was a right decision to take. Also in such times we need to work to keep our finances going as we all have EMIs, medical expenses and other responsibilities to take care of. So, I need to earn to be able to meet my expenses.”Chandan was initially skeptical while taking up the offer. “When director Raj Ashoo informed me that Sanjay (Mishra) ji will be joining the shoot it was then I decided to take a chance. But then again when heading for airport, I was all hesitant and doubtful. But once I reached Varanasi and completed the project I felt so motivated and relaxed.”The entire shoot was done in Chunar, one hour drive from Varanasi, with a small crew of 20 people. “Since the story is of a rickshaw puller and two passengers (him and Rajesh Sharma) we shot entirely on roads, highways, bank of Ganga and its basin. This project was a unique and lifetime experience for me. It was tough as we were shooting in hot, sultry and rainy conditions. Also, to keep shooting enthusiasts and selfie lovers at bay was a task for the team.”Initially, he was staying at a hotel but later, that got closed as it was facing a financial crunch. “From the hotel we shifted with Sanjayji who was staying in an ashram. On sets my assistant used to cook for us. We used to eat rice, dal and ghee. Sanjayji’s assistant too prepared simple meals for us.” In UP, Chandan had shot for ‘Mirza Juliet’ in Varanasi, ‘Jabariya Jodi’ in Lucknow and an upcoming series ‘Ashram’ in Ayodhya.After getting an opportunity to be on sets and act after months in lockdown, Chandan said, “After being stamped on airport I’m quarantined here. But I am relaxed that after all said and done the film is completed. Though back of my mind I’m a bit concerned of contracting the virus somewhere along the phase, so I am hoping for the best and keeping positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/feel-motivated-after-shooting-in-varanasi-chandan-roy-sanyal/story-v8q9LmO3LXsdgy1tXw2SfL.html
19-07-2020||India||From dancer to actor, Ayush sketches his own path!||Actor Ayush Mehra, popular for his numerous stints on the web, feels no career option comes easy. “It’s a fact that whatever career you opt for, at the end of the day, hard work is indispensable and so is the right training to be able to survive and make a mark,” he said.Born and brought up in Mumbai, Ayush had a strong inclination towards performing arts. “For me dance, plays and films were my solace. So, to continue in the same field, I joined Shaimak Davar’s troupe and started doing what I loved the most. But soon, while dancing behind big actors and watching them closely, I realised that this is what I want to be. As a dancer we used to rehearse for 15-20 days but the actor used to join in for just three-four days and still got the centre stage. That’s when I understood that if I have penchant for performing arts than being an actor will be the right choice.” He started auditioning and did some commercials. “I did theatre for a year. Besides, I was doing acting training and attending workshops. I never stopped learning and I still go for workshops and stay connected to the process of learning.”The young actor also took up job of assistant director and last one being ‘Uri’, “Being AD brought me close to the process of film making. By that time, I had no idea web will blow up and become such a flourishing industry. I started doing sketches (small videos) for YouTube channel Filtercopy. My sketches become hit among the audience and gave me much required confidence and happiness. Soon, work from other web channels starting pouring in.” His big break came with the show ‘Mom & Co.’ “Veteran actor Neelima Azeem played the role of my mother. It was a story of a single mother and his son and a well-received series. Then came series ‘Minus One,’ ‘Operation MBBS,’ and ‘Please Find Attached’. Post lockdown I’ll be shooting second season for almost all of them. A lot of work went on hold due to ongoing crisis,” said the young actor who had a webinar in Lucknow recently. During his session with youngsters Ayush stressed on dreaming big and then working as hard. “To dream big is the first step that one takes when you plan your life ahead. Always remember, the bigger the dream more is the hard work it will ask for,” he concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/from-dancer-to-actor-ayush-sketches-his-own-path/story-NXUJObV6nrtseKlM2IOLjP.html
19-07-2020||India||Floods in India, Nepal displace nearly 4 million people, at least 189 dead||Nearly four million people in India’s northeastern state of Assam and neighbouring Nepal have been displaced by heavy flooding from monsoon rains, with dozens missing as deaths rose to at least 189, government officials said on Sunday.The overflowing Brahmaputra River, which flows through China’s Tibet, India and Bangladesh, has damaged crops and triggered mudslides, displacing millions of people, officials said.More than 2.75 million people in Assam have been displaced by three waves of floods since late May that has claimed 79 lives after two more deaths were reported overnight, a state government official said. “The flood situation remains critical with most of the rivers flowing menacingly above the danger mark,” Assam water resources Minister Keshab Mahanta told Reuters. Assam is facing the twin challenge of combating floods and the coronavirus pandemic. Out of 33 districts, 25 remained affected after the current wave of flooding, beginning a fortnight ago.India is grappling with the novel coronavirus, which has infected nearly 1.1 million people and 26,816 have died from the Covid-19 disease, government data showed on Sunday. In neighbouring Nepal, the government asked residents along its southern plains on Sunday to remain alert as heavy monsoon rains were expected to pound the Himalayan nation where more than 100 have died in floods and landslides since June, officials said.Some 110 people were killed and another 100 injured as landslides and flash floods washed or swept away homes, upended roads and bridges and displaced hundreds of others in 26 of the country’s 77 districts, police said.Home ministry official Murari Wasti said the death toll was expected to rise as 48 people were still missing.“Search and rescue teams are looking for those who are missing in different places but chances of finding them alive are slim,” Wasti told Reuters.Barun Paudel of the weather forecasting office in the capital, Kathmandu, said heavy rains were expected to pound much of the mainly mountainous nation in the next four days. “We have urged residents to remain alert against possible landslides and floods,” he said.Landslides and flash floods are common in Nepal, India’s Assam and Bihar states during the June-September annual rainy season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-india-nepal-displace-nearly-4-million-people-at-least-189-dead/story-x9UW1O1QE8n3C58sMs3jNO.html
19-07-2020||India||IAF commanders to review air defence system in view of border row with China at 3-day meet||Top commanders of the Indian Air Force will carry out an in-depth review of the country’s air defence system at a three-day conference beginning Wednesday in view of the bitter border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as evolving regional security scenario, military sources said. The commanders are also expected to specifically deliberate on deployment of first batch of around six Rafale fighter jets which are expected to join the IAF’s fighter fleet later this month, they said. The main focus of the commanders’ conference will be to deliberate on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh and on ways to enhance the IAF’s combat prowess and surveillance over the country’s air space in all sensitive sectors including in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand, the sources said. “The commanders will also review the evolving security architecture in the region and ways to boost IAF’s combat capability,” said a source. The conference will be chaired by Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is also expected to address the IAF commanders. The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in the last few weeks, in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. A number of IAF platforms participated in a military drill in Stakna in eastern Ladakh on Friday during the defence minister’s visit to the region. The exercise showcased integrated combat prowess of the Army and the Indian Air Force in dealing with complex security scenarios in the high altitude terrain. The IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China notwithstanding disengagement of troops by Chinese military from a number of friction points. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations. The IAF has pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases in the region. The sources said the commanders will also deliberate on preparations to received the first batch of the Rafale jets from France. The jets are expected to reach India by end of this month. The first squadron of the aircraft will be stationed at Ambala air force station, considered one of the most strategically located bases of the IAF. The aircraft is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA’s Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. The disengagement process between Indian and Chinese militaries began on July 6 after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi the previous day. Doval and Wang are Special Representatives for the boundary talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-commanders-to-review-air-defence-system-in-view-of-border-row-with-china-at-3-day-meet/story-xfpa6oDd2gUIjJtmkMXSOO.html
19-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s highest ever spike of 9,518 new cases take Covid-19 tally past 3.1 lakh||Maharashtra’s highest-ever single-day spike of 9,518 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday took the state’s tally to 3,10,455, the state health department said.It is for the first time that the number of new cases crossed the 9,000-mark in a single day. Out of Sunday’s new cases, 1,037 were from Mumbai which now has a tally of 101,388. Maharashtra’s highest-ever spike so far came on a day when the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said that community transmission Covid-19 has set in. The death toll in the state mounted 11,854 with 258 more people dying of the disease. Sixty four of the casualties were in Mumbai where the toll has gone up to 5,714.The recoveries rose to 1,69,569 after 3,906 patients were discharged in the day, the health department said.The number of active cases in Maharashtra now stands at 1,29,032.Meanwhile, the ongoing lockdown in Thane district of Maharashtra, which was scheduled to end on July 19 midnight, has been extended till July 31 in select areas following a spurt in Covid-19 cases, PTI reported..The extended lockdown is applicable for municipal corporations of Mira Bhayandar, Kalyan-Dombivali and Bhiwandi-Nizampur, which all fall under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) where cases of the pandemic are on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-highest-ever-spike-of-9-518-new-cases-take-covid-19-tally-past-3-1-lakh/story-1qW5XQREVQybFFFuwoJleI.html
19-07-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri||Pakistan on Sunday initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Sunderbani sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district.The ceasefire violation took place at 7.15 pm when Pakistan fired with small arms and intense shelling with mortars.The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri/story-NpLCtgKoznXxC0W2uI9J2L.html
19-07-2020||India||DCGI queries pharma company on its claim of FabiFlu use for Covid-19 patients with comorbidities||India’s drug regulator has sought a clarification from Glenmark Pharmaceuticals over its alleged “false claims” about the use of anti-viral FabiFlu on Covid-19 patients with comorbidities and also over the “pricing” of the drug, after receiving a complaint from a member of Parliament. In a letter to the Mumbai-based company, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Dr V G Somani stated that his office received a representation from an MP that the total cost of the treatment with FabiFlu  (favipiravir) will be around Rs 12,500 and that the “cost proposed by Glenmark is definitely not in the interest of the poor, lower middle class and middle-class people of India.” “Further it has been mentioned in the representation that Glenmark has also claimed that this drug is effective in co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetics, whereas in reality, as per protocol summary, this trial was not designed to assess the FabiFlu in comorbid condition,” the letter dated July 17 read. No clinically sufficient data specific to these conditions are available, the DCGI said in its letter. The ‘subject’ of the letter was stated as: “Regarding the false claims and pricing of tab FabiFlu 200 mg (favipiravir) by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited, India”. “In view of this, you are requested to provide your clarification on the above points for taking further necessary action in the matter,” he said.  There was no immediate comment from the company.   Glenmark Pharmaceuticals had on July 13 said it has cut the price of its antiviral drug Favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 by 27 per cent to Rs 75 per tablet.  The company had launched FabiFlu last month at a price of Rs 103 per tablet. The letter sent to the firm by the DCGI encloses the representation made by the MP which refers to an online press conference by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals and media reports that the cost of FabiFlu per tablet is Rs 103.   “As per the claim by Glenmark, a patient has to take the tablet for 14 days, which means one patient will have to take approximately 122 tablets (18 tablets on Day 1 and 8 tablets per day from day 2 to day 14.)  Total cost of the treatment will be around Rs 12,500,” the representation read. As per statement by the Glenmark and media reports, the DCGI had accelerated the process for clinical trials and reviews considering the pandemic situation, unmet medical conditions and unavailability of specific therapeutic management against Covid-19 for this drug, it said. However, after all positive approach, accelerated processes and efforts by DCGI, health ministry and relevant state FDA departments, the cost proposed by Glenmark is definitely not in the interest of the poor, lower middle class and middle-class people of India, the representation noted. “In such a global pandemic where world is struggling against Covid-19, government of India should ensure affordability of the drug to the common people. In fact, 6/12 centres wherein these clinical trials were conducted are government medical colleges from Maharashtra, Gujrat and Delhi.“This indicates that poor and middle class patients have contributed to the clinical trial as subjects. “Price quoted for this drug is definitely unaffordable to the common people,” it stated.  The drug regulator had on June 19 approved anti-viral drug favipiravir for “restricted emergency use” in mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 in view of the emergency and unmet medical need during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-queries-pharma-company-on-its-claim-of-fabiflu-use-for-covid-19-patients-with-comorbidities/story-BrJrlXLyDnazSy3YW4uCdL.html
19-07-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi takes stock of Covid-19 situation in various states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to chief ministers including those of Assam, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand to discuss the Covid-19 situation in those states.In his telephonic conversation with Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Modi also assured all support to the state in dealing with the flood havoc, which has claimed 84 lives so far this year. He also enquired about the ongoing efforts to douse the raging blaze at Oil India’s Baghjan gas well in Tinsukia district that has been raging since June 9.“Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi ji took stock of the contemporary situation regarding #AssamFloods2020, #COVID19 and Baghjan Oil Well fire scenario over phone this morning. Expressing his concern & solidarity with the people, the PM assured all support to the state,” Sonowal tweeted after the call from the PM.Assam’s Covid-19 tally is almost 23,000 while active cases are close to 8,000.Modi also spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to enquire about army troopers affected by Covid-19 and gave necessary directions to curb the virus spread in the state, officials said. On Saturday, Rawat had said that a total of 110 army personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state out of which about 100 cases have come in the past 3 to 4 days.“PM Modi spoke to CM Rawat in the afternoon in which he enquired about the health condition of the army personnel affected by Covid-19 virus.”“During the conversation he asked him to provide every possible help to the army personnel in treatment with proper coordination between the state government and army,” an official said. Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally is over 4,200 .Modi also called up Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami to discuss the preventive measures taken by the state to contain the spread of Covid19 and also aspects related to treatment amid a continued surge in new infections in the state. With a tally of over 1.65 lakh, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-affected state after Maharashtra. Palaniswami briefed Modi on the prevention measures, treatment procedure and facility for Covid positive patients and highlighted the state’s high rate of testing with about 48,000 samples being tested daily on an average, the state government said in a statement.India’s Covid-19 tally is close to 11 lakh after the highest single-day spike of 38,902 cases reported in the last 24 hours. There are more than 3.73 lakh active cases while more than 6.77 lakh people have recovered.Almost 27,000 people have died of Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-takes-stock-of-covid-19-situation-in-various-states/story-vTQNadGvRcHuyr5ZRHUxRM.html
19-07-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh sees steepest one-day spike with 2,250 new Covid-19 cases, 38 more die||Uttar Pradesh on Sunday reported the steepest one-day spike of 2,250 fresh Covid-19 cases, according to official data. With this, the overall tally of infected patients touched 49,523 in the state. Thirty-eight deaths in the last 24 hours took the death toll to 1,146, the state health department data added.This is the second time that a single day’s new Covid-19 infections have crossed the 2,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh.Among the fresh cases, 392 were reported from Lucknow, 168 from Kanpur, 125 from Gautam Buddha Nagar, 104 from Jhansi, 100 from Prayagraj and 79 from Ghaziabad.Kanpur reported eight deaths, Bareilly four, Rampur three and Lucknow, Prayagraj, Sambhal, Gonda, Ballia and Hamirpur two each. One death each was reported from Meerut, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Bahraich, Gorakhpur, Etawah, Maharajganj, Bhadohi, Jhansi, and Mahoba, according to state health department data.Additional chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that 44,130 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to 14,70,426.“There are 18,256 active cases in the state, while a total of 29,845 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far after recovering from the disease. The death toll is at 1,146,” he said.“As Covid-19 cases are rising in the state, people need to be careful while stepping out of the house, particularly those with some other medical problem,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of Healthcity Hospital in Lucknow’s Gomtinagar.The first Covid-19 case in Uttar Pradesh was reported from Agra on March 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-sees-steepest-one-day-spike-with-2-250-new-covid-19-cases-38-more-die/story-Tgzzo3roynXP4GCQOUJaAO.html
19-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Over 25 lakh affected in Assam flood and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 25 lakh still affected in Assam floods; PM Modi takes stock of situationFloods continued to wreak havoc in Assam on Sunday with over 25 lakh people in 24 of the state’s 33 districts affected. Read moreHas Modi government accepted Chinese occupation in Ladakh? asks CongressThe Congress used Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s recent statement that he cannot guarantee to what extent the border standoff with China in Ladakh would be resolved, to launch another attack on the government. Read moreHow to install PUBG Mobile, or any game, on your smartphone without using InternetPUBG Mobile is one of the most popular games around and it has gotten all the more popular thanks to the Covid-19 lockdowns that have kept all of us indoors. And to be fair it’s not just PUBG Mobile, other smartphone games too have been enjoying great upticks in downloads and usage. Read morePet parrot hums this beautiful tune while his hooman plays the guitar. Watch this talented duoSpending time with one’s beloved pet can be an extremely fruitful exercise. This unique pet and parent duo are enjoying some quality time by sharpening their musical talents while hanging out together. Read moreAlice in Wonderland enters Quarantineland in this Bristol muralBristol-based artists Stewy and Alison Larkman have recently created a 4.5 metre mural of Alice in Wonderland peeking into an oddly-placed window from behind a large curtain, on the corner of Lindrea Street and Agate Street in Bedminster. Read moreEngland vs West Indies: Umpires apply disinfectant on ball after Dominic Sibley accidentally uses salivaIt has finally happened and this will certainly be a trivia question in the future - who was the first player to accidentally use saliva on the ball in the post Covid-19 era? The answer is Dominic Sibley. Read moreKangana Ranaut says Karan Johar ‘dumped’ Drive, declared Sushant Singh Rajput ‘flop star’ whose films could not get buyersKangana Ranaut has alleged that Karan Johar declared Sushant Singh Rajput to be a ‘flop star’ and ensured that Drive was never released in theatres. She claimed that Karan was fulfilling the agenda of his ‘childhood friend’, Aditya Chopra, to destroy Sushant’s career. Read moreWatch: Man tied to a tree, face blackened & thrashed for eloping with minorA man was tied to a tree and mercilessly thrashed in Ludhiana for allegedly eloping with a minor girl. After they were allegedly caught by the girl’s family members, the boy was tied to a tree, his face blackened and a garland of shoes was placed on his neck. Many people can be seen taking videos but none came forward to help the youth. Police have now registered a case after the video went viral on social media. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-over-25-lakh-affected-in-assam-flood-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xFuH4EkrqrQ2di54IUI6PK.html
19-07-2020||India||Tina Dabi appointed BRICS honorary advisor||IAS officer Tina Dabi, topper of the 2016 civil services examination, has been appointed honorary advisor to the steering committee for BRICS Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) Young Leaders. The appointment is for the session 2020 to 2023.“Your expertise as an achiever is a fitting example of a role model for the youth in a global society and we strongly believe that your vision will inspire our motive further,” said Deepanga Singhi, assistant director of BRICS Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in a letter to Dabi announcing the nomination.Dabi, currently posted as sub-divisional officer (SDO) in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, said BRICS CCI Young Leaders reached out to millions of youth across the country through its programmes and initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tina-dabi-appointed-brics-honorary-advisor/story-n809xa4cRnokKvpQEv2KtK.html
19-07-2020||India||1 injured as Nepal police shoot at 3 along India-Nepal border in Bihar: Cops||A man was injured after Nepal police shot at three Indian men near India-Nepal border in Bihar’s Kishanganj on Sunday, according to ANI. The injured has been shifted to a hospital and a probe is underway, superintendent of police, Kishanganj, was quoted as saying. More details are awaited. A similar incident was reported earlier in June when an Indian was killed while four others were injured after Nepalese police allegedly fired indiscriminately on them at the border near Sitamarhi district in Bihar, officials said.The June 12 firing had taken place after a clash between the Indians and personnel of Nepalese police at the Lalbandi-Janki Nagar border in Pipra Parsain panchayat under Sonebarsha police station of the district, sources said. Locals said the men were working in an agricultural field when the altercation between the cops of both sides took place, following which four of them received bullet injuries while Vikesh Kumar Rai, 25, died on the spot. Nepal shares a 1,850-kilometre open border with India and people travel across it for work and to visit family. It had closed its international borders on March 22 amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-injured-as-nepal-police-shoot-at-3-along-india-nepal-border-in-bihar-cops/story-LSweXYtF2qPbD10mCn5b3O.html
19-07-2020||India||IAF may deploy Rafale fighters in Ladakh sector amid border row||The Indian Air Force could deploy its new Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation and disengagement has turned out to be a challenging process, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday, ahead of a key IAF commanders’ meet this week.Acting on a special request by the IAF, France is speeding up the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India and six jets are likely to land at their home base in Ambala on July 27 --- instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch.Also read: Galwan braves get a pat on the back from Rajnath Singh in Ladakh’s Lukung“Air and ground crews have undergone full training on the aircraft including advanced weapons systems over the last one year in France,” said one of the officials cited above, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The IAF is looking at means to operationalise the Rafale in the quickest possible time and the new fighters could be deployed wherever there is a requirement including Ladakh, he said.The possible role of Rafale fighters could be discussed at the IAF commanders’ conference in New Delhi from July 22 to 24 where the air force brass is expected to focus on the ongoing border row with China, the IAF’s preparedness and new purchases that have to be made to stay prepared for any eventuality, said a second official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity.Also read: ‘Has Modi government accepted Chinese occupation in Ladakh’, asks CongressIndia-specific enhancements on the jets include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the air force’s combat capabilities.The arrival of the Rafale will add punch to the IAF’s capability, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“For sure, there will be a period of integration with other systems, and it (Rafale) would be put to use as the operational planners deem fit,” Bahadur said.According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected in April-May 2022. Future deliveries will also being accelerated.France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year.In the Ladakh sector, the IAF is projecting its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers getting airborne regularly for demanding night-time missions from a forward base in the area.Also read: Navy’s forward posture against PLA aggression in Ladakh muscles out Chinese threat on high seasThe air force’s MiG-29 fighter jets, Sukhoi-30s, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters are among the platforms that are undertaking night missions in the mountainous terrain.The Indian Rafales will be equipped with Meteor beyond-visual-range missiles whose no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium range air-to-air missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-may-deploy-rafale-fighters-in-ladakh-sector-amid-border-row/story-UCHPOMhzbGUiC3RRVJBC6O.html
19-07-2020||India||Has Modi government accepted Chinese occupation in Ladakh? asks Congress||The Congress used Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s recent statement that he cannot guarantee to what extent the border standoff with China in Ladakh would be resolved, to launch another attack on the government. “What does this statement of the country’s Defense Minister mean that there is no guarantee of a solution through talks with China? Has the Modi government accepted the Chinese occupation that they cannot solve it?” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala asked at a briefing.Rajnath Singh had made the comment in Lukung near Pangong Tso lake on Friday while addressing troops.Surjewala also said the Chinese are still inside Indian territory and that China isn’t ready to return to the pre-May 2020 position.“China isn’t permitting Indian Armed Forces to patrol from patrolling point 10 to patrolling point 13. Third, China has occupied Indian territory up to 8 km between finger 4 to finger 8 and has 3,000 soldiers in our territory.“China isn’t ready to restore the status quo ante and to return to the pre-May 2020 position. China has converted Ngari Gunsa civil airstrip on our border into military airstrip causing threat to our territorial integrity and placed over 20,000 Chinese soldiers on our border,” Surjewala said.India and China have been in talks to reach consensus on easing tensions between the two armies in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and Depsang plains, as well as pulling back weapons and equipment from “friction points” in other sectors.On Saturday, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had attacked the government over its handling of the standoff in Ladakh saying India will pay a huge price because of the government’s “cowardly actions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-modi-government-accepted-chinese-occupation-in-ladakh-asks-congress/story-3rQipecgPAQPVgwoG1qY0O.html
19-07-2020||India||Over 25 lakh still affected in Assam floods; PM Modi takes stock of situation||Floods continued to wreak havoc in Assam on Sunday with over 25 lakh people in 24 of the state’s 33 districts affected.According to a bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), five more deaths due to drowning were reported from five affected districts on Sunday taking the death toll this season to 84.Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday to take stock of the flood, erosion, Covid-19 situation as well as efforts to control the fire at a natural gas well in Baghjan and assured all help from the Centre.“The PM said that the central government was keeping a close watch on flood, erosion, Covid-19 and Baghjan situation in the state and had been standing closely with the people of Assam during these difficult times,” said a statement from Sonowal’s office.According to the ASDMA bulletin, over 50,000 people uprooted by floods were taking shelter at 521 relief camps. Rescue personnel evacuated 366 stranded persons during Sunday and shifted them to safer locations.“This year the floods have been unrelenting. As per fresh guidelines issued this year, administrations in the affected districts are ensuring maintenance of social distancing and safety precautions in the relief camps. No one has been infected by Covid-19 in the camps yet,” said Pankaj Chakraborty, state project coordinator ASDMA.According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, most rivers in the state continued to be in spate on Sunday. The Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, Kusiyara and Sankosh flowed above the danger mark at several places.Floods have affected wild animals in the state as well. Nine rhinos are among the 108 wild animals that have died during this year’s floods at Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR).According to a bulletin issued by park authorities on Sunday, nearly 85% area of the park spread over 430 square km is under water at present. 43 of the 223 forest camps inside the park are inundated of which 6 have been vacated.Till now 60 animals (36 hog deer, 8 rhinos, 3 wild buffalo, 1 python, 7 wild boar, 2 swamp deer, 1 Sambar and two porcupines) have died due to drowning. Fifteen hog deer have died after getting hit by vehicles on national highway 37 close to the park while trying to cross it to escape flood waters.On Saturday, an adult male rhino had strayed out of the park and rested for several hours on NH37. The animal, which was being guarded by police and forest personnel, moved back to the park on Sunday morning.“The animal was very exhausted as it was in water for 3-4 day and we were planning to shift it to the state zoo in Guwahati. But after resting for several hours it moved back inside. We are keeping a watch on it,” said P Sivakumar, director KNPTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-25-lakh-still-affected-in-assam-floods-pm-modi-takes-stock-of-situation/story-zkL4X5ZPMXrmRv673fw9oM.html
19-07-2020||India||Delhi adds 1,211 new Covid-19 cases, lowest count in over a month since June 9||Delhi added 1,211 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest count in over a month and 31 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the national capital’s coronavirus tally to 1,22,793, the state health department said on Sunday. The 31 new fatalities have taken the death toll due to the viral infection to 3,628.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital has declined sharply this week after the Delhi government adopted strict containment measures and ramped up testing for the infection in certain zones in July. This is the ninth consecutive day when over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by around one per cent every day.A day earlier, on Saturday, the national capital had reported 26 deaths, the lowest single-day Covid-19 fatality count since June 9. ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate ‘progressively falling’, among lowest in world: GovtThe city had reported a relatively lower Covid-19 count on June 8, with 1,007 coronavirus cases.At least 1,03,134 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease and been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 16,031 active coronavirus cases in the national capital, the Delhi government’s health bulletin said.As many as 5,762 RT-PCR tests and 14,444 rapid-antigen tests have been conducted in the last 24 hours. A total of 8,18,989 tests have been conducted till date, which is 43,104 tests per million population.ALSO READ | Recovered Delhi cops donate plasma for Covid-19 patients, health minister lauds moveCovid-19 patients under home isolation now stand at 8,819, according to the health department data. For every 100 confirmed coronavirus cases, three patients have died due to the disease in the city till date.The national capital’s recovery rate has increased to more than 83 per cent this week, around 20 per cent higher than the national average.India’s coronavirus tally climbed to 10,77,618 on Sunday with a record 24-hour surge of 38,902 new Covid-19 cases, the health ministry data indicated.The ministry on Sunday also reported 543 additional deaths taking the country’s total death toll to 26,816.The number of people who have recovered has increased. The Health Ministry data revealed that 677,422 patients have been cured so far across the country, putting the recovery rate at 62.82 per cent nationally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-adds-1-211-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-count-in-over-a-month-since-june-9/story-R1ubq25rF1VVgWuNmoebeI.html
19-07-2020||India||Key accused in Bulandshahr violence sacked from PM welfare scheme body||Shikhar Agarwal, a key accused in a case of violence in Bulandshahr in which inspector Subodh Kumar Singh was killed during violence in December 2018, was expelled late Saturday night from the district unit of the body which oversees Prime Minister’s welfare schemes.Agarwal’s expulsion from Prime Minister Jankalyankari Yojna Jagrukta Abhiyan (PMJYJA) came after his photograph with a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader went viral stirring a controversy. In the photograph, he was seen allegedly being felicitated by Bulandshahr BJP president Anil Sisodia at an event on July 14.The sacking came after his appointment left the BJP red-faced. Agarwal and five others are accused in the Bulandshahr violence case of 2018, in which inspector Subodh Kumar Singh was attacked by an armed mob. The officer had gone to the area to restore calm after violence had erupted over cow slaughter rumours. The accused is currently out on bail.“I came to know from the media that Shikhar was an accused in the violence in which inspector Subodh was killed. The matter was discussed with the organisation’s senior officials and Shikhar was expelled. Now, he has no association with the organisation,” said Priyatam Kumar Prem, district president, PM Jankalyankari Yojna Jagrukta Abhiyan (PMJYJA), Bulandshahr. Prem also claimed that BJP’s Bulandshahar district unit president Anil Sisodia was present in the function as chief guest and the PMJYJA has no link with the BJP.Other BJP leaders also distanced themselves from Agarwal after widespread criticism.BJP’s Bulandshahar district unit general secretary Sanjay Gurjar came forward to defend his president Anil Sisodiya and claimed that PMJYJA was an NGO and it had no association with the BJP and Sisodiya attended the function as chief guest.But the names of members of the advisory panel of PMJYJA belie the claims of BJP leaders.It includes names of senior party leaders and ministers like Shyam Jaju, Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, Narendra Tomar, Giriraj Singh, Dharmendra Pradhan and many more.Congress leader and member of party’s strategic and planning committee Imran Masood said, “Appointing a violence accused on an important post was an attempt to glorify him, which can’t be accepted”. He further said that the entire state had been facing anarchy in the rule of BJP.Shikhar Agarwal was associated with the youth wing of the BJP in Syana town of district Bulandshahar and was named one of the accused in Bulandshahr violence along with Yogesh Raj of Bajrang Dal and other leaders of Hindu organisations.A senior BJP leader, on the condition of anonymity, said “I was surprised when I came to know about his appointment. He was sacked from the party after his name figured among the accused in Bulandshahr violence”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-accused-in-bulandshahr-violence-sacked-from-pm-welfare-scheme-body/story-t4fpPktQi1xgtHy52oKj3H.html
19-07-2020||India||Galwan braves get a pat on the back from Rajnath Singh in Ladakh’s Lukung||Defence minister Rajnath Singh met soldiers from the 16th battalion of the Bihar regiment who fought off numerically superior Chinese troops in the remote Galwan Valley on June 15, and acknowledged their bravery in the presence of the military’s top brass, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday. Singh returned to Delhi on Saturday after a two-day tour of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir that covered visits to forward locations and also saw him interact with soldiers deployed there.A new video from Lukung on the western bank on Ladakh’s Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the current border tensions with China, showed the minister having tea with soldiers from 16 Bihar. In the clip, the minister is seen mingling with the soldiers who were introduced to him by 14 Corps commander Lieutenant General Harinder Singh who can be heard telling the minister that the commanding officer killed in the skirmish was from their unit.  Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh met the soldiers from Bihar Regiment at Lukung during his visit to forward areas in Ladakh. He had a brief interaction with them. pic.twitter.com/81YS0T960aThe infantry battalion’s 37-year-old commanding officer, Colonel B Santosh Babu, was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered but according to India’s assessment the PLA suffered twice as many casualties.Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades.Also read: Navy’s forward posture against PLA aggression in Ladakh muscles out Chinese threat on high seasRecalling the Galwan Valley skirmish in his speech, Singh said on Friday while he was delighted to meet the soldiers at Lukung, he was deeply pained by the loss of 20 Indian soldiers in the clash. Paying tributes to the brave-hearts, he said they not only protected India’s border but also the honour of 130 crore Indians and their sacrifice would not go in vain.The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6 pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to reduce rising border tensions.The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.In Ladakh, Singh said that the progress in negotiations with China should help resolve the ongoing border dispute but he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”, underlining that progress in resolving the tensions along the LAC between the two nuclear powers has been a challenging and arduous process.Also read: Eye on China, Modi-Abe Summit could be held in October; Philippines nextSingh also said that no power could “touch or grab even an inch of Indian territory”. Lukung is 43 km from Finger 4 on the northern bank of Pangong lake.India last week said the complex disengagement process with China on the LAC is specifically aimed at preventing “face-off situations”, and any unilateral attempts to change the status quo on the disputed border won’t be accepted. Two days after senior military commanders from both sides met at Chushul, the Indian Army on July 16 said complete disengagement is an “intricate process” requiring “constant verification”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-braves-get-a-pat-on-the-back-from-rajnath-singh-in-ladakh-s-lukung/story-aJZvEXH60604K37nfhutqK.html
19-07-2020||India||Villagers kill 3 suspected Bangladeshi cattle lifters in Assam’s Karimganj||Three suspected cattle lifters from Bangladesh who had crossed over into Indian territory illegally were killed by a group of villagers in Assam’s Karimganj district, police said on Sunday.According to a written statement by Karimganj Superintendent of Police Kumar Sanjit Krishna, the unidentified Bangladeshi nationals had entered the Indian side with the motive of stealing cows.“Three unknown suspected Bangladeshi nationals were killed last night (Saturday) by some unknown miscreants at Bogrijan tea estate under Patharkandi police station,” the statement said.“On enquiry it is revealed that the said Bangladeshi nationals crossed the border with a motive of stealing cows from Bogrijan area,” the statement added. The incident took place near a Border Security Force (BSF) battalion.The police have recovered ropes, fence cutters, wire, food items (made in Bangladesh) and some clothes from the possession of the three deceased.Police have registered a case and are conducting an investigation.In another similar incident, a suspected Bangladeshi national who was allegedly a cattle lifter was lynched by villagers near the Putin tea garden close to the Indo-Bangla border in Karimganj on June 1.The deceased along with two other suspected Bangladeshi nationals and an Indian had allegedly entered the garden with the intention of stealing cows when villagers noticed them. The three others were handed over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-kill-3-suspected-bangladeshi-cattle-lifters-in-assam-s-karimganj/story-nIydnYGvd1I5kKcTFBKSDN.html
19-07-2020||India||Foreigners holed up in Goa are lending a hand in cleaning beaches, sowing seeds||It’s peak monsoon with Goa witnessing rainfall in excess of 100mm a day on average. The shacks and sea facing hotels have battened down the hatches as the wind howls across. At first, nothing may seem amiss – after all, beach tourism shuttering for the monsoon is an annual affair. But no sooner does the rain abate and people begin to move out a bit, does the odd foreigner stand out in the crowd. Not unusual in coastal villages of Goa, but certainly uncommon during the peak monsoon months when backpackers from Europe and other parts of the world head back home for the summer or to other destinations. The pandemic has meant that there were never so many foreigners in Goa in the monsoons as there are this year, with those who have remained behind -- by choice or by fate -- choosing to make the most of their time here. Pavel Boloyangov, a visitor from Russia, decided to roll up his sleeves and begin collecting garbage at Arambol, a beach village in North Goa that is a popular haunt for foreigners. “I had arrived in India along with my companion to see majestic temples and holy places, when the pandemic hit. I saw a group of guys gathering plastic in bags and bringing them to a designated area. I started doing the same. Fifteen more people joined. More people from around the world came to the next event. There were many Indians who wanted to join it. More people came to the third event. We cleaned Arambol on a regular basis. This time, I collected a list of 40-50 volunteers from 15 countries,” Boloyangov, who is a professional fighter and stunt performer, said.For Coronavirus Live Updates Boloyangov, who is a fitness trainer back in Russia, had first visited Goa in 2017, when he claims to have first noticed unattended piles of garbage in different corners of the tourist paradise. This year offered him the opportunity to do something about it. “A colleague reported our initiative to Dhiraj Vagale, assistant director of tourism, Goa. The Government responded immediately. Sanjeev Joglekar (an official with the environment department) got in touch with me and offered me help. He sent an officer-in-charge who arranged garbage removal. Besides, he instructed an officer whose company is responsible for cleanliness of the Arambol beach to help us clean Sweet Lake. The Panchayat has provided us with special bags and gloves. Approximately 50 volunteers from many countries including India cleaned Sweet Lake. It took exactly 10 days of hard work,” Boloyangov said. The HT Guide to Coronavirus For Nick Chung, an English teacher from Atlanta, Georgia in the USA, a trip to India from China was meant to be only a week long holiday with his girlfriend and colleagues, during the Chinese New Year Holidays. It’s now August and he is pretty sure about not returning to get his teaching job in China back. “It’s actually a great place to be stuck. The weather is perfect and the people are nice,” Chung said. Chung and his friends with the help of local volunteers spent a day in the fields of Taleigao, a village on the outskirts of the state capital Panaji, assisting local farmers with sowing, transplanting and tending to the rice crop. “It was a great experience to understand the trouble it takes to grow your own food and it also helps you come closer to the earth and mother nature,” Chung told HT. There have been a few repatriation flights -- 44 in total that have left from Goa airport carrying around 10,000 tourists to destinations in their home countries. However, many have chosen to stay put out of choice, some have stayed due to the prohibitive cost or unavailability of a repatriation flight to their countries. Locals, too, are happy to host them as they continue to contribute to the tourism industry. “Many home and hotel owners have halved their room rates so that the tourists choose to stay on and are also making sure they are well cared for,” Stephen Fernandes a resident of Arambol village said. “There were many more in June, by July some of them moved out,” he added. Many tourists will leave over the coming weeks as flights are arranged either from Goa or Mumbai. “We came for 3 months as we usually do. We were only here three weeks, when we had the lockdown. Everyone has been so helpful. We went for walks before the rains got really bad to sit and watch the fishermen catching their meals,” said Lorraine Dodd who’s from the UK and is hoping her flight back to the UK scheduled for early August goes through.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreigners-holed-up-in-goa-are-lending-a-hand-in-cleaning-city-sowing-seeds/story-nqjpT1x2wz44tf4VomWmmN.html
19-07-2020||India||6% more rainfall than normal recorded in country so far; deficiency in North India: IMD||The country has received six per cent more rainfall than normal so far in this monsoon season, but precipitation in parts of north India remains deficient, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.The IMD has four meteorological divisions and rainfall has been more than normal in the south peninsula, central India, and east and northeast India divisions. But the northwest India division, which covers Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan, has recorded a 19 per cent deficiency, according to the IMD. Till Sunday, rainfall deficiency was recorded in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir. Ladakh has recorded large scale deficiency, it said.Monsoon arrived in Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date, marking the commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country. India is likely to get normal monsoon, according to the IMD’s forecast.In its long range forecast update for Monsoon 2020 released in June, the IMD had predicted 107 per cent of rainfall of the Long Period Average (LPA) for northwest India which comes under the ‘above normal’ category.However, rainfall has been weak over northwest India.”There has not been enough rainfall over northwest India. But we still have two more months,” IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.The IMD had predicted rainfall activity over northwest India from July 18 to July 20. It was expected that this would bring good rainfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, said Mohapatra.The south peninsula division has recorded 17 per cent more rainfall than normal. It covers Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The IMD said Andhra Pradesh has so far recorded rainfall in the ‘large excess category’, while Tamil Nadu and Telangana have received ‘excess’ rainfall.The central India division has recorded 12 per cent more rainfall than normal. It comprises Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Last week parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat witnessed intense rainfall activity, it said.   The east and northeast division has received rainfall 10 per cent more than normal. The division covers east India comprising states of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and the northeast. States like Assam and Bihar have already witnessed floods this season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-more-rainfall-than-normal-recorded-in-country-so-far-deficiency-in-north-india-imd/story-Hoafw47nEeEnpv7Cc8qiAO.html
19-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu miles ahead in testing, Palaniswami tells PM Modi in a phone call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami on Sunday to discuss the preventive measures taken by the state to contain the spread of Covid19 and also aspects related to treatment amid a continued surge in new infections in the southern state.Tamil Nadu is the second worst affected state by coronavirus in the country after Maharashtra and is the worst-hit among the southern states by far. The total number of infections in the state has reached 1,65,714 as per the health ministry and the death toll has risen to 2,403 as of Saturday, the day when the state reported its highest single day spike in Covid-19 infections--4,807-- along with most casualties—88 recorded in any 24-hour period. Karnataka, with almost 60 thousand cases, is the second worst affected southern state.Tamil Nadu chief minister briefed the Prime Minister on the prevention measures, treatment procedure and facility for Covid positive patients while highlighting that the state was miles ahead of others on the front of testing, with approximately 48,000 samples being tested daily on an average, according to an official statement from the state government, cited by news agency PTI. According to a state health department bulletin, 48,195 samples were examined on Saturday alone, taking the total number of tested samples in the state to 18,79,499.Maharashtra is in the second spot with 15,22,564 samples tested as of Saturday.Also Read: Under Sunday lockdown, all activities halt in Tamil NaduPalaniswami told Modi that the state government has been taking all steps for prevention of virus spread and to facilitate an early return to normalcy, the statement said.Over three thousand people were discharged from state treatment facilities on Saturday taking the number of recovered patients to 1,13,856, leaving 49,452 active cases under medical supervision.Also Read: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter followers cross 60 million markCapital Chennai had reported 1,219 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking its tally to 84,598.Tamil Nadu observed another intense lockdown on the third successive Sunday as part of efforts to break the chain of transmissions.Barring milk supply and health care services, all other activities were suspended and markets were closed down. Shops, including those selling essential commodities, were shut.Also Read: PM Modi likely to attend ‘bhumi pujan’ for Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Aug 5In other measures taken by the state government, Greater Chennai Corporation said that the high number of infections was linked to special drives to detect vulnerable case and Covid suspects, such as the one carried in Greater Chennai jurisdiction between May 8 and July 18, leading to detection of 62,470 people with flu-like symptoms in as many as 19,151 fever camps.The state is set to witness one more ‘Sunday lockdown’ on July 26 to help slow down the spread of the disease and for early identification of people with flu-like symptoms and treatment for those who test positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-miles-ahead-in-testing-palaniswami-tells-pm-modi-in-a-phone-call/story-ldDqIwSlmIgWIfYEcENFpL.html
19-07-2020||India||PM Modi likely to attend ‘bhumi pujan’ for Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Aug 5||In Ayodhya, priests have prepared an elaborate plan for the three-day Vedic rituals at the Ram Janmabhoomi site, beginning on August 3 and ending with a ‘bhumi pujan’ on August 5 for the construction of the Ram Temple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi may lay the foundation stone (bhumi pujan) at around 12.15 pm on August 5 for the construction of the Ram Temple, according to the priests of Ayodhya.“Timings for the foundation laying ceremony for the Prime Minister has been decided according to the Hindu calendar and the most auspicious time (12.15 pm) on August 5 has been selected,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, heir to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust said. However, an official communication from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) for his Ayodhya visit is yet to be released, he added.Vedic rituals for the ‘bhumi pujan’ will start from August 3 with a special puja of Lord Ganesha. According to Hindu rituals, every auspicious ceremony begins with offerings to Lord Ganesha.Next day, the priests will perform Ramacharya ‘puja’ and on the last day (August 5) another ‘bhumi pujan’ will be performed.An 11-member team of priests (Acharya) from Varanasi and Ayodhya will perform the three-day rituals. In this entire ceremony, priests from Varanasi, which is the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Modi, will have a prominent role.On his maiden visit to Ayodhya, PM Modi is likely to remain in the temple town for two hours. “The PM’s visit will be short and will only be confined to the bhumi pujan,” said Mahant Nritya Kamal Nayan Das.Also read| Ram temple’s height to be increased, more domes added: Key changes discussed at Ayodhya meetingKamal Nayan was also present at the Trust’s meeting in Ayodhya on Saturday.“The three day rituals ending with the bhumi pujan on August 5 will start from August 3 at Ram Janmabhoomi. Around 11 priests from Kashi (Varanasi) and Ayodhya will perform these rituals,” added Kamal Nayan.On the occasion, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also be present. Only a select few people will be present at the bhumi pujan due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to members of the Trust, PM Modi is also likely to announce projects for Ayodhya worth several thousand crores during his visit to Ayodhya.Chief Minister Adityanath has already instructed senior officials of the state government to prepare a proposal for Ayodhya’s development which will be forwarded to the Centre.This plan might include some old proposals also of the Uttar Pradesh government along with new proposals. The Centre has already approved several development projects for Ayodhya.SOME PROJECTS IN THE PIPELINE:Construction of Ram TempleConstruction of tallest statue of Lord RamNew Ayodhya on 500 acres, a new township project passed by the Ayodhya Development AuthorityExtension of existing airportRs 133 crore package from the CentreRs 122 crore project for making overhead electricity cables undergroundRs 80 crore project for makeover of Ayodhya railway station (project already underway).Ayodhya will also get mega projects under the ‘State Smart City’ plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-attend-bhumi-pujan-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-on-aug-5/story-jIvV6VvFZ32aYj3EdTaowJ.html
19-07-2020||India||Don’t endorse bills for three capital cities, Chandrababu Naidu tells AP Governor||As the YSR Congress party government’s move to create three capital cities for Andhra Pradesh reached its penultimate stage with the administration sending two crucial bills to Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan for his assent, the opposition parties in the state stepped up their efforts to stall the process.Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday wrote a six-page letter to the Governor, requesting him not to accept the bills in the best interest of the state, keeping in view the aspirations of the people.The two bills – the first one, abolishing AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) which was formed in 2014 to develop Amaravati as the capital city and the second one, to form three capital cities for decentralised administration, were sent to the Raj Bhavan on Saturday.The Jagan government brought in these bills to create executive capital at Visakhapatnam and judicial capital at Kurnool, while retaining the present capital city of Amaravati as the legislative capital.The Governor sought some time to study the bills before giving his consent. “In all probability, the bills might get the Governor’s nod by Monday,” an official in the chief minister’s office familiar with the development said.Once the Governor gives his assent to the two bills, they would be sent to the Centre for Presidential assent, since three capitals have to be notified by the Centre, the official said.Strongly resisting the bills, Naidu wondered how the bills could be sent to the Governor as the state legislative council had referred them to the select committee. “While the government stalled the formation of a select committee, it reintroduced the bills in the legislative assembly and got them passed. When the bills were unlawfully brought before the upper house for a second time, the council did not consider the same,” he pointed out to the Governor.He pointed out that the issue of the shifting of administrative capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam was pending before the state high court. “Approval of the two bills at this juncture would amount to contempt of the court,” he said.The TDP chief said the two bills were in violation of Section 6 of AP Reorganisation Act 2014 under which Amaravati was finalised as the capital city through an experts committee. He pointed out that the Act had suggested only one capital for AP.Naidu alleged that YSRC government was bent upon destroying Amaravati in the name of decentralisation only out of political vendetta. “Amaravati had been a long-standing cultural centre and centrally located place for the capital. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who laid the foundation for the capital, had said Amaravati would be developed as a more beautiful city than Delhi,” he said.He further said the Centre had recognised Amaravati as a ‘smart city’ and allocated Rs 700 crore, besides providing Rs 2,500 crore for developing secretariat, assembly, council, high court and other basic facilities. “It has attracted national and international partnerships with prestigious groups like the Singapore Consortium, Japanese engineers, World Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB),” he said.Till now, Rs 10,000 crore has been spent on developing the basic infrastructure in Amaravati. This massive project was built on a unique self-financing model that would create huge wealth for the whole state as the city develops by leaps and bounds over time, Naidu said and requested the Governor to consider all these issues before thinking of giving any assent to the bills.BJP state president Kanna Lakshminarayana and Communist Party of India secretary K Narayana also wrote separate letters the Governor requesting him not to give assent to the three capitals bill.“The decentralisation bill is against the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, which has a provision for only one capital, and against the wishes of the people,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-endorse-bills-for-three-capital-cities-chandrababu-naidu-tells-ap-governor/story-rxgdwAkECvX2LdIsuKbNpL.html
19-07-2020||India||Covid-19 spread may spike in monsoon, winter with fall in temperatures: IIT-AIIMS study||A study conducted jointly by researchers at IIT-Bhubaneswar and the AIIMS here has shown that the spread of Covid-19 may pick up pace during peak monsoon and winter with a fall in the mercury.The rainfall, decrease in temperatures and cooling of the atmosphere coupled with progression towards winter may environmentally favour the spread of Covid-19 in the country, according to the study led by V Vinoj, Assistant Professor of the School of Earth, Ocean and Climatic Sciences at IIT-Bhubaneswar.The report titled “Covid-19 spread in India and its dependence on temperature and relative humidity” took into account the pattern of the coronavirus outbreak and the number of such cases in 28 states between April and June.The study revealed that the rise in temperatures leads to a decline in the transmission of the virus, Vinoj said.“The study, which is in its pre-print stage, shows that the temperature and relative humidity have a significant impact on the disease growth rate and doubling time.“It suggests that a one-degree-Celsius rise in temperature leads to a 0.99 per cent decrease in cases and increases the doubling time by 1.13 days, implying a slowdown of the virus spread,” he told PTI.The study also found that an increase in relative humidity tends to decrease the growth rate and doubling time of coronavirus cases by 1.18 days.The researchers, however, said since the study was not conducted during the period of high humidity starting from the monsoon and the onset of winter, more research needs to be undertaken to establish its exact impact.Dr Bijayini Behera of the department of Microbiology at AIIMS Bhubaneswar, who was part of the research team, said several studies suggested that a fall in the temperatures and a relatively low humidity facilitated such an outbreak in the past.The study also carried out an analysis of the impact of solar radiation on the spread of Covid-19.“We found that a higher surface-reaching solar radiation leads to a reduction in the number of infections and an increase in the doubling time of cases, similar to that of temperatures,” Vinoj said.There is an average temperature difference of seven degrees Celsius between the winter and summer seasons, he added.According to the study, there is a likelihood of an increased transmission of the coronavirus during winter, which may be a major challenge for health workers and policymakers to enforce mitigation and control measures.The objective of the study is to help authorities bring effective measures to combat the pandemic, Vinoj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-spread-may-spike-in-monsoon-winter-with-fall-in-temperatures-iit-aiims-study/story-9JLkDszdipguHRR7S659xL.html
19-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Arvind Kejriwal personally monitoring situation as water logging death raises questions and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kejriwal says not the time for blame game over Delhi waterlogging deathDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has stated that he was personally monitoring the work to clear water logging from capital roads that resulted in the death of at least one person, allegedly due to drowning at the Minto road overbridge Sunday morning. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter followers cross 60 million markPrime Minister Narendra Modi achieved yet another milestone when his Twitter handle crossed 60 million followers on Sunday. Read moreFinally, we are equal partners: The slate is clean, draw up your own relationship goalsHe’s a stay-at-home dad, the man in the kitchen, the parent that handles all the play dates. Other women find that a novelty, I don’t. Raised by a single parent, I saw my mother earn a living, raise children, manage the house. One gender did everything. Read moreKangaroos invade field, interrupt football match in Australia. Hilarious video leaves people in splitsThe Internet stands witness to several incidents of unexpected “guests” entering the fields during ongoing matches and the clips of those events are nothing less than hilarious. From cats and dogs entering football fields to even people darting inside the grounds, the instances are numerous. Adding to that is this video that shows two rather unusual “players” hopping around a field – kangaroos. Read moreTiming, temperament, commitment is unbelievable: Pakistan’s Kamran Akmal lauds India opener Rohit SharmaThere are only a few bigger names in limited-overs cricket at the moment than Rohit Sharma. There are several records attached to his name that only highlight some of his accomplishments. Read moreEXCLUSIVE | Taapsee Pannu hits back at Kangana Ranaut’s accusations: I refuse to be bitter and take advantage of someone’s death for personal vendettaKangana Ranaut is all guns blazing yet again. In an explosive interview with Republic TV, the Manikarnika actor, while calling out the movie mafia in Bollywood, and blaming ‘powerful’ people for Sushant Singh Rajput’s demise, also took a dig at Taapsee Pannu and Swara Bhasker and called them ‘B-grade actresses’. Read moreLife during pandemic: How SMEs are using technology to deal with the changeThe Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way the world works. From education to work, almost everything has taken an online route. This is also true for small and medium enterprises (SMEs), many of which had to change the way they work dramatically to continue catering to their customers amid the changed circumstances. Read moreWatch: Leopard enters house in Uttarakhand, grabs dog and runs awayA leopard was spotted sneaking into a house in Uttarakhand’s Tallital. The leopard attacked a dog, grabbed it and ran away. The dog was attacked by the leopard when it stepped out of the house. In a flash, the leopard escaped grabbing the dog with its jaws. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-arvind-kejriwal-personally-monitoring-situation-as-water-logging-death-raises-questions-and-all-the-latest-news/story-t1b9Ej8mMeyEpkFmPWXhiL.html
19-07-2020||India||Will delay Ram temple bhumi pujan if PM unable to attend ceremony: Mahant Nritya Gopal Das||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das’s long wait for construction of the Ram temple will end with the groundbreaking ceremony likely on August 5. Das wrote an emotional letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month, requesting him to visit Ayodhya for the bhumi pujan. It was after this letter that the Prime Minister’s Office sought tentative dates from the trust for Modi’s maiden Ayodhya visit for the bhumi pujan. Now, with the PM likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the ceremony, Nritya Gopal Das is about to see his dream come true. The Mahant wants bhumi pujan of the Ram temple on lines that was held for the Somnath temple in Gujarat.A day after the trust’s meeting in Ayodhya, Nritya Gopal Das interacted with Hindustan Times. Excerpts:Q: You always wanted a grand bhumi pujan for Ram temple. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will the ceremony be low-key?A: We had planned a grand bhumi pujan for Ram temple like the one organised for the Somnath temple. Then President of India Rajendra Prasad and home minister Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel attended the Somanth temple bhumi pujan. The ceremony continued for three days. It was a grand and elaborate event. We wanted something like this. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this is not possible now. After much effort, we were able to get the PM’s consent to attend the bhumi pujan.Q: The tentative date for bhumi pujan is August 5. But, if due to some unavoidable circumstances, the PM is not able to visit Ayodhya, what will be the trust’s plan?A: We are confident that the PM will definitely come to Ayodhya for the bhumi pujan. However, if due to some unavoidable circumstances and national issues, the PM is not able to come to Ayodhya on August 5 for bhumi pujan then, in the nation’s interest, we will delay the ceremony and will wait for the PM’s visit. Q: Finally, has the trust agreed to make changes in the existing model of the proposed Ram temple?A: The Ram temple model prepared by VHP (Vishva Hindu Parishad) in 1989 will not be changed. It will remain the same. Ram temple will be constructed on the existing model. But some additions have been made to the temple’s model and that is what saints had been demanding. Now, the temple’s height will be 161 ft instead of 128 ft. The number of domes has been increased from three to five. Ram temple’s chief architect Chandrakant Sompura has approved these changes. A grand Ram temple will be constructed. In the meeting (Trust meeting on Saturday), we also discussed these changes.Q: Will the stone slabs lying at Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas Karyashala be used in construction of the Ram temple?A: Yes. All stone slabs carved at the Karyashala will be used in construction of the Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-delay-ram-temple-bhumi-pujan-if-pm-unable-to-attend-ceremony-mahant-nritya-gopal-das/story-LLJpd0zKS0ffOTdorenEFL.html
19-07-2020||India||IT department randomly picks up cases to remove bias from tax scrutiny||The income-tax department, which implemented faceless tax assessment from October 7 last year, has randomly selected 58,319 cases for scrutiny in the first phase and already resolved 7,116 of those, two finance ministry officials said.The objective of the faceless assessment is to completely eliminate physical contact between the taxpayer and the taxman to make tax administration objective, transparent and corruption free, they said requesting anonymity.“The faceless assessment system has been a game changer in the arena of direct taxation. It has empowered the taxpayers and has, as a foremost mechanism, altered the facets and perception of overall tax administration in India,” one official, who holds a senior position, said.The official said this is the future of direct tax administration in India with automated and random allocation of income tax assessment cases without human interface at any stage.Also Read: Stakeholders responsible for the manifold growth of NPAs: Urjit PatelThe second official mentioned above said, 7,116 assessment cases have been already disposed of and assessment orders issued without any additions in the first phase. In 291 cases additions are proposed and the cases have been sent to the risk management unit.“In all the above cases, the grievances of over-pitched assessment or harassment by the taxpayers/tax professional have been almost eliminated. The taxpayers have been advised to check their registered e-filing accounts or emails for notices or updates. Now, all the communications with taxpayers is made electronically by a central cell in Delhi and identity of all the assessing officers remains unknown to the taxpayers at all times,” he added.The faceless system was first proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2017. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced it in her first budget speech on July 5, 2019 and subsequently launched the system on October 7, 2019. The random selection of tax cases are done through artificial Intelligence and machine learning, with a reduced discretion or no human interface from the income-tax department, the officials said.Also Read: At G20, Germany pledges 3 billion euros for poor countries: Finance ministry“Faceless Assessment has further brought in the concept of team based assessment with dynamic jurisdiction and has, thus, induced enhanced transparency, improved efficiency and resulted in superior standardisation of procedures,” the first official said. The system works under National Assessment Center (NeAC) headquartered in Delhi and eight Regional Assessment Centers (ReAC) located in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.Now almost 99% returns are e-filed, the second official said. “Out of more than 6 crore returns filed annually, only about 3 lakh returns come under scrutiny on the basis of select risk parameters,” he said. He, however, added that some scrutiny cases are also selected manually on the basis of specified criteria. “Old assessments can also be re-opened if the assessing officer has sufficient reason to believe that some income has escaped assessment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-department-randomly-picks-up-cases-to-remove-bias-from-tax-scrutiny/story-RR07CXweHJsjxVexPKmdjO.html
19-07-2020||India||Shunned by villagers for suspected Covid-19, man throws dead baby into canal in Kurnool||A man in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district threw his stillborn baby into an irrigation canal, after the people of his village allegedly refused to bury the body in the local graveyard fearing that she might have contracted coronavirus, the police said.The incident happened at Chabolu village of Nandyal block in the district on Saturday.Nandyal rural police inspector Divakar Reddy told reporters that Shamsha Vali, a resident of Kotapadu village of Sirivella block, took his pregnant wife Madar Bee to the Nandyal Government General Hospital for delivery on Friday evening. On Saturday morning, she gave birth to a stillborn baby girl. The grieving couple wanted to bury the body of the infant after returning to their village.Vali told the police that he had contacted the village elders to request them to make arrangements for the burial, but they allegedly refused to allow the body into the village fearing that she might have contracted the infection, since there were a number of Covid-19 cases in Nandyal Hospital.Having no other option, Vali dumped the body of the infant in the Kurnool-Cuddapah Canal (KC Canal) at Chabolu village on his way back to the village along with his wife. Later in the evening, some locals found the body of the infant floating in the canal water and immediately alerted the police.The police rushed to the spot and retrieved the body and based on the information written on the tag tied to the infant’s body, they could identify the parents. When questioned, Vali informed that his wife had delivered the stillborn baby and he had no other choice but to dump it as the villagers did not agree to bury the body in the village.The police later convinced the villagers and got the body buried at the graveyard. “We have not booked any case as it was a stillborn baby,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shunned-by-villagers-for-suspected-covid-19-man-throws-dead-baby-into-canal-in-kurnool/story-n8UbOnrb7WNusnB3IukwRJ.html
19-07-2020||India||4 houses collapse, one bridge damaged in overnight heavy rain in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh||At least four houses collapsed and one bridge was damaged due to incessant rain on Saturday night in the hill town of Munsiyari in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, about 450 km from Dehradun. No loss of life has been reported in any of the incidents, officials said on Sunday. Due to heavy rain, the water level of Gori river in the area has risen after which people living near it have been shifted towards safe areas by the local administration, said officials.Girija Shankar Joshi, district information officer Pithoragarh, said, “The heavy rain had started at around 11 pm on Saturday in the Munsiyari area. As the downpour increased, the local station house officer and sub-divisional magistrate concerned reached the area to evacuate the people living near Gori River to a safe place.”Joshi said, “There were four families living in their houses built near the swollen Gori River which were evacuated from there. They were earlier warned and asked to shift from there but they didn’t listen. As a result, their houses collapsed in the night due to heavy rain. However, luckily there was no loss of life.”The official also informed that a bridge was also severely damaged in the heavy rain.“A 120m long bridge en route Jouljibi was also badly damaged. Authorities concerned are constructing a Bailey bridge there which will take about three days. Also, some water pipelines were also damaged in the rain which will be repaired within 24 hours. Senior district officials are keeping an eye on the situation,” said Joshi. Meanwhile, the administration has provided ration to the four affected families who lost their houses in the rain. “All the affected families have been provided 20 kg ration and other essentials besides a sum of Rs 1.19 lakh as compensation for the washed away houses. The administration will provide every possible help to them,” said AK Shukla, SDM, Dharchula. The main roads connecting district headquarters to Bangapani, Munsiyari and Dharchula areas were also damaged due to the incessant rain, disrupting traffic.“The roads towards these places have been closed since night. Repair works are going on and the traffic would be resumed soon,” said Ram Dutt Paliwal, additional district magistrate. Meanwhile, the Dehradun centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its weather forecast has predicted heavy rain in some places of Pithoragarh and Nainital districts in the state.“There would be heavy rain in some isolated places in the two above-mentioned districts but no repetition of Saturday night’s rainfall in Munsiyari area today. On Monday, the heavy rain will occur in some places of Haridwar, Bageshwar, Pauri Garhwal, Nainital and Pithoragarh districts,” said Bikram Singh, Director Dehradun centre IMD.Singh also said, “At present, there are not many showers in the Garhwal region; it is active in Kumaon because the movement of monsoon is not strong in northwest Himalayas. After July 22 or 24, one can expect good showers in Garhwal also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-houses-collapse-one-bridge-damaged-in-overnight-heavy-rain-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh/story-pr3DVgVH1bS57DExFk9hjO.html
19-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case unravels, sleuths say 230 kg gold landed in 13 consignments in one year||At least 230 kg of gold was smuggled into the country by using some employees of the United Arab Emirates diplomatic mission since July 2019, said a senior officer familiar with the probe led by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the seizure of 30 kg of the yellow metal from the Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5. “At least 13 such consignments came to the country in one year and they all passed without any check due to diplomatic immunity. Some of them were heavier than the latest consignment which weighed 70 kg. We are also probing some events organised by state government departments,” the official said on Sunday.All these consignments landed in Thiruvananthapuram.The NIA has arrested four persons while the Customs have nabbed 13 people so far in connection with the gold smuggling case.The official also said that people whose names have cropped up during the questioning of the accused will be summoned. This includes Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar and the government’s former IT Fellow Arun Balachandran. Last week, the Customs department had grilled Sivasankar for nine hours. Investigators are also likely to question a state minister whose number appeared in the call list of second accused Swapna Suresh which was leaked to the media.Meanwhile there are reports from Dubai that the third accused in the case Faisal Fareed was arrested and will be extradited soon. The NIA ad earlier requested Interpol issue a blue corner notice against him. The NIA has accused him of being a key operative in the smuggling racket. Fareed, who hails from Thrissur, reportedly runs a gym and garage in Dubai.Investigators have also started a massive operation to trace the smuggled gold and seized 10 kg from two jewellers in Kozhikkode on Saturday, the official said.He also said that many who were part of the smuggling syndicate came forward with voluntary disclosure. But he conceded that it was difficult to trace all smuggled gold. In the last two days, investigators have raided two flats of Swapna Suresh and the business establishment of the third accused Sandip Nair in Thiruvananthapuram and seized many documents.The smuggling racket has driven a wedge in the ruling coalition with the CPI, junior partner in the government, expressing serious reservations over “some deviations” in Left ideology and criticising the government’s move to hire multinational consultant agencies. There are allegations that Swapna Suresh came to the corridors of power through some consultant agencies. The party mouthpiece ‘Janayugam’ had warned the Communist government to see through machinations of dubious agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-unravels-sleuths-say-230-kg-gold-landed-in-13-consignments-in-one-year/story-FSCxObPRUEgLKl100PhY9I.html
19-07-2020||India||People in Darjeeling hills get their own Covid-19 hospital||A 125-bed hospital inaugurated on June 23 near the confluence of Teesta and Rangit rivers at picturesque Tribeni, a pilgrimage and tourist spot in West Bengal’s Kalimpong district, was upgraded to Level IV Covid hospital on Saturday.The facility comes as a relief for people of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts who have to travel to Siliguri town in the plains for treatment.Till now, there was no hospital for Covid-19 patients in the semi-autonomous hill area under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA).More than 40 people have so far died of Covid-19 in Darjeeling district but most of these deaths were in Siliguri sub-division and Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area of the district. Till Saturday, there were 1,237 cases in Darjeeling district and 63 in Kalimpong.The notification to upgrade the hospital with immediate effect was issued by West Bengal’s director of health services on Saturday. It was initially started as a hospital for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Anit Thapa, chairman of board of administrators, GTA said, “From the very beginning we wanted it to be fully functional Covid hospital for hill people. We didn’t get the clearance initially and it started as a SARI hospital in June.”Once a guesthouse for tourists and later turned into a training hub for Gorkhaland activists, the three-storey building was lying in a shambles for years. It was recently restored. The building was built in the 1990s when Subash Ghisingh was chairman of the erstwhile Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council.In Siliguri town, patients have been complaining of shortage of beds at the two designated government hospitals and many people have been sent to safe home facilities set up by the government. All 47 civic wards in SMC area are under complete lockdown till July 23. Ankam Simlandi, superintendent of the hospital, said, “We already have the required infrastructure, including ventilators. We will add more.”Prakas Barui, chief medical officer of health, Kalimpong, said, “We hope the hospital will serve people well and handle critical patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-in-darjeeling-hills-get-their-own-covid-19-hospital/story-TuYuaPgN8zD7CEiIaiAcmL.html
19-07-2020||India||Recovered Delhi cops donate plasma for Covid-19 patients, health minister lauds move||Nearly 2,532 personnel of Delhi Police have tested Covid-19 positive and at least 12 policemen have succumbed to the viral infection till date. Those who have recovered have started donating plasma and have now become ‘Plasma Warriors’, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday.“2,532 personnel of Delhi Police got infected with Covid-19 while a dozen policemen died due to it. Those who have recovered have donated their plasma. I thank these Corona Warriors; they have now become ‘Plasma Warriors’. A person who has recovered from Covid-19 can donate plasma twice a month,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said.The Delhi Police have joined hands with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) so that policemen who have recovered from the infectious disease can donate plasma to poor patients infected with Covid-19 and the problem of shortage of plasma for therapy does not arise.“Around 84% of Delhi Police personnel have recovered from Covid-19. We have tied up with AIIMS so that we can provide plasma to the needy and the problem of shortage doesn’t arise. This will encourage others also to donate their plasma,” Delhi Police Commissioner SN Srivastava said.Delhi on Saturday added 1,475 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the national capital’s coronavirus count to 1,21,582, the state health department said. The 26 new fatalities have taken the death toll due to the viral infection to 3,597.This is the eighth consecutive day when over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi.A day earlier, on Friday too, the national capital had reported 26 deaths, the lowest single-day Covid-19 fatality count since June 9. The number of active cases on Saturday was 16,711, down from 17,235 on the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 Covid-19 cases, which remains the highest till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-staff-begin-donating-plasma-for-covid-19-patients-health-minister-lauds-move/story-vUCZG8hG69MXG3HCcPHyPO.html
19-07-2020||India||Assam’s flood-affected battle Covid-19 in relief camps; none infected yet||Floods are an annual feature of Assam’s calendar and each year three to four waves of deluge hit the state and affect millions. But this year there’s the additional scourge of the coronavirus pandemic as well.Thousands uprooted by floodwaters are taking shelter in relief camps and local administrations are trying to implement a new set of rules which require safety and social distancing among the people housed in them.There have been no reported cases of Covid-19 infection yet from the relief camps, which are usually located in government educational institutions and temporary structures. “In view of Covid-19, we issued fresh guidelines in May itself on the management of flood relief camps. District administrations have followed those rules, but floods this year have been unrelenting making it tougher for them,” said Pankaj Chakraborty, the state project coordinator of Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).As per the new guidelines, district officials had to identify additional relief camps as per population density of villages to earmark space for social distancing. Unlike earlier when 3.5sq m of space in relief camps was earmarked for each person, the figure was doubled to 7sq m to ensure there’s one-metre distance between two camp inmates.“We have been staying at a relief camp since July 13. Local officials informed us about maintaining hygiene and social distancing and we are trying to follow as much as possible,” Ramen Doley, a farmer in Golaghat, who is staying at a relief camp at Mungilal lower primary school along with 126 others.Adequate toilet facilities, provisions made for hand-wash, sanitizers and face masks for inmates, daily monitoring of the health of inmates and isolation and tests of those showing Covid-19 symptoms were some of the other rules.“We have 52 relief camps at present and over persons are staying in them. Our personnel are ensuring all safety and social distancing protocols are followed. Health workers are visiting camps and conducting tests of those showing symptoms. No one has been found infected yet,” said Nandita Dutta, district project officer of the disaster management authority in Barpeta.According to an ASDMA bulletin on Saturday, more than 27.63 lakh people in 26 of the state’s 33 districts are affected by floods, which have claimed 79 lives this season. Over 47,000 displaced people were taking shelter in 649 relief camps in 21 of the affected districts.“There are 22 relief camps in our district at present and 3240 persons are staying there. We have provided face masks, sanitisers, soaps at the relief camps. Though we have had cases of inmates suffering from cough, cold etc., no one has been found Covid-19 positive yet,” said Ronney Rajkumar, district project officer of the disaster management authority in Golaghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-flood-affected-battle-covid-19-in-relief-camps-none-infected-yet/story-LULpCyj4hmjWTVE58IcVZK.html
19-07-2020||India||OP Dhankar appointed president of BJP’s Haryana unit||OP Dhankar, who was a cabinet minister in the BJP government in Haryana, was on Sunday appointed the president of the party’s state unit.By appointing Dhankar, the BJP has continued with a Jat face, the most dominant caste in the state. The BJP, in a statement, said party chief JP Nadda appointed Dhankar the Haryana unit head.The appointment is also seen as an attempt to balance the caste equations in the state, where politics revolves around Jats and non-Jats.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is also a non-Jat.Dhankar will replace incumbent Subhash Barala, who was also a Jat.Both Dhankar and Barala had lost the Harayana Assembly elections held in October last year. Dhankar was a cabinet minister in the BJP government in Haryana.The appointment has been delayed by more than eight months as it was expected that a new president would be appointed after the announcement of the state Assembly results. Dhankar has also been the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kisan Morcha twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/op-dhankar-appointed-president-of-bjp-s-haryana-unit/story-rhacRnDilPvzaZkAe5cNUK.html
19-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate ‘progressively falling’, among lowest in world: Govt||India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate is “progressively falling” and is currently at 2.49 per cent, which is one of the lowest in the world, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday, crediting efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases for it. There are 29 states and union territories with a case fatality rate (CFR) lower than India’s average, with five of them having a CFR of zero and 14 having fatality rate of less than 1 per cent. The focused efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments on efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases have ensured that India’s case fatality rate has fallen below 2.5 per cent, the ministry said. With effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care approach, the CFR has significantly dipped, it said. “The CFR is progressively falling and currently, it is 2.49 per cent. India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world,” the ministry said. From 2.82 per cent over a month earlier, India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate declined to 2.72 per cent on July 10 and has further reduced to 2.49 per cent presently. Under the guidance of the Centre, the state and UT governments have ramped up testing and hospital infrastructure by combining public and private sector efforts, the ministry said. Many states have conducted the population surveys to map and identify the vulnerable population like the elderly, pregnant women and those with co-morbidities. This, with the help of technological solutions like mobile apps, has ensured keeping the high-risk population under continuous observation, thus aiding early identification, timely clinical treatment and reducing fatalities, the ministry said. “At the ground level, frontline health workers like ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists) and ANMs (Auxiliary Nursing Midwives) have done a commendable job of managing the migrant population and to enhance awareness at the community level. “As a result, there are 29 States and UTs with CFR lower than India’s average. This shows commendable work done by public health apparatus of the country,” the ministry said. Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands have zero case fatality rate. States and UTs having a CFR below the national average include Tripura (0.19 pc),  Assam (0.23 pc), Kerala (0.34 pc), Odisha (0.51 pc), Goa (0.60 pc), Himachal Pradesh (0.75 pc), Bihar (0.83 pc), Telangana (0.93 pc), Andhra Pradesh (1.31 pc), Tamil Nadu (1.45 pc), Chandigarh (1.71 pc), Rajasthan (1.94 pc), Karnataka (2.08 pc) and Uttar Pradesh (2.36 pc). India saw a record single-day jump of 38,902 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 10,77,618 on Sunday, while the total number of recoveries increased to 6,77,422. A total of 23, 672 patients have recuperated in the past 24 hours, the highest so far in a day, according to the health ministry data updated at 8 AM. The death toll due to the disease rose to 26,816 with 543 fatalities being reported in a day. There are 3,73,379 active cases presently in the country, while 6,77,422 people have recovered so far.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 1,37,91,869 samples have been tested up to July 18 with 3,58,127 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-progressively-falling-among-lowest-in-world-health-ministry/story-ZHhvtQjeOfJsuo1lEvAzOP.html
19-07-2020||India||Kejriwal says not the time for blame game over Delhi waterlogging death||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has stated that he was personally monitoring the work to clear water logging from capital roads that resulted in the death of at least one person, allegedly due to drowning at the Minto road overbridge Sunday morning. Kejriwal said that the civic agencies were busy fighting coronavirus this year and therefore it was not the time for blame game over the issue.“Road under the Minto bridge has been cleared of water logging. I was in contact with agencies since morning and was monitoring the process of removing water. We are keeping an eye on more such places in Delhi. Wherever there is water logging, it is being pumped out immediately,” Kejriwal tweeted.Earlier this morning, the body of a 60-year-old man was found floating under the Minto bridge around 10 am. Police said the man could have drowned while trying to take his tempo through the water logged underpass. Kundan’s body was discovered by a trackman working at New Delhi railway station yard, who fished it out.Delhi fire service officials quoted by the news agency claimed they had saved 10 lives this morning from water logging while responding to distress calls.“Three people were saved in the ITO area, six people were saved near Zakhira Flyover and one person was saved at Lawrence Road,” ANI quoted Delhi fire service as saying.Kundan’s death had earlier raised questions if civic bodies had done enough work to prevent occurrence of such events. North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash had attacked the Delhi government on the issue.“Such incidents will continue to occur until the Delhi government gets rid of its irresponsible attitude,” ANI quoted him as saying. He added that the government should ensure that such incidents don’t happen again.Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh later said that the MCD had the largest responsibility for clearing the drains. MCD is controlled by the BJP.“Three agencies-- MCD, PWD and Jal Board—are responsible for clearing drains. The biggest share of responsibility among these lies with the MCD. Nobody had any idea that it would rain so much suddenly. Mistakes should be rectified. This time is not a blame game,” Sanjay Singh said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, too, reacted little later and said that all agencies including the PWD (public works department), Delhi jal board (DJB), Delhi Municipal Corporation (MCD) and the flood department were working to deal with the problem.“Some part of our management was busy with Coved 19 but we are doing the needful. CM Arvind Kejriwal is monitoring the situation personally,” he was quoted as saying.Kejriwal, too, claimed that preoccupation with battling coronavirus could have left some gaps in preparation for the Monsoon rains.“This year all the agencies, whether under Delhi government or MCD, were busy with Coronavirus containment. They have faced several difficulties due to the Corona crisis. This is not the time for a blame game. All have to come together and act responsibly. We will try to clear up all areas that report water logging,” he tweeted.Three people had to be rescued by the fire service department after it received an SOS call about a DTC bus and two autorickshaws being submerged in the water-logged Minto road underpass this morning.Overnight rains led to water logging at several stretches including Azadpur underpass, South Avenue road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Paharganj side of New Delhi railway station, Moolchand underpass and near Batra Hospital, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-not-the-time-for-blame-game-over-delhi-waterlogging-death/story-xZ4FdZ9Vq6Q2SmpdxdeKKL.html
19-07-2020||India||Centre rejects Jharkhand’s drought relief proposal, no compensation for 7 lakh farmers||More than seven lakh Jharkhand farmers would be deprived of compensation for crop loss due to drought last year because the Centre has rejected state’s proposal to declare 55 blocks across seven districts as drought-hit, officials said on Sunday.In April this year, the Jharakhand cabinet had passed a proposal seeking relief according to the drought manual after it approved 55 blocks across seven districts- Bokaro, Chatra, Pakur, Deoghar, Giridih, Godda and Hazaribag, as drought hit. The state disaster management department sent the proposal to the Centre in MayJoint secretary of state disaster management department Manish Tiwary said, “We had sent the proposal to the Centre but it has rejected it.”On farmers’ compensation for crop loss, he said, “Disaster management department cannot give the compensation, as it gets the fund from the Centre. If we don’t get funds from the Centre, how could we give it to farmers?”The state could not devise a relief package because of the Centre’s rejection of its proposal. “The package could not be finalized, as the request to declare drought itself was rejected.”Raju Mahto, 45, a farmer from Bokaro said, “We had already lost hope for the compensation against our crop loss. We faced loss in August-September last year but the government sent its request to the Centre in April this year.” He said he had sown paddy on one two acres of land which was damaged due to scanty rainfall last year.The Centre has rejected the state’s proposal, as the process of declaring drought by the state had already expired on October 31 last year, officials said. As per the Centre’s manual, the state could declare drought following three parameters----Trigger-1 (rainfall parameter), Trigger-2 (impact indicators such as crop, remote sensing, soil moisture and hydrology, and Verification (ground truth). The state had been asked to complete required parameters including cabinet approval for drought declaration and send its recommendation to the Centre by October 31, officials said.As per the norms, the state cabinet has to declare drought and send its request to Centre for assistance. Based on the state’s claim, a team from the Centre visits the state to assess the ground situation of drought and recommend for assistance.The ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) alleged that the previous BJP government neither declared drought nor did it send its request for assistance to the centre even after expiring the deadline for recommending drought.“Since it was election time, the then BJP government was engaged in its branding. Farmers were not in the priority list of the BJP government. Now, lakhs of farmers would suffer due to the anti-farmer approach of the previous government,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattachargya.The BJP, however, blamed the current JMM-Congress government for the farmers’ loss. “Everyone knows that the drought proposal could not be sent to the Centre then due to the model code of conduct coming into effect for the assembly polls. The current government must have pursued it after the model code of conduct was withdrawn in January. Had the Hemant Soren government sent the proposal in January or February, farmers would not have suffered now,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rejects-jharkhand-s-drought-relief-proposal-no-compensation-for-7-lakh-farmers/story-ZqNr4invKWYPGJzRZiwWUJ.html
19-07-2020||India||Nearly 200 cr found in Swiss account of 80-yr-old woman who claims less than 2 lakh as annual income||An 80-year-old elderly woman, who claims a monthly income of around Rs 14,000, is reported to have black money amounting to the tune of around Rs 196 crore in her Swiss bank account, HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported citing a news report. The Mumbai branch of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), has ordered the woman to pay a penalty along with the tax.Renu Tharani is reported to have an account in HSBC Geneva. The Swiss Bank holds the sole discretionary beneficiary of the bank named Tharani Family Trust. It was opened in July 2004 under the name of Cayman Islands-based GW Investment which transferred the fund to the family trust as an administrator.Also read: I-T may summon promoters of three Rajasthan-based firmsTharani did not give this information in the IT return that was filed in 2005-06. The case was reopened on 31 October 2014. Tharani also served an affidavit stating that she does not have a bank account in HSBC Geneva nor was she a director or a shareholder in GW Investment Bank. She even described herself as a non-resident and claimed that even if there is any amount, she cannot be taxed for that.It was in the IT returns for 2005-06 when Tharani stated her annual income as just Rs 1.7 lakh. She gave an address in Bengaluru and described herself as an Indian taxpayer. The ITAT Bench said that it may have been that she was in her first year of non-residential status. The bench could not figure out where did she accumulate 200 crore rupees in her bank account in such short period. The bench also said that she isn’t even a public figure or runs a charity that this amount would have been given to her trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-200-crore-found-in-swiss-account-of-80-yr-old-woman-who-claims-less-than-2-lakh-as-annual-income/story-mJOZhUsGxcVtkIEQkGxxzI.html
19-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: Congress hits back at BJP with demand for Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s resignation, 5 questions||The Congress on Sunday said Gajendra Singh Shekhawat must step down as the Union minister so that he cannot interfere in any investigation into the leaked audiotapes in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader is allegedly heard conspiring to topple the Rajasthan government.Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had briefed the media on Friday about the existence of the tapes where BJP leaders, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, can be heard conspiring with rebel MLAs from the Sachin Pilot camp to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government.Surjewala’s allegations were refuted by Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who represents Jodhpur in Parliament. He has also demanded a probe to verify the authenticity of the audiotapes that have gone viral on social media.The BJP has also dismissed the tapes as “manufactured” by the Congress, which was “frustrated at its inability to keep its house in order”.On Sunday, senior Congress leader Ajay Maken shot five questions as well as the demand for Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s removal or resignation. Maken also asked the Union water minister to come forward and give his voice sample to end the row over audio clips. “Now that Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has been named in the FIR and his voice in the audiotape has been recognised by people who know him, why is he holding the post of a Union minister?” Ajay Maken asked during a press conference in Jaipur.“I heard that he is saying that the voice in the audiotape is not his but of another Gajendra Singh. If it is so, he should give his voice sample and step down from the post until the probe is completed,” Maken added.Maken also shot other questions at the BJP, asking why Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishwendra Singh, rebel Congress MLA and former minister of the Gehlot cabinet respectively, are being stopped from giving their voice samples.He also questioned whether other big leaders of the central government are involved and why it is the party trying to suppress the names by conducting a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The BJP had on Saturday demanded a probe by CBI into what it called a “saga of illegalities and concocted lies” and wondered whether the state adopted “unconstitutional” methods to tap into the phones of politicians.Ajay Maken also said that the BJP should also talk about the source of the black money when it is talking about bribing leader withs Rs 25-35 crore.The senior Congress leader also asked why are the rebel leaders in Pilot’s camp are being given protection and being forced if the BJP has no role. He also questioned the role of the Centre, the Haryana government, income tax department, Enforcement Directorate and the Delhi Police.Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) on Friday registered two first information reports alleging a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state after the party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi lodged a complaint on Thursday night citing three audiotapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot.The FIR and the charges come in the middle of a raging political battle in the state between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who was also the president of the party’s state unit until he was divested of both posts by the Congress on Tuesday.Gehlot, who has the support of at least 101 MLAs in the 200-member assembly, has blamed Pilot of conspiring with the BJP to bring down his government.Pilot, who has at least 21 MLAs supporting him and are at the ITC Grand Bharat in Manesar, has maintained he and his allies are only opposed to Gehlot’s “dictatorial” ways and have nothing to do with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-congress-hits-back-at-bjp-with-demand-for-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-s-resignation-5-questions/story-jtkrIpiNKf8Z5yNKt3AgVO.html
19-07-2020||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter followers cross 60 million mark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi achieved yet another milestone when his Twitter handle crossed 60 million followers on Sunday.PM Modi is one of the most followed world leaders on social media and his popularity continues to soar.PM Modi started using Twitter in 2009 when he was the Gujarat chief minister. In 2010, he had one lakh followers. His follower count had reached four lakh in November, 2011.PM Modi uses the platform to connect with his followers and make political statements.In March, PM Modi had said in one of his cryptic tweets that he is thinking about giving up his social media accounts. That turned out to be his way of celebrating Women’s Day (on March 8). At that time, he had 53.3 million followers on Twitter.His account was managed by seven women achievers on Women’s Day.Combined with his Facebook profile and YouTube channel, PM Modi’s messages gwt massive reach among the audience. He has used these social media platforms for Clean India campaign, women safety, and also to give up subsidy for the Ujjwala programme of the government which provides subsidised cooking gas to financially weaker sections.He has also used the platform extensively to inform people about the steps the government is taking to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.In 2018, an international survey ranked PM Modi among the top three leaders of the world.Former US President Barak Obama has retained the top spot with over 120 million followers. His successor and current US President Donald Trump has close to 84 million followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-s-twitter-followers-cross-60-million-mark/story-fEyzOaoFpRQlKu9LA3Q3rJ.html
19-07-2020||India||Parliamentary panels have started scrutinising handling of Covid-19 in India: Venkaiah Naidu||Parliamentary panels have started scrutinising the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country a little over three months after Parliament was adjourned ahead of its schedule due to the virus and a shorter timeframe to hold the standing committee meetings would not have been possible given the present situation, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said on Sunday.In a Facebook post hailing the media’s role during the pandemic, the vice president also said Parliament is “on course” for holding the Monsoon session.The Rajya Sabha chairman said he has held several rounds of discussions with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on enabling the meetings of the parliamentary committees and the Monsoon session of Parliament. “Given the corona-induced social distancing norm, the logistics of seating of MPs required detailed deliberation and planning. The government also recently reached out to both the presiding officers (Naidu and Birla) on holding the Monsoon session.“We are on course,” Naidu said.With the easing of restrictions on domestic air travel in May and to a lesser degree on rail travel, the department-related standing committees of both Houses of Parliament have resumed their meetings this month, he pointed out.They have undertaken an examination of various aspects of the management of the pandemic and its fallout, Naidu said.“This, in effect, means the required parliamentary scrutiny of the handling of the pandemic started in about three and half months of the last sitting of the apex legislature of the country. Any other shorter timeframe may have not been possible given the situation prevailing in the country,” he asserted.Some members of Parliament had suggested holding the standing committee meetings online due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown.But the committees met physically.At least four parliamentary panels have met in the last few days and the ones relating to home affairs and science and technology have discussed various aspects of the pandemic.Naidu pointed out that the Budget session had to be cut short a few days ahead of the schedule as the MPs wanted to be with the people in this hour of crisis.Both Houses were adjourned sine die on March 23. According to the provisions of the Constitution, Parliament has to meet within six months of the last sitting. Normally, the Monsoon session starts in July with some exceptions over the years.“This year, we are living in abnormal times due to the pandemic. The central and state governments are engrossed in handling the pandemic for the last over four months on a day-to-day basis,” Naidu pointed out.Referring to journalists, he said the media, as the fourth pillar of democracy, is often said to be the bridge between parliamentary institutions and people by enabling a two-way communication. “This role has assumed even more significance during the time of the pandemic,” the vice president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panels-have-started-scrutinising-handling-of-covid-19-in-india-venkaiah-naidu/story-9NNcBdtge8cA6xJwJAOIGN.html
19-07-2020||India||Migrant workers slowly returning to cities; locals being trained to fill immediate gap||Migrant labourers who had left for their native places after coronavirus lockdowns are either returning themselves or being brought back by their employers to project sites in cities, according to industry players.Since the country has already entered Unlock 2.0, projects that were stalled due to the lockdown have resumed work, though with just half of their capacity as most of the labourers are yet to return.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEngineering firms, which have been hit hard due to non-execution of large infrastructure projects, are taking initiatives to bring back the workforce from states such as Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Gujarat.According to recent data by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, thousands of workers have been brought back by engineering firms to complete the metro projects, including Dahisar East-Andheri East metro 7 line.Among others, real estate players too are taking initiatives to bring back the workforce to complete the stalled projects.“Labourers are coming back as they need jobs. Generally this is the season when they go to their villages for farming or to attend marriages. But they return soon,” a labour contractor told PTI. He said these labourers had left cities amid Covid-19 panic, but now they want to return to work since the construction activities have begun. “While some are returning by trains, others are being brought by contractors,” he added. Indian Railways had said that it transported over 50 lakh migrants to various parts of the country through special Shramik trains. Meanwhile, some states have started looking for local manpower to bridge the deficit created in the workforce requirements in various sectors. Some real estate developers are sponsoring the return of migrant workers and also facilitating their quarantine as per guidelines. “We want to complete our projects and deliver them on time to our customers. For that we are taking steps to bring back the labourers. We are not just taking care of their journey and 14 days quarantine, but we are also paying them their wages for those days,” Puravankara Group managing director Ashish Puravankara recently told PTI.Maharashtra, which has already given a call to the sons of the soil, has undertaken initiatives to invite locals to participate in the infra projects undertaken by the government.Recently, the government’s skill development department conducted an online job fair to hire over 17,000 locals for various projects undertaken by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).“We are in constant communications with industry bodies and various government departments to understand if there is a skill gap. We are working on skilling people locally wherever there is a requirement,” Maharashtra Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Minister Nawab Malik had recently said.He further said that according to the information they are getting, many workers who had left the state to go to their home towns due to the panic over the pandemic are slowly coming back from states like Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and other places to Mumbai and Pune where they were working.According to CIEL HR Services Director and CEO Aditya Mishra, around 30-40 per cent of people who have gone back home are returning to Maharashtra and Gujarat.“They left in fear but in their villages they were not able to get the basic facilities there. Also MNREGA was not enough to keep the entire family occupied,” he said. When the Unlock 1.0 was announced and construction work began, people started coming back, Mishra said, adding that many companies facilitated their journey back taking all preventative measures as per government guidelines and gave them a secure and healthy environment as part of their CSR initiatives.Mishra further said that not only unskilled workers but also highly skilled technicians are coming back to their places of work. Even new workforce or first timers are joining.However, people from other sectors like travel and hospitality among others are yet to come back as these segments are not fully open, he noted.Industry insiders said local workers are demanding more wages for the same work as they did in the pre-Covid-19 period when the supply of migrant labourers was more.“We are facing a lot of issues with the local labourers. The restrictions due to the lockdown has added to the woes as the locals are unwilling to travel to far places. They are also demanding more wages. Also, now these locals will go to their villages for the Ganpati festival. We are hopeful that by August, more migrant labourers will return and things will get back to normal,” Dipti Mehta, an architect, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-slowly-returning-to-cities-locals-being-trained-to-fill-immediate-gap/story-XrQu9kSZ4x77tj5oRMybUN.html
19-07-2020||India||After Ladakh visit, Rajnath tweets video of meeting with soldiers who took on PLA||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who took a review of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, met the soldiers of 16 Bihar, who fought aggression of Xinjiang military district troops at Galwan Y nullah on June 15, during his two-day visit.In a video tweeted by the defence minister’s office on Sunday, Singh is seen interacting with the soldiers in Lukung base camp near Pangong Tso in Ladakh. He also shook hands of the battalion officers and men while praising them for their bravery against all odds. Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh met the soldiers from Bihar Regiment at Lukung during his visit to forward areas in Ladakh. He had a brief interaction with them. pic.twitter.com/81YS0T960aIt was this Bihar unit which faced the Chinese troops during the clashes in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. An attack on the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar Colonel Santosh Babu was reported to be the trigger for the bloody scuffle. With both sides now involved in dis-engagement at Galwan sector, 16 Bihar and the PLA unit from Sichuan it faced on June 15 have been taken out of the frontline as it could spark of conflagration again.India and China have been engaged in talks to east the month-long tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Officials of both the countries have held a series of meetings. During one such meeting on June 6, it was decided that China will move its observation post near the junction of Shyok and Galwan rivers. During a routine patrol on June 15, the Indian soldiers found the tents were still there, according to people aware of what unfolded at the border that day.The Chinese observation post was manned by 10-12 soldiers who were told by the Indian patrol to go away. The Chinese refused to do so even as the Indian patrol returned to their unit to inform them about the development.This was when the Indian troops with around 50 people and 16 Bihar Commanding Officer Colonel Santosh Babu in the lead, went on to tell the Chinese to go back further in their territory as they were on Indian soil.Meanwhile, by the time the first Indian patrol returned from the site, the Chinese had called for reinforcements from their rear positions in the Galwan river valley who came with around 300-350 people.As the Indian patrol reached, the sources said, the Chinese had already built up troops on higher ground around the observation post and kept the stones and weapons ready for launching an attack on the Indian troops.As the two sides started talking, the discussion turned into a heated one and the Indian side started uprooting their tents and equipment. The Chinese, who had already prepared themselves for aggression against Indian troops, attacked the Indian side in which their first attack was on the 16 Bihar CO and Havildar Palani. After the CO went down, the Biharis lost control and started attacking the Chinese ferociously despite being heavily outnumbered and stones raining from the higher ground.Twenty Indian soldiers, including Colonel Babu, were killed in the clashes. China also suffered casualties but never announced the exact number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-meets-soldiers-of-bihar-regiment-which-took-on-chinese-during-galwan-valley-clash/story-T8hZZSlHs7cy9VYy2QQITK.html
19-07-2020||India||Congress MLA alleges Vasundhara Raje link to arrested horse trading ‘agent’||The intense political intrigue unfolding in Rajasthan through allegations and counter allegations-- ranging from horse trading aimed at toppling Ashok Gehlot government to illegal phone tapping by the state-- has now caught former chief minister and BJP stalwart Vasundhara Raje in its crosshairs, following suggestions by a Congress MLA that one of the accused arrested for allegedly enticing Congress MLAs into rebellion had been invoking her name, according to news agency ANI.“Sanjay Jain (arrested by SOG, Rajasthan Police) had come to me eight months back. He had asked me to meet Vasundhara ji and others. There are other agents like him but they didn’t succeed in their attempts. Sanjay Jain had been active for a long time,” Congress MLA Rajendra Guda was quoted as saying by ANI.Guda, however, didn’t explicitly state the nature of the offer to meet Vasundhara Raje.Also Read: Cooking tips, yoga keep Ashok Gehlot’s MLAs busy at Rajasthan hotelVasundhara Raje has been reticent during the current political turmoil triggered by Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his follower MLAs’ rebellion against the Gehlot government. Her reaction on Saturday, alleging that the BJP was unfairly being targeted for the discord in the Congress and that the state was paying for it, was her first widely-reported comment on the current situation.Hanuman Beniwal, a Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP from Nagaur had earlier alleged that Raje was involved in efforts to save the Gehlot government from behind the scenes. RLP’s three MLAs support the BJP in the state assembly.On Saturday, Vasundhara Raje reacted to such allegations and said she was a loyal BJP worker for the last three decades and was committed to the party ideology.“Some people are continuously trying to spread confusion over Rajasthan’s political situation. I have served the people as a loyal BJP worker for over three decades and I stand with the party’s ideology,” she tweeted.The present development comes amid a raging blame game over alleged illegal phone tapping of politicians by the state within the larger tussle for political power between the Congress and the BJP.Also Read: BJP demands CBI probe into Rajasthan phone tapLeader of opposition in Rajasthan assembly and senior BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria alleged on Sunday that chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s OSD (officer on special duty) could have been involved in illegal phone tapping.“Government has a right to tap phones but only after bringing it into the knowledge of and with approval from the Home Department. No private person is authorised to do it. Some Lokesh Sharma, who is said to be OSD to CM, had done it. He’s not authorised, he violated law,” Kataria was quoted as saying by ANI.Kataria was referring to two audio clips doing the rounds of social media cited by Congress as evidence of BJP’s involvement in alleged inducement of Congress MLAs with an aim to bring down Ashok Gehlot government. The Congress has alleged that union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is heard on the tape. Both Shekhawat and the party have denied the allegations and demanded a CBI probe in the matter to get to the bottom of “unauthorised” phone tapping by the state.The Congress has responded to the demand by saying it amounted to an admission of guilt by the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mla-alleges-vasundhara-raje-link-to-arrested-horse-trading-agent/story-P2DRUafkxtVeiYDuQ8SaSJ.html
19-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China may be heading towards a second Covid-19 outbreak and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fears of second wave of Covid-19 outbreak loom large in Chinese province XinjiangWhile the coronavirus epidemic is wreaking havoc across the world with over 14 million people infected worldwide, the original epicentre China may be heading toward a second wave of outbreak. Fears of an outbreak loom in China’s Xinjiang province which has now moved on offer free coronavirus tests. Read moreBSF recovers 64 kg of heroin floated from Pakistan in Ravi riverThe Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 60 packets of heroin, weighing a total of 64.3kg, from the border outpost at Nangli Ghat near Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Punjab on Sunday. BSF deputy inspector general (DIG) and public relations officer BS Rawat said the heroin was being smuggled into India from Pakistan through the Ravi river. Read moreCovid-19 vaccine Covaxin’s clinical trial to start in AIIMS Delhi from Monday. Here’s how you can helpThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi will start enrolling healthy individuals from Monday for conducting the human clinical trial of Covaxin, the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate. This comes after AIIMS’s Ethics Committee gave its nod for a human clinical trial of Covaxin on Saturday. Read moreChina raises flood alert levels along Huai RiverChina on Sunday raised the flood alert level in the Huai River region in the country’s east to Level II from Level III, the second highest on its four-tier scale, after days of torrential downpours and amid expectations of further heavy rainfall. Read moreUFC Fight Island 3: Figueiredo finally lands the ‘killer’ chokeUFC Fight Island held its third event in Abu Dhabi with two elite fighters competing for a title in the main event. Joseph Benavidez was looking to finally claiming the UFC Flyweight Championship after several missed chances in the past. Read moreDeepika Padukone, Prabhas team up for Mahanati director’s pan-India sci-fi filmDeepika Padukone has been signed as the leading lady opposite Prabhas in Mahanati director Nag Ashwin’s upcoming pan-Indian multilingual science-fiction project. In February, the project was officially announced via a special video which was released on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Vyjayanthi Films. Read moreNew Android malware BlackRock and the damage it can cause: 5 things to knowWe have told you about BlackRock, the new Android malware that can steal data from at least 337 Android apps. This malware was spotted in May this year for the first time and its list of potential targets includes popular apps like Snapchat, Gmail, Uber etc. Read moreTransforming troll spewings into posters, songs, artInternet comments are a world unto themselves. No opinion is too ignorant to air, no input too trivial to share. Readers respond to pasta-sauce recipes with tales of infidelity. Heavy-metal videos get hate for being both too loud and not loud enough. Read moreRhino resting on highway returns to Kaziranga National Park in Assam. WatchA video of a rhino resting on a highway as cars pass went all sorts of viral yesterday. Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve took to Twitter to inform that the animal had strayed away from the park and was seen resting on the side of the road. Read moreWatch| Ram Mandir: PM Modi invited to lay foundation stone in Ayodhya, 2 dates chosen||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-may-be-heading-towards-a-second-covid-19-outbreak-and-all-the-latest-news/story-I8JwsrhdyRZp1Ugl8JnucN.html
19-07-2020||India||Nine rhinos among over 100 animal deaths in Assam’s Kaziranga during floods||Nine rhinos are among the 108 wild animals that have died during this year’s floods at Assam’s Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR). However, active efforts by authorities aided in recovery of an exhausted rhino who had strayed on to the national highway on Saturday. On Saturday, the carcass of a female rhino that had died due to drowning was found in the central range of the park. Last month, one rhino had died due to natural causes in the western range of the park. All the other deaths are due to drowning, confirmed KNPTR officials.According to a bulletin issued by park authorities on Sunday, nearly 85% area of the park, spread over 430 sq km is under water at present. Forty three of the 223 forest camps inside the park are inundated of which 6 have been vacated.Till now, 60 animals (36 hog deer, eight rhinos, three wild buffalo, one python, seven wild boar, two swamp deer, one Sambar and two porcupines) have died due to drowning. Fifteen hog deer have died after getting hit by vehicles on national highway 37 close to the park, while trying to cross it to escape flood waters.Also Read: Rhino rests on highway as cars pass by in Assam. Officials trying to guide it back to rescue centreFifteen rescued animals died during treatment at the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC), located near the park.According to the KNPTR bulletin, 51 animals have been injured due to floods and one by a speeding vehicle. Till date, 134 animals have been rescued. Of them, 110 have been released into the wild, while 8 others including a one-year-old female rhino calf are under treatment at CWRC.On Saturday, an adult male rhino had strayed out of the park and rested for several hours on NH37. The animal, which was being guarded by police and forest personnel, moved back to the park on Sunday morning.“The animal was very exhausted as it was in water for 3-4 day and we were planning to shift it to the state zoo in Guwahati. But after resting for several hours it moved back inside. We are keeping a watch on it,” said P Sivakumar, director KNPTR.Also Read: Assam floods death toll rises to 79Annual floods are common in Kaziranga, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos. The park has around 2,400 rhinos and 121 tigers. Last year, floods had claimed nearly 200 animals in the park, including 18 rhinos.“The rhino which came out of the park had some vision impairment and was extremely exhausted. We gave it treatment as well as multivitamins after which it recovered and started movement,” said wildlife veterinarian Shamshul Ali.Bibhab Talukdar, founder of Aaranyak, a wildlife NGO, stated that though Kaziranga experiences several waves of floods each year, this season it is a bit severe as there has been not much respite in between.“When there’s frequent flooding, the animals don’t get enough time to recover. They are usually exhausted easily and hungry as well. Since the animals move towards higher locations in Karbi Anglong after crossing NH37, it is very crucial to protect that area from human intervention,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-rhinos-among-over-100-animal-deaths-in-assam-s-kaziranga-during-floods/story-Nh51CKLJrjRVi59h0BnBeP.html
19-07-2020||India||How to deal with dengue during Covid-19? States come up with new protocols||The state governments across the country are preparing protocols and finding ways to strengthen an already stretched healthcare infrastructure due to Covid-19, in the wake of the onset of dengue season.Aedes aegypti, the mosquito that spreads dengue, is most prevalent in cities, and experts have warned in the past that increased urbanisation and warming temperatures due to climate change means that its range will keep increasing.From Punjab to West Bengal, instructions have been issued to the authorities to ensure dengue does not wreak havoc in the country already grappling with the spread of the coronavirus disease.Also read: Despite record spike, India’s Covid tally 8 times less than 11 other worst affected countries combined togetherThe Punjab government launched a sanitation drive last week. These drives were undertaken by both urban local bodies and panchayati Raj institutions on campaign basis for the prevention of dengue/vector-borne disease.In West Bengal, the health officials have formulated new protocols to help medical professionals distinguish between Covid-19 and dengue, as both have similar symptoms. The protocols will also assist doctors to treat patients diagnosed with both the diseases, according to the health department.“Since early June, we have been witnessing cases of both Covid-19 and dengue from districts like North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah. In these districts, doctors often find it difficult to differentiate between the two diseases. So, we have decided to form a set of protocols to help them,” news agency PTI quoted a health official as saying.District health workers have been given training for this via video-conference, the health official further said.The ways to prevent spread of dengue include destroying mosquito-breeding sites, like removing trash or old tyres and other objects containing standing water. But coronavirus-era lockdowns and other restrictions have meant that these efforts have been reduced or stopped altogether at many places.According to World Health Organisation (WHO), 2019 was the worst year on record for dengue cases, with every region affected, and some countries were hit for the first time. According to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), 1,36,422 dengue cases were diagnosed in India in 2019 and an estimated 132 people died.Also read: Community spread of Covid-19: IMA sounds alarm, ICMR ramps up testing, states keep tight vigilExperts say that while reduced travel means fewer opportunities for mosquitoes to bite people with dengue to become carriers themselves, the coronavirus pandemic has introduced other variables.Staying home - one way to slow outbreaks of Covid-19, especially in cities - poses greater risks for spreading dengue, said Singapore’s National Environment Agency (NEA). That’s because the Aedes mosquito bites during the day, and with more people staying home, where mosquito populations are high, the more likely they are to be bitten.Both Covid-19 and dengue have symptoms such as high fever, headache and body pain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-deal-with-dengue-during-covid-19-states-come-up-with-new-protocols/story-oUJWEVtK6QBEbRNdw1T6OK.html
19-07-2020||India||Volunteers needed for clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in AIIMS Delhi||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi will start enrolling healthy individuals from Monday for conducting the human clinical trial of Covaxin, the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate.This comes after AIIMS’s Ethics Committee gave its nod for a human clinical trial of Covaxin on Saturday.AIIMS Delhi is among the 12 institutes selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting phase I and II human trials of Covaxin. The vaccine would be tested on 375 volunteers during phase I and the maximum of 100 of them would be from AIIMS.“We are launching the enrollment process from Monday. We are going to select healthy participants with no comorbidities and without a history of Covid-19,” Dr Sanjay Rai, a professor at AIIMS’ Centre for Community Medicine, said, according to news agency ANI. Any healthy individual, who wishes to participate in the trial, can send in an email on Ctaiims.covid19@gmail.com or send an SMS or call on 7428847499.“The age group of the study population is 18 to 55 years. This would be a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial,” he said.He said that in the first and second phase AIIMS Delhi will choose only 100 participants out of 375 volunteers and the remaining will participate at other sites.“We have already registered a few volunteers for the trial. From Monday onwards, our team will start their health screening before giving them vaccination,” he said.Covaxin, India’s first potential indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, has been jointly developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL).Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is among the seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines. It was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin phase 1 and phase 2 human trials to test the vaccine for efficacy and safety.Bharat Biotech said in a statement on Friday that this is a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial with 375 volunteers. Bharat Biotech has said that human trials of Covaxin started on July 15. “Eventually, we plan to enrol 1,125 for both phase I and II. The human clinical trials commenced at AIIMS, Patna,” the statement said.Zydus Cadila has also got an approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for human clinical trials for ZyCov-D, its indigenously developed vaccine candidates against Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-s-clinical-trial-to-start-in-aiims-delhi-from-monday-here-s-how-you-can-help/story-f9z6Q4nsch9rEVSXQPWvXK.html
19-07-2020||India||BSF recovers 64 kg of heroin floated from Pakistan in Ravi river||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 60 packets of heroin, weighing a total of 64.3kg, from the border outpost at Nangli Ghat near Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Punjab on Sunday.BSF deputy inspector general (DIG) and public relations officer BS Rawat said the heroin was being smuggled into India from Pakistan through the Ravi river.BSF sources said a boat patrol at Nangli Ghat found the contraband floating in the Ravi. The packets of heroin were tied in four cloth pipes held together with a rope and concealed with water hyacinth.This is one of the major seizures made by the BSF in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-recovers-64-kg-of-heroin-floated-from-pakistan-in-ravi-river/story-UQIUKQjfgGCVSBPBMaZ9MI.html
19-07-2020||India||Despite record spike, India’s Covid tally 8 times less than 11 other worst affected countries combined together||India’s Covid tally may be zooming with record daily spikes being registered regularly but a deeper look at the statistics reveal the contagion situation in the country is better than several others, claimed the union health ministry through release of data comparing India with other 11 worst-affected countries.While India’s 38,902 cases reported on Sunday- the highest for any 24 hours period so far—took the country’s tally to 1,077,618, the health ministry data shows that this is still eight times less than the number of cases recorded so far in 11 other worst-affected countries including the US, Brazil, Russia, Peru, Chile, Mexico, South Africa, U.K, Iran, Pakistan and Spain.India’s total casualties due to coronavirus disease have reached 26,816 with 543 deaths reported over the last 24 hours, however, in comparison with the countries named above, the figure is still 14 times less, says the data released by the health ministry,Also Read: India reports record 38,902 new Covid-19 cases in one day, tally over 10.77 lakh“The 11 most Covid19 affected countries in the world (U.S, Brazil, Russia, Peru, Chile, Mexico, South Africa, U.K, Iran, Pakistan, Spain) together reported 8 times more cases and 14 times more deaths than India,” the tweet posted on central government’s press communication department’s website said.The combined tally of coronavirus cases logged so far in the US, Brazil, Russia, Peru, Chile, Mexico, South Africa, U.K, Iran, Pakistan and Spain stands at 9,178,595 on Sunday morning, as per worldometers.com. These countries’ combined death toll stands at 392,460.According to the health ministry data, India’s containment efforts appear even more credible given the combined population density of these countries being 5 times less than India’s.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has often said in the past that judging the success of India’s coronavirus containment efforts by merely looking at the total number of infections—which places the country in the third spot around the globe— will not convey an accurate assessment of the situation. The government has often argued that the nationwide lockdown along with the enhanced focus on surveillance, testing, treatment and isolation has slowed down the growth of the disease, making it possible to save more lives without letting the growth of the infection explode beyond the point of control and realm of effective management.India took about 110 days to go from 1,000 confirmed cases to a million unlike the United States and Brazil, which took 49 and 91 days respectively, to cross the grim milestone after reaching the first 1000 cases.The numbers are also encouraging from the point of view that India is the second most populated country in the world, with a population of at least 1.3 billion, and the caseload of a million means that only about 0.07% of the country’s population has been infected with the coronavirus. This is the lowest share of the infected population among the five countries with the highest number of confirmed cases.In comparison, the United States with nearly 3.7 million confirmed cases and a population of 328 million has 1.13% of its population infected by the disease.However, the number of tests conducted presents a different picture, which may not be very favourable for India. The US with 143,759 tests per million, Brazil--23,096 tests per million, Russia-- 169,092 tests per million, South Africa--40,826 tests per million, Peru-61900 tests per million, Chile--72,596 tests per million, Spain- 128,892 tests per million, UK-193,109 tests per million and Iran- 25,267 tests per million, are far ahead of India’s 9,989 tests per million. Only Pakistan and Mexico among the 12 worst-affected countries have conducted less tests per million—at 7,788 and 6.315 respectively, according to worldometers.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-record-spike-india-s-covid-tally-8-times-less-than-11-other-worst-affected-countries-combined-together/story-XkueHJ4Tt3al3HJ3Uf6H2J.html
19-07-2020||India||Karnataka wears a deserted look amid Sunday lockdown to check Covid-19 surge||Streets across Karnataka bore a deserted look on Sunday as the state observed a complete lockdown today in a bid to control the rise in coronavirus infections. The state government decided to impose a full day lockdown every Sunday from July 5 till August 2 to tackle the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state.Karnataka is the fourth worst-affected state in the country after Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. It has more number of active cases than the national capital which has reported over 80 percent recovery rate. As of Sunday, as per the data released by the health ministry, Karnataka has registered over 59,000 coronavirus cases and is nearing the 60,000 mark. The death toll here stands at 1,240 while 21,775 people have recovered from the disease. Also read: India reports record 38,902 new Covid-19 cases in one day, tally over 10.77 lakhA major chunk of the infections come from capital city Bengaluru where nearly 30,000 people have contracted the disease.  Karnataka observes complete lockdown today. Visuals from Chennamma circle, Hubli. State govt is imposing complete lockdown every Sunday till August 2 due to #COVID19.Weddings already fixed on Sundays&essential activities allowed during night curfew permitted on Sunday lockdown. pic.twitter.com/01yJCwodoFThe government has said that inter-state travellers have led to the rise in infections in the state, saying those from hotspot states like Maharashtra could have brought the infection.State minister for Medical Education K Sudhakar said there was no community transmission of the pandemic, adding if it were to be the case, the number of infections would be running into ‘lakhs.’ “As you know, Bengaluru is a cosmopolitan city. So from every nook and corner people came here. When they came they were not mindful of what they were supposed to do (health precautions, apparently) and they spread the infection,” he told news agency PTI.“I am not washing away the government’s role. The government can do every bit to contain, to treat them, but citizens should cooperate. Society should actively come forward in controlling this pandemic,” he pointed out.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-wears-a-deserted-look-amid-sunday-lockdown-to-check-covid-19-surge/story-mNOyCCY33swLrjoJtByt9H.html
19-07-2020||India||Body found under water-logged Minto Bridge in Delhi after heavy rain||The body of a 60-year-old man was found under the Minto Bridge in central Delhi on Sunday morning after a spell of rain in the morning. The police said that the man drowned while trying to manoeuvre his tempo through the water-logged underpass. Rajender Dubey, assistant commissioner of police (Barakhamba Road), said that the body was found around 10 am. “The man, Kundan, was driving his Tata Ace tempo from New Delhi railway station towards Connaught Place when he possibly drowned,” said the ACP. While the time at which he drowned could not immediately be ascertained, another police officer said that Kundan’s body was discovered by a trackman working at New Delhi railway station yard.“He swam and retrieved the body before the police were alerted,” said the officer.The body was found in the water close to a spot where a DTC bus was submerged in the water-logged underpass. Also read| Watch: Passengers rescued from bus stuck on waterlogged road after Delhi rains Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, said while he was unaware of a body being found, his officers rescued three people after they received a call about a DTC bus and two autorickshaws being submerged in the water. “We received the call around 7.45 am and rescued the driver and conductor of the bus and an auto driver,” said Garg, adding that there were no passengers in the bus at that time. ACP Dubey, meanwhile, said that there were no external injuries on Kundan’s body. “It looks like he died of drowning. We are initiating inquest proceedings and are still probing the circumstances under which he died,” said the ACP. The rain on Sunday morning led to water-logging at several stretches of roads across the national capital. According to the Delhi Traffic Police, the affected roads included Azadpur Underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Paharganj side of New Delhi railway station, Moolachand Underpass and near Batra Hospital, among others. The traffic police also issued an advisory asking bus and tempo drivers to avoid wading through submerged roads as manholes could have been swept away or ditches could have flared up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-found-under-water-logged-minto-bridge-in-delhi-after-heavy-rain/story-DndxsUge90WHq43t4Lu1cN.html
19-07-2020||India||After Chamberlain comparison, Rahul attacks BJP over ‘institutionalised lies’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday sharpened his attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with a three-pronged criticism of the government on a number of issues he has been raising already.Hours before, Rahul Gandhi had tweeted his criticism of the Centre over its handling of the face-off with China in eastern Ladakh last month, saying India will pay a “huge price because of the government’s cowardly actions”.On Sunday, the former Congress president added the coronavirus pandemic, India’s economy and the border stand-off with China to his list yet again.“BJP has institutionalised lies. 1. Covid19 by restricting testing and misreporting deaths. 2. GDP by using a new calculation method. 3. Chinese aggression by frightening the media,” Gandhi posted.He also repeated his warning from Saturday.“The illusion will break soon and India will pay the price,” he said.The Wayanad lawmaker and his party have been raising these issues relentlessly and calling out the government over what they have said is the mishandling of the situations facing the country.Gandhi had issued a video on Twitter to talk about several aspects of the government’s policies that he said the Centre has destroyed over the last six years and resulted in the present action by the Chinese.“Since 2014, the PM’s constant blunders and indiscretions have fundamentally weakened India and left us vulnerable. Empty words don’t suffice in the world of geopolitics,” Gandhi tweeted on Friday.That day he gave three reasons behind China’s aggressive stance against India as both the neighbours have clashed on its border in eastern Ladakh in the last few months taking their ties to a new low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-chamberlain-comparison-rahul-gandhi-attacks-bjp-over-institutionalised-lies/story-3tTr9qqpkwrimNGSBLlX7I.html
19-07-2020||India||Karnataka nears 60K-mark, over 80% patients recover in Delhi: Covid-19 state tally||In another single-day rise, India reported 38,902 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours taking the national tally to 1,077,618. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 26,816 while more than 60 percent of India’s total coronavirus patients, 677,422 to be precise, have beaten the deadly contagion.The south Indian state of Karnataka has emerged as a new Covid-19 hotspot in the country. The fourth worst-affected state is witnessing a rapid surge in fresh infections with the state tally inching toward the 60,000-mark. Infections are also on the rise in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, whereas the national is reporting more patients getting recovered from the contagion, minimising its active cases. Here’s a look at the Covid-19 situation across the country:Top five statesMaharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Gujarat are five worst-affected states in the country. However, of these, the national capital seems to be slowing down its rate of infections. 101,274 of its total 121,582 patients have recovered from coronavirus which is nearly 83 percent. The death toll here stands at 3,597Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 300,937 on Sunday. As many as 165,663 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 11,596 have died. In Tamil Nadu, the Covid-19 tally has reached 165,714, the state has witnessed 2,403 fatalities while 113,856 patients have recovered from the infection here.Also read: India reports record 38,902 new Covid-19 cases in one day, tally over 10.77 lakhKarnataka has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with a rapid surge in its cases. On Sunday, the infection tally here stood at 59,652, inching toward the 60,000-mark. The death toll here stands at 1,240 while 21,775 people have recovered from the infection. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state Gujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 47,a390 on Sunday. The state has seen 34,035 people recover from coronavirus while 2,122 people have died.Uttar Pradesh to RajasthanUttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan come next in the state tally. The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 47,036 while the number of recoveries has touched 28,664. The state’s death toll has crossed 1,000. In Telangana, the tally stands at 43,780. While 30,607 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll in the state has jumped to 409 in the state.Of Andhra Pradesh’s 44,609 Covid-19 patients, 21,763 have recovered while the death toll stands at 586. In West Bengal, as many as 40,209 people have contracted Covid-19 till date. The state has seen 40,209 recover from coronavirus while 1,076 people have been killed.Rajasthan stands at the tenth spot with coronavirus tally here jumping to 28,500. The death toll here stands at 553 while 21,144 patients have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre. Situation in other statesHaryana’s Covid-19 tally stands at 25,547 while Bihar has reported 25,136 coronavirus infections till date. In Madhya Pradesh, the number of cases has touched 21,763 while Assam stands at 22,918 and Odisha’s is at 16,701. Jammu and Kashmir’s tally has jumped to 13,198 while Kerala has reported 11,659 cases till date. In states other than these, the coronavirus tally is 10,000 or less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-nears-60-000-mark-over-80-patients-recover-in-delhi-covid-19-state-tally/story-sQEVAlUtHuxhvRJM0js6kO.html
19-07-2020||India||India reports record 38,902 new Covid-19 cases in one day, tally over 10.77 lakh||India recorded 38,902 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in 24 hours, and 543 deaths, which has pushed the country’s tally to 1,077,618, Union health ministry data showed on Sunday.The number of recovered people continued to grow and with 23,672 discharged between Saturday and Sunday morning, 677,422 patients have been cured so far across the country. This has put the recovery rate at 62.82%.There are 373,379 actives cases of Covid-19 and 26,816 people have succumbed to the viral disease till date, data showed.Also read: Community spread of Covid-19: IMA sounds alarm, ICMR ramps up testing, states keep tight vigilThe government has said India’s focus is on early case detection and saving lives.It pointed out that the 11 most Covid-19 affected countries in the world—the US, Brazil, Russia, Peru, Chile, Mexico, South Africa, the UK, Iran, Pakistan, Spain—together reported eight times more cases and 14 times more deaths than India.India is only the third country after the United States and Brazil with more than a million cases.The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra climbed to 300,937, more than 130 days after the first infection was reported in the state. There have been 11,596 fatalities in the state. The latest 100,000 cases in Maharashtra came in 14 days. The state’s first 100,000 infections were reported in 96 days, while the next 100,000 cases took 22 days.Tamil Nadu reported 165,714 Covid-19 infections and 2,403 deaths, while Delhi has 121,582 cases and 3,597 fatalities.The viral disease has now infected 14,246,121 people and killed 601,549 people in almost seven months across the world. The first case was reported in China in early January and it took three months to reach one million cases. It has taken just four days to climb to 14 million cases from the 13 million recorded on July 13. Also read: How soon can the world get Covid-19 vaccine? A look at which country stands whereThe first death was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, China, before infections and fatalities then surged in Europe and later in the US.Global coronavirus infections passed 14 million on Friday, marking the first time a surge of one million cases in just under 100 hours, while the fatalities from the viral illness exceeded 600,000 just hours later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-record-38-902-new-covid-19-cases-in-one-day-tally-over-10-77-lakh/story-CH8Ihf97zxe1gPU102C6IL.html
19-07-2020||India||Sixty three CRPF personnel test Covid 19 positive in Manipur, tally reaches 1,891||Sixty three CRPF personnel and three army personnel deployed in Manipur tested positive for Covid 19 on Saturday, taking the northeastern state’s coronavirus tally to 1,891 including 709 active cases, officials said.The CRPF personnel found to be infected are stationed at a training centre in Kangpokpi district while the three army men are from Leimakhong Garrison, according to a statement released by Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of state health department. The release added that these personnel had recently joined their duty after a period of leave.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAs on Saturday, 91 persons including 82 male and 9 females were detected to have been infected with Covid 19. Sixteen of these samples were tested at RIMS (Regional Institute of Medical Sciences), 63 at JNIMS (Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences) three at the district hospitals of Tamenglong, eight at Thoubal and one at Ukhrul, the release said.All the new cases were being shifted to Covid care facilities.In the past 24 hours, 19 persons have been discharged from Covid care centres including from Meitram in Imphal West(6), Thoubal (1), Kamjong(7) and from RIMS(3) and JNIMS(2).The total number of recovered cases has risen to 1,182, taking the recovery rate to 62.50 percent.Meanwhile, a meeting of the state consultative committee for Covid 19 was held on Saturday with chief minister N Biren Singh taking stock of the situation.“The eminent members expressed their satisfaction to the efforts of the Covid-19 Rapid Response Team and all the frontline warriors in checking the dreaded virus from spreading to the community,” a facebook post from CM Biren Singh said.Also Read: Manipur: Top police officer hospitalised after allegedly shooting himselfThe post further claimed that the state government had successfully managed to keep a check on the spread of the disease.“With the valuable advice and suggestions from the Hon’ble Ministers, MLAs, intellectuals, HODs and other members of the Committee, the State Government has been able to contain the virus,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixty-three-crpf-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-manipur-tally-reaches-1-891/story-nr65D0NuIKCNn0vpPaIUMM.html
19-07-2020||India||Ram temple’s height to be increased, more domes added: Key changes discussed at Ayodhya meeting||A trust set up after a Supreme Court verdict to supervise and facilitate the construction of the Lord Ram temple in Ayodhya, held a meeting on Saturday where it decided the date to begin the construction of the temple.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of a grand temple in Ayodhya either on August 3 or 5.Among the other things discussed at the meeting in Ayodhya was the model of the temple. It was decided at the meeting to increase the number of domes from three to five.The temple’s chief architect Chandrakant Sompura spoke to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan that it had become important to increase the height of the main structure after the number of domes were increased. And accordingly, it was decided to add one more storey to the existing design.According to earlier design, the height of the temple was 128 feet. Sompura further said that the changes in design have been incorporated as per the wishes of the trust and the seers.According to the original design, the temple was to be constructed in 67 acres of land. But now, the proposal is to expand it to 100-120 acres, according to Hindustan. Once the final design of the temple is ready, a new masterplan will be prepared within 15 days, Hindustan reported.It further quoted Sompura to say that the cost of construction was Rs 100 crore according to the current design. But if the design is changed, the cost will increase.He also made it clear that there won’t be any change in the inner sanctum of the temple. Sita Rasoi, Rangmandapam and other places have not been changed. Though the height of the proposed temple has been increased, Sompura said it won’t be the tallest temple in the country.Since there is a proposal to incrase the height of the temple, it will take more construction time, said Sompura. The temple is expected to be complete in three to 3.5 years.Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai said, “Drawing of temple’s foundation will be made on basis of the strength of soil 60 m below. Work to lay down the foundation will begin on the basis of the drawing.”He said that at Saturday’s meeting, it was decided to approach 10 crore families across four lakh localities of the country for financial support to build the temple after the monsoon and when the coronavirus situation eases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-s-height-to-be-increased-more-domes-added-key-changes-discussed-at-ayodhya-meeting/story-kEC6ePOfWFJFu0WscJDsGJ.html
19-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR initiates study on BCG vaccine’s impact on coronavirus and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India begins study on BCG vaccine impact on Covid-19The Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (ICMR-NIRT) has initiated a multi-centric study to see if tuberculosis vaccine, Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG), can reduce the severity of Covid-19 among people aged 60 and above residing in hot spots for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, said the Union health ministry release issued on Saturday. Read moreCovid-19 cases rising in Delhi area even after 100 days of containmentAn area in Delhi’s North East district has been a containment zone for the last 100 days due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and continues to be sealed off subject to stringent checks. Authorities have sealed all the routes passing through E Pocket of GTB Enclave, where 25 cases of Covid-19 have been reported so far, as a precautionary measure, according to HT’s sister publication Hindustan. Read moreTelcos, pharma companies leading recovery in SensexIndia’s stock market benchmark, the BSE Sensex, closed at 37,020 on July 17 . The index, which crashed 38% till 23 March 2020 from its all- time high close on 14 January because of concerns over the spread of Covid-19, has rebounded significantly since. Read moreMerkel and Macron walk out on Rutte in dispute over EU stimulusEuropean Union leaders failed to unlock an agreement on a 750 billion-euro ($860 billion) response to the coronavirus pandemic after a second day of sparring in Brussels and will come back to try again on Sunday. Read moreWinning everything: Zinedine Zidane’s time as Real Madrid managerWhen Real Madrid, in 15 days between February and March, lost three of their four games, it was being said that Zinedine Zidane’s luck had run out. His tactics and use of players were questioned and numbers pulled out to show that the second tenure was not half as good as the first. Then football stopped because of Covid-19. Read moreVidya Balan reveals the most important lesson she has learnt ‘as an actor, as a woman’In less than a year, Vidya Balan has gone from playing a scientist to a ‘human computer’. “I could not become one in real life but at least I am getting these roles,” says Vidya with a guffaw. Comfortable in life and her choice in films, Vidya is looking forward to the release of Shakuntala Devi on Amazon Prime later this month, another of the high-on-life female characters the actor enjoys playing so much. Read moreThe Way We Were: A screen test for a new India“Sure?” “Confident?” “Lock kar diya jaaye?” These are phrases no one who watched Season 1 of Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) in 2000 will ever forget. Twenty years on, in its 12th season, KBC is set to be telecast to a new generation. The call has gone out for people to register; currently, host Amitabh Bachchan is recovering from the coronavirus. Read morePeople call this rabbit eating leaves the cutest looking bunny ever. Do you agree?A simple video of a bunny eating leaves is making people go “aww” and “wow”. The reason is the bunny captured in the video looks absolutely cute – some may even say that it looks like a live stuffed toy. And now, people can’t stop gushing over this cute-looking creature. Read moreWatch: ‘Indians’ data belongs to...’: Union minister’s message amid Twitter hack row||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-initiates-study-on-bcg-vaccine-s-impact-on-coronavirus-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6LE8IqWvBEKwaortgkvRVK.html
19-07-2020||India||6 killed, 20 injured after bus hits stranded SUV on Lucknow-Agra Expressway||Six people were killed and at least 20 others injured when the private bus they were travelling in fell off the Lucknow-Agra Expressway after hitting another vehicle in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district on Sunday, police said.The accident occurred at around 5:15am 122 kilometres from the state capital of Lucknow. The bus, according to police, had started from Darbhanga in Bihar and was going to Delhi. “A private bus with around 40 passengers toppled down the highway after colliding with a stranded SUV. Five passengers were killed on the spot while another died minutes after reaching the hospital,” Amrendra PD Singh, Kannauj’s superintendent of police (SP), said.“Around 20 other passengers have also sustained injuries. They have been admitted to hospital,” Singh added. Condition of some of the injured is said to be critical.“It appears that the bus driver failed to spot the SUV in time that led to the collision and then failed to control the bus which toppled down,” Singh said.A police team reached the spot within a few minutes and called an ambulance that carried the injured to hospital. They were trying to identify the dead and the injured by the time this report was filed.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences over the death of the passengers and directed officials to ensure proper treatment of those injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-18-injured-in-accident-on-agra-lucknow-expressway/story-RmXKXnJvDvDq5STN0fTFhP.html
19-07-2020||India||Community spread of Covid-19: IMA sounds alarm, ICMR ramps up testing, states keep tight vigil||The spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in India has resulted in the community spread of the coronavirus disease, according to the Indian Medical Association (IMA). It also said that the situation is pretty bad in the country.The number of Covid-19 positive cases has crossed a million mark, making India the third country after United States and Brazil to reach this grim milestone.“This is now an exponential growth. Every day the number of cases is increasing by more than around 30,000. This is really a bad situation for the country,” Dr VK Monga, the Chairman of IMA Hospital Board of India, told news agency ANI.WHO reports record daily increase in global Covid-19 cases for second day in a rowHe further said that the disease is sreading to the rural areas. “This is a bad sign. It now shows a community spread,” said Dr Monga.The first to sound this alarm was Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had said on Friday that there is a community spread in some places in coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram district.The two hamlets identified by Vijayan are Poonthura and Pulluvila, which have seen a rapid increase in the number of contact cases.The district’s coastal area, stretching from Edava in the north to Pozhiyoor in the south, has been declared as Critical Containment Zone (CCZ) and will be under complete and strict lockdown from Saturday midnight to July 28 midnight, an order from the district Collector Dr Navjot Khosa said.Texas coronavirus cases include more than 80 infantsDr Monga said the cases are penetrating down into towns and villages where it will be very difficult to control the situation. “In Delhi, we were able to contain it, but what about interior parts of the country in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Madhya Pradesh?”There are concerns in states like Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal but the respective state governments have maintained that community spread has not started.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), meanwhile, said that it is ramping up testing facilities regularly. At present, 885 government laboratories and 368 private laboratory chains are conducting Covid-19 tests across the country.As many as 1,34,33,742 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till July 17. Of these 3,61,024 samples were tested on Friday, the ICMR said.It took India 137 days to reach the million mark (since March 2) in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases, but each quarter of that million has come at a faster pace.The first 2.5 lakh cases took 98 days. The next quarter of a million cases took less than three weeks (19 days). By July 8, when India was 2.5 lakh cases short of hitting the million mark and it took just eight days for the country to record the last quarter of that million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-spread-of-covid-19-ima-sounds-alarm-icmr-ramps-up-testing-states-keep-tight-vigil/story-82dWsmHJY1ivYTfrigRNyK.html
19-07-2020||India||Assam floods death toll rises to 79||At least 79 people have lost their lives in Assam due to severe flooding, informed the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) on Saturday.A Flood Report issued by the ASDMA stated that the river Brahmaputra was flowing above danger level in several places in the state, and a total of 26 districts have been affected so far. The total number of revenue circles affected is 79 and over 2,678 villages were devastated by the floods.Also read: As Assam battles Covid-19 and floods, thousands of volunteers play crucial role“A total of 27,63,719 people and 1,16,404.01 hectares of crop area had been affected by the floods.” the report stated. It further added, “The government has so far opened 649 relief camps that are currently providing relief to 47,465 people. 181 boats have been deployed and 511 persons have been evacuated.”Also read: Nearly 4 million people still affected in Assam floods; 5 more deaths reportedAdditionally, around 96 animals have died in the Kaziranga National Park in Golaghat district of Assam due to floods, the state government informed on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-due-to-assam-floods-rises-to-79/story-w0jYqbuCitDriAevjuUa9N.html
19-07-2020||India||Long-billed Dowitcher sighted in Sonipat||Gurugram: A rare sighting of a long-billed dowitcher at Mohammedabad village in Sonipat has triggered excitement among birders in Delhi-NCR, with experts saying this is the first sighting of the bird in the region since it was last seen at the Sultanpur National Park in 2013.Suresh Sharma, a veteran birder from Sonipat, spotted the long-billed dowitcher on Friday afternoon in a paddy field. “I saw the bird and took a photograph, realising that it didn’t look like any of the other birds in the marsh. I initially thought it was an Asian dowitcher, but closer scrutiny showed that it was actually a long-billed dowitcher,” Sharma said, adding that the bird was in its brighter, breeding plumage. Breeding adults of the species are known to have orange undersides, with varying black and white stripes around their necks and sides.Nikhil Devasar, a Delhi-based birder, explained that the long-billed dowitcher is a coastal bird that breeds in Central Asia before moving toward the tropics for the winter. “Shorelines are the bird’s natural habitat. The specimen Sharma spotted on Friday is likely a vagrant, as it is rarely seen in the plains. The last sighting in Delhi-NCR is from at least five or six years ago,” he said.The bird’s affinity for a shoreline habitat, birders said, is the reason for multiple sightings in India’s coastal states Kerala, Maharashtra and Gujarat, though it has also been previously seen in Punjab’s Harike region. Describing the sighting as a “lucky find”, Sharma said: “I don’t think I would have spotted the bird if it wasn’t for the rains. A downpour in Sonipat on Saturday has submerged a paddy field, creating the right marshy habitat that dowitchers prefer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-billed-dowitcher-sighted-in-sonipat/story-vq3wV7FZaoj15U97JAk5rO.html
19-07-2020||India||Help families affected by Assam, Bihar floods: Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Saturday appealed to all the people of the country to unite in support of those families affected by the Assam and Bihar floods.“My thoughts and prayers with all those families affected by the Assam and Bihar floods. Over 68 lives lost and 3.6 million people affected in Assam alone. I appeal to all Indians, to come together, join in the efforts to help support those affected in these extreme flood situations,” Pilot’s tweet read.Pilot’s tweet has come amid the ongoing political drama in Rajasthan, in which the ruling Congress has accused the BJP of horse-trading in an attempt to topple the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot government.BJP, on the other hand, has raised questions over tapping of phones in Rajasthan saying that authorities have denied giving permission and asked if it was not a violation of civil rights of people to tap phones without authorisation. It also said that if Chief Minister Gehlot thinks he has a majority, he should prove it in the Assembly.At least 79 people have lost their lives in Assam due to severe flooding, informed the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) on Saturday.A Flood Report issued by the ASDMA stated that the river Brahmaputra was flowing above danger level in several places in the state, and a total of 26 districts have been affected so far. The total number of revenue circles affected is 79 and over 2,678 villages were devastated by the floods.Additionally, around 96 animals have died in the Kaziranga National Park in Golaghat district of Assam due to floods, the state government informed on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/help-families-affected-by-assam-bihar-floods-sachin-pilot-s-appeal/story-QsDU3WUthS1At5aTwfUsII.html
19-07-2020||India||6 terrorists killed in Jammu and Kashmir in 24 hours||Three unidentified terrorists were killed in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Saturday morning, an official said after the second such operation in the past 24 hours.A day after the killing of three Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists in Kulgam, security forces acted on information about the presence of terrorists in Amshipora village and launched an operation, officials said. The terrorists fired upon the forces, drawing retaliation.An official said the operation was jointly conducted by the army, police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). “As the search-and-cordon operation was underway, it turned into an encounter...three unidentified militants were killed. The militants fired from a cowshed of a house located in an orchard,’’ an army spokesperson said.Officials said they are trying to identify the terrorists and DNA samples have already been collected. Three JeM terrorists, including a Pakistani commander identified as Waleed, were killed in Kulgam district on Friday. Police said Waleed, believed to be an IED expert, had been active in the area for the past 18 months. In the last three months, due to Covid-19, bodies of terrorists killed in gun battles, including that of locals, are not handed over to their family members. They are buried in Baramulla, Kupwara and Ganderbal in the presence of family members.Security forces have stepped up offensive against terrorists in the Kashmir Valley. In June, forces killed 48 terrorists in various encounters; most of them in south Kashmir. Since January, 136 militants have been killed in different encounters across Kashmir. The J&K Police neutralised 162 terrorists in 2019.Among the major successes of security forces this year is the killing of Riyaz Naikoo, a top commander of local group Hizbul Mujahideen, in an operation in Beighpora in May. Top police officials say fresh recruitment by terrorists has come down in the first six months of the year.India protests civilian deaths India on Saturday summoned the charge d’affaires of the Pakistan high commission to lodge a strong protest over the death of three civilians in firing by Pakistani troops along LoC. The Pakistani charge d’affaires was told three civilians, including a child, were killed and another child was injured in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistani forces in Krishna Ghati sector in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday night. The dead belonged to the same family.“India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistan forces,” the statement said. It called upon Pakistan to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-terrorists-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-in-24-hours/story-xdiLUU1GwuQQ3AG4He596N.html
19-07-2020||India||Cooking tips, yoga keep Ashok Gehlot’s MLAs busy at Rajasthan hotel||From practising yoga to getting cooking tips, Rajasthan Congress MLAs of Ashok Gehlot camp are engaging themselves in various activities in a five-star hotel on the Delhi Highway where they have been staying since Monday amid the political crisis in the state.In many photos and videos on social media, some of the legislators are seen doing yoga in the hotel lawn, crowding around a chef cooking food, watching movies, playing carrom and celebrating the birthday of an MLA.In a video, mostly women legislators including minister Mamta Bhupesh and Olympian Krishna Poonia are seen among others crowding around a chef.Taking a dig at the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party accused the MLAs of violating social distancing norms amid the coronavirus disease pandemic. “The MLAs are seen without face masks and not following social distancing norms. The government is not allowing gathering of more than 50 people in view of the pandemic but no such rule is followed here,” BJP state president Satish Poonia said.“There is no governance in the state now. People are looking at the ministers (for relief), but they are busy in the luxury hotel,” he said. The MLAs were shifted to the five-star hotel on the Delhi Highway in Jaipur following a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party at chief minister’s residence on Monday. Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs have rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot government. The Congress has sacked Pilot, Vishvenda Singh and Ramesh Meena from the Gehlot cabinet and suspended the party membership of two MLAs -- Vishvendra Singh and Bhanwarlal Sharma -- for their alleged involvement in the “conspiracy to topple the government”. After notices of disqualification were issued to them by the Assembly speaker on the basis of a complaint by government chief whip Mahesh Joshi, 19 MLAs, including Pilot, moved a writ petition in the high court challenging the notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooking-tips-yoga-keep-ashok-gehlot-s-mlas-busy-at-rajasthan-hotel/story-XEuCp5rFQdHZMmGCOV6g5J.html
19-07-2020||India||I-T may summon promoters of three Rajasthan-based firms||The Income Tax Department will summon promoters of three Rajasthan-based groups whom it had raided earlier this week for alleged tax evasion, officials said on Saturday.They said the sleuths had recorded the statements of some employees of these firms when the searches were launched on July 13 at 43 premises in Mumbai, Delhi, Kota and Jaipur, amid a brewing political crisis in the ruling Congress in the state. Some more summons will be issued to the main promoters of the business groups that were searched, officials said.Officials had said about ~12 crore cash and jewellery worth ~1.5 crore were seized after the searches.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the policy-making body for the tax department, had said on Monday that “search and survey operations were conducted on three groups at 20 premises in Jaipur, six in Kota, eight in Delhi and nine in Mumbai”.While the department did not identify the groups, officials said the premises of Om Metals Infraprojects Limited in Delhi and Rajasthan, Jaipur’s Amrapali Jewels promoted by Rajasthan Congress leader Rajiv Arora, those of another Congress leader Dharmendra Rathore and R K Sharma, promoter of a luxury hotel in Jaipur, were covered. The searches came amidst an intense power tussle between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy and former PCC chief Sachin Pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-may-summon-promoters-of-three-rajasthan-based-firms/story-jKop0CIhiCjL86UNhRAD1L.html
19-07-2020||India||Three held for assault on officer in Shahdara||Three members of a family, including a father-son duo, from Shahdara were arrested late Friday night for allegedly thrashing a Delhi police constable who asked them to return to their house and follow social distancing. The constable was on patrol duty in the area. Senior officers said two of the arrested men also have a previous criminal record of molestation and assault. A fourth family member who was also involved in the altercation fled, police said.According to the police, around 9pm Friday, constable Pradeep was on duty with head constable Akash (both known only by their first names). A senior police officer said that when the two policemen neared the rear of Rahman building in Shahdara, they noticed that a group of people gathered there.“Constable Pradeep asked the group the reason for gathering and requested them to disperse. Because head constable Akash was still a few paces behind Pradeep, the group of men ignored him. When Pradeep threatened them with legal action, they started abusing him. Some of the men surrounded and thrashed him. They even tore his uniform,” the officer said.Akash jumped into the fray and both of them nabbed three of the group, while one fled. “We identified the men caught as Arun Singh, a driver, his father Raghuvir Ram and uncle Ram Pal. Arun’s brother Vishal Singh, also a driver, ran from the spot and efforts to arrest him are underway,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-held-for-assault-on-officer-in-shahdara/story-9BXi4xdkWA2WgVxje5omUP.html
19-07-2020||India||Rare long-billed dowitcher sighted in Sonepat||A rare sighting of a long-billed dowitcher at Mohammedabad village in Sonepat has triggered excitement among birders in Delhi-NCR, with experts saying this is the first sighting of the bird in the region since it was last seen at the Sultanpur National Park in 2013.Suresh Sharma, a veteran birder from Sonepat, spotted the long-billed dowitcher on Friday afternoon in a paddy field. “I saw the bird and took a photograph, realising that it didn’t look like any of the other birds in the marsh. I initially thought it was an Asian dowitcher, but closer scrutiny showed that it was actually a long-billed dowitcher,” Sharma said, adding that the bird was in its brighter, breeding plumage. Breeding adults of the species are known to have orange undersides, with varying black and white stripes around their necks and sides.Nikhil Devasar, a Delhi-based birder, explained that the long-billed dowitcher is a coastal bird that breeds in Central Asia before moving toward the tropics for the winter. “Shorelines are the bird’s natural habitat. The specimen Sharma spotted on Friday is likely a vagrant, as it is rarely seen in the plains. The last sighting in Delhi-NCR is from at least five or six years ago,” he said.The bird’s affinity for a shoreline habitat, birders said, is the reason for multiple sightings in India’s coastal states Kerala, Maharashtra and Gujarat, though it has also been previously seen in Punjab’s Harike region. Describing the sighting as a “lucky find”, Sharma said: “I don’t think I would have spotted the bird if it wasn’t for the rains. A downpour in Sonepat on Saturday has submerged a paddy field, creating the right marshy habitat that dowitchers prefer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-long-billed-dowitcher-sighted-in-sonepat/story-pPzuq5feLxuUYmVi2QMXPL.html
19-07-2020||India||BJP demands CBI probe into Rajasthan phone tap||Two days after the Congress party alleged that it has audio tapes purportedly containing conversations detailing a plot to topple the Rajasthan government, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded on Saturday a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into what it called a “saga of illegalities and concocted lies” and wondered whether the state adopted “unconstitutional” methods to tap into the phones of politicians.The Congress, which rules the desert state, hit back within hours, saying the BJP’s demand for a CBI probe amounted to “admission of guilt” and that it is attempting to “murder” the democracy. It reiterated that the BJP is behind former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion that has triggered a political crisis in the state. Also read: Audio tapes of ‘talks to topple Ashok Gehlot govt’ add to Rajasthan turmoilLater in the day, the ministry of home affairs sought a report from the Rajasthan chief secretary Rajeeva Swaroop on the allegations of phone tapping and asked him to provide details on the audio clips, an official said. At a press conference at the BJP headquarters in Delhi, party spokesperson Sambit Patra threw a volley of questions at the Congress. “Was phone tapping done? The Congress government in Rajasthan must answer. Is it not a sensitive and legal issue..?” he said.“Assuming that you’ve tapped phones, was the SOP [standard operating procedures] followed? The people of Rajasthan want to know whether their privacy has been compromised. Did the Congress government in Rajasthan use unconstitutional ways to save themselves when they found themselves cornered? Is phone of any person who is related to politics is being tapped?” Patra asked.The political tug of war intensified after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan Police registered two first information reports (FIRs) on Friday on a Congress complaint alleging a conspiracy to dislodge the government. The Congress demanded the arrest of Union water minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, rebel Congress legislator Bhanwarlal Sharma, and suspected middleman Sanjay Jain. Shekhawat denied it was his voice in the audio clips and the BJP dismissed them as “manufactured”. Also read: BJP refutes Congress’ claim of horse trading in Rajasthan, says audio tapes are fakeA court in Jaipur remanded Jain, who was arrested on Friday night, to four-day police custody. The SOG also filed an application seeking his voice samples. The team said it could not locate MLA Sharma. Like Shekhawat, Sharma too rejected the allegations. HT couldn’t independently verify the veracity of the tapes.At the press briefing, Patra reiterated that there is a feud within the Congress party, but the BJP is blamed for Rajasthan’s political crisis that erupted after Pilot and 18 Congress legislators owing allegiance to him rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot was removed from the posts of the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president earlier this week.Separately, former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje said it is unfortunate that the state’s people are paying for the discord within the Congress. She added that the Congress is trying to shift the blame on the BJP and the BJP leadership.“There is no point in trying to drag the BJP and BJP leaders’ names through the mud. It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount!” Raje said in a statement posted on Twitter.Hitting back, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told a virtual press conference that it is clear that the BJP is behind the rebellion by Pilot, whose camp is also believed to have the support of three independent legislators.“We all witnessed over the last week the daylight murder of democracy being attempted by the BJP, and every day a new layer comes out, exposing its direct links in creating a crisis in Rajasthan,” he alleged.“BJP’s only grievance is that when they were murdering democracy, why they were being recorded and if it was legal,” Khera said, in a swift response to Patra.That the rebel legislators were sheltered in a hotel in BJP-ruled Haryana proved the party’s link to the Rajasthan political crisis, Khera said. He also referred to the controversial audio tapes. “Everything is out there. A case was filed based on those recordings. The SOG of Rajasthan Police proceeded to Manesar to collect the voice samples of legislators [on Friday], but was blocked by Haryana police...then the legislators were made to leave quietly from the back door,” he added.Khera alleged that there were attempts to shift rebel Congress legislators to Karnataka, another BJP-ruled state.The state Congress leadership, too, claimed the BJP’s involvement in alleged attempts to topple the state government, and sought a reply from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Countering Patra, Rajasthan minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas accused him of being “a generator of lies”. “This is clear that BJP is involved in the conspiracy to topple the government. Our chief minister has said that he will quit politics if the audio tapes are proved to be fake..,” he said.Amid the political tussle, Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati said: “The governor [Kalraj Mishra] must take cognisance of the political deadlock and instability prevailing in Rajasthan, and should recommend imposition of President’s Rule in the state, so that the condition of democracy in the state does not deteriorate.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-rajasthan-phone-tap/story-YsxCwXZ3gam7oPxfQKIajI.html
19-07-2020||India||BJP leader shares dais with Bulandshahr violence accused||The photograph of a person — named in the violence that erupted after rumours of cow slaughter in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr in 2018 — with a local leader of the state’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has triggered a controversy.Shikhar Agarwal, the accused and a former leader of the BJP’s youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, has also been appointed the general secretary of the Bulandshahr unit of PM Jankalyankari Yojna Jagrukta Abhiyan (PMJYJA), a non-governmental organisation that works to spreads awareness about welfare schemes of the BJP-led Union government, according to the Opposition. Agarwal, 40, is one of the main accused in the Bulandshahr violence that led to the killing of inspector Subodh Kumar Singh by a mob. As many as 26 named and 60 unnamed persons were booked in the case. Agarwal was released last August after spending seven months in jail.BJP leaders in Bulandshahr have distanced themselves from Agarwal’s appointment. “PMJYJA is an NGO, which has no connection with the BJP...being an independent organisation, they can take their decisions,” said Sanjay Gurjar, general secretary of the BJP’s Bulandshahr district unit.Agarwal has been allegedly pictured with Bulandshahr BJP district unit chief Anil Sisodia on July 14 at an event in which new committee officials, including Agarwal, were handed out appointment letters. HT tried to reach out to PMJYJA’s district president Priytam Singh Prem and western UP president Yatendra Kumar Sain, but there was no response till the filing of this report.Congress leader Imran Masood said: “The appointment of Bulandshahar violence accused Shikhar Agarwal as general secretary of PMJYJA is an attempt to glorify an accused, which is unfortunate...”Violence erupted outside the Chingrawthi police post in Bulandshahr after an alleged incident of cow slaughter in Mahav village early December 2018. Sumit, a resident of Chnigrawthi, was killed in alleged police firing, and inspector Singh of Syana police station was allegedly shot dead. Villagers also set a police post on fire and torched vehicles. A special investigation team was formed to probe the incident and it arrested people by identifying them through available videos and photographs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-shares-dais-with-bulandshahr-violence-accused/story-8avE9TTeyPC1j4O79Q3rVK.html
19-07-2020||India||Multiple locations raided in gold smuggling case||The multi- agency team probing the Kerala gold smuggling case on Saturday raided multiple locations in the state and detained many for questioning, a senior officer familiar with the probe said on Saturday, adding the scope of the inquiry will be widened.“Without strong patronage such a thriving syndicate can’t function in the state. Our inquiry will cover terror angle, hawala and political and bureaucratic patronage also. This time we will get to the bottom of the racket,” said the official.The opposition parties in the state slammed the Left Democratic Front government in the state. The BJP said that the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was taking anticipatory bail since the probe reached his doors. “Role of two high-ranking officials in the CM’s office, his former secretary M Sivasankar and former IT fellow Arun Balachandran, are out. Now the CM can’t wash off his hands,” said Bharatiya Janata Party state president K Surendran. The state government suspended Sivasankar and Balachandran was also removed from his post as CM’s IT fellow earlier this week.Kerala Congress chief Mullapally Ramachandran also said, “Since powerful aides have gone it time for him to follow.” Facing heat from the opposition parties over the case, Vijayan said, “We have nothing to fear. Let the guilty be punished. Some people are in a race to arrive at a conclusion but their designs will be short-lived,” adding that there was a concerted bid to tarnish the image of the state government. The customs had seized 30 kg gold from a baggage addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. On July 10, the probe was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and many other central agencies are assisting it. It filed a First Information Report against four-- P Sarith Kumar , Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Fazil Fareed, an alleged smuggler from Ernakulum but based in the UAE . On July 15, it added one more name to the FIR: an alleged gold smuggler named KT Ramees.The NIA has so far arrested four people -- Kumar, Suresh, Nair and Ramees-- under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act while the customs department has arrested 10 persons , the official said adding Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Enforcement Directorate, Intelligence Bureau and Income Tax are part of the ongoing investigation.The NIA on Saturday requested Interpol to issue a blue corner notice against Faisal Fareed, another accused in the high-profile case. Meanwhile, a magistrate took the statement of the gunman of the UAE consulate who was found with his wrist slashed on Friday. But the customs suspect that his suicide bid was aimed at covering up his alleged link with the gold smuggling racket. A senior official of the customs said he will be questioned after his discharge from the hospital and his bank accounts and other details are under scrutiny now.He was working at the consular office for last three years and before this he was posted at the immigration department in Thiruvananthapuram airport. In the leaked call details of Swapna Suresh, second accused in the case, there were many calls to him. The state police had filed a cheating case against Suresh, PricewaterHouseCoopers (PwC) and a placement agency Vision Technology on July 13. During investigation it was found that Suresh had produced a fake degree certificate to secure at job at the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited, a state government undertaking. PwC and Vision Technology were authorised agencies responsible for verifying her educational documents, said the police. The case was registered under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) 465 forgery and 471 (using as genuine a forged document).When the case surfaced the PwC had distanced itself from Swapna Suresh’s appointment saying that they were no way related to her appointment.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multiple-locations-raided-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-RAcKjuCtkyB89RBDbDaGfI.html
19-07-2020||India||Heavy rainfall may trigger landslides in northeast, Bengal||Extremely heavy rains in the northeast could accentuate existing flood conditions and lead to landslides in some areas of the north-eastern states and sub-Himalayan West Bengal, India Meteorological Department said on Saturday.The met department has issued a red category warning for most of northeast including Assam and Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and sub Himalayan West Bengal on July 19, 20 and 21 and an orange category warning for entire north and northwest India including Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Uttarakhand for the same period. Red category warning indicates that local and disaster control authorities take action to prevent any flooding or landslide disasters. An orange category warning indicates that disaster management and local authorities should prepare for disaster control.“We have started impact based warnings for 12 cities in India including Delhi, Mumbai, Shimla, Dehradun, Shillong, Guwahati and others. When we have a consensus on the likely impact, we issue an impact-based warning. For example, in the northeast particularly Assam, the rivers are already overflowing so landslides and flooding is likely based on our assessments. The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has been emphasising that we alert people on the weather will do. The assessment is based on a multi hazard approach,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.According to WMO’s guidelines on multi-hazard impact based forecast, for impact forecast exposure is considered along with the hazard and vulnerability. These types of forecasts and warnings are designed to provide detailed information precisely on who or what is exposed. Jenamani gives the example of UK Met Office which uses past data of 30 years on natural calamities to issue impact based warnings.IMD for the first time this month has started issuing impact-based warning in its daily bulletins so that common people understand the significance of a particular weather forecast and take precautions accordingly. Earlier this month when Mumbai faced extremely heavy rains, IMD had warned of localised flooding; disruption of traffic and utilities. On Saturday, IMD warned of landslides in upper reaches and flooding as the impact of extremely heavy rains in the northeast.IMD in its Saturday bulletin said western part of monsoon trough lies south of its normal position and a cyclonic circulation lies over coastal Saurashtra and neighbourhood. This cyclonic circulation is likely to become less marked during next 24 hours. At the same time, the entire monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is also most likely to shift northwards closer to the foothills of the Himalayas between July 19 and 20. In addition, Interaction between mid-level westerlies and lower level easterlies from the Arabian Sea over northwest India is very likely to start from July 18. Convergence of moist southerly/southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal over northeast and adjoining east India will also begin from Saturday. The combination of these factors will bring widespread rains to northeast and parts of northwest India, IMD said.“Brahmaputra in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts and River Beki in Barpeta district are flowing in Severe flood situation with rising trend. Since most of the catchments in northeast India, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim are already saturated there is likelihood of continuation of floods in Severe to Extreme levels for the next 3-4 days. Maximum vigil has to be maintained along the banks of all rivers,” the Central Water Commission warned on Friday.Monsoon rains in the country are 8% excess as on Saturday; 11% excess over east and northeast India; -17% deficiency over northwest India; 14% excess over central India; 17% excess over south Peninsular India.“Its very good news that IMD has started issuing impact based forecasts. Until now their forecasts were based on meteorological parameters in terms of say how much it’s going to rain or how hot it may be. But now impact based forecast will consider local infrastructure and impact on people,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-may-trigger-landslides-in-n-e-bengal/story-fFbQEdhvNK388NjtXTDYdM.html
19-07-2020||India||Forensic experts recreate Vikas Dubey encounter scene||Kanpur: Forensic experts on Saturday examined the scenes of the killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and his aide, Prabhat Mishra, to verify details provided in two First Information Reports (FIRs) filed in connection with the incidents, officials aware of the matter said.The Uttar Pradesh police said Dubey was killed in retaliatory firing on July 10 when a special team was trying to recapture him when he fled after a car bringing him from Madhya Pradesh, where he was arrested for his alleged involvement in the July 3 killing of eight policemen in Kanpur, overturned after an accident. Politicians, former police officers, and rights groups have demanded a probe into Dubey’s killing, saying the police version of what happened did not add up. Five people linked to Dubey were killed between July 3 and July 9.The officials said senior analyst AK Srivastava headed the experts’ team, whose reconstruction lasted till Saturday evening. A Special Task Force (STF) team, led by its Kanpur unit chief Tej Bahadur Singh, accompanied the experts. Singh and his team demonstrated how Dubey fled after the vehicle carrying him skidded and how he was chased, they added.The officials said the experts were shown the positions the policemen took after spotting Dubey in Sachendi and Mishra in Bhauti. Singh showed the experts how he fired at Dubey and how he fell, they added.Prabhat Mishra, who was one of 22 accused in the Kanpur shoot-out, was arrested from Faridabad before he was killed. Srivastava, who is ballistics experts, told reporters the crime scenes were re-created scientifically to verify the details mentioned in two FIRs the STF has filed and evidence available. “Our local units have already done the groundwork earlier. Every aspect will be analysed in a scientific way,” he saidThe team on Friday recreated scenes of the killings in Kashi Ram Nivada village of Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey.Senior police superintendent (Kanpur) Dinesh Kumar P said they were also part of the reconstruction and explained their roles to the team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forensic-experts-recreate-vikas-dubey-encounter-scene/story-aZHc51OLCwO4NfaHoM5sjI.html
19-07-2020||India||Exams contribute to lifelong credibility: UGC||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Saturday said 194 universities in the country have conducted final-year exams for graduating students while calling examinations an integral part of the education system and a measure of learning and competencies of students.“The performance in examinations contributes to merit, lifelong credibility, wider global acceptability for admissions, scholarships, awards, placements, and better future prospects. A large number of best universities across the world, including [in the] US, UK, Canada, Germany, Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong..., have conducted or are conducting examinations by giving various options such as online, offline, blended or other alternative forms of examinations,” UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said in a statement.The statement comes even as states like Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi had expressed their inability in conducting the exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Institutions like the Delhi University have tried to conduct exams but have faced opposition from students and parents with some citing digital divide in case of online tests.UGC, the higher education regulator, on July 6 asked universities and colleges to hold their final-year, or final-semester examinations, by September 30 after the Union home ministry gave the go-ahead for them.The statement cited the pandemic and said it was difficult to conduct the examinations in July. Therefore, as per the directions of the Union home and human resources development ministers as well as recommendations from an expert panel, UGC issued the revised guidelines for examination and academic calendar on July 6, the statement added.The statement said the universities were accordingly required to chart out plans for completion of the examinations by the end of September.The examinations can be held either online, or offline (pen and paper), or using a combination of both. For students other than those in the final year, universities and colleges can choose their own exam method to close the academic session. Colleges and universities have been closed in the country since March 16 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The guidelines said in case students are unable to appear in the examinations for whatsoever the reasons, they may be given an opportunity to appear in special exams later.The statement said UGC has got responses from 755 universities, including 321 state Universities, on the status of exams and 560 of them have either conducted the examination or are planning to hold them. It said 194 of them have held examinations and 366 are planning to conduct them in August and September. In the case of 27 private universities set up in 2019-20, they do not have final year students yet and do not have to hold the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exams-contribute-to-lifelong-credibility-ugc/story-iRbRlPpPME51eZy0qg3oEI.html
19-07-2020||India||Old coronavirus infections may boost Covid-19 immunity: Study||Some people who have never been exposed to the new coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 may have an immune system prepared to respond to it because of previous infections from other coronaviruses, according to a new study that can potentially offer clues to building immunity against Covid-19.Published in the journal Nature on July 15, the study by researchers from Singapore reports some people have T-cells that recognise both proteins on the virus called structural or nucleocapsid protein, and non-structural viral proteins (NSP) produced within an infected cell. T-cells are a type of white blood cell that recognise infections within a cell and kill it.“We characterised Sars-CoV2 specific T-cells in Covid-19 and Sars (the 2003 outbreak) convalescents and uninfected healthy individuals,” said study co-author Dr Antonio Bertolleti, a professor of emerging infectious diseases at Duke-Nus Medical School in Singapore, in an email. Those who recovered from Covid-19 had T-cells that recognised structural proteins more efficiently than NSPs. Additionally, those infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), which is also caused by a coronavirus, 17 years ago also had T-cells that reacted to these proteins, suggesting induced cross reactive cellular immunity. Also read | Chronic liver disease can add risk of death: Study“In our study, more than 50% of (37) uninfected healthy individuals demonstrate the presence of Sars-CoV2 specific T cells. Importantly, these T cells recognize more frequently sequences of non-structural proteins found only in animal coronaviruses. Thus, a large part of the population possess Sars-Cov2-specific T cells, likely induced by other coronaviruses,” said Dr Bertoletti. “One possible implication of our findings is that many subjects might have a level of progress T-cell reactivity that might partially protect them.”Experts, however, say the results are not surprising. “On average, 20% of the common cold is because of coronaviruses already endemic in the human population. Sars-CoV-2 shares about 80% sequence identity with Sars-CoV-1 and 50% with other coronaviruses. So there are proteins made by all of these viruses that have common sequences,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and CEO of Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance. The Sars outbreak in 2003 largely spared India but more research is needed. “There may have been coronaviruses, maybe innocuous, in the past in the country, but we don’t have research. I have been asking those searching for IgG (antibodies) as to how do they know if it is of Sars-CoV-2 and not of any other coronavirus in the background?” said Sudhanshu Vrati, executive director of the regional centre for biotechnology, Faridabad.Also read: India added last quarter million Covid-19 cases in just 8 days, 3 states added 55.7% patientsThe study has implications on vaccine development. “People who are given inactivated virus vaccines that have fewer viral proteins, are more likely to generate neutralising antibodies and some T-cell response. T-cell response is higher and longer if you use the live virus vaccine. But it is difficult to make a live vaccine,” said Vrati.Noted drug developer Derek Lowe, who reviewed the paper, said vaccine development may have to be driven by T-cell immunity. “(It) is perhaps the way to reconcile the apparent paradox between (1) antibody responses that seem to be dropping week by week in convalescent patients but (2) few (if any) reliable reports of actual re-infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/old-coronavirus-infections-may-boost-covid-19-immunity-study/story-qt3NBea456RJR1Dcf05x5M.html
19-07-2020||India||Chronic liver disease can add risk of death in Covid-19 patients: Study||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients with chronic liver conditions such as hepatitis B or C and fatty liver have higher chances of death and prolonged stay in intensive care units, found the Asia Pacific Covid-19 Liver Injury Spectrum Study conducted across 13 countries, including India. Forty-three percent of those who were in the advanced stages of the disease with cirrhosis or scarring due to the ailments died of Covid-19, according to the study recently published in the Hepatology International. This is much higher than the 3 to 5% mortality rate in the general population.Among those with liver disease, the mortality was nearly twice among those with cirrhosis as compared to those without cirrhosis – 33% against 16.3%. About 20% of those with cirrhosis went into liver failure, according to the study.Also read: India added last quarter million Covid-19 cases in just 8 days, 3 states added 55.7% patients“We found that if the bilirubin count is high meaning a patient is jaundiced then they have high mortality. Hence, the treating physicians must account for underlying liver disease other than conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, cancer and heart disease. And, monitor the liver enzymes closely,” said lead author Dr Shiv Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi.“Also, the liver enzymes must be checked routinely for Covid-19 patients as many with chronic liver disease are unaware of it. The doctors must watch out for risk factors like obesity, diabetes, gall stones, high triglycerides and alcohol consumption given the high prevalence of metabolism related fatty liver disease – about one in four people in the country has it,” said Dr Sarin.The study which observed the health and mortality in 228 patients with chronic liver diseases over 28 days, also found that these patients are at an increased risk of acute liver injury when they get Covid-19. The observation of the patient records showed that those without cirrhosis or scarring developed acute liver injury in the second week or early third week of the infection, but in the first week itself in cirrhotic patients.Over 32% of the patients with cirrhosis had acute liver injury with Covid-19 as compared to 5.7% to 18% patients without cirrhosis. Along with the liver diseases, diabetes emerged to be one of the main risk factors for developing the liver injury – with 57.7% diabetics getting acute liver injury as compared to 39.7% of those without diabetes.Also read: COVID-19 Statistics for IndiaComplications of the liver and otherwise in Covid-19 patients with chronic liver disease resulted in longer ICU stay, the study found.“Although the liver has ACE2 receptors that are used by the Sars-Cov-2 to enter the cells, the study shows that those with healthy livers are likely to get away with minor changes in their liver enzymes. However, in those already with chronic liver disease, it worsens with about 20% of those with cirrhosis ending up in liver failure,” said Dr AS Soin, one of the co-authors and chairman of the Liver Institute at Medanta hospital in Gurugram.A strict monitoring of the liver parameters could help the doctors in understanding who is progressing towards the severe disease. It showed that the non-survivors had a high liver enzyme ratio of above 1.4 and the bilirubin level remained elevated at more than 9 mg/dl till death in non-survivors, the study showed.While the true burden of liver disease is not known, the study says it accounts for 4.6% of all deaths.“Those who have advanced liver disease and are in need of transplants must not delay it. As the study shows the mortality is extremely high – 43% -- among these patients. Initially, many thought that the infection would go away in a couple of months and had recommended delaying transplants. But, as the study shows, it could be life-saving in such patients. In fact, data from the Asia Pacific Association for the study of the Liver that did the trial and two other registries of liver patients shows that the mortality among those who have undergone transplants is just slightly higher than the general population,” said Dr Soin.“What we have learnt is the dosage of immunosupressants needs to be tapered down in those who get the infection early post transplant; nothing needs to be done who get it months or years after the transplant. All seven of my transplant patients who got it months to years after their transplant and two who got it right after the transplant survived,” he added.Dr Sanjay Negi, liver transplant surgeon at BL Kapur hospital, Delhi, said “Just as this study shows, it is very important to monitor the liver enzymes in Covid-19 patients. This is especially true because liver is the only organ that can regenerate after an injury so patients do not show symptoms of a liver disease till the liver is about 80% damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chronic-liver-disease-can-add-risk-of-death-study/story-EmPEA8U9odaruYDZvH6j6H.html
19-07-2020||India||Haven’t spoken to Sachin Pilot in 18 months: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has accused Sachin Pilot of plotting to topple his government from day one and said he was not on talking terms with his former deputy since the Congress returned to power in the state 18 months back. He maintained he will welcome Pilot with open arms if he chose to return. “He was three-year-old when I became MP [member of Parliament] for the first time. I have ties with his family going back decades. I will welcome him with a hug.”Gehlot said there was no dialogue between them over the last year and a half. “A minister who does not talk to the chief minister, does not take his advice, keeps no dialogue with him... There can be opposition but the dialogue is necessary for a democracy,” he said in an interview to a TV channel.Gehlot said Pilot initially wanted to join the BJP but the lawmakers loyal to him were unwilling to do so. He added that is when he thought of forming a third front, a new party, and “finish the Congress in Rajasthan”.Gehlot maintained he has the support of over 100 lawmakers in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly while Pilot has just 2-15 with him. “My government is sitting with over 100 MLAs [members of the legislative assembly] but you want to topple that and want to form a government with the support of the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party]. People will never forgive you,” Gehlot said.He called the entire matter unfortunate and added the internal quarrel should have been resolved internally. “If you do politics in connivance with your rivals, then what is left in a democracy?”The Rajasthan police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) on July 11 issued a notice to Pilot to record his statement a day after it registered a case against two BJP members for allegedly trying to bribe legislators to topple the state government. The notice triggered the ongoing political crisis with Pilot calling it Gehlot’s attempt to “humiliate” him.Gehlot said 10 to 12 notices, including one to him, were served but an environment was being created that “poor Pilot” has got a notice. “Our party is the complainant and 10-12 notices have been served. We have not named him. We have said there was a conspiracy by the BJP to topple the government. Why is he going around giving clarifications?” asked Gehlot.Gehlot said Pilot and lawmakers loyal to him planned to rebel on June 10. He added he learnt about their plan, thwarted it, and kept all the lawmakers at a resort. “They were planning to leave at 2 am. I had to save the government. I woke up all collectors at 1 am and I asked all party leaders to reach Jaipur the next day and almost all of them reached. Then these people realised the truth and started saying there was no conspiracy and there was no need for placing MLAs under lockdown. But I had proof then and I have proof now.”He asked the younger leaders to show patience and trust their leaders. “You should not betray the party. The party has given you so much.”Gehlot said he has been a three-time central minister, three-time state party chief, three-time Congress general secretary, and three-time chief minister because he rose through the ranks. “Our generation leaders worked hard and stayed loyal to the party and its ideology and so we are where we are today.”Gehlot said he became the chief minister because people wanted it and eventually the Congress high command backed him. “If I had felt that the public and MLAs were not with me, I would have myself told the high command.”He called the suggestions that the seniors should retire irrelevant. “We too were juniors when we joined and we are still active today. Now people say they should sit at home. If we leave politics, what will we do?” Gehlot said he supports Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s statement that those who want to leave are welcome to go. “Those who want to leave should leave. Those who do not have a commitment towards the party... they are liabilities who are just waiting to grab posts... those who are committed do not get a chance. Those who are opportunists and traitors, if they leave then a new form of the party will come forth.”He rejected suggestions that the departure of leaders perceived to be close to Gandhi put a question mark on the latter’s leadership. “There is no question mark on his leadership but on the thought process of these leaders [who have left].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haven-t-spoken-to-pilot-in-18-months-gehlot/story-yZbHcbeAnxhTTGd8l8qajK.html
19-07-2020||India||India begins study on BCG vaccine impact on Covid-19||The Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (ICMR-NIRT) has initiated a multi-centric study to see if tuberculosis vaccine, Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG), can reduce the severity of Covid-19 among people aged 60 and above residing in hot spots for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, said the Union health ministry release issued on Saturday.The study will involve around 1,000 healthy volunteers above 60 years of age in six states that have reported a high Covid-19 disease burden so far. “A lot is being talked about the protective effect of BCG vaccine in terms of Covid-19. This study was in the pipeline for some time and now we have begun the process. It is being done to generate India-specific evidence,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.Also read| Old coronavirus infections may boost Covid-19 immunity: StudyThe inexpensive and widely used BCG vaccine, which protects against childhood tuberculosis, could also prevent severe infection and deaths in some Covid-19 patients, concluded two peer-reviewed studies released recently. One of the studies was led by researchers from New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). The second study conducted in the US was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. It also linked BCG vaccination with reduced Covid-19 deaths.Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Delhi are the states where the ICMR-NIRT study has been planned, and where the trial subjects will be picked from. The study will be done in collaboration with the Greater Chennai Corporation and the public health department In Tamil Nadu.The study will focus on whether the BCG vaccine can prevent the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 infection and its progression and deaths associated with Covid-19 in the elderly population. The BCG vaccine administered to newborns as a part of the national immunisation programme for over 50 years in the country will be used for the study.Preset criteria will decide the eligibility of a volunteer to participate in the study and the approximately 1,000 participants enrolled for it will be followed closely for six months post-vaccination.Also read: Centre frames rules for Covid care centres in gated colonies“Those who got BCG vaccination, not just in India but in other countries, are more protected than those who were not [vaccinated], shows this analysis of data for countries with over 1,000 reported cases. We think BCG-mediated immune response would help in lowering both incidence and severity of infection,” said Gobardhan Das, the author of the JNU study. Das is the chairperson of JNU’s Centre for Molecular Medicine.Around 100 million children around the world get the BCG vaccine annually. In India, BCG vaccination of children began in 1949. The vaccine protects against disseminated tuberculosis and meningitis in childhood. But it does not offer protection from adult pulmonary tuberculosis, which has led to several countries discontinuing its use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-study-on-bcg-vaccine-impact-on-covid-19/story-UG70g0qxgu6dp7XWiEVbiN.html
19-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot meets governor, sparks speculation; Raj Bhavan terms it courtesy call||Amidst a political tug of war in the state, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot called on governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday evening in what the Raj Bhavan termed a courtesy call. But a government official, who did not want to be named said, Gehlot apart from discussing the coronavirus disease outbreak and the state’s efforts to contain it, also wanted to take up the possibility of holding a special assembly session in the 45-minute meeting.The official privy to the CM’s meeting with governor said Gehlot apprised Mishra of the current political situation. The agenda of the special session, if it happens, is not known, the official said. As per rules, the governor has to notify holding of the session on the recommendation of the cabinet.The meeting comes on the day two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs said they will back Gehlot in the power tussle with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who has rebelled with 18 Congress legislators. The Pilot camp also has the support of three independents. These MLAs are believed to be camping in Gurugram.Gehlot, on the other hand, has the support of 101 MLAs (86 from the Congress, 10 independent and 5 from other parties) — the majority mark in the 200-member state assembly. The CM’s supporters are in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur. In addition to this, there are two other Congress MLAs — speaker CP Joshi and Bhawarlal Meghwal, who is indisposed.The meeting also comes at a time when the Rajasthan high court is hearing a petition by the Pilot camp, which has challenged the Speaker’s disqualification notices to the dissidents. Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs got a four-day breather on Friday as the HC directed that no action be taken against them until Tuesday over their failure to attend a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the meeting could give a signal to people and Gehlot’s opponents that the CM is confident about his numbers and wants to seek a trust vote. “The meeting indicates that an assembly session might be called to deal with the issue...which could later change in to a floor test. It looks like a strategic move,” he said.The petition by the Pilot camp challenged the speaker’s notice, which was based on a complaint by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, that the rebel MLAs should be disqualified from the assembly for defying an order asking all party legislators to be present at CLP meetings on Monday and Tuesday. All 19 MLAs skipped both the meetings. In the high court, the Pilot camp said the whip cannot apply when an assembly session is not in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-s-meeting-with-guv-sparks-speculation/story-WhcU3WpZdyxoDINIaIszFO.html
19-07-2020||India||India added last quarter million Covid-19 cases in just 8 days, 3 states added 55.7% patients||On July 16, India became only the third country in the world to reach the grim milestone of one million confirmed Covid-19 cases. The United States and Brazil are the other two countries who have crossed this mark. What was the progress of the infection like in India?The journey to a million cases took 137 days since March 2, but each quarter of that million has come at a faster pace. The first 2.5 lakh cases took 98 days. Cases in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi – which have the highest number of cumulative Covid-19 cases in the country – constituted 57% of all cases at the time. This was similar to their share in deaths: 58%.The next quarter of a million cases took less than three weeks (19 days). The case fatality rate (CFR) or the ratio of Covid-19 deaths to cases had climbed from 2.8% at the time of 2.5 lakh cases to 3.1 at this point.The share of the ‘Big Three’ states in total cases stood at 60%, while their share in Covid-19 deaths was 67%. The share of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi in total cases had climbed down slightly (59%) by July 8, when India was 2.5 lakh cases short of hitting the million mark. The country-wide CFR was down too, to 2.8% at this point. The share in deaths of the three states with the most case load, however, was at 68%.On the day India hit the million mark – it took just eight days for the country to record the last quarter of that million – the top three states accounted for 55.7% cases.  States other than the top three are now seeing a rise in cases ,particularly in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. The slowing down of new cases in Delhi or Tamil Nadu of late could be one of the reasons why their share in country-wide deaths, too, has come down from late June and early July. The figure stood at 66% on the morning after India hit the one million mark.Data sourced from How India Lives||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-last-quarter-million-covid-19-cases-in-just-8-days-3-states-added-55-7-patients/story-vtbYYBobpxfi5Q0HJY0tMK.html
19-07-2020||India||Follow ‘raj dharma’, speak truth on LAC: Cong to PM||New Delhi: The Congress on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow “raj dharma” and tell people the reality about China’s incursions as it cited satellite images of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso area taken in May and June and added that they showed Chinese structures had come up there.Addressing a digital news briefing, Congress leader Kapil Sibal asked Modi to “at least speak the truth” about it and take steps to protect the Indian territory. He was referring to Modi’s remarks at an all-party meeting on May 19 that no intruder was on Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and that no Indian military post had been captured.The Prime Minister’s Office on June 20 clarified Modi’s remarks and added they were being given a “mischievous interpretation”. It said Modi was clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress LAC.Sibal said councillors from Ladakh, including those from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), submitted a memorandum to Modi in February, giving details about China’s capture of Indian land. “What action did the Prime Minister take? Had the Prime Minister acted, wouldn’t we have been able to pre-empt the brazen Chinese transgressions?” Modi on Friday made a surprise unscheduled visit to Ladakh, where he said the “era of expansionism” was over, to send a signal to China about India’s determination to defend its borders.Sibal asked Modi to stop the politics of “illusion and delusion” and added India should unequivocally tell China to retreat. He posed five questions to Modi. Sibal asked whether the actual picture of “Chinese occupation of our territory” up to the Finger 4 Ridge in the Pangong Tso area depicts the truth. “They say pictures do not lie. Will the Prime Minister now tell the nation: is this Indian territory on which radars, helipad and other structures have been built by the Chinese in a brazen act of transgression?” asked Sibal. “Have the Chinese occupied our territory in the Galwan Valley, including Patrol Point 14, where our 20 jawans of the 16 Bihar Regiment made the supreme sacrifice [on June 15]? Has China also occupied Indian territory in Hot Springs?”Sibal asked whether China has occupied territory up to Y-Junction in the Depsang plains, threatening India’s strategic Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip, the lifeline for the military supplies to the Siachen Glacier and Karakoram pass. He referred to Modi’s comments about expansionism and that this is not India of 1962 when the two countries fought a war. Sibal added that then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru wrote to China, saying India will never submit to the demand for it to accept the Chinese 1959 line, whatever the consequences and however long and hard the struggle may be. “Paradoxically, the 1959 line clearly depicted the entire Galwan Valley in India and it was only on June 16, a day after the fatal clashes, that China formally laid claim, for the first time ever, to the entire Valley.”Sibal said late former PMs Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri also visited forward locations to boost the morale of Indian soldiers. “But it appears that our Prime Minister stayed 230km away in Nimu, Leh.”Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said patriotic Ladakhis were raising their voice against Chinese intrusion and asked the government to listen to them. “They are screaming a warning. Ignoring their warning will cost India dearly. For India’s sake, please listen to them,” he tweeted. Gandhi shared a media report showing some Ladakhis alleging that the Chinese have been occupying the Indian territory.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi brushed aside the Congress’s criticism, saying it is indulging in an irresponsible behaviour when the country is facing challenges. “Even people within the Congress would be surprised at this behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-raj-dharma-speak-truth-on-lac-cong-to-pm/story-NFb48ku5OEnWQ1vIoc9ywN.html
