22-07-2020||India||SC issues notice to Prashant Bhushan in contempt case||New DelhiThe Supreme Court on Wednesday initiated contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for accusing the judiciary of destroying democracy and keeping courts closed during the lockdown in two of his tweets in two tweets last month.Issuing notice to Bhushan to respond by August 5, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said, “We are, prima facie, of the view that the aforesaid statements on Twitter have brought the administration of justice into disrepute and are capable of undermining the dignity and authority of the Institution of Supreme Court in general and the office of the Chief Justice of India in particular, in the eyes of public at large.”Twitter Inc. was also made a contemnor by the Court along with Bhushan. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, appearing for Twitter Inc told the Court that a tweet can be “disabled” only on a judicial order. “We are an independent platform unable to disable the tweet without an order from a Court.” When he asked the Court to pass an order to this effect, the bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said: “Why should we direct? On your own you should have done it.” Poovayya told the Court that he would consult with Twitter and respond by the next date. The Court has also issued notice to Attorney General KK Venugopal for assisting in this case.Bhushan did not appear in court and was not represented by any lawyer. The Court order took note of the first tweet dated June 27, which was also carried in a national daily and the subsequent one on June 29, against which the Court received a petition for initiating contempt. The first tweet said the last four chief justices of India had played a role in the destruction of democracy. The second tweet was aimed at current CJI SA Bobde. Captioning a picture showing CJI sitting on a bike, Bhushan’s tweet, now part of the order, said: “CJI rides a 50 Lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan Nagpur, without a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC in Lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Against this tweet, the court received a petition filed by Mahek Maheshwari on July 9. The matter was taken up on the administrative side. The court found that the Attorney General’s consent as required under the 1975 Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court was not obtained. It was then decided to take up the matter as a suo moto petition on the judicial side to “pass appropriate orders”. the order of the Court said.This is the third contempt petition Bhushan will face. The first refers to a 2010 interview by Bhushan to Tehelka magazine alleging half of the previous 16 CJIs were corrupt. The hearing on this matter began in 2010 ; it was last heard in 2012. After a gap of eight years, this matter is listed for hearing on Friday before a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. Bhushan’s father and former Law Minister Shanti Bhushan intervened in this matter and filed a sealed cover giving instances of corruption against former CJIs.Last year, in a tweet on February 1, 2019, Bhushan accused the Centre of misleading the court on the decision to appoint M Nageswara Rao as interim Director of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Bhushan claimed that the High Powered Committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not decide on Rao as told to the court by Attorney General. Although he has apologised for the tweet, two contempt petitions by the Attorney General and the Union of India are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-to-prashant-bhushan-in-contempt-case/story-KGsdOBwjJ5YUd1RTO8cSDN.html
22-07-2020||India||Pak files plea seeking a lawyer for Jadhav||Islamabad: The Pakistani government on Wednesday filed a petition in the Islamabad high court seeking a lawyer for former Indian naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav to file a review petition against the death sentence awarded to him for alleged espionage. This comes days after India said two Indian officials, who met Jadhav on Thursday last when Pakistan provided second consular access to him since he was detained in March 2016, could not engage him on his legal rights. India said the two were prevented from obtaining Jadhav’s written consent for arranging his legal representation.In its petition, the Pakistani government submitted Jadhav, 50, has refused to engage a lawyer and file a petition. It added it is in “the national interest” that a legal representative is appointed on behalf of Jadhav for the review of his conviction and sentence, and for Pakistan to comply with the International Court of Justice (ICJ)’s order.The ICJ last year ordered Pakistan to provide consular access to Jadhav and review his death sentence by a Pakistani military tribunal. A Pakistani ordinance, promulgated ostensibly to comply with ICJ’s order, envisages an Indian consular official filing the review petition. The Pakistan government cited the ordinance and said Jhadav has a short period of time left to file an appeal. So far, neither Jadhav nor the Indian government, through its high commission in Islamabad, have filed a petition, it added.The two Indian officials on Thursday last met Jadhav to discuss filing the review petition in the high court against his death sentence.The meeting ended inconclusively with New Delhi accusing Islamabad of breaching its assurance of providing unimpeded access to Jadhav. The ministry of external affairs said when two Indian consular officials went to meet him, they found Pakistani officials with “an intimidating demeanour” near Jadhav and a camera being used to record the conversation. It added Pakistan’s “obstructive and insincere” approach during the meeting violated its assurance to the ICJ to implement the 2019 judgment. India said Pakistan has also failed to act in accordance with its own ordinance.Pakistan on Thursday reiterated its accusations that Jadhav was arrested in Balochistan in March 2016, and “confessed” to his involvement in terror activities. India has dismissed such charges and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani intelligence operatives from Iran’s Chabahar port, where he was running a business.ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan had violated Jadhav’s rights under the Vienna Convention. It stayed his execution and called on Islamabad to take all steps for an “effective review and reconsideration” of his sentence, including “enacting appropriate legislation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-files-plea-seeking-a-lawyer-for-jadhav/story-yEx9OHc3LLA4kM31XA5YGK.html
22-07-2020||India||BJP leaders trying to topple govt, Gehlot writes to Modi||JaipurRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and some other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were part of a conspiracy to topple his government in Rajasthan at a time the Centre and state should be working together to fight Covid-19.Chief minister Gehlot’s letter comes in the backdrop of his former deputy Sachin Pilot’s revolt against his government along with 18 Congress lawmakers. He wrote that a “very ambitious leader of our party” was also involved in the alleged attempt to topple the government.Gehlot added that the leaders involved in the attempts to bring down his government included Congress lawmaker Bhanwar Lal Sharma, who also allegedly tried to dislodge Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s Bharatiya Janata Party government by trying to bribe MLAs in 1996.The Congress has suspended Bhanwarlal Sharma and another MLA, Vishvendra Singh, both from the Pilot camp, from the primary membership of the party for their alleged involvement in the conspiracy.“Then, I as state Congress chief, personally met then [Rajasthan] governor Baliram Bhagat and then prime minister Narsimha Rao and protested that by the horse trading elected government was being toppled [and that it] is against the democratic values,” he said.BJP’s Rajasthan president Satish Poonia said the language used by the Rajasthan chief minister in his letter showed that the state government was in minority. In response to Gehlot’s letter, Poonia wrote an “open letter”, saying the Rajasthan CM and his party were responsible for “anarchism and instability” prevailing in the state and they were instead blaming the BJP “without any reason”.Gehlot said he was saddened that when the Centre and the state should be saving livelihoods of people, the ruling party at the Centre was regularly trying to topple Congress governments, ignoring its Covid-19 management priorities. “The same accusation was levelled when the Madhya Pradesh government fell during Covid and it gave a bad name to your party,” he said.Gehlot said the spirit of the anti-defection law passed in 1985, when Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister, and amended under Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s leadership at the Centre was being violated. He added that attempts were being made to destabilise democratically elected states governments.He expressed confidence that truth will prevail and his government will complete its full term. “I am not aware till what extent you are aware of this information or else you are being misled,” Gehlot said, citing examples of Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, where he said democratically elected governments were toppled through horse trading.The Congress has alleged Shekhawat’s voice can be heard in audio tapes purportedly recording conversations detailing a plot to topple the state government. Shekhawat has denied the charge and said he is ready for a probe.Sharma, too, has denied allegations against him, calling them fake.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek accused Gehlot of trying to misguide the people through the letter and sought evidence of the allegations in it. “This letter is politically motivated and to misguide the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-trying-to-topple-govt-gehlot-writes-to-modi/story-o7VskJgI1iLGnsdZzd7tjK.html
22-07-2020||India||Covid-19 wipes off entire Odisha family, wife returns to empty house||A woman in Odisha’s Covid epicentre of Ganjam district did manage to defeat the virus, but she came back to an empty home having lost her husband and in-laws to the disease.Anuradha Panigrahi of Digapahandi block in Ganjam district returned home from hospital a few days ago after recovering from Covid-19 but was left with no joy after learning that her husband Jitendra has succumbed to the virus at a Covid hospital in Berhampur town on July 20.A few days before that, her father-in-law Krushna Chandra Patra and mother-in-law Janaki Patra, too, had succumbed to the virus at the hospital.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Jitendra, his wife and his parents had visited a primary school on July 9 to get their swabs tested. The next day they were admitted to a Covid hospital after their tests came positive. On July 15, his mother Janaki was the first to succumb to the disease, followed by his father Krushna Chandra on July 18. Jitendra passed away on July 20,” said his friend Siba Prasad Rath.Jitendra used to run an electronics shop at Digapahandi market.Ganjam has so far reported 6,362 cases of coronavirus and 62 deaths, the highest among all the 30 districts of the state. With 98 per cent of its cases being reported from outside the quarantine centres, experts fear the district is vulnerable to entering the community transmissions phase of the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-wipes-off-entire-odisha-family-wife-returns-to-empty-house/story-iS6iCN8CZIjY80qnruKXPJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Telangana govt orders closure of 100-yr-old Osmania General Hospital, new building likely to come up||The Telangana government on Wednesday ordered closure of the century-old building of Osmania General Hospital that was inundated with rain and sewerage water last week, drawing a lot of criticism from opposition parties.In a letter to the hospital superintendent, Telangana Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy asked him to vacate the building and shift the patients to other wards (in adjacent blocks).The DME ordered that the old building should be closed and sealed after intimation to his office. He said no activity will be undertaken in the building hereafter. “Any deviation from the above instructions will be viewed seriously,” Reddy said in the letter.President of Telangana Medical and Health Gazetted Officers’ Association Jupally Rajender said the process of shifting the patients and offices of the doctors in the OGH building had already commenced and it would be completed soon.“The building is dilapidated and is crumbling. We can’t take the risk of continuing the hospital in it,” Rajender said.In all, six wards and two operation theatres have been moved into new buildings in the same campus to prevent any untoward incident as the structure is crumbling. “The decision was taken to avert any accidents and in the best interest of patients,” in-charge superintendent of OGH Dr Pandu Naik said.The decision of the government to close down the OGH has lent credence to the apprehensions that the Telangana government is planning to demolish the OGH building, which is a notified heritage structure.Ever since heavy rains that lashed Hyderabad resulted in flooding of several wards in the hospital last week, there have been representations to the government from a section of doctors and some associations demanding that the old heritage structure be demolished to pave the way for a new multi-storeyed hospital complex.The members of the Telangana State Government Doctors Association who formed a Joint Action Committee (JAC) have been staging a dharna in front of the hospital for the last two days demanding that the government construct a new building on the OGH campus.The OGH is one of the oldest and largest hospitals in India constructed during the Nizam’s reign. While it started as the Afzal Gunj hospital in 1866 AD, the present hospital building was completed in 1919 on orders of the last Nizam of Hyderabad, Mir Osman Ali Khan. It was designed by British architect Vincent Jerome Esch and Nawab Khan Bahadur Mirza Akbar Baig in the Indo-Sarcenic style.In 2015, Telangana chief minster K Chandrashekhar Rao announced a plan to demolish the building. This sparked outrage among heritage activists, and he immediately retracted the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-orders-closure-of-100-yr-old-osmania-general-hospital-new-building-likely-to-come-up/story-WcgdM11EVNtoKKVpfsdNoM.html
22-07-2020||India||Tripura BJP MLA, wife and personal guards test Covid-19 positive||Tripura Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Rampada Jamatia tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Jamatia is the first public representative to have tested positive with coronavirus in the state. Besides Jamatia, who is also a vice-president of the BJP, his wife and his two personal guards were, too, found to be positive for the virus infection. They are undergoing treatment in a hospital. Jamàtia is an MLA from Bagma constituency of Gomati district in the state. “MLA & @BJP4Tripura Vice President Shri Rampada Jamatia, his wife and his 2 PG found COVID-19 #POSITIVE. They have been admitted to CCC & a team of specialised doctors are taking care of them. I pray to Mata Tripurasundari for their speedy recovery,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted on Wednesday. The state has registered a total of 3,094 Covid-19 positive cases so far, including 1,926 patients who have recovered. Eight Covid-19 patients have died in the state and another patient died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-bjp-mla-wife-and-personal-guards-test-covid-19-positive/story-4XDmnsRgJyV4JtH7y5kvkJ.html
22-07-2020||India||India can power post-Covid-19 global recovery, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday made a forceful pitch for foreign investment telling some of America’s top business and political leaders India has “what is needed to power the global economic recovery” from the ravages of the Covid-19 pandemic and there was a never better time to invest there.It was time, the prime minister said to them, for India and the United States to work in partnership to play “important role in helping the world bounce back faster after the pandemic”.“We have what is needed to power the global economic recovery,” Modi said, addressing the annual summit of the US-India Business Council (USIBC, a trade body)) virtually, pitching India as “a nation that you can trust”, in contrast, he did not say, with China, India’s rise means, he added, “a rise in global integration with increasing openness, a rise in your competitiveness with access to a market which offers scale”.As countries and businesses around the world seek to reduce their dependence on Chinese supply chains, hit first by President Donald Trump’s tariffs and then by the Covid-19 epidemic, India is positioning itself as the alternative destination, seeking to fight off stiff competition from Vietnam, whose saturation points are much lower in every aspect than India.Also read: ‘India, US need to focus on something ‘bigger’ as they talk trade’, says JaishankarThe prime minister said the recent crisis — the pandemic, — had showed the world it needed to pay more attention to “resilience against external shocks” and not just focus on scaling up efficiency and optimization, bywords for the shift of supply chains to China. And with that he segued into “aatma nirbhar Bharrat”, his government’s new motto, stressing increased domestic capability for manufacturing, restoring the health of the financial system and diversification of international trade. “There is global optimism towards India. This is because India offers a perfect combination of openness, opportunities and options. Let me elaborate. India celebrates openness in people and in governance,” the prime minister said, setting up a quick run-through of investment opportunities in India.Modi spoke of opportunities in the “frontier technologies” of 5G, Big data analytics, Quantum computing, Block-chain and Internet of things; in the agriculture sector; healthcare, which he said was growing at 22% a year; in energy, as India evolved into a gas-based economy; in infrastructure; in civil aviation; defense and space; finance and insurance.Investments are flowing in already. “Every year, we are reaching record highs in FDI. Each year is significantly higher than the earlier one. FDI inflows in India in 2019-20 were 74 billion dollars,” he said, adding, “This is an increase of 20 percent from the year before that.”Even during the ongoing pandemic,” Modi said, to illustrate his point. “In the middle of Covid, India has attracted foreign investment of more than $20 billion between April and July 2020.”While pitching India as a global powerhouse, the prime minister called for global economic growth to be “human-centric”, stressing a continuing theme for India. Last week, he had pressed UN member states to move towards a “new type of human-centric globalization”.“I firmly believe that our approach to the future must primarily be a more a more human centric . Our growth agenda must raise the poor and the vulnerable at the core,”the prime minister said, adding, “ease of living is as as important s ease of business.”At the same forum earlier, EAM S Jaishankar stressed the need for India and the United States to strive for something “bigger” even as they seek to resolve their trade differences.While resolving these “pending problems”, the minister said, referring to trade issues, is important and central to the relationship, “but beyond trade there is a much bigger connect between our two countries … a sort of knowledge innovation.Working together in their sphere, he added, “is what will set our relationship apart”.Commerce minister Piyush Goyal had said, at the same forum Tuesday, that India and the United States were just some phone “calls” away from wrapping up a limited trade deal. And he had had gone on to propose a “preferential trade agreement” as the next step, as the two sides got down to working on a larger and more robust and enduring Free Trade Agreement.The external affairs minister also spoke broadly of India-US relations, framing it in the larger contexts of geo-politics and people to people connections. He said the United States needs to “learn” to work with a more multipolar world, and go “beyond alliances”.Jaishankar’s session partner on Wednesday was Mark Warner, the Democratic senator who is co-chair of the Senate India caucus, who forcefully proposed India joins the United States to form the core of the “Alliance of the Willing”, a loose coalition of nations to confront China’s predatory use of technology to dominate the world.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is in London, also appealed to India to do more against China. “India has a chance to take global supply chains away from China and reduce its reliance on Chinese companies in areas of telecommunications, medial supplies and others”“India is in this positions because it has earned the trust of many nations around the world, including, the United States,” he added.The secretary of state, who has spearheaded the Trump administration’s sharpening attacks on China, reiterated US backing for India’s ban on 56 Chinese apps, including TikTok, and conveyed his condolences once agains for the death of Indian soldiers in the Galwan clashes, for which the US had held Beijing responsible.Pompeo reiterated US position on India generally. “We’re the oldest and most prosperous democracies in the world, and It’s important that democracies like ours work together. India is a rising U.S. defense and security partner in the Indo-Pacific.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-power-post-covid-19-global-recovery-says-pm-modi/story-MHKu1Ql9IJaK35dYrWqInI.html
22-07-2020||India||BSF jawan dismissed for trans-border drugs and weapons smuggling||The BSF on Wednesday dismissed Constable Sumit Kumar, a resident of Gurdaspur in Punjab, for his involvement in drugs and Hawala racket. Kumar, deployed in Samba sector of Indo- Pak International Border, was apprehended on information given by Punjab Police on July 11 linking him to smuggling, connivance with anti-national elements and transborder criminals.BSF moved swiftly to apprehend Sumit Kumar from his place of duty at the Indo- Pak International Border and recover a 9 mm pistol, two magazines, 80 rounds of 9 mm ammunition; two rounds of 12 bore ammunition from his possession.A case was registered against him at PS Katarpur (Jalandhar Rural) under section 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 212 (harbouring offender) and 216 (Harbouring offender who has escaped from custody) of the Indian Penal Code. He was also booked under Section 24/25/59 of the Arms act and Section 29/61/85 of the NDPS act.On July 13, Punjab Police had also recovered Rs 32.30 lakh from his house at Gurdaspur.A departmental court of inquiry completed in record time found Sumit Kumar guilty of conniving with anti-national elements and trans- border smugglers and of facilitating trafficking of narcotics and weapons from his place of duty in the month of July, 2020.He will remain in Punjab Police’s custody till the case is finalised. Inspector General of BSF Jammu, N S Jamwal said that Punjab Police is investigating this case in which a total of eight persons including Kumar and one army personnel have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-jawan-dismissed-for-trans-border-drugs-and-weapons-smuggling/story-U5bhjPlygWygHq9uNYT0PP.html
22-07-2020||India||Delhi woman, alert neighbours foil abduction bid, manage to save 4-year-old||The courage and presence of mind displayed by a woman and her two neighbours not only averted her four-year-old daughter’s abduction but also led the police nab the child’s uncle. The man and his three associates had planned her kidnapping to extort Rs 40 lakh from her parents, police said on Wednesday. The entire kidnapping attempt and the efforts of the woman and the two neighbours, one placing his scooter in the middle of the lane to block the passage for the bike the kidnappers were riding, was captured on two CCTV cameras installed at a building in the lane in east Delhi’s Shakarpur where the crime took place on Tuesday afternoon. Although the kidnappers’ bike slipped and its rider fell off after the neighbour tried to overpower him, the two suspects pushed him and managed to escape from the area. Watch: Mother fights off kidnappers, saves 4-yr-old child; incident on CCTV The two suspects are absconding and police teams are raiding their possible hideouts. The girl child’s uncle Upendra Kumar Gupta, 35, and his friend, Dheeraj, 34, whose motorcycle was used in the crime, have been arrested, said deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh. DCP Singh said that on Tuesday around 4 pm, the two men wearing helmets were loitering outside the child’s house when an elderly woman, who often visited the neighbourhood, found their activities suspicious and asked what they were doing there. The duo told her that they were sales executives and were thirsty. They asked for water from her but the woman said she was also an outsider. At this one of the men rang the doorbell of the child’s house. The girl’s mother came along with her and opened the gate. The duo asked for water to drink, believing that she would go inside to bring it. However, the woman had kept a bottle filled with water near the gate itself. As she was trying to pick the bottle up, one of them picked up the child and tried to flee on the bike with his associate, the DCP said. In the 44-second CCTV footage, the woman is seen pulling her daughter back and in the process, the suspects fall on the road along with their bike. The woman manages to get hold of her daughter. While the rider is trying to lift his bike, the other suspect is seen running away. A middle-aged neighbour runs behind them as soon as he witnesses the child’s kidnapping attempt, the video footage shows. In the second video footage, another neighbour is seen standing below a building while the two suspects are coming towards him. Sensing something wrong, the neighbour places his scooter in the middle of the lane and stands opening his hands to stop the suspects. He is seen pushing the biker, who lost control of the bike and fell off it. The neighbour then overpowered the other suspect. But both of them managed to set themselves free and escaped, the video footage showed. “It is because of the courage and the presence of mind of the two neighbours that the kidnappers failed to abduct the child and had to leave the bike behind before fleeing the spot. The bike’s ownership helped us identify the prime suspect, who turned out to the child’s uncle, and unearth the entire kidnapping conspiracy,” the DCP said. Officials said that the case would have remained a blind one had the police not got the bike, as the girl’s parents had no clue that her uncle was behind the entire kidnapping conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-woman-alert-neighbours-foil-abduction-bid-manage-to-save-4-year-old/story-UhnLmvA2mCfPfpwMH46waP.html
22-07-2020||India||To attract more investors, PM Modi cites India’s high FDI cap in defence, space||Inviting global companies to invest in India’s defence, space and civil aviation sectors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the country was raising the Foreign Direct Investment cap in the defence sector to 74% and also mentioned the two defence corridors set up to encourage production of defence equipment.“India invites you to invest in defence and space. We’re raising the FDI cap for investment in defence sector to 74%. India has established two defence corridors to encourage production of defence equipment and platforms,” PM Modi said at the India Ideas Summit hosted by the US-India Business Council. He was delivering the keynote address at the virtual summit.WATCH | ‘Hold your breath...’: PM Modi invites US firms to invest in India at USIBC eventHe particularly invited US companies to invest in India’s healthcare, infrastructure, defence, energy, civil aviation and insurance sectors, saying the country offers openness, opportunities and myriad options for investments. ALSO READ | Global economic resilience can be met by stronger domestic capacities: PM Modi“Today, there is global optimism towards India. This is because India offers a perfect combination of openness, opportunities and options. Let me elaborate. India celebrates openness in people and in governance,” he explained.Mentioning India’s Ease of Doing Business ratings awarded by the World Bank, the Prime Minister said, “When the markets are open, when the opportunity is high and the options are many, can optimism be far behind! You can see the optimism when India rises in key business ratings.” The Prime Minister cited the civil aviation space as another area of great potential. The number of air travellers is expected to more than double within the next 8 years in the country. The top private Indian airlines have plans to include over a thousand new aircraft over the coming decade, he added.ALSO READ | Never been a better time to invest in India, PM Modi tells AmericansThe Summit is being hosted by the US-India Business Council. This year marks the 45th anniversary of the formation of the Council. The theme for this year’s India Ideas Summit is ‘Building a Better Future’.The virtual Summit will also see participation from Minister of External Affairs Dr S Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, former US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-attract-more-investors-pm-modi-cites-india-s-high-fdi-cap-in-defence-space/story-4T12iigSSrbPek2zX0YEdO.html
22-07-2020||India||Assam flood situation continues to be grim; Centre assures Rs 346 crore as relief||The flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim on Wednesday with over 26 lakh people across the state still affected.Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Sekhawat held a video conference with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to take stock of the situation and measures taken to help affected people.“To effectively manage relief and rehabilitation works, the union water resources minister assured that an amount of Rs 346 crore would be released immediately from his ministry to Assam government as the first installment under flood management programme (FMP),” said a release from CM’s office.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 26 of the state’s 33 districts are still reeling under floods. Nearly 45,000 people uprooted by flood waters are still taking shelter in 391 relief camps.Two more deaths due to drowning were reported from Barpeta and Morigaon districts on Wednesday taking the total number of deaths to 87 this season. Flood waters continue to inundate 1.15 lakh hectares of crop area in the state.As per a bulletin by Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, Kushiyara and Sankosh rivers continued to flow above the danger mark at several places.According the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) authorities, 90% of the park spread over 430 sq km is under water. A total of 120 wild animals including 9 rhinos that have drowned have died in and around the park this season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-continues-to-be-grim-centre-assures-rs-346-crore-as-relief/story-gFhERppAGWTdH8cxY0c04O.html
22-07-2020||India||Manipur CM announces strict 7-day statewide lockdown from July 23||Manipur Cabinet on Wednesday decided to impose a 7-day statewide lockdown from 2pm on July 23 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Confirming this, the state chief minister N Biren Singh in a facebook post on Wednesday evening, said, “A strict 7 days Statewide Lockdown from 2 pm of July 23, 2020 has been imposed by a Cabinet decision at a Cabinet Meeting held today.”“The lockdown may be extended further for another week beyond 29 July 2020,” the facebook post said. “I appeal to all to abide by the lockdown guidelines.”Meanwhile, Thoubal district wore a deserted look after the state authority ordered complete lockdown and curfew until further orders till July 27 after detection of Covid-19 in some persons of the district who have no recent travel history outside the state.In the meantime,the total number of positive cases for Covid-19 in Manipur reached 2,060 while the total active and recovered cases stand at 642 and 1,418, according to official sources.“In the past 24 hours, 45 persons (40 males, 5 females) were confirmed as new Covid-19 positive cases at Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratories of JNIMS(Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences-21), DH(District Hospitals) of Jiribam(13), Thoubal(4) and Ukhrul (7),”Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of health department in a official press release. “They belong to the districts of Churachandpur(12),Imphal East (4),Jiribam(13) ,Senapati(5),Thoubal(4) and Ukhrul(7).They are being shifted to the Covid care facilities.”All necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place, the release said.In the past 24 hours, 34 persons have been discharged from Covid care centres at Meitram in Imphal West(23),Kangpokpi(3) and Covid care facilities of RIMS(2) and JNIMS(6) after they were found Covid-19 free on RT PCR test.The cumulative number of positive cases in the state is 2,060.The numbers of active and recovered cases are 642 and 1,418 respectively, it stated. The recovery rate is 68.83 percent. The release also clarified that there is no report of any death due to Covid-19 from any part of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-announces-strict-7-day-statewide-lockdown-from-july-23/story-gxTujH7yy1YJOadiCp45iO.html
22-07-2020||India||Never been a better time to invest in India, PM Modi tells Americans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday invited Americans to invest in India saying that here has never been a better time to do so.“American investors often look out for the perfect time to enter a sector or country, To them, I would like to say here has never been a better time to invest in India,” Modi said in his keynote address at the India Ideas Summit hosted by the US-India Business Council.Modi called for investment in defence, health, insurance and aviation sector saying, “The rise of India means a rise in trade opportunities with a nation that you can trust, a rise in global integration with increasing openness, a rise in your competitiveness with access to a market which offers scale.”The Prime Minister also cited rising foreign direct investment (FDI) to tell the Americans of the opportunities that India offers.“Every year, we are reaching record highs in FDI. Each year is significantly higher than the earlier one. FDI inflows in India in 2019-20 were 74 billion dollars. This is an increase of 20 percent from the year before that,” he said.He also cited India’s open market policy and it rise in the World Bank’s index of ease of doing business.“When the markets are open, when the opportunity is high and the options are many, can optimism be far behind! You can see the optimism when India rises in key business ratings. Particularly the Ease of Doing Business ratings of the World Bank.” Modi’s pitch comes a day after commerce minister Piyush Goyal proposed a “preferential trade agreement” with the US covering a limited number of goods and services as the next step after a likely “quick” trade deal before India and the US conclude a more ambitious Free Trade Agreement (FTA) that could take years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-been-a-better-time-to-invest-in-india-pm-modi-tells-americans/story-SWSdwo5juOr2JX8PUgj5QK.html
22-07-2020||India||Top quotes from PM Narendra Modi’s address at India Ideas Summit||PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday pitched for India as global investment destination and also highlighted the role of ‘natural partners’ India and the United States in helping the world bounce back after the coronavirus pandemic. Here are top quotes from the Prime Minister’s keynote address at the India Ideas Summit hosted by US-India Business Council.1. Our approach to the future must primarily be a more human-centric one: PM Modi “We all agree that the world is in need for a better future. And, it is all of us who have to collectively give shape to the future. I firmly believe that our approach to the future must primarily be a more human-centric one.” 2. Global economic resilience can be achieved by stronger domestic economic capacities: PM Modi“Global economic resilience can be achieved by stronger domestic economic capacities. This means improved domestic capacity for manufacturing, restoring the health of the financial system and diversification of international trade.”3. India and US are natural partners: PM Modi “For this vision, there are few better partners than the United States of America. India and the USA are two vibrant democracies with shared values.”4. Economic reforms have ensured increased ‘Competitiveness’, enhanced ‘Transparency’, expanded ‘Digitization’, greater ‘Innovation’ and more ‘Policy stability’: PM Modi “During the last six years, we have made many efforts to make our economy more open and reform oriented. Reforms have ensured increased ‘Competitiveness’, enhanced ‘Transparency’, expanded ‘Digitization’, greater ‘Innovation’ and more ‘Policy stability’.”5. India is emerging as a land of opportunities: PM Modi“India is emerging as a land of opportunities. Let me give you one example of the tech sector. Recently, an interesting report came out in India. It said for the first time ever, there are more rural internet users than even urban internet users.” 6. India offers a combination of of openness, opportunities and options: PM Modi“Today, there is global optimism towards India. This is because India offers a perfect combination of openness, opportunities and options. Let me elaborate. India celebrates openness in people and in governance.”7. When the markets are open, when the opportunity is high, can optimism be far behind: PM Modi“When the markets are open, when the opportunity is high and the options are many, can optimism be far behind! You can see the optimism when India rises in key business ratings. Particularly the Ease of Doing Business ratings of the World Bank.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-quotes-from-pm-narendra-modi-s-address-at-india-ideas-summit/story-ygFcPABVbdEyGRTcnIf9yH.html
22-07-2020||India||Odisha’s highest single-day coronavirus surge crosses 1,000 cases, total deaths now 108||Despite continuing with lockdown in four of its hotspot districts and weekend shutdown in 15 other districts, the spread of Covid-19 in Odisha went unabated as the state recorded its highest-ever single day surge of 1,078 cases taking the total to 19,835. The fatalities due to the disease too rose to 108 with 5 more deaths being reported in last 24 hours.The highest surge of 1,078 cases came on the back of the state government upping the Covid-19 testings as well as increased sample positivity indicating more local transmission of the virus. In the last 24 hours, the 42 laboratories in Odisha tested 9,277 samples with a daily sample positivity rate of 11.62 per cent, higher than national daily sample positivity rate of 11 per cent. The daily growth rate of 5.74 per cent against country’s daily growth rate of 3.26% suggested faster spread of the infection despite strictest lockdown.In Ganjam district, where 6,362 cases have been reported so far, the highest single-day surge of 371 cases were detected in last 24 hours. Of the 371 cases in Ganjam, 369 were people outside quarantine homes and various Covid-19 frontline workers. In Khurda district, where 121 cases were detected, 91 came from Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation areas alone. Of these 91 cases, at least 40 cases came from a flour mill and slum area in the city.Other districts that reported large number of Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours were Malkangiri(66) and Cuttack(57).The quick spread of the virus in July could be gauged from the number of infections. In the month of June, when the weekend lockdown was in force in 11 districts, the state recorded 5071 cases. In July, the numbers till 21st have gone upto 12,290, more than double of what was reported in June, suggesting the little impact of lockdown on the spread of the virus.“We think that there is some irregularity in Covid-19 testing. In Ganjam, many people who are being taken to hospitals are not being informed that they are Covid19 infected and not given reports. Many people are being released before completion of quarantine period after being informed that they are now Covid-19 negative,” said Bhrugu Baxipatra, state BJP vice-president. “We suspect that as there is a shortage of beds, the recovery to positive ratio is almost same. If State government is trying to show more recoveries, then the situation might become serious in coming days.”Faced with rising number of cases, Odisha government in the last 2 days announced expenditure of Rs 55 crore for Ganjam, Khurda and Cuttack districts to strengthen Covid-19 management with added focus on surveillance and detection in slum areas. The fund will be spent from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. On Wednesday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik who spoke to CEO of Serum Institute of India Adar Poonawalla over video call sought his cooperation to begin early vaccination in Odisha once necessary clearances are obtained. Patnaik said the his officials will be in touch with the Serum Institute for this purpose.Meanwhile, opposition Congress and BJP trained their guns against the government alleging mismanagement of Covid-19 cases. Congress leader, Tara Prasad Bahinipati alleged there is absolute mismanagement of Covid-19 in Ganjam. “Had the State government had done testing in right manner, the rate of infection would not have been so high. The migrant workers who were kept in quarantine centres, were not given proper food and treatment which led to their sneaking out of the centres and infecting people around. The State government only focused on procurement of masks, PPEs and other articles, but did not take adequate steps for effective handling and treatment of the positive cases. When the situation went out of hands, the State government resorted to lockdown and shutdowns across the state,” he alleged.State BJP vice-president, Bhrugu Baxipatra also alleged that there was irregularity in Covid-19 testing. “In Ganjam, many people who are being taken to hospitals are not being informed that they are Covid-19 infected but not given reports. Many people are being released before completion of quarantine period after being informed that they are now Covid-19 negative. We suspect that as there is a shortage of beds, the recovery to positive ratio is almost same. If State government is trying to show more recoveries, then the situation might become serious in coming days,” said Baxipatra.BJD leader Pradip Panigrahi on the other hand demanded that the OPDs in hospitals be kept open as a significant number of people in the district suffered from diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney and heart ailments. “By closing the OPDs, there will be panic among such patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-highest-single-day-coronavirus-surge-crosses-1-000-cases-total-deaths-now-108/story-eEl6pmR6r89nKyO9JxneEM.html
22-07-2020||India||PM Modi pitches nation as global investment destination at India Ideas Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made a renewed pitch presenting India as an investment destination while highlighting his government’s vision of fighting global economic challenges presented by exigencies such as coronavirus through the principle of self-reliance. He said that India is emerging as a land of opportunity while listing the conditions for attracting investments.PM Modi’s remarks came during the keynote address at the India Ideas Summit being hosted by the US-India Business Council.The 45th anniversary of the USIBC is themed around ‘Building a Better Future’The Prime Minister said the global economy has been too focused on efficiency and optimization when focus on building resilience against economic shock was needed. It has taken a global pandemic to remind us of its importance, he said.“Efficiency is a good thing, but on the way we forgot to focus on something equally important, that is resilience against external shocks. It has taken a global pandemic to remind us, how important resilience is,” he said.He added that this can be achieved by stronger economic domestic capacities through improving domestic capacity for manufacturing, restoring the health of the financial system and diversification of international trade. The rise of India means: a rise in trade opportunities with a nation that you can trust, a rise in global integration with increasing openness, a rise in your competitiveness with access to a market which offers scale: PM @narendramodi“India is contributing towards a prosperous and resilient world through the clarion call of an Atma Nirbhar Bharat. For that we await your partnership. Today there is global optimism towards India. This is because India offers a perfect combination of openness opportunities and options,” the prime minister said.He added that India celebrates openness in people and in governance.“Open minds make open markets, open markets lead to greater prosperity. These are principles both India and the USA agree. And during the last six years to make this economy more open and reform oriented.”In the backdrop of the current coronavirus crisis, the prime minister added that the international approach to the future should be more human centric one. “Our growth agenda must have the poor and vulnerable at its core,” he said repeating a theme he has promoted since the G20 meet held earlier this year. Earlier, speaking at the summit, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo described India as an important partner and a key pillar of US President Donald Trump’s foreign policy. “We’ve invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the G-7, where we’ll advance the economic prosperity network,” he said.External affairs minister S Jaishankar, too, had advanced an argument saying India and the US needed to resolve the pending problems in trade relations and move into something bigger. He had addressed the summit earlier in the day.He added that the two countries had the ability to shape a larger global agenda since they had convergence on the “big picture”.He also advocated key principles including recognition of trusted talent, creation of more resilient supply chain etc for achieving the objective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ideas-summit-pm-narendra-modi-s-pitches-nation-as-global-investment-destination/story-QHVUwb3kkLC6wieZSCTzIO.html
22-07-2020||India||Global economic resilience can be met by stronger domestic capacities: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that it had taken a global pandemic to remind countries across the world how important resilience is in the face of external shocks which cannot always be predicted with precision.“Global economy over the recent past has focused extensively on efficiency and optimistaion but on the way we forgot to focus on resilience against external shocks and it has taken a global pandemic to remind us how important resilience is,” the Prime Minister said referring to the Covid-19 pandemic which has affected people in over 185 nations across the world.WATCH | ‘Hold your breath...’: PM Modi invites US firms to invest in India at USIBC event “In our growth agenda we must put the poor and vulnerable at the core. We all agree that the world is in need of a better future. And, it is all of us who have to collectively give shape to the future. I firmly believe that our approach to the future must primarily be a more human-centric one,” PM Modi said. He was addressing the India Ideas Summit hosted by the US-India Business Council via video conferencing.ALSO READ | India Ideas Summit: PM Narendra Modi pitches nation as global investment destinationPM Modi said that the one of the methods to achieve economic resilience was by building stronger domestic economic capacities. This meant improved domestic capacity for manufacturing, restoring the health of the financial system and diversification of international trade.The Prime Minister invited other countries to invest in India’s healthcare sector. The healthcare sector in India is growing faster than 22 per cent every year. “Our companies are also progressing in production of medical-technology, telemedicine and diagnostics,” he said.“Today, there is global optimism towards India. This is because India offers a perfect combination of openness, opportunities and technologies. India celebrates openness in people and in governance. Open minds make open market and open markets in turn lead to greater prosperity,” PM Modi said highlighting the achievements of the Indian health infrastructure at the summit.The Summit is being hosted by the US-India Business Council. This year marks the 45th anniversary of the formation of the Council. The theme for this year’s India Ideas Summit is ‘Building a Better Future’.The virtual Summit will see participation from Indian and US government policymakers, state-level officials, and leaders from business and society. Other key speakers at the Summit include Minister of External Affairs Dr S Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, former US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-economic-resilience-can-be-met-by-stronger-domestic-capacities-pm-modi/story-ML6zhuycIr20HFE3WwbIEN.html
22-07-2020||India||Bengal football ace Mehtab Hossain leaves BJP day after joining||Springing a surprise akin to his moves on the midfield, Mehtab Hossain, former captain of Bengal’s biggest football teams and archrivals, East Bengal and Mohun Bagan, left the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after joining it.Shortly after Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday targeted the BJP from the virtual rally of Martyrs’ Day, her party’s biggest annual event, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh made a point by handing over the party flag to Hossain and some other personalities from different fields. “I joined the BJP because I want to serve the people,” said Hossain.The news made headlines in Bengal because Hossain has a huge fan following although he left the field a year ago. His joining was arranged by another former midfielder Sasthi Duley, who helped East Bengal win the ASEAN Cup in Indonesia in 2003 and joined the BJP in 2014 after retirement.On Wednesday afternoon, Hossain wrote a long note on Facebook saying his family and fans could not accept his “sudden decision.” Reiterating that his sole aim was to do something for common people, Hossain wrote, “The people, in whose interest I joined politics, are now urging me to leave it. Even my wife and children are not supporting my sudden decision.” He did not name the BJP even once.“I would rather remain among my fans and friends as the midfielder they knew. I don’t want my life to change. I am not part of any political party from today,” wrote Hossain.By the evening, the post was widely shared,Dilip Ghosh said Hossain left under pressure from the TMC. “It is possible that the people he is referring to owe their allegiance to the ruling party and pressured him to change his mind. However, I am sure Hossain will stay in touch with us,” said Ghosh.Duley who unsuccessfully contested the reserved Dhanekhali assembly seat in 2016, said, “It was Hossain who wanted to join the BJP and requested me to introduce him to Dilip Ghosh one month ago. They met twice before he joined the party.”“His decision to join was well thought and cannot be called sudden. His wife and family knew about it very well. He must be under pressure from some quarter,” Duley told HT. “Hossain’s volte face is faster than any move a footballer can make on the field,” quipped Duley.No TMC leader commented on the incident.Hossain’s phone was switched off throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-football-ace-mehtab-hossain-leaves-bjp-day-after-joining/story-CgrFEMui5SgtVWgjmN3DYJ.html
22-07-2020||India||India, US are two vibrant democracies with shared values: PM Modi | Highlights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is delivering the keynote address at the India Ideas Summit today. The summit is being hosted by the US-India Business Council. “This year marks the 45th anniversary of the formation of the Council. The theme for this year’s India Ideas Summit is ‘Building a Better Future’,” a statement from the PMO said.“Looking forward to addressing the India Ideas Summit, organised by @USIBC today at 9 PM. Will be sharing my views on ‘Building a Better Future.’ Do watch,” PM Modi tweeted.Other key speakers at the Summit include Minister of External Affairs Dr S Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Former US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, among others.Follow highlights here:•The US-India friendship has scaled many heights in the past. Now it is time our partnership plays an important role in helping the world bounce back faster after the pandemic: PM Modi•For this vision, there are few better partners than the United States of America. India and the USA are two vibrant democracies with shared values. We are natural partners: PM Modi•The rise of India means: a rise in trade opportunities with a nation that you can trust, a rise in global integration with increasing openness, a rise in your competitiveness with access to a market which offers scale: PM Modi•Every year, we are reaching record highs in FDI. Each year is significantly higher than the earlier one. FDI inflows in India in 2019-20 were 74 billion dollars. This is an increase of 20 percent from the year before that: PM Modi•When the markets are open, when the opportunity is high and the options are many, can optimism be far behind! You can see the optimism when India rises in key business ratings. Particularly the Ease of Doing Business ratings of the World Bank: PM Modi•India invites you to invest in finance and insurance. India has raised FDI cap for investment in insurance to 49 percent. Now 100 percent FDI is permitted for investment in insurance intermediaries: PM Modi•India invites you to invest in defense and space. We are raising the FDI cap for investment in defense sector to 74 percent. India has established two defense corridors to encourage production of defense equipment and platforms: PM Modi•Civil Aviation is another area of great potential growth. The number of Air passengers are expected to more than double within next 8 years. The top private Indian airlines plan to include over a thousand new aircraft over the coming decade: PM Modi•India invites you to invest in infrastructure. Our nation is witnessing the largest infrastructure creation drive in our history. Come, be a partner in building housing for millions, or building roads, highways and ports in our nation: PM Modi•India invites you to invest in energy. As India evolves into a gas-based economy, there will be big investment opportunities for US companies. There are also big opportunities in the clean energy sector: PM Modi•India invites you to invest in healthcare. The Healthcare sector in India is growing faster than 22 percent every year. Our companies are also progressing in production of medical-technology, tele-medicine and diagnostics: PM Modi•India has done historic reforms in the agriculture sector recently. There are investment opportunities in: Agricultural inputs and machinery, Agriculture supply chain management, Ready-to-eat items, Fisheries and Organic produce: PM Modi•Opportunities in technology also include opportunities in the frontier technologies of 5G, Big data analytics, Quantum computing, Block-chain and Internet of things: PM Modi•India is emerging as a land of opportunities. Let me give you one example of the tech sector. Recently, an interesting report came out in India. It said for the first time ever, there are more rural internet users than even urban internet users: PM Modi•India is contributing towards a prosperous and resilient world through the clarion call of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. For that, we await your partnership: PM Modi at India Ideas Summit hosted by US-India Business Council•During the last six years, we have made many efforts to make our economy more open and reform oriented. Reforms have ensured increased ‘Competitiveness’, enhanced ‘Transparency’, expanded ‘Digitization’, greater ‘Innovation’ and more ‘Policy stability’: PM Modi•Global economic resilience can be achieved by stronger domestic economic capacities. This means improved domestic capacity for manufacturing, restoring the health of the financial system and diversification of international trade: PM Modi•We all agree that world is in need for a better future. And, it is all of us who have to collectively give shape to the future. I firmly believe that our approach to future must primarily be a more human-centric one: PM Modi at India Ideas Summit by US-India Business Council• PM Modi delivers keynote address at India Ideas Summit hosted by US-India Business Council (USIBC), via video conferencing.• Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the India Ideas Summit today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-at-india-ideas-summit/story-WgbnOcoXAe7mHKPRSQm52J.html
22-07-2020||India||Delhi records 1,227 new Covid-19 cases, active cases fall by more than 300||Delhi recorded 1,227 new cases of Covidf-19 on Wednesday, taking its tally to over 1,26,323 while the death toll in the pandemic to 3,719 with 29 casualties, the state health department said.On Monday, the fresh cases of Covid-19 had dipped to 954 after ranging between 1,000 to 2,000 for the previous nine days. On Tuesday, fresh cases had risen by1,349.The number of active cases in the national capital also fell by 334 to 14,954 from Tuesday’s count of 15,288.For the past two weeks, Delhi has witnessed a steady decline in the number of fresh cases. The national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 on June 23.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.At one point, the Delhi government feared that the capital would end up with more than five lakh cases of Covid-19 by the end of July.Delhi’s recovery rate which had fallen to nearly 36% in June has now risen to 84% which is much higher than the national recovery rate of 62.72%.Delhi’s fight against Covid-19 gathered steam after the Union home ministry intervened to announce a series of steps including rapid antigen tests for the city’s residents, re-mapping containment zones and setting up new facilities for Covid care.The number of tests has also gone up almost three-fold from about 7,000 a day to more than 20,000 now.A serological survey has revealed that almost 23% of the capitals’ population has beenexposed to teh virus whiel 77% remain susceptible to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-1-227-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-fall-by-more-than-300/story-OCToPGxpqAxX8ioKD8GeGO.html
22-07-2020||India||Kerala single day coronavirus count crosses 1,000 for first time||With 1,038 fresh coronavirus cases, highest single day count since the outbreak began, Kerala on Wednesday decided to tighten vigil and increase more beds, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. But he said the state’s situation is better when comparing to other states.“In India there are 864 cases per million people while in Kerala it is 419 only. The state’s fatality rate is 0.31 % while national average is 2.41%. The state’ situation is better, still some people can’t digest it,” he said chiding opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala who had blamed the government saying it was more interested in records. He said he was forced to list out the state’s records due to criticism from certain quarters.With 1,038 fresh cases, total went up to 15,032. Among this, 8,818 are actives case and 6,164 have recovered. With two more deaths, toll went up to 47. As cases increased many areas in Kochi and other places were put under triple lockdown, he said adding 267 health workers were infected in the state so far. Among the total, 65 per cent are locally-transmitted cases while in worst-hit Thiruvananthapuram it is 94%, he said.In view of rising cases, the government has also tweaked its discharge norms. For discharge, antigen tests will be sufficient and the patient won’t have to wait for time-consuming RT-PCR tests. Similarly, the government has made 14-day quarantine mandatory for returning migrant workers. The CM said it was duty of the employer to ensure this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-single-day-coronavirus-count-crosses-1-000-for-first-time/story-mCITaPyV6aYHShBzaamKdI.html
22-07-2020||India||Gehlot’s letter to PM Modi includes a reference to ‘people’s mandate||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has escalated his offensive against the BJP by writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging involvement of union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in a purported attempt to topple his government, according to PTI.The Congress has named Shekhawat, a senior leader of the BJP from Rajasthan, on several occasions as one of the leading players in an alleged plot to dislodge Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. The state special operation group (SOG) has even named Shekhawat in an FIR registered in the matter. Shekhawat, however, has denied his involvement.Gehlot’s letter to the prime minister was written on Sunday in which he accused Shekhawat, other BJP leaders and some “over ambitious leaders” of his own party for being involved in the alleged “conspiracy”, according to PTI. The letter further states that the alleged attempts to bring down the Congress government is an insult to the people’s mandate and was an open violation of constitutional values, reports the news agency.Also Read: At CLP meet, CM Ashok Gehlot assures of win, attacks ‘betrayers’Gehlot is also said to have cited the examples of Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the two states lost by the Congress over the past year, primarily due to defections from the party.Congress leaders had even produced three audio clips alleging Shekhawat could be heard on these clips discussing horse trading attempts to buy out MLAs in the state for the purpose of bringing down Gehlot’s government.The Congress had initially stressed on the fact that the alleged conspiracy against the state government was hatched with the blessings of the party’s senior leadership in Delhi.The Congress has been demanding that Shekhawat be removed from the Central cabinet and he submits himself to an ongoing probe to clear his name by giving his voice samples.Also Read: Modi govt’s raid raj’: Congress slams ED raids on CM Gehlot’s brotherThe BJP on the other hand has accused the Congress of distracting from its internal crisis precipitated by Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against the party by blaming its political rival.Sachin Pilot and 18 of his followers MLAs have rebelled against Gehlot’s leadership alleging the government had failed to fulfill the promise made in assembly polls. The Pilot camp has also alleged ill-treatment by the government citing a SOG notice to former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot asking him to join a probe in alleged horse trading case.The Congress has alleged that Pilot and his followers are being actively backed by the BJP. Earlier today, the Congress party had accused the BJP leadership in Delhi of creating a ‘raid raj’ by misusing federal agencies to submit lawmakers to the cause of bringing down the Gehlot government in Rajasthan.The comments came after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided the premises of Gehlot’s brother Agrasen Gehlot in connection with an investigation into money laundering charges in the fertiliser scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-s-letter-to-pm-modi-includes-a-reference-to-people-s-mandate/story-6uWalpL6k21jNrVnuSSDDL.html
22-07-2020||India||Traffic crawling back to pre-Covid level, highway construction may decline: Report||Traffic on national highways is bouncing back with electronic toll collection reaching nearly 75% of the pre-Covid lockdown level as curbs with the lifting of curbs while highway construction may decline by 10-13% overall as compared to last year, ratings agency Crisil said in a report on the road sector on Wednesday.The sector is giving mixed signals on recovery, the report noted. Toll collection at national highways in June has rebounded to its March level and touched 75% of February level, the report said. It also said regular traffic on highways had dipped by nearly 88% during April.“The Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns had virtually halted movement of people and goods in April and May, but curbs are being lifted slowly and the economy is beginning to hum…For an idea of how hard the pandemic had slammed the brakes, toll collection had dropped off the cliff from 11 crore vehicles paying in February 2020 to just 1 crore in April,” it said.The Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns had virtually halted movement of private vehicles and slowed the movement of goods in April and May. The Centre had issued multiple advisories to states to enable movements of goods. “The overall ramp up in toll collection has been faster than initially envisaged, the trends are encouraging so far and sustained for more than two months indicating that it is not only due to pent up demand. The average toll collections in the last fortnight of June, 2020 surpassed 90% of pre-Covid levels for many stretches,” said Rajeshwar Burla, Vice President, Corporate Ratings, ICRA Limited. The report also noted national highway construction spiked after a slump in April. “Construction across national highways is picking up, too. It rebounded to 637 km in May from just 210 km in April. But key construction months were lost in the lockdown and labour migration continues to pinch. Normalcy might return only after the monsoon. Overall, we are bracing for a 10-13% decline in highway construction on-year this fiscal,” it said. During the period, Centre increased spending on highway projects and spent Rs 18,700 crore in April-May which is more than a 46-fold jump from Rs 400 crore in the same period last fiscal, it said. “While this was mainly because milestone payments were made and to ease the cash flows of developers, it will have a trade-off – constrained future spending by the transport ministry,” it added. Project awarding, too increased by three times from April to May compared with the corresponding period last year. “But that was because of a backlog of already bid-out projects that were awaiting award following the lockdown,” it said. Around 9,000-9,500 km of highway construction has been completed till now while 7,000-7,500 km of work has been awarded, according to the report. National highway construction in the current financial year stood at 10,237 km as compared with 10,855 km the previous fiscal while 8,911 km were awarded in FY 20 compared with 5,470 the previous fiscal. “Net-net, while toll collection signal looks good, spending on roads may take a backseat given that priority in the rest of this fiscal will be on healthcare and social welfare spending. That would keep project awarding and recovery on a moderate path,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-crawling-back-to-pre-covid-level-highway-construction-may-decline-overall-report/story-imrjGlRcOboz2DOda0eONP.html
22-07-2020||India||SC seeks detailed response from Prashant Bhushan on contempt matter over his tweets||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday initiated suo motu (on its own motion) contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for accusing the judiciary of destroying democracy and keeping courts shut during the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 onwards in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, via his two tweets on June 27 and 29.A three-judge SC bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra and also included Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, issued notice to Bhushan to respond by August 5. “We are, prima facie, of the view that the aforesaid statements on Twitter have brought the administration of justice in disrepute and are capable of undermining the dignity and the authority of the institution of SC in general and the office of the Chief Justice of India (CJI) in particular, in the eyes of the public at large,” the court said.San Francisco-based Twitter Inc. was also made a contemnor by the top court along with Bhushan.Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, who appeared for Twitter, told the SC that a tweet can be “disabled” only on a judicial order passed by a court.“We are an independent platform unable to disable the tweet without an order from a court.”When Poovayya asked the court to pass an order to this effect, the bench said, “Why should we direct? On your own, you should have done it.”Poovayya told the SC that he would consult with Twitter and respond by August 5. The court has also issued notice to Attorney-General (A-G) KK Venugopal for assisting in this case.Bhushan did not appear, nor was he represented by any lawyer.The court order took note of the first tweet dated June 27, which was carried in a national daily.Bhushan put out another tweet on June 29 against which the SC received a petition for initiating contempt proceedings.The first tweet, which was reproduced in the order, stated, “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”The second tweet was aimed at the incumbent CJI SA Bobde.Bhushan’s tweet, now part of the order, said, “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”The apex court received a petition filed by one Mahek Maheshwari on July 9 against the June 29 tweet.The matter was taken up on the administrative side. The SC found that A-G Venugopal’s consent as required under Rule 3 (c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975, was not obtained. Then, the apex court decided to take up the matter as a suo motu petition on the judicial side to “pass appropriate orders”, the SC order said.This is the third contempt plea against Bhushan.Earlier, Bhushan, in an interview to news magazine Tehelka that was published on September 5, 2009, had alleged that half of the past 16 CJIs were corrupt.Though the contempt plea was initiated in January 2010 and was last heard on May 2, 2012, this matter has been listed again before a bench, headed by Justice Mishra, for July 24 (Friday).Bhushan’s father and former Union Law Minister Shanti Bhushan had intervened in the decade-old case and had filed a sealed cover giving instances of corruption against former CJIs.Bhushan had also accused the Centre of misleading the court on the decision to appoint M Nageswara Rao as interim director of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) via a tweet on February 1, 2019.The lawyer had claimed that the High-Powered Committee, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, did not decide on Rao as told to the apex court by A-G Venugopal.Later, the A-G and the Union of India had filed a contempt plea against Bhushan.Both the Tehelka interview and Rao appointment contempt pleas are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-detailed-response-from-prashant-bhushan-on-contempt-matter-over-his-tweets/story-aQbG6wsWPZmfbljR2aCaQL.html
22-07-2020||India||In letter to PM Modi, Ashok Gehlot alleges ‘despicable attempts’ to topple his elected govt||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the attempts to destabilize the elected Congress government in the state and has alleged poaching of Congress MLAs by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Gehlot has also named Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in his communication to the Prime Minister. The ongoing power tussle between Gehlot and his erstwhile deputy Sachin Pilot has now entered its second week.In his letter, reportedly written on Sunday, Gehlot wrote, “There have been despicable attempts to destabilize elected governments through horse-trading. I don’t know to what extent you are aware of all this or whether you are being misled.” Locked in a bitter power struggle with his former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot that has almost led to the collapse of the government in the desert state, Gehlot wrote to PM Modi alleging that the ruling party at the Centre had made attempts to offer money to Congress MLAs to defect.ALSO READ | ‘Emperors in Delhi’: Congress jabs PM Modi after raids on Gehlot’s brother“For some time, attempts are being made to destabilize democratically elected governments. This is an insult to the mandate and open violation of constitutional values. Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh are examples of this,” Gehlot wrote in his letter to the PM.The Chief Minister has accused Sachin Pilot of seeking the BJP’s help to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan just like the modus operandi adopted in Madhya Pradesh, where former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia’s defection to the BJP led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in March, this year.Sachin Pilot, who has gone to court over a disqualification notice, has served a legal notice to Congress MLA Giriraj Singh who alleged that he had been offered Rs 35 crore to cross vote in the recent Rajya Sabha elections, news agency ANI had reported.ALSO READ | ED raids premises of Ashok Gehlot’s brother Agrasen in connection with fertiliser scamPilot has asked for a sum of Re 1 and a written apology before the media for the “false and frivolous allegations” within seven days. On Monday, Giriraj Singh Malinga said at the talks held at Pilot’s house he was offered money to switch to the BJP. The MLA said he subsequently informed chief minister Ashok Gehlot about the plan.Pilot had then remarked that he was “saddened but not surprised” and called the various allegations against him of offering money to a party MLA to cross over to the BJP as “baseless”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-writes-to-pm-alleging-despicable-attempts-to-topple-his-govt-names-union-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat/story-yMB7ahB5kc0a7pUE0GJ4LM.html
22-07-2020||India||US, UK, India’s Serum Institute scale up efforts to roll out Covid-19 vaccine by year-end: All you need to know||The United States, which is the worst-hit nation globally by the Covid-19 pandemic, has promised to pay USD 1.95 billion to purchase 100 million doses of a potential coronavirus vaccine, which is being developed by US pharma giant Pfizer in collaboration with Germany’s Biontech, the German firm said on Wednesday.“Americans will receive the vaccine for free consistent with the US government’s commitment for free access to Covid-19 vaccines,” the German firm said in a statement. Under the agreement, the United States government has placed an initial order for 100 million doses to be delivered if regulatory approval is granted for the experimental vaccine.Scientists in a number of countries around the world are involved in a frantic race to develop a vaccine to help stem the worst health crisis that the world has witnessed in over a century. More than 200 candidate vaccines are currently under process with roughly 24 of them at various stages of clinical trials involving human volunteers.The United States also has an option open to purchase as many as 500 million additional doses, the Biontech statement indicated.German pharma major Biontech and Pfizer have shortlisted their vaccine candidates down to two frontrunners and are waiting for regulatory approval to begin a mass trial involving 30,000 healthy volunteers, which may happen later this month.If successful results are achieved and regulatory approvals follow, Pfizer and Biontech are likely to manufacture up to 100 million doses by the end of 2020, and “potentially more than 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021”. Clinical trials so far have shown that their treatment triggers robust antibody and T-cell immune responses against the coronavirus, according to Biontech.Closer home, India’s Serum Institute has reportedly already started manufacturing the Oxford vaccine (ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) for coronavirus. The company intends to manufacture two-three million doses by August end, Suresh Jadhav, Executive Director of Serum Institute has said. The Serum Institute of India on Tuesday said it would be starting trials of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and British pharma major AstraZeneca by the end of August on up to 5,000 Indian volunteers after getting the necessary approval.The pharma company plans to launch the vaccine by June 2021 if all goes well. The Serum Institute of India is one of the global partners for the production of Britain’s Covid-19 vaccine on a large scale, once it gains regulatory approval.British pharma major AstraZeneca’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine was found to be safe and has managed to produce a significant immune response in healthy volunteers in the initial stages of clinical trial, according to data released earlier this week. Oxford University also announced satisfactory progress with the vaccine, making it one of the frontrunners among the vaccine candidates being developed around the world.The experimental vaccine did not display any serious side effects and produced antibody and T-cell immune responses in the volunteers on whom it was tested, according to the results of the clinical trials. Scientists involved in the trials have said the vaccine caused minor side effects more frequently than a control group, but some of these effects could be reduced by taking common paracetamol, with no serious harmful effects from the vaccine The vaccine has been called AZD1222 and was under development by pharma giant AstraZeneca in collaboration with scientists at Britain’s Oxford University. The varsity has tied up with Serum Institute of India to manufacture and supply the vaccine to India and over 60 other countries having a combined population of 3 billion, the company’s management has said.The new vaccine is a chimpanzee adenovirus viral vector (ChAdOx1) vaccine that expresses the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. It uses a common cold virus (adenovirus) that infects chimpanzees, which has been weakened so that it can’t cause any infection in humans, and then has been genetically modified to code for the spike protein of the human SARS-CoV-2 virus, according to scientists working with the pharma major.The widely-followed clinical trial is currently at an advanced stage, with ongoing trials in the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-uk-india-s-serum-institute-scale-up-efforts-to-roll-out-covid-19-vaccine-by-year-end-all-you-need-to-know/story-WGn4FVDGfNauz31QBs49sL.html
22-07-2020||India||‘India, US need to focus on something ‘bigger’ as they talk trade’, says Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday stressed the need for India and the United States to strive for something “bigger” even as they seek to resolve their trade differences.While resolving these “pending problems”, the minister said, referring to trade issues, is important and central to the relationship, “but beyond trade there is a much bigger connect between our two countries … a sort of knowledge innovation.Working together in their sphere, he added, “is what will set our relationship apart”.ALSO WATCH | Trump’s minister warns world against China, calls India ties ‘all-important’The minister was participating virtually in the annual summit of the US-India business Council (USIBC, a trade body). Commerce minister Piyush Goyal has said, at the same forum Tuesday, that India and the United States were just some phone “calls” away from wrapping up a limited trade deal. And he had had gone on to propose a “preferential trade agreement” as the next stage, as the two sides got down to working on a larger and more robust and enduring Free Trade Agreement.Jaishankar’s session partner on Wednesday was Mark Warner, the Democratic senator who is co-chair of the Senate India caucus, who forcefully proposed India joins the United States to form the core of the “Alliance of the Willing”, a loose coalition of nations to confront China’s predatory use of technology to dominate the world.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who is in London, also appealed to India to do more against China. “India has a chance to take global supply chains away from China and reduce its reliance on Chinese companies in areas of telecommunications, medial supplies and others”“India is in this positions because it has earned the trust of many nations around the world, including, the United States,” he added.The secretary of state, who has spearheaded the Trump administration’s sharpening attacks on China, reiterated US backing for India’s ban on 56 Chinese apps, including TikTok, and conveyed his condolences once agains for the death of Indian soldiers in the Galwan clashes, for which the US had held Beijing responsible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-think-bigger-says-jaishankar-on-india-us-trade-issues/story-U3cUZgjoBFdc53QVkPCtKI.html
22-07-2020||India||Indian job seekers slowly losing interest in opportunities in US: Report||While the US remains the favourite destination for Indians looking for jobs overseas, there has been a substantial fall in the number of searches looking for employment opportunities in America, a report by global job portal Indeed has said.  According to the Indeed data, job searches for the USA fell to 42 per cent in June 2020 from a high of 58 per cent in January 2019. However, the US remained the favourite destination for Indians looking at jobs abroad, the report noted. A downward trend that predates impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic, and corresponds instead with uncertainty around and tightening of the US immigration policy, it added.The data for this report is compiled and analysed from job searches on the Indeed platform.Indian job seekers remained keen to explore work opportunities across the globe, making up a significant fraction of those employed in various sectors such as technology, administration and management, sales and consumer marketing, among others internationally, the report said.Over the same period, there was a rise in searches for these roles in Canada, the UAE, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Australia and Qatar, it added.As a group, Indian job seekers are highly focused on tech in their job searches – almost nine of the top 10 clicked jobs by Indians to the USA are related to tech roles.  While looking for employment abroad, there is greater demand for jobs in this sector, especially for niche roles, including full-stack developer, development operations engineers, business analysts.“India is a unique market, not only in terms of its large and youthful labour pool, but also in the way that it is woven into the global economy. It is one of the few countries in the world that has a very high rate of mobility. People from India are willing to work in different parts of the world and return home for opportunities as well,” Indeed India MD Sashi Kumar said.This two-way migration connects India to the global labour force and means India holds tremendous potential in terms of supplying the world’s talent, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-job-seekers-slowly-losing-interest-in-opportunities-in-us-report/story-8FIdujtnlDvkw5kgXaZSPI.html
22-07-2020||India||Pakistan govt moves Islamabad High Court to appoint lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav||Pakistan’s Ministry of Law and Justice on Wednesday filed a petition in the Islamabad High Court for a lawyer to be appointed for former Indian Navy commander Kulbhushan Jadhav who is facing a death penalty for alleged espionage.The petition seeks the appointment of a lawyer for Jadhav so that he can file a review petition against his death sentence.The ministry’s petition submitted that though Jadhav has refused to engage a lawyer and file a petition, “it is in the national interest that a legal representative is appointed for and on behalf of Commander Jadhav, so that the review and reconsideration proceedings of the accused’s conviction and sentence may be initiated” and Pakistan can comply with the International Court of Justice’s order.In July 2019, the International Court of Justice ordered Pakistan to provide consular access to Jadhav and review his death sentence. Pakistan says Jadhav was arrested on charges of espionage in Balochistan in March 2016 and sentenced to death by a military court a year later. Under Pakistan’s International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, 2020, he only has a short period of time left to file a reconsideration appeal. So far, neither Jadhav nor the Indian government through its high commission in Islamabad have filed a petition, says the Pakistan government. .India has rubbished the spying charges against Jadhav and maintains that he was abducted from Chabahar in Iran.The two countries have wrangled over consular access to Jadhav. A meeting between Indian officials and Jadhav on Thursday ended inconclusively, with New Delhi accusing Islamabad of breaching its assurance of providing unimpeded access to the former naval officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-govt-moves-islamabad-high-court-to-appoint-lawyer-kulbhushan-jadhav/story-SkF9zvFEr73zq9jVpqWeqK.html
22-07-2020||India||82% decline in triple talaq cases since law enacted by Modi govt, says Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||There has been about 82% decline in triple talaq cases since the law against the “social evil” was put in place, minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Wednesday, terming August 1, when the legislation came into being as, “Muslim women’s rights day”.He also asserted the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, has taken its course whenever such a matter has been reported.In an article ‘Triple Talaq -- Big Reform, Better Result’ which was posted by Press Information Bureau, Naqvi said triple talaq or talaq-e-biddat was neither Islamic nor legal, but the social evil was still given “political patronage” by “merchants of votes”.“August 1, 2019, is a historic day in Indian parliamentary history when the bill against triple talaq was made a law despite the obstacle by so-called ‘champions of secularism’, including the Congress, Communist Party, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Trinamool Congress,” Naqvi said.August 1 became the day which ensured gender equality and strengthened constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights of the Muslim women, he said, terming it the ‘Muslim women’s rights day’.That day will remain a “golden moment” in Indian democracy and parliamentary history, the minister said in the article.“One year has passed since the law against triple talaq was passed and there is a decline of about 82 per cent in triple talaq cases thereafter,” Naqvi said, without elaborating on the figures of such cases.A law against the “social evil” of triple talaq could have been passed in 1986 when the Supreme Court had given the historic judgement in the Shah Bano case, he said.The Congress had an absolute majority in Parliament with more than 400 out of 545 Lok Sabha members and more than 159 out of the 245 Members in Rajya Sabha, but the then Rajiv Gandhi government used its strength in Parliament to make the judgement ineffective and deprive Muslim women of their constitutional and fundamental rights, Naqvi said.“The then Congress government had bowed down before the illogic of some ‘narrow-minded fanatics’ and committed a criminal sin to deprive the Muslim women of their constitutional rights,” Naqvi said.The Congress’ “mistake of the moment” became a “punishment of decades” for the Muslim women, he said.   “The Congress was worried for ‘vote ka udhaar’ (the loan of votes), while our government was worried for ‘samajik sudhaar” (social reform),” Naqvi said India runs on a Constitution, not on Shariat or any other religious textbook, the minority affairs minister asserted.Noting that earlier various legislations had been brought in the country to abolish social evils such as Sati and child marriage, Naqvi said the law against triple talaq has nothing to do with religion and was made purely to ensure gender equality by ending an “inhuman, cruel and unconstitutional practice”. “Instant divorce by verbally saying Talaq thrice is illegal. There were several incidents coming where women had been given talaq through letter, phone or even through messages and WhatsApp. Such incidents are unacceptable in a sensitive country and to a government committed to inclusive development,” Naqvi said.Several Muslim-majority nations of the world had declared triple talaq illegal and un-Islamic such as Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Syria and Malaysia.However, it took 70 years for India to get rid of this inhuman and cruel practice, Naqvi said.The minister said the month of August is recognised as one of revolution, rights and reforms in the Indian history -- August 8, Quit India Movement; August 15, Independence Day; August 19, World Humanitarian Day; August 20, Sadbhavana Diwas; and August 5, the abolition of Article 370.The Narendra Modi government made the law against triple talaq to make the Supreme Court’s judgement of May 18, 2017, effective.By enacting the triple talaq law, the Modi government has strengthened socio-economic, fundamental and constitutional rights of the Muslim women. The government is committed to social reforms and empowerment of all sections, Naqvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/82-decline-in-triple-talaq-cases-since-law-enacted-by-modi-govt-says-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi/story-Yhi9ZigRyyf2AENCUC3alM.html
22-07-2020||India||PM Modi lists three important things for newly-elected BJP RS MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has advised party’s newly elected members of parliament (MP) in Rajya Sabha on the importance of maintaining constant people connect and embracing latest technology apart from keeping abreast with the latest policy issues among other important aspects of their responsibilities as BJP parliamentarians.“Urged MPs to keep themselves updated with latest policy issues. Also emphasised on being effective on the floor of the House as well as in the field, among people,” the prime minister said in a tweet.Prime Minister Modi, who met the newly-elected MPs today, has often stressed on the need for party MPs to attend parliament and publicly articulate party’s positions on key policies. After Wednesday’s interaction with the MPs, he said it was wonderful to hear their views on public service.“Had an excellent interaction with the newly elected BJP Rajya Sabha MPs. It was wonderful to hear their views and passion towards public service. This is a group of MPs who are diverse and will certainly make effective contributions to Parliamentary proceedings,” PM Narendra Modi’s other tweet on the issue said.The BJP won 11 out of 24 seats for which Rajya Sabha elections were recently held in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Rajasthan on June 19, 2020.Also Read: PM Modi to address India Ideas Summit tonight, share views on ‘building better future’The party has organized several workshops for new MPs to apprise them of expected conduct in the parliament and the house rules to ensure their effective participation in the proceedings. It has also equally emphasized on the need for them to use social media effectively and responsibly.Prime Minister Modi has repeatedly warned BJP lawmakers and ministers to stay away from “power brokers” and not to get into any controversy with their conduct or speeches.Also Read: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, 200 people to attend Party MPs have also been regularly briefed on several important subjects including how to use MPLADS funds received annually by MPs to do developmental work in their constituencies and what to ask and what not during the question hour in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lists-three-important-things-for-newly-elected-bjp-rs-mps/story-WGncB23Jb9PLlkDS9bTzLK.html
22-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM writes to Google CEO Sundar Pichai, seeks investment for state||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday wrote a letter to information technology giant Google’s CEO Sundar Pichai to seek investment in the state, officials said. CM Rawat also appointed chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and additional chief secretary, MSME department Manisha Panwar to coordinate on the same, according to officials. The development came after Google CEO Pichai announced an investment of USD10 billion in India over the next five to seven years. An official privy to the development on condition of anonymity said, “CM Rawat in his letter to Pichai has urged him to include Uttarakhand also in Google’s huge investment plan for India.”“In his letter, he stated that there is a need for an alternative development model due to the Covid-19 pandemic in which IT has a very vital role to play. He also said that small cities have vast opportunities in investment for giants like Google. If chosen, the Uttarakhand government will provide every possible help to Google in the state,” said the official. Informing more about the move, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “The CM in a proactive manner has made a pitch seeking investment from Google. We believe Uttarakhand is very well suited for it with the kind of advantages the state enjoys.”Singh added, “As directed by the CM, I and additional chief secretary Panwar will establish contact with the people concerned in Google in this regard. We will help them with whatever information they need or field visits required for investing here.”Asked about specifying the areas where Uttarakhand is interested in investment from Google he said, “As of now Google has made the announcement for an investment of USD 10 billion and its details are yet to be known. Once we know that, then we will talk to them on the kind of investment they are looking for and we are looking at.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-writes-to-google-ceo-sundar-pichai-seeks-investment-for-state/story-CKq4k2m9QaLEhbqrn7A6qM.html
22-07-2020||India||Woman, 5 sons die of Covid-19 in a span of 18 days in Jharkhand||Covid-19 has proved catastrophic for a family in Dhanbad after an old woman and her five of her six sons died in a span of 18 days at different hospitals in the state.The fifth son of the woman succumbed to Covid-19 at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on Monday. Till July 21, Jharkhand had registered 61 Covid-19 casualties but this is the only incident of its kind in the state where six members have died of the infection.The 89-year-old woman, a resident of Katras Rani Bazar, died at Nilam Hospital at Chas in Bokaro district on July 2. Her eldest son (66) died at Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad on July 10. Next day, her second son (63) died at the dedicated Covid-19 Hospital (Central Hospital of BCCL) in Dhanbad and on July 12 third son (60) succumbed to infection at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi.Four days later on July 16, her fourth son (55) died at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur. He had been admitted at PMCH Dhanbad and later shifted to Asian Jalan super specialty hospital. On July 15, he was referred to TMH Jamshedpur.The woman’s fifth son (50) died at RIMS, Ranchi, during treatment on July 20. One of the grandsons of the woman, Shashank Agrawal, said the entire extended family of around 30 members, are in trauma due to the unprecedented chain of deaths.“No one knows who will die and who will survive. All family members had assembled for participation in a marriage ceremony, but it turned out to be a gathering for gloom,” said Shashank. The woman’s only surviving son did not come from Delhi to attend the marriage ceremony in the family at Katras in Dhanbad, which was attended by others. Two of the brothers lived in Delhi, one in Rourkela (Odisha) one in Dhanbad city and two at Katras. The marriage of one of the woman’s grandsons was organised on June 27. Shashank said his grandmother had come from Delhi on June 21. She felt uneasiness on June 30 and was admitted at a private nursing home of a close relative, Nilam Hospital, in Chas. After her death on July 2, her five sons had performed the last rites in Bokaro district. Dhanbad district health department swung into action when her samples tested positive for Covid-19 following her death.“After getting the report we turned it into a containment zone and collected samples of 70 members of the family who attended the marriage as well as in last rites of the old lady. Among them only three brothers came positive while the test report of two other brothers was negative,” said Dr Manish Kumar, medical officer in-charge of Baghmara block community health centre (CHC), under which Katras Rani Bazar falls where the victim family lives.Dr Manish said three brothers were admitted to a Covid hospital on July 8. The health department later referred one of them to RIMS on July 9 after his condition deteriorated. Two other brothers who had tested negative went into home quarantine at a resort in Govindpur block which has tie up with district administration for paid quarantine facility.The eldest brother was the first to die on July 10 late night at the PMCH after he complained of difficulty in breathing in the Govindpur resort. Dr Shailendra Kumar, PMCH principal said he showed symptoms of a heart attack and did not survive. He tested positive for Covid-19 In post after his death.One of younger brother admitted at Covid hospital died in his sleep the next evening and third at RIMS on Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-5-sons-die-of-covid-19-in-a-span-of-18-days-in-jharkhand/story-cXTWWs7gwfbgmByn7qHrzJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Three foreign experts hurt after another explosion at Assam’s Baghjan oil well||Efforts to plug a blowout of an Oil India Limited (OIL)-operated natural gas well in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, which has been on fire since June 9, suffered a setback on Wednesday afternoon, when three foreign experts sustained burn injuries while working on controlling the blaze.The gas well located at Baghjan had witnessed a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas or oil – on May 27 and caught fire on March 9, when two firefighters were killed and destroyed at least 13 adjoining houses.“There was no blast at the site as being reported. The foreign experts working at the site sustained minor burn injuries while trying to cap the well. They are all out of danger,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL.Officials said the incident took place, when the foreign experts, hired by OIL, were removing a spool from the well-head — a task carried out before installing a blowout preventer (BOP) to cap the fire and blowout. Work at the site was called off on Wednesday following the incident.The injured experts have been identified as Anthony Steven Reynolds, Craig Neil Duncan, and Doug Dallas, who work for Alert Disaster Control, a Singapore-based firm engaged by OIL in plugging the blowout.“Initially, the injured received first-aid by a doctor at the well site and later they were taken to the burn unit section of Astha Nursing Home in Dibrugarh. They were released after their burn injuries were attended to. The operations are likely to resume at Baghjan on Thursday,” OIL said in a statement.Work on capping the well was at an advanced stage, when the incident occurred on Thursday.OIL authorities said critical tasks such as excavation of ramps and cellar have been completed, and the process of capping the well, including installation of water pumps, is ready.“Constant water umbrella, dewatering of ramp/cellar works were being carried out to provide a safe working space for personnel (involved in capping the well),” the OIL statement added.Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan took stock of the situation and wished speedy recovery of the three foreign experts, who sustained burn injuries.“The well-control operation continues and capping of the well is expected shortly,” OIL tweeted.The well had a blowout during a workover operation, or major maintenance work, to extract gas from a new depth.While efforts were underway to control the blowout, the well caught fire and damaged 13 adjoining houses. Around 2,000 families were evacuated from the area and many of them are still living in relief camps.Though OIL had initially stated that the blowout/fire would be plugged in a month, there has been a delay in meeting the deadline due to heavy rains and flooding in the low-lying area, which has affected work for several days.The well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland, raising fears of environmental damage to the vicinity. Several studies by different agencies are underway to measure the extent of the damage.In June, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife, and the environment because of the industrial disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-foreign-experts-hurt-after-another-explosion-at-assam-s-baghjan-oil-well/story-mq75O0Kdwpc683A2y7OZeI.html
22-07-2020||India||Congress, BJP feud over violation of Covid-19 norms in Uttarakhand comes to a boil with charges flying||The feud between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress has intensified in Uttrakhand a day after Congress state president Pritam Singh and about 150 other party workers were booked for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms on Tuesday in Uttarkashi district.Citing the incident, Congress has accused BJP-led government of targeting its leaders in a bid to suppress their voice while the BJP has justified the action claiming Congress leaders’ political events held in public are hampering the fight against the pandemic. Pritam Singh had held a rally and a political event in Uttarkashi on Monday to protest against the rising fuel prices. On Tuesday, he along with about 150 other party members was booked for violating Covid-19 norms by allegedly holding the events without prior permission. This was the second case against him after he was booked in Dehradun on June 25 for the same offense in a similar case.Apart from Singh, another senior leader and former chief minister Harish Rawat was also booked for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms for holding a bullock cart rally in protest of the rising fuel prices in Dehradun on June 29. Also Read: Senior Uttarakhand cop warns criminals: Surrender or be ready to face consequences“What the BJP government is doing is nothing but vindictive action against our leaders. They are afraid of our aggressive posture against the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state over relevant public issues like rising fuel prices and bad handling of the pandemic,” said Suryakant Dhasmana, party state vice-president, who, too, was booked along with Singh on June 25. He termed the FIR to be a “tactic to suppress the voice of opposition.”“These are just dictatorial moves by the BJP, both in Centre and all other states where they are in the government. They don’t want the opposition to exist and raise their voice. In Uttarakhand, what they are doing with our leaders is part of that vindictive plan only,” said Dhasmana. The Congress vice-president also dared the government to “register as many cases as they want against the Congress leaders.”“Let them register as many false cases as they want. We will also see. But we want to tell them that we won’t stop raising our voices for the public and continue to raise their issues,” he said. Dhasamana also alleged that action against Congress leaders citing Covid-19 norms was discriminatory.“All the cases for violating Covid-19 norms are against our leaders only. If they are so worried about the Covid-19 norms, then why didn’t they take any action against BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat, who got a temple opened in Haridwar and held prayers there? Was it not a violation of the Covid-19 norms?,” said Dhasmana adding, “We don’t have any demand from the government but have a clear message that we will not stop our protests.”The BJP however, justified the action saying Congress’ intention behind holding public events was not about opposing the government policies but about “hampering the fight against the pandemic.”“The actions taken against their party president Singh and former CM Rawat are absolutely justifiable. Their protests and rallies are helping in increasing the spread of Covid-19 and not curbing it,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president. Also Read: Uttarakhand releases guidelines for private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patientsBhasin said, “As far as the allegation of suppressing the opposition is concerned, that’s in the DNA of the Congress and not the BJP. What they did during the emergency everybody knows. There is no democracy inside their own party only.”The ruling party leader also dismissed the allegations of discriminatory action against Congress leaders and said, “Their demand to book our party state president stands no ground because he worshipped in a Haridwar temple with only three others in attendance while maintaining necessary social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bjp-feud-over-violation-of-covid-19-norms-in-uttarakhand-comes-to-a-boil-with-charges-flying/story-kvkMgnEeX2vr7XRcpaHNgM.html
22-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand cloudburst: Death toll reaches 10, NDRF joins search ops||The rescue teams carrying the search operation since Sunday night have retrieved three more bodies from the muck on Wednesday from a village taking the death toll in cloudburst incident in Munsiyari area of Pithoragarh to 10, officials said on Wednesday. Of the three bodies that have been recovered, two were of children while one was of an elderly man. All were trapped in muck which entered their house in Tanga village of Munsiyari area of Pithoragarh, officials informed.Praveen Alok, media in-charge, state disaster response force (SDRF) which is involved in the rescue operation along with other agencies, said, “The three bodies were recovered in the afternoon from the muck inside a collapsed house.”“They were identified as Madho Singh, 65; Ratika, 8; and Divanshu, 12. After the recovery of the three bodies, four are yet to be found of the total 11 who went missing from the village on Sunday night after the cloudburst,” said Alok.Meanwhile, a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has joined the ongoing search and rescue operation to find the seven people missing in heavy muck which entered their house in Sunday night’s cloudburst incident in Munsiyari area of Pithoragarh district, said officials on Wednesday.Also read: Uttarakhand releases guidelines for private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patientsA team comprising 29 men reached the spot on Tuesday evening to join the search and rescue operation carried by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), along with local police and authorities.Girija Shankar Joshi, district information officer, Pithoragarh said, “The NDRF men reached the spot at around 5 pm on Tuesday. With them, the total number of men involved in the search and rescue operation has reached about 88 which includes 19 from Indo-Tibetan Border Police, 10 from SDRF and as many from local police.”The NDRF team joined the rescue teams on Tuesday when four bodies were recovered from Tanga village where 11 were missing since Sunday night. Before that, on Monday morning three bodies were recovered from the nearby Gaila village which too was affected by the cloudburst incident.“Chances of the remaining four people to be alive are very little as they are trapped in heavy muck which entered their house,” said Joshi.District magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande and other district administration officials are on the spot since Monday to monitor the search and rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cloudburst-death-toll-reaches-10-ndrf-joins-search-ops/story-IFI5swYL8rgyEeD9slDI5J.html
22-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot demands ‘Re 1 and apology’ from MLA who alleged bribe offer to join BJP||Rajasthan’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot who is locked in a legal battle over a disqualification notice, has served a legal notice to Congress MLA Girraj Singh who alleged that he had offered him Rs 35 crore to cross vote in Rajya Sabha elections, ANI reported. Pilot has demanded a sum of Re 1 and a written apology before the Press for issuing “false and frivolous allegation” within seven days.On Monday, Giriraj Singh Malinga said at the talks held at Pilot’s house he was offered money to switch allegiance to the BJP. The MLA said he subsequently told chief minister Ashok Gehlot about the plan.Pilot had then said that he was “saddened but not surprised” and called the allegations against him of offering money to a party MLA to cross over to the BJP as “baseless”.He had also said this was a clear attempt to undermine his reputation and take the focus away from the substantive issue he has raised against the party leadership of the state.Gehlot has been insisting that Pilot is “hand in glove” with the BJP and has been trying to topple his government. Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs are currently in Manesar in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-demands-apology-from-mla-who-alleged-bribe-offer-to-support-bjp/story-kDxTETIYmPt9Bc9tWimBwL.html
22-07-2020||India||Andhra man allegedly beaten by cops for not wearing a mask, dies in Prakasam district||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday ordered a probe into the death of a Dalit youth, after he was allegedly beaten up by the police for not wearing a face mask as part of Covid-19 guidelines in Prakasam district.The incident took place in Chirala town on July 18 and the youth died due to his head injury late on Tuesday night. The deceased has been identified as Yaricharla Kiran Kumar, belonging to Thomaspeta in Chirala.Prakasam district Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said a case had been registered under Section 176 of the Criminal Procedure Code (custodial death).“Following instructions from chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Guntur range Inspector General of Police J Prabhakar Rao has appointed Guntur district additional superintendent of police Gangadhar as special investigation officer to probe the incident. The case has been entrusted to Darsi deputy superintendent of police for an independent inquiry,” Kaushal said.The chief minister also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the bereaved family of Kiran Kumar.According to the police, on the night of July 18, Kiran Kumar along with his friend Shiny Abraham was riding a bike when they were stopped by the police near Kothapeta checkpost in Chirala. “The two were in a drunken condition. When constable Rami Reddy asked them why they were not wearing masks and were driving the vehicle in an intoxicated state, they picked up an argument and assaulted the cop,” the SP said.The constable alerted Chirala town-II sub-inspector Vijay Kumar, who rushed there and took the duo into custody. “While they were being shifted to the police station in the jeep, Kiran jumped out of the moving vehicle at Narayana School junction and fell on the road sustaining head injuries,” Kaushal said.Kiran was initially rushed to the government hospital in Chirala but was later shifted to a private hospital in Guntur, where he breathed his last on Tuesday night.The SP said his father, who was not aware of the factual position, filed a complaint with the police stating that his son was beaten indiscriminately by the police for not wearing a mask. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that Kiran had died of head injuries after he jumped out of the moving police jeep. Yet, we have ordered for a comprehensive inquiry,” he said.Telugu Desam Party general secretary Nara Lokesh charged the police with beating up Dalit youth Kiran for not wearing a mask which eventually led to his death.He sought to know whether the Dalits had no right to live in Andhra Pradesh. He reminded the authorities that in East Godavari district, too, the police had beaten up and got a Dalit youth tonsured in the police station premises for questioning the authorities and the government on the rampant illegal sand smuggling in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-man-allegedly-beaten-by-cops-for-not-wearing-a-mask-dies-in-andhra-s-prakasam-district/story-CKacCITkoiJyoGoeUoxi6O.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Hope India continues to follow an independent foreign policy’: China||China on Wednesday said it hoped that India will continue to follow “an independent diplomatic policy” after external affairs minister, S Jaishankar said that, like in the past, New Delhi will never join any system of alliance. Speaking to a television channel, Jaishankar said on Monday that India will never join any alliance system in the future just as it never did in the past.“Non-alignment was a term of a particular era and geopolitical landscape. One aspect was independence, which remains a factor of continuity for us,” Jaishankar said while speaking on the topic of “Geopolitics of opportunity: As the world rebalances, how should India capitalise?”The minister’s statement comes in the backdrop of the worst chill in Sino-Indian ties in decades following the violent Galwan Valley clash in eastern Ladakh last month – and New Delhi carrying out a military naval drill with US aircraft carrier, Nimitz, near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands this week.Also read: Livid China ready to retaliate after US says shut Houston consulate in 72 hoursResponding to Chinese state media’s question on Jaishankar’s remarks, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin said China had taken note of his remarks.“China has noted relevant reports. We hope and believe that as an important force in the global multi polarisation, India will stay to its independent diplomatic policy and play a constructive role in maintaining regional peace and stability and in the management of international affairs,” Wang said in his brief response.Beijing would have also certainly taken note of the Indian navy’s drills with its US counterpart. Nimitz, the US aircraft carrier, along with another carrier USS Ronald Reagan had earlier carried out a drill in the South China Sea region, deeply riling China.Also read: Relationship with India important, monitoring LAC very closely - US defense secretaryFollowing the exercise with the US Navy, the Indian Navy said in a statement, “The Passage Exercise near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands involved the United States’ Carrier Strike Group (CSG) led by aircraft carrier Nimitz and units of Indian Navy’s Eastern Fleet and Andaman and Nicobar Command.”New Delhi and Beijing are currently carrying out phased military and diplomatic talks to deescalate the tense situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).At the end of the fourth round of military talks last week, China had said the talks had made progress in disengaging troops in the western section of the disputed boundary.The Chinese foreign ministry said it hoped New Delhi would work with Beijing to safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.The talks, aimed at de-escalation, have taken place in a phased manner weeks after Indian and Chinese troops clashed along the LAC in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The violent brawl between troops of both sides on June 15 claimed the lives of 20 Indian army personnel while an unspecified number of Chinese were also killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-india-continues-to-follow-an-independent-foreign-policy-china/story-URH1Hs7fnfQ8aqWp8vvjGJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: HC rejects plea to widen ambit of NIA probe||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday rejected a plea seeking a central agency probe into recent consultancy appointments in various departments of the state government in the backdrop of the recent gold smuggling case.While rejecting the plea, a division bench of the court headed by Chief Justice S Manikumar observed that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe was on in the smuggling case and there was no need for any intervention at this juncture.In his plea, petitioner Michael Varghese, an activist and journalist, sought the court to give a direction to the investigating agency to also include chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office in the ambit of probe alleging some of the recent consultancy appointments were dubious and mired in controversy. He sought a separate probe into this issue. Also Read: Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA custody of accused extendedBut, the court said the NIA can probe all these angles and there was no need for any intervention now. “Probe has just started. Let the agency probe all angles in the case. There is no need of any intervention now,” it observed. Meanwhile, the customs department arrested two more persons in connection with the gold smuggling case alleging they were part of the thriving racket. They also raided the house of the gunman of the consulate office who was hospitalised after an alleged suicide attempt.The customs had seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Later, the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Many other central agencies including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are involved in the investigation. The NIA has arrested four persons and customs has arrested 15 in connection with the case so far.Also Read: ED joins Kerala gold smuggling probe, registers money laundering caseIn the remand extension petition for the four accused including Swapna Suresh before a special court in Ernakulam on Tuesday, the NIA said the accused were part of a larger conspiracy that aimed at financing terrorism in the country. The CM’s powerful principal secretary M Sivasankar and his IT fellow Arun Balachandran, were sacked after their alleged links with Suresh surfaced.“The accused has conspired together and separately at various places in Kerala to damage the monetary stability of India by destabilizing the economy and it is suspected that they had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means,” the remand report said.This is the first time that the NIA has taken up a smuggling case in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-hc-rejects-plea-to-widen-ambit-of-nia-probe/story-6CG7kfm2V3lFb9F2IfY8eN.html
22-07-2020||India||Roads cave in as heavy rain lashes Delhi||Heavy rain has put the national capital’s preparedness for the monsoon under the scanner after two incidents of roads caving in. On Wednesday afternoon, part of Mahipalpur bypass near the airport in south Delhi caved in following heavy rainfall in the national capital region.Earlier in the day, a part of Ashoka Road in the heart of Delhi also caved in. The cave-in created a sinkhole of almost 10 feet by 10 feet in size and forced the police to barricade the area.“Road damaged near 10 Ashoka Road, probably due to sinking of a stormwater drainage system. The extent of damage is around 10 feet long. Barricading done at Ashoka road at Windsor Place and Andhra Bhawan,” the Delhi traffic police tweeted.. In another tweet it said, “Traffic is not allowed on the stretch between Windsor Place R/A to Jaswant Singh R/A on Ashoka Road. Kindly plan accordingly.” Heavy rain led to water-logging and disruption of traffic movement at several places, officials said. The Delhi Police posted alerts on Twitter to inform commuters about traffic movement in the national capital.Water-logging hit traffic near the Minto Bridge area in central Delhi for some time. Rain had sparked traffic snarls at several parts of the national capital on Tuesday also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roads-cave-in-as-heavy-rain-lashes-delhi/story-2mCFOIbSjHXdpi1uHhxEiI.html
22-07-2020||India||Once running for CM’s post, ‘sidelined’ CP Joshi key to Cong govt in Rajasthan||The irascible professor of psychology and former Central minister, CP Joshi, who thought his political career may end in 2018 Assembly elections if he fails to win the polls, is back in the limelight as the Rajasthan assembly speaker. His decision to issue a disqualification notice to 19 Congress rebel legislators, including former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, has been challenged by the rebels in the Rajasthan High Court.In the order on Tuesday evening, the division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta said, “We further request the Hon’ble Speaker to extend the said petition till the delivery of orders by this court on July 24 and we direct accordingly.” Joshi said he was saddened by the use of word “direct” and objected to the court entertaining the petition. Also read: ‘Bring it on’ - Congress’ counterattack at BJP after ED raids Ashok Gehlot’s brother“It is within my powers to issue the notice. There are various Supreme Court judgments which give absolute powers to the Speaker to decide on disqualification of the legislators,” Joshi told reporters on Wednesday morning.“Nobody can intervene in 10th Schedule powers of the speaker,” he said while announcing that he was moving the apex court against the directions from the Rajasthan High Court to defer hearing on a petition of disqualification by party chief whip Mahesh Joshi against the 19 legislators till July 24.Before the Rajasthan crisis, Joshi, who studied metallurgy, physics and psychology, had never held such an important Constitutional post. He had been a minister in the Rajasthan government and was a Cabinet minister in United Progressive Alliance-2 government.Joshi started his political career as president of Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MLSU) students union before he was appointed as an assistant professor for psychology at the Udaipur University. His friends say that Joshi was a fan of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara in college and even kept a beard like the guerrilla leader. “He was a master orator and that impressed many leaders of that ere,” said one of his friends who wasn’t willing to be quoted.Impressed by his oratory skills, Mohanlal Sukhadia, longest-serving CM of the state and a tall Congress leader from Mewar, inducted him into the Congress party. He denied him ticket from Nathdwara in 1977 saying he was “too” young but gave him an assembly ticket in 1980 when Joshi was of just 28.Joshi was an MLA for 10 years – from 1980 to 1990 – when the Congress governments in the state were headed by leaders from Mewar. But he never found a place in their cabinets because he was considered to be from the rival Gulab Singh Shekhawat group. Joshi lost the 1990 and 1993 Assembly elections. “After losing the election, he returned to the university to teach and study. He took classes of PG students and enrolled for PhD,” said Professor Indra Vardhan Trivedi who has known Joshi since their hostel days around four decades ago.“The routine for 10 years when he was out of Assembly was to come to the university on a bicycle, teach statistics and visit his constituency – Nathdwara – every Sunday,” said Trivedi, who has twice been the vice-chancellor of (MLSU) and was appointed the VC of Govind Guru Tribal University in Banswara this week.He won the 1998 assembly elections and was inducted as a cabinet minister in the Rajasthan government.Ten years later, Joshi got the biggest leap of his political career when he was chosen as the president of the Rajasthan Congress before the 2008 Assembly election. The Congress won the state assembly election but Joshi lost, just by a vote. Many of his supporters believe that he lost the fight to become the CM and Ashok Gehlot became the CM again.“But, by then he got close to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and was made in-charge of several states including Bihar. He contested the 2009 Lok Sabha election from Bhilwara and won,” said Pramod Tiwari, a Bhilwara-based journalist.Despite being a first-time MP, Joshi was made a cabinet minister in UPA-II and got the all-important rural development ministry, handling the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which was considered the coalition’s ticket to the second term in the government. However, in the middle of UPA-II, he was shifted to the road transport ministry while the rural development ministry was given to Jairam Ramesh.While serving as a Central minister, Joshi dabbled in cricket politics and became the president of the Rajasthan Cricket Association (RCA) in 2009. In 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Joshi contested from Jaipur (Rural) and lost to newcomer Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. Since then, Joshi was in political bewilderedness.As the Congress decided to give tickets to all stalwarts of the party to take on Bharatiya Janata Party in Rajasthan assembly polls of 2018, Joshi was asked to contest from Nathdwara, his political karambhoomi.During the campaign of 2018 Assembly election, Joshi made a controversial statement that Ram Temple in Ayodhya can be built only by Brahmins - a statement made apparently to woo the large Brahmin population in the constituency. His election pitch hovered around a buzz that Joshi could be the next chief minister if there is an intense fight for the post between Gehlot and Sachin Pilot.“I am sidelined in the party and my political career is ending,” Joshi told a journalist colleague during the campaign, indicating that he was not sure about his victory also. He won by 16,940 votes defeating BJP’s Mahesh Pratap Singh and was elected as speaker as Pilot and Gehlot fought for the CM’s post. And, this gave him a new innings in politics.Jaipur-based commentator Prakash Bhandari said Joshi’s tenure as Speaker has been one of the best in terms of political propriety and procedures. “He is like a headmaster in the Assembly and people respect him for that,” Bhandari said.Political commentator Mukesh Sharma said Joshi is sometimes considered a misfit for politics because of his straightforwardness and bluntness. “When he was the party president, he ruffled many feathers because he called a spade a spade, unlike a politician who would offer assurances even when something was impossible,” he said.Sharma said even his political opponent respect his knowledge. “I remember when Vasundhara Raje became CM for the first time in 2008, she invited experts from various fields to discuss her vision for the state and get their feedback. CP Joshi was the only one from the Congress in that meeting,” he said.Bhandari said Joshi, in the coming days, could define Rajasthan’s politics and his name would be there in the history for his role as a Speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-running-for-cm-s-post-sidelined-cp-joshi-is-key-to-congress-govt-in-rajasthan/story-OGpKkgHWst2q27jMw5mSVP.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Will quit RJD if political rival is inducted’: Raghuvansh Prasad Singh ahead of Bihar polls||With the Bihar assembly polls approaching, the rumblings within the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) have become more audible with senior party leader and former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh firing a fresh salvo at the party’s top leadership by asserting he would leave the party in case his rival and Vaishali strongman Rama Singh is inducted into the party.“I have tendered my resignation from the post of vice president as a protest against the proposed induction of Singh. I have not withdrawn it and will not compromise on it. They have put his induction on hold but not taken any final decision. But, if the party ever inducts him, I will go a different way and quit the party,” Singh told Hindustan Times, over phone from his house in Vaishali.The veteran RJD leader, 75, recovering after battling Covid-19 also took potshots at the party’s adamant attitude to pressurize allies on accepting Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s name as the Chief Ministerial face in the Grand Alliance by negating demands of smaller allies for discussion on the issue. He, however, underlined that it is a well established democratic norm that a CM candidate is always from the party with the biggest vote share and MLAs.“Hasn’t the RJD passed resolutions five times to reinforce that Tejashwi is the party’s CM’s face? This is utter sycophancy. Does it help in terms of the party gaining more vote share? No, the party would continue to enjoy the vote share it has. But, the allies should be taken into confidence on the CM candidate because the top post usually goes to the biggest party in any bloc. It will help in more unanimity,” he said.A prominent Rajput face in the party, Singh has been miffed over being sidelined in the party’s organizational set up and being denied a Rajya Sabha seat for some time, but had created a flutter on June 23, by resigning from the top party post on the party’s decision to induct his political rival Rama Singh. The induction was postponed then.Incidentally, the RJD veteran’s resignation from the party post had coincided with five RJD MLC’s defecting to the JD(U) in a coup ahead of the MLC polls for nine seats in June last week. Asked whether he was planning to switch over to the NDA, the 75-year old veteran maintained that ‘things would evolve at the opportune time’. But, he dropped hints about looking for new political options by quoting an anecdote from the life of Dr BR Ambedkar.“Ambedkar ji had said it was not in my hands to be born into the Hindu religion. But when he decided to change his religion, he was urged by many to reconsider. The social reformer had put two conditions before priests but they never got fulfilled. I am somewhat in that same situation,” he said, referring to statements made by JD(U) and BJP leaders giving him an offer to join their fold.Significantly, the long associate of jailed RJD chief was also critical of the choice of party’s nominees for the recent MLC seats especially the selection of one businessman turned politician Mohammed Farooq, calling it yet another example of ‘picking up outsiders’ for plump posts. He said the same had happened when party had given a ticket to Amarendra Dhari Singh in RS polls a few months back. “People are paratrooping in the party to become MLCs and RS MPs at the cost of loyal party workers. It does not make a party strong,” he said.There are also indications that the RJD brass is trying hard to mollify the temperamental leader knowing it could well have wider political ramifications in terms of votes and the party’s image ahead of assembly polls. State president of the RJD Jagdanand Singh said, the party had respected Raghuvansh’s stand and not inducted Rama Singh. “Isn’t the party going with what Raghuvansh Prasad Singh wishes?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-quit-rjd-if-political-rival-is-inducted-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-ahead-of-bihar-polls/story-q0FSxWXFZaWjwiiPDkBEyH.html
22-07-2020||India||Monsoon deficit drops as Delhi records heavy rain again||Delhi once again recorded “heavy” category rain after it poured in many parts of the city on Wednesday morning.Safdarjung, Palam, and Lodhi Road recorded 67.3 millimetres (mm); 81.2 mm and 71.9 mm of rain, respectively, on Wednesday.India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities categorise rainfall between 64.5 and 124.4 mm in a day as “heavy”.The heavy spell of monsoon rain is due to a combination of factors, according to meteorologists.Delhi’s rain deficiency since June 1 was 43% until Tuesday, but reduced to 29% the following day and is likely to lessen further by the evening.Also read: Roads cave in as heavy rain lashes Delhi“The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is passing south of Delhi. It is passing along Bikaner, Palwal, Badaun, Bahraich, Muzaffarpur, and the north-eastern states. Palwal, which is located south of Delhi, is bringing a lot of rainfall over the national capital. There is also a trough (area of low pressure) in the westerlies. Moist south-westerly winds are also blowing from the Arabian Sea. All these factors are contributing to thundershowers and rains,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC).The monsoon trough is likely to shift to the east from Thursday onwards leading to a gradual reduction in rains.At present, the western part of monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and the eastern part runs close to the foothills of the Himalayas.Besides, the convergence of moist southerly-southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east and adjoining eastern India is likely to continue until Thursday.Also read| ‘Vanished as if never existed’: House collapses in seconds amid heavy Delhi rainsThe interaction between mid-level westerlies and lower level south-westerlies from the Arabian Sea over northwest India is likely to continue until Thursday.IMD in its Wednesday bulletin said rain intensity and distribution over northwest India is likely to reduce significantly from Thursday, but widespread and heavy rain is likely over central, east, north-east India, and Maharashtra during the next three days, according to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-monsoon-deficit-drops-as-city-records-heavy-rain-again/story-wnrFVRgdrUwS6b5vHBeKKK.html
22-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Enforcement Directorate registers money laundering case in Kerala gold smuggling probe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ED joins Kerala gold smuggling probe, registers money laundering caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case in the Kerala gold smuggling scandal. Read moreAndhra Pradesh Governor asks govt to reinstate state election commissionerAndhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan on Wednesday directed that the state government follow the high court judgment of May 29 ordering reinstatement of retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as the state election commissioner (SEC). Read moreRealme X3 SuperZoom review: You’re not just paying for the camerasCameras in a smartphone are important, yes we get that. It is one of the deciding factors when you are buying a handset - we get that too. But while these cameras have gone beastly in terms of megapixel counts (108MP is the threshold for now) and moving lenses (Gimbal cameras) this year, unfortunately you have to shell out way more for that superior performance and features. So, at least some of that goodness should reach the ‘affordable’ handsets as well. Read moreKanye West’s erratic behaviour, tweets about Kim Kardashian put spotlight on bipolar disorderUS rapper and apparent presidential candidate Kanye West has opened up in the past about his struggles with bipolar disorder. But his recent erratic behaviour has again called into question his health and treatment. Read moreSupreme Court to hear applications in BCCI matter after two weeksThe Supreme Court Wednesday said it would hear after two weeks the applications which have raised issues relating to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The matter came up for hearing before a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao. Read moreElderly duo dances to Ghagra from Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani, their energy will make you want to shake a leg too. WatchA video shared on Facebook has prompted many to repeat the well-known phrase, “Age is just a number.” There’s a chance that you’ll be inclined to say the same after you see this awesome dance performance by an elderly duo. Read moreWatch: India’s anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra successfully test firedTrials of the helicopter-launched Nag Missile (Helina) conducted in Odisha. Now named as ‘Dhruvastra’, its trials were conducted on July 15 & 16. Trails were conducted without a helicopter in direct and top attack mode. Dhruvastra is a third generation fire and forget class anti-tank guided missile. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-enforcement-directorate-registers-money-laundering-case-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-probe-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MFYnSxickJpGnPExC6xUnN.html
22-07-2020||India||Col Santosh Babu’s widow appointed Deputy Collector in Telangana||The Telangana government on Wednesday appointed Santoshi, the widow of Colonel Santosh Babu who was killed in clashes with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley last month, as a deputy collector, the chief minister’s office said.“The chief minister has instructed officials concerned to post Santoshi in Hyderabad and its surrounding areas,” the CMO said.Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao handed over the appointment letter to her. Earlier on June 22, Rao had said that the Telangana government would extend all support to the family of Colonel Babu. He had then appointed Santoshi as a Group-I officer during a visit to Suryapet town to see the family of the fallen soldier.The letter in June did not mention the designation and posting. Power minister G Jagadish Reddy had said that Santoshi would be given a posting in whatever department she would feel comfortable.Colonel Santosh Babu who was the commanding officer of the 16th battalion of the Bihar Regiment and 19 other soldiers were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops on the night of June 15 along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan valley. An unknown number of Chinese troops were also killed in the clash.Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh met soldiers from that battalion in Ladakh and acknowledged their bravery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/col-santosh-babu-s-widow-appointed-deputy-collector-in-telangana/story-8XlnIyiAvJEoR3yg3n2dWN.html
22-07-2020||India||AAP demands Tripura CM’s sacking, tosses curve ball for Dushyant Chautala||Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has joined the call for Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb’s resignation over his controversial comments alleging members of the Jat and Punjabi communities had inferior intellect compared to the Bengali community. Senior party leader and Delhi minister Kailash Gehlot also asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a clarification on the issue.Tripura CM Deb had triggered a controversy by claiming that Punjabis and Jats are physically strong but were not mentally as sharp as Bengalis. He yesterday apologised for his comments and stated that he didn’t intend to hurt sentiments of the Jats and Punjabis.“I ask Dushyant Chautala, you’re also a Jat, if you’re feeble-minded or mad, then how did you become Haryana’s deputy chief minister? Chautala should ask for Tripura CM Biplab Deb’s resignation. We demand Biplab Deb’s resignation. Insult of Jats won’t be tolerated,” said Kailash Gahlot.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDushyant Chautala’s party is running a coalition government in Haryana with the BJP as the senior partner. AAP has fought elections in Haryana, which has a sizable population of the Jat community.Gehlot also cited names of some prominent Jat leaders in an attempt to corner the BJP over Deb’s comments.“BJP goes to nooks and crannies to ask for votes from the Jat community and calls them dim witted and mad after winning elections. I want to ask the BJP if Sir Chotu Ram ji and Chaudhary Charan Singh were intellectually inferior,” Gehlot asked.Sir Chotu Ram was a leading Jat leader of the pre-independence India who formed the Unionist Party (Zamindara League) with the alliance of Hindu and Muslim agriculturists; Chaudhary Charan Singh was also one of the foremost peasant leaders of the country who served as India’s fifth prime minister.Also Read: Kejriwal announces scheme to deliver ration at doorstep of card holders in 6-7 monthsBiplab Deb’s comments have invited the wrath of several other political formations including the Akali Dal, which is an ally of the BJP in Punjab. Party leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa had suggested that Deb should step down as chief minister and spend some time enhancing his knowledge about the Sikh community.On Monday, Congress, too, had hit out at Deb and demanded that the BJP’s central leadership take action against him.After the backlash, Deb asked for forgiveness in a series of tweets and said that he was proud of the contributions of the Punjabi and Jat communities in the freedom struggle of the country and had many friends among them.“I had expressed the views some people have about them. I am proud of Punjabi and Jat communities. I have lived among them for quite some time... If my statement has hurt anyone’s feelings, I apologise for that,” the chief minister said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-demands-tripura-cm-s-sacking-tosses-curve-ball-for-dushyant-chautala/story-We9BpWHy1LmzKbKNPlP6fO.html
22-07-2020||India||Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy inducts two ministers in minor cabinet rejig||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday inducted two ministers – Chelluboyina Venugopala Krishna and Seediri Appala Raju into his council of ministers in a minor cabinet reshuffle.Andhra Pradesh governor Biswabhushan Harichandan administered the oath of office and secrecy to the two ministers at a simple and brief ceremony at the Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada.Apart from Jagan, assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram, other cabinet ministers and a few public representatives attended the swearing-in ceremony. Entry into Raj Bhavan was restricted to only a few members in view of the Covid-19 pandemic prevailing in Vijayawada.The induction of the two ministers was required following the resignation of two senior members Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkataramana on Monday after their election to the Rajya Sabha. Both the leaders were sworn in as MPs by Rajya Sabha chairman and vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi on Wednesday.Seediri Appala Raju, who hails from the fishermen community, is a first time MLA from Palasa assembly constituency in Srikakulam district. A doctor by profession, Appala Raju attracted the attention of the chief minister with his pro-active measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in his constituency.Venugopala Krishna, however, has nearly two decades of experience in politics. A businessman from East Godavari district, he had started his career in the Congress party since 2000. He had been a member of the Zilla Parishad twice in 2001 and 2006, before being made East Godavari District Congress Committee president between 2008 and 2012.Krishna later joined the YSR Congress party and unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections from Kakinada rural constituency in 2014. He fought the assembly elections again in 2019 from Ramachandrapuram and he won with a huge majority.Though the portfolios of the newly-inducted ministers were not finalised yet, an official in the chief minister’s office said Appala Raju might get the portfolio of fisheries, while Venugopala Krishna would be given roads and buildings.“There will be a vacancy in the post of deputy chief minister because of the resignation of Subhash Chandra Bose and the chief minister is likely to elevate present roads and buildings minister Dharmana Krishna Das as Deputy CM with the revenue portfolio,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-inducts-two-ministers-in-minor-cabinet-rejig/story-4h2bEDRl942A7kCaCLTMdO.html
22-07-2020||India||Bengaluru to receive spell of rain today, yellow alert sounded for few districts in Karnataka||A ‘yellow alert’, indicating heavy rainfall, has been issued for Karnataka’s Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Hassan and Kodagu districts for July 23 and July 24, CS Patil, director, IMD Centre, Bengaluru said on Wednesday. The official also said that parts of capital city Bengaluru may receive light rainfall today. The India Meteorological Department has predicted rainfall for most parts in north India for the coming days. As per its mid-day weather bulletin, rainfall intensity and distribution over Northwest India will reduce significantly from July 23. “Some reduction in rainfall intensity over Northeast India also very likely from 24th July due to likely southward shifting of the eastern end of the Monsoon trough,” the bulletin read. Also read: Heavy rains lash Delhi, parts of NCR; temperature dropsThe weather department has predicted widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls very likely over central, east and northeast India and Maharashtra during next three days after which the rainfall intensity is very likely to decrease. Yellow alert has been issued for Karnataka's Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Hassan and Kodagu for July 23 and July 24. Some areas of Bengaluru may receive light rainfall today: CS Patil, Director, IMD Centre, Bengaluru pic.twitter.com/87MG80xtniHeavy rainfall in isolated areas over Assam and Meghalaya has been predicted for today and tomorrow as well as over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal. Also read: More rainfall likely in flood-ravaged Assam today, predicts IMDModerate to severe thunderstorm and lightning is likely over isolated places over north Rajasthan, south Uttar Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh, south Haryana and Delhi during next 12 hours, the MeT department added. The national capital and adjoining areas received heavy downpour on Wednesday morning. The rainfall resulted in traffic congestion due to water-logging in many areas across Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-to-receive-spell-of-rain-today-yellow-alert-sounded-for-few-districts-in-karnataka/story-YvNhFdW0NgVA9NIH80dOvI.html
22-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh Governor asks govt to reinstate state election commissioner||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan on Wednesday directed that the state government follow the high court judgment of May 29 ordering reinstatement of retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as the state election commissioner (SEC).A communication to this effect was sent to chief secretary Neelam Sawhney from the Raj Bhavan’s secretariat in the morning.The latest development is a setback on the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government which has been waging a prolonged legal battle with Ramesh Kumar after sacking him through an ordinance on April 10.The Governor’s directions follow Ramesh Kumar’s representation to him on Tuesday requesting that he be restored as the SEC as per the directions of the state high court.The Raj Bhavan communique said in pursuance of the representation given by Ramesh Kumar and the instructions given by the high court in the contempt case on July 17, the Governor was directing the government for taking necessary action as per the directions of the court in its order dated May 29.While there was no response from the Jagan government to the Governor’s orders till afternoon, an official in the CMO familiar with the development said the matter was referred to Advocate General Sriram Subrahmanyam for obtaining the legal position.“In the communique, the Governor had nowhere asked the state government to reinstate Ramesh Kumar. It is not a direction to restore his position. He only asked the government to implement the verdict of the high court. Since the state government had challenged the high court’s order in the Supreme Court, he cannot be reinstated as SEC,” the official said.The Jagan government had moved the Supreme Court again on Monday, seeking a stay on the high court taking up the contempt petition filed by Ramesh Kumar. It argued that the high court could not take up such a contempt petition at a time when the matter was pending before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-governor-asks-govt-to-reinstate-state-election-commissioner/story-ghXgrSIMy5yz5XtyyqQAsO.html
22-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: 443 security personnel found Covid-19 positive till now||The raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Chhattisgarh is spreading as 443 security personnel, including jawans of paramilitary forces deployed in the Communist Party of India (CPI)-(Maoist)-hit districts in the state, have been reported to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, the police data showed.A police official said 114 personnel and officials from Chhattisgarh Police have tested Covid-19 positive, while another 329 jawans of paramilitary forces have also been infected.In the old Police Headquarters (PHQ) of Chhattisgarh, which is located in Raipur town, 26 police personnel tested Covid-19 positive and another seven attached to the new PHQ in Naya Raipur.“Raipur has reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases among the state’s law and order personnel. So far, 38 and 34 personnel of Chhattisgarh Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), respectively, have tested Covid-19 positive in Raipur alone,” said a police official.Paramilitary forces, including CRPF, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Border Security Force (BSF), are deployed in nine Maoist-hit districts in the state, including seven in the remote Bastar region.“In the Bastar region, 193 officials and jawans of paramilitary forces have tested Covid-19 positive to date, of which Dantewada district accounted for the maximum number of cases at 41,” said the official while citing most of the infected personnel had joined work after their leave and belonged to various states across the country.Sunderaj P, inspector-general (I-G) of police, Bastar division, Chhattisgarh, said the Covid-19 positive cases among paramilitary forces wouldn’t impact anti-Maoist operations.“We have around 60,000 jawans of paramilitary forces deployed in the Bastar region. The Covid-19 positive cases reported among the forces won’t impact ant-Naxal operations,” the I-G said.However, no police personnel has tested Covid-19 positive in Chhattisgarh’s Bemetra, Baloda Bazar, Bilaspur, Janjgir-Champa, Raigarh, Korba, Surguja, and Balrampur districts yet.DM Awasthi, director-general of police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, said aggressive testing is being conducted among the personnel, who is in the frontline battling the pandemic, in a bid to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak.“Police personnel is the frontline Covid-19 warriors, who are constantly undergoing tests. Swab samples are being collected on a daily basis and they have been instructed to take precautions for their safety,” the DGP said.Earlier, Niharika Barik Singh, health secretary, Chhattisgarh, had written to CRPF, CISF, BSF, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Indian Army and Service Selection Board (SSB) authorities to ensure strict compliance with the quarantine protocols.An order has been issued that whenever personnel returns to the state, they must be compulsorily quarantined for 14 days and Covid-19 tests conducted, and information about their health condition should be shared regularly with respective district collectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-443-security-personnel-found-covid-19-positive-till-now/story-WUyAk31RmiJYwJy42oiGHO.html
22-07-2020||India||ED joins Kerala gold smuggling probe, registers money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case in the Kerala gold smuggling scandal.The ED is the third agency to launch an investigation in the scandal after Customs and National Investigation Agency (NIA).However, a money laundering probe will be different from other investigations. It will allow the ED to attach properties of accused people and investigate shell companies if found involved in smuggling of gold.The case came to light after the Customs department seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. On July 9, the Union home ministry asked the NIA to probe the racket.The haul of 30 kg gold is said to be worth Rs 15 crore.The NIA has arrested four people, including the two key accused Swapna Suresh and Sadeep Nair, and Customs 13 in connection with the case so far. Sarith PS was the first accused who was arrested by the Customs department.The NIA had last week approached Interpol seeking a “blue notice” against Faisal Fareed, a Dubai-based person named as an accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. The agency found that Fareed had forged the documents - seal and emblem - of the UAE embassy to ensure diplomatic protection for the baggage and the gold was to be used for terror activities.An Interpol “blue notice” is issued to collect additional information about a person’s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime.Two senior officials, the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar and IT fellow Arun Balachandran, were removed after their name cropped up and many others are under the scanner now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-joins-kerala-gold-smuggling-probe-registers-money-laundering-case/story-uwTsdtoYlrHsOYHs3cnokM.html
22-07-2020||India||All chief ministers to be invited for Ayodhya Ram Temple stone laying ceremony||The Ram Temple trust has decided to invite all chief ministers to the foundation laying ceremony on August 5 at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to be present in person for laying the foundation stone on the occasion.Earlier, a member of the trust had confirmed that invitations will be sent out to prominent figures associated with the Ayodhya Ram Temple movement including former deputy prime minister L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and Vinay Katiyar for the ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ ceremony.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s name was also mentioned by a member of the trust as possible invitees but there was no formal confirmation. “Before laying the foundation stone, PM Modi will offer prayers to Lord Ram at the temple and Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi Temple. All chief ministers will be invited to the programme,” Swami Govind Dev Giri, treasurer of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra said in Pune.Shiv Sena has confirmed that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will attend the ceremony; however, the timing of the foundation stone laying ritual has invited criticism from opposition party leaders such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat.Also Read: Uddhav will attend Ram Mandir ceremony: RautWhile Pawar suggested that building a Ram Temple was not going to help in mitigating the present crisis engendered by the coronavirus outbreak; Thorat accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of using the ceremony to distract from its alleged failures on Covid management front.Another NCP leader had urged Thackeray to not attend the religious function alleging it was against propriety for someone holding a constitutional post in a secular democracy. However, the NCP had distanced itself from the comment.Ram Temple trustee Govind Dev Giri also said that not more than 200 people including 200 invitees will be present for the function and social distancing norms will be followed during the ceremony. According to an official of the trust quoted by PTI, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will be among other important invitees apart from Advani, Joshi, Bharti and Katiyar, who are facing a trial in the Babri Masjid demolition case.The Shiv Sena on Wednesday claimed that the dismissal of the Babri mosque demolition case before the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram temple construction would be a true homage to “martyrs” of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.92-year-old LK Advani’s statement is to be recorded through video conferencing in the case before a special CBI court on July 24.Ram Mandir trust spokesperson Nritya Gopal Das said five silver bricks will be placed inside the sanctum sanctorum during the ceremony. The bricks are believed to symbolise five planets as per the Hindu mythology||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-chief-ministers-to-be-invited-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-stone-laying-ceremony/story-is9ZKMJp2b0IeQ5oUOMMDO.html
22-07-2020||India||Huge explosion near Baghjan oil well in Assam, 3 foreign experts injured||Three foreign experts were injured in an explosion which occurred near Oil India Limited (OIL)’s gas well number 5 at Baghjan, in Assam’s Tinsukia district on Wednesday.“The incident occurred when operations to douse the fire at Baghjan oil field was going on. The operation has been halted now,” news agency ANI quoted Tridip Hazarika, the spokesperson of Oil India Limited, as saying.“Three foreign experts who were at the site are injured. They have been rushed to hospital,” Hazarika said.The damaged gas well is spewing gas uncontrollably for 56 days since a blowout - an uncontrolled release of gas and oil condensate - took place on May 27. Two firefighters of OIL also died at the site then.Over 9,000 people have been shifted to relief camps since the blowout at the well. It caught fire on June 9.Foreign experts brought in to put out the fire and plug the blowout were expected to complete the task by July 7. But flood caused by heavy rain inundated the area near the well and damaged roads and a bridge leading to the site affecting work for several days.OIL had said that various assessment and impact studies of the blowout as well as the blaze in villages and nearby forest areas by multiple agencies such as ERM India, TERI, CSIR-NEIST and IIT-Guwahati.“Total number of families surveyed till July 18 in both Tinsukia and Doomdooma circles is 1,751,” the Public Sectory Undertaking (PSU) had said.The well is located near the Maguri-Motapung Wetland and Dibru Saikhowa Biosphere Reserve, which are among the few remaining habitats for several endangered and range-restricted species. The blowout led to the uncontrollable flow of oil from gas and caused extensive damage to biodiversity and wildlife in the region. The wildlife includes endangered hoolock gibbons and the Gangetic dolphins.There are 17 oil and five gas wells in the Baghjan oil field.Last month, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) constituted an eight-member committee of experts to probe the blowout, subsequent fire and the damage it has caused to humans, wildlife and environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-explosion-near-baghjan-oil-well-in-assam-3-foreign-experts-injured/story-aqT12p78JewpkBv89MYigI.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Emperors in Delhi’: Congress jabs PM Modi after raids on Gehlot’s brother||The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership in Delhi has created a ‘raid raj’ and is using federal agencies to arm twist lawmakers to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government, the Congress said on Wednesday after the Enforcement Directorate carried out raids at premises of the Rajasthan chief minister Gehlot’s brother. The raids are said to be linked to investigations into money laundering charges against Agrasen Gehlot into what has been described as a fertiliser scam.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, who has been camping in Jaipur to help the Gehlot government survive a rebellion led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, said the latest round of raids were ordered by the BJP leadership after three previous attempts to arm twist Congress leaders and lawmakers did not succeed.The emperors in Delhi believe that they can crush any government at any point of time, Surjewala said. When the BJP’s attempts did not succeed, the central agencies were called in to help out.The first round started on July 13 when the BJP started executing its plan to dislodge the Ashok Gehlot government. Income tax officials had carried out raids on three business groups and individuals. Those raids targeted Rajiv Arora of Amrapali Jewels, who is also the Vice President of Rajasthan Congress, Dharmendra Rathore and Ratan Kant Sharma who owns the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur where the Congress has sequestered its lawmakers.“On July 20 and July 21, the CBI questioned MLA Krishna Poonia who brought laurels to the country in the Olympics. Why when BJP is conspiring to topple the government, CBI quizzed Poonia? Yesterday chief minister’s OSD Devaram Saini was also quizzed,” Surjewala said.Krishna Poonia and Devaram Saini were questioned in connection to the death of a police officer Vishnudutt Vishno who was found dead at his residence in Churu district on May 23.Surjewala said the raids and summons for questioning by central agencies may have succeeded in other states but would not succeed in Rajasthan.On Wednesday, Enforcement Directorate officials accompanied by a team of Central Reserve Police Force officials, started searches at six places in Rajasthan, four in Gujarat, two in West Bengal, and one in New Delhi in connection with the scam.ED officials have said Agrasen Gehlot is the owner of a company named Anupam Krishi, on which the Customs department has levied a penalty of Rs 7 crore for alleged violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-it-on-congress-counterattack-at-bjp-after-ed-raids-ashok-gehlot-s-brother/story-CqGWdtVBgcQ3F8P11RTRoM.html
22-07-2020||India||Pika gun, Chinese-made pistol, grenades found in terror hideout in J-K’s Rajouri: Police||Security forces on Wednesday busted a terror hideout and seized a cache of arms and ammunition in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district, a senior police official said.Jammu and Kashmir police and Indian Army’s Thanamandi-based 38 Rashtriya Rifles busted the hideout during a cordon and search operation in Manyal area under Thanamandi police station jurisdiction.Chandan Kohli, Rajouri’s senior superintendent of police, said the police received information about the suspected presence of an old terrorist hideout in Manyal.A team of Rajouri Police’s special operation group and 38 Rashtriya Rifles launched a cordon and search operation late on Tuesday.“The entire area was kept under cordon and in the wee hours of Wednesday morning, searches were launched during which a terror hideout established under a portion of dense bushes was busted,” Kohli.The official said one Pika machine gun, a Chinese pistol, a country-made pistol, a magazine of an AK-47 assault rifle, two pistol magazines, 168 Pika rounds, 47 AK rounds, four pistol rounds, two Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) grenades, one binocular, eight ammunition belts, an antenna and a tape recorder have been recovered from the hideout.“The area is still under search and SDPO Thanamandi Sajjad Khan along with SHO Fareed Ahmed and officers of army’s Rashtriya Rifles are monitoring the operation,” Kohli said.“Pro-active approach of the forces and close synergy with all the sister agencies is playing its role and nefarious designs of anti-social elements are being foiled,” he added.In June, a joint team of the army and Kishtwar Police similarly unearthed a terrorists’ hideout and recovered a large cache of arms, ammunition and warlike stores.The recoveries included one AK 56 rifle, one AK magazine with 27 rounds, one UBGL, one 9mm pistol, one pistol magazine with six rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pika-gun-chinese-made-pistol-grenades-found-in-terror-hideout-in-j-k-s-rajouri-police/story-GmckEVZ1fWdWVrEfuyKpkO.html
22-07-2020||India||Sheena Bora murder case: CBI court rejects interim bail plea of driver Shyamwar Rai||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected the interim bail plea of driver Shyamwar Rai, one of the accused in the Sheena Bora murder case.Rai, a close aide of the prime accused Indrani Mukerjea, has turned approver in the sensational murder case that was uncovered by Mumbai Police in August 2015.Rai had moved a 45-day interim bail plea in the special CBI court via e-mail because of the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak among inmates and personnel at Thane Jail, where he is currently lodged. He is in jail since his arrest in August 2015. CBI prosecutor Manoj Chalandan opposed Rai’s interim bail plea, as jail authorities are taking appropriate measures to tackle the viral outbreak and all inmates are being looked after well.He also pleaded before the court that Rai is an approver in the case and cannot be released until the trial concludes.The special CBI court rejected Rai’s interim bail plea while considering the probe agency’s objections.Bora was killed on April 24, 2012, allegedly by Mukherjea, her second and former husband Sanjeev Khanna, and driver Rai, who has since turned a prosecution witness and approver in the case.The trio allegedly strangled Bora in the car on April 24, and later her body was dumped into a bag and kept overnight in a garage at Mukerjea’s house.The bag was taken to Pen village in Raigad district the following day and was set on fire. Initially, Bora’s remains were found in May 2012.The murder case came into light after the arrest of Rai in August 2015. He was arrested by Khar police for illegal possession of a pistol. During the questioning, Rai had confessed to Bora’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-cbi-court-rejects-interim-bail-plea-of-driver-shyamwar-rai/story-i2WDmUkJN2yfOV1tYonh8J.html
22-07-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, 200 people to attend||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple slated to be built in Ayodhya on August 5. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure maximum social distancing at the programme, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra has decided that there will not be more than 200 people, including 150 invitees at the foundation stone laying ceremony.“We have decided that there will not be more than 200 people including 150 invitees at the event,” Swami Govind Dev Giri, Treasurer of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra said on Wednesday in Pune.Before laying the foundation stone for the construction of the temple, PM Modi will offer prayers to Lord Ram at the temple and Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi Temple in Ayodhya. All chief ministers from different states will be invited to the programme, Swami Govind Dev Giri, Treasurer of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra said. ALSO WATCH | New Ram Mandir blueprint; silver brick for PM Modi for puja: Ayodhya updatesIn Ayodhya, elaborate preparations are being planned for the three-day Vedic rituals at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. The rituals will begin on August 3 and end with a ‘bhumi pujan’ on August 5 before the construction of the much awaited temple begins.Veteran BJP leader and former deputy prime minister LK Advani and other leaders of the Ram Janmabhoomi agitation will also be invited to the ceremony, a Ram Mandir trust member said on Tuesday.Kameshwar Chaupal, a member of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, a trust set up by the Centre to oversee the construction of the temple, said they will invite former deputy PM L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and Vinay Katiyar.ALSO READ | Ram Temple Trust invites PM Modi to lay foundation stone, construction may begin soon“Timings for the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Prime Minister has been decided according to the Hindu calendar and the most auspicious time (12.15 pm) on August 5, has been selected accordingly,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, heir to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust had said on Sunday. Vedic rituals for the ‘bhumi pujan’ will begin with a special puja offered to Lord Ganesha. According to Hindu rituals, every auspicious ceremony begins with offerings to Lord Ganesha. Next day, the priests will perform Ramacharya Puja and on the last day August 5 another ‘bhumi pujan’ will be performed, which will be attended by the Prime Minister.An 11-member team of priests from Varanasi and Ayodhya will perform the three-day rituals. In this entire ceremony, priests from Varanasi, which is the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Modi, will have a prominent role.On his maiden visit to Ayodhya, PM Modi is likely to remain in the temple town for two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ram-temple-on-august-5-200-people-to-attend-event/story-60pQo75XAYCq6uYE1KbNDK.html
22-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Man who attempted suicide in front of CM’s house on June 29 succumbs||A youth (27), who had tried to self-immolate in front of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel’s official residence in Raipur on June 29, succumbed to his burn injuries at a private hospital on Tuesday.“The youth, who belonged to Dhamtari district, died on Tuesday night at a private hospital in Raipur. The post-mortem examination was carried out on Wednesday morning and later the body was sent to his native place in Dhamtari district,” said Ajay Yadav, superintendent of police (SP), Raipur.The SP said initially, the youth was admitted to Raipur’s Dr. BR Ambedkar Memorial hospital, but was later shifted to a private hospital.Police said that he had sustained over 50% burn injuries.Raman Singh, three-term Chhattisgarh CM and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president, tore into Baghel-led state government’s “misrule and mismanagement”.“Misrule, mismanagement and the poor policy of the Congress have murdered the youth of the state … Bhupesh Baghel government continued to sprinkle salt on the wounds by calling the youth a mentally-ill patient,” ex-CM Singh tweeted.On July 29, the day the incident occurred, the state public relations department personnel had spoken to the members of the youth’s family and had claimed that he was mentally unstable for the past two years.The department had stated on the same day that the youth possessed two acres of land in his native village and also held a job card under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005, scheme.“He had worked for 11 days in May under the MGNREGA scheme and had submitted an application to his village panchayat for making a YouTube film,” the department had said in a statement.However, his wife denied that he was mentally unstable.“We are suffering from an acute financial crisis due to which my husband was very worried. He is not mentally unstable,” she had told local media persons in Dhamtari on June 29.The state government had ordered a magisterial probe into the case the following day.The state government had said the key aspects of the probe would be the circumstances that led to his self-immolation bid, whether he was instigated by any person, the reason and the mode of conveyance by which he travelled to Raipur, and if he was indeed mentally unstable, then why no treatment was done by his family members.RP Singh, Congress leader, and state spokesperson, said any unemployed youth’s death is an unfortunate incident and the state government stands by the deceased’s family in their hour of grief.He, however, launched a scathing attack on ex-CM Singh and reminded him of precedence.“If the former CM is so sensitive about the death of this youth, then he shouldn’t forget about two similar incidents that had occurred during his regime. Records suggest that eight self-immolation bids were carried out during his 15-year reign.He should be apologetic and ashamed about his rule. Besides, his government didn’t give a single rupee for the treatment of those, who had died, under similar circumstances,” Singh alleged.The BJP is yet to respond to the ruling Congress’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-man-who-attempted-suicide-in-front-of-cm-s-house-on-july-29-succumbs/story-AP1yBJK1vUArepcMSgVtvJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Life imprisonment for 11 cops convicted for Rajasthan ex-royal’s murder in 1985||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Mathura sentenced 11 policemen, including a former Deputy Superintendent of Police (SP), to life imprisonment on Wednesday, a day after holding them guilty in the controversial 1985 murder of Raja Man Singh. The former royal was shot dead by the police in Rajasthan’s Deeg a day after he crashed his jeep in a fit of anger into a helicopter being used by the then chief minister.The court also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on each convict.Judge Sadhna Rani Thakur announced the sentence. The convicts were taken to Mathura Central Jail immediately after the sentencing.The 11 police personnel are Kaan Singh Bhati (the former Deeg DSP), Virendra Singh, Sukhram, Jagram, Jag Mohan, Sher Singh, Padmaram, Hari Singh, Chhitar Singh, Bhawar Singh and Ravi Shekhar.The CBI had named 18 policemen in its charge sheet; four of them died during the trial and three others were acquitted.The verdict came 35 years after Singh was killed in police firing.Raja Man Singh was the younger brother of the last ruler of Bharatpur, Maharaja Sawai Vrijendra Singh, and son of Maharaja Kishan Singh. Born on December 5, 1921, he studied engineering in England and was a seven-time Independent MLA from Deeg between 1952 and 1984.Raja Man Singh’s daughter Krishnendra Kaur Deepa was the tourism minister in the last BJP government in Rajasthan. The CBI court hearing was shifted to Mathura from Rajasthan on a plea in the Supreme Court by her in 1990.Man Singh was shot dead along with his two supporters in police firing in February 1985 after an incident of violence in which then chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s helicopter was damaged. Mathur was campaigning for Congress candidate from Deeg, Brijendra Singh, who was contesting against Man Singh. Ahead of a meeting he was to address on February 20, Congress workers removed flags and banners of Raja Man Singh from the area. An enraged Singh reached the meeting venue with his supporters. He drove his jeep into the chief minister’s helicopter.Curfew was imposed soon after. The following day (February 21, 1985), Singh, according to Deepa, was on his way to surrender to the police who had registered a complaint against him when he was shot dead by Bhati and other policemen who stopped his jeep. Apart from Singh, his supporters, Thakur Sumer Singh and Thakur Hari Singh, were also killed in the police firing.Deepa said her husband Vijay Singh registered a complaint against the policemen charging them with murder. “We are happy there has been justice after 35 years,” she said.Vijay Singh was also in the jeep with the former royal when he was killed. “In anaj mandi (grain market) of Deeg, Kan Singh Bhati and other cops waylaid us before they started firing. I managed to survive the police attack,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-imprisonment-for-11-cops-convicted-for-rajasthan-ex-royal-s-murder-in-1985/story-ykEKaRlnjxsM8nxZLruRwN.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Delhi to conduct sero surveillance every month to fight Covid-19’: Health minister||In a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 infection and contain the spread of the virus in the national capital, the Delhi government has decided to conduct sero surveillance every month, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. The minister said that the exercise will be carried out from the 1st till the 5th of every month. The recent findings from Delhi’s sero surveillance suggest that the national capital has crossed its Covid-19 peak and that the fear of case explosion in the city is also gone. In a conversation with HT, Dr Sujeet K Singh, director of the Union health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said that although Delhi’s Covid-19 situation seems to be improving, now is not the time to get complacent. Also read: Survey results show that Delhi has definitely crossed infection peak Delhi government has decided to conduct sero surveillance every month. It will be done from the 1st till 5th of every month: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/GwYoJyjTkmFindings from the sero surveillance serve as important data to guide containment strategies. Singh said that such an exercise needs to be done periodically to know the exact burden of the disease from time to time and device appropriate strategies. To establish a trend, this type of survey needs to be repeated and it will be repeated in coming months, he said. The national capital’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 125,096 on Wednesday. Although the coronavirus tally here runs in lakhs, the rate of recovery in Delhi is higher as compared to other states. So far, 106,118 patients in the national capital have beaten the deadly contagion or have been discharged from hospitals. The death toll stands at 3,690, with this Delhi’s active Covid-19 cases stands at 15,288.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-conduct-sero-surveillance-every-month-to-fight-covid-19-health-minister/story-iG2VX15AErycgHcjVV2XHJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Former SC judge BS Chauhan to head probe into Vikas Dubey’s killing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday endorsed the Uttar Pradesh government’s suggestion that a former judge of the top court, justice B S Chauhan will head a Commission to probe the encounter involving gangster Vikas Dubey and other incidental events leading to his deathA former Allahabad high court judge Shashi Kant Aggarwal and UP’s former director general of police (DGP) K L Gupta and will also be members of the Commission. A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by CJI SA Bobde approved the names and asked the Commission to submit its report in two months. The report shall also be given to the State government as per Commission of Inquiry Act. On Monday, the apex court had asked the UP government to consider appointing a retired Supreme Court judge and a former Director General of Police in a panel to probe the Dubey’s death in an encounter.“The state government has contacted Justice Chauhan and taken his approval. He is willing to devote time despite Covid situation and travel to Kanpur and Allahabad, ” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench as he shared the draft notification. According to the terms of reference, the Commission will investigate not only the incident involving encounter of Vikas Dubey but also probe the inaction of authorities which led to the gangster being released on bail despite facing over 60 cases. The bench had earlier held that this was the single most important factor that led to the incident in which Dubey was shot dead after he allegedly tried to escape and fired on policemen on July 10. The Commission will also probe why no efforts were made to cancel Dubey’s bail. The encounter of the intervening night of July 2-3 in which eight policemen were killed, will also be probed.“We do not want to tie the hands of the Commission by specifying the terms of reference. It should be kept as wide as possible,” the bench said.The secretarial assistance for the Commission will be provided by Centre. The Court said that the Commission’s proceedings will not affect the trial of other accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-sc-judge-bs-chauhan-to-head-probe-into-vikas-dubey-s-killing/story-ig8L9nWQRTFWPNHAOfeKBP.html
22-07-2020||India||After Congress’ attack over journalist’s death, Mayawati says jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Wednesday alleged there “was a jungle raj” in Uttar Pradesh and incidents of crime were rising in the state, soon after a 35-year-old journalist succumbed to a bullet injury in Ghaziabad after he was shot at by a group of men.Mayawati’s criticism of the Yogi Adityanath’s government in the state came soon after Congress’ Rahul Gandhi said the state was “promised Ram Raj” but got “goonda raj” after Vikram Joshi died early in the morning.The BSP president, however, did not mention Vikram Joshi’s death in her tweet in Hindi. She later tweeted her condolence to the family.“The way in which serious crimes, including murder and women’s insecurity, are increasing in Uttar Pradesh it is clear there is a jungle raj in the state rather than the law,” the former chief minister said in her first tweet.“In Uttar Pradesh, more than coronavirus, crime virus dominates the region. The public is affected by this. The government must pay attention to the issue,” she said.Vikram Joshi, who was on way on his motorcycle along with his two young daughters, was cornered by the group of men in Mata Colony and beaten up after he had lodged a complaint against one of them for harassing his niece. One of the attackers shot him on his head from close range and the bullet hit his head.Police said Joshi’s family did not allow them to take his body for the post mortem examination and demanded that they wish to speak to the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police who later arrived at the hospital.The UP government later announced financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to his family and also a job to his wife.“An economic assistance of Rs 10 lakh is assured with immediate effect for the family of the deceased by the chief minister. According to his wife’s ability, an appropriate job will be provided to her. As far as the education of their children is considered, they will be sent to a good school,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad’s district magistrate, said.The help assured by the government, Mayawati later said, must reach the family as soon as possible.“The BSP is also demanding that whatever help has been assured by the UP government to the victim’s family today should be given on time. The victim’s family should not have to run from pillar to post,” she said in her third tweet.Kalanidhi Naithani, Ghaziabad’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ghaziabad, has said a case has been registered based on the CCTV footage and that nine accused have been arrested. “The main accused Ravi and Chotu have been arrested. Ravi had planned and Chotu shot at the journalist. Their illegal pistol was also seized. If anyone else’s name comes up that person will be arrested,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Police have taken the statements of the accused. Security arrangements have been made for the family,” Naithani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-congress-attack-over-journalist-s-death-mayawati-says-jungle-raj-in-uttar-pradesh/story-8JrugVy0k8yVlBjW4jpC0N.html
22-07-2020||India||Rajnath asks IAF to stay prepared for any eventuality amid border row||Amid the border row with China, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday asked the Indian Air Force (IAF) to be prepared for any eventuality, saying the rapid deployment of aerial assets at forward locations in eastern Ladakh had “sent a strong message” to the adversary.The IAF chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, said his force was poised to counter any aggressive action by the adversary.Singh was addressing IAF’s top commanders on the opening day of a three-day commanders’ conference.In his inaugural address, he said the professional manner in which IAF conducted air strikes in Pakistan’s Balakot last year and the rapid deployment of aerial assets at forward locations in response to the prevailing situation in eastern Ladakh has sent a strong message to India’s adversaries.The country’s resolve to defend its sovereignty stands firm on the faith its people have in the military’s capability, he said.Singh appreciated IAF’s “proactive response” in bolstering operational capabilities over the past few months. He assured the IAF’s top brass that all needs of the armed forces will be fulfilled.In his speech, Bhadauria said the IAF was well prepared to counter short-term and strategic threats and its units were evenly poised to counter any aggressive action by the adversary. He emphasised on the need to focus on the ability to handle situations at short notice for a robust response.The conference is being held days ahead of the IAF inducting its first batch of five Rafale combats jets acquired from France. They will be inducted at Ambala airbase on July 29.IAF is inducting the jets against the backdrop of heightened tensions with China. It can deploy the new Rafale jets in Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces have been locked in a tense confrontation for months. A protracted process of disengagement began recently and is still ongoing.India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016, as an emergency purchase to arrest a worrying slide in IAF’s combat capabilities.The possible deployment of Rafale fighters in Ladakh could be discussed at the commanders’ conference, where the air force brass is expected to focus on the border row with China, IAF’s preparedness and new purchases that have to be made quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-says-poised-to-counter-any-aggressive-action-by-adversary/story-AJIzCQQWJesIFOjuh4FXaP.html
22-07-2020||India||Teenager detained for spreading fake news from Twitter handle identical to Tripura CM’s account||A teenage high school student (16) was detained for spreading a fake message regarding the reimposition of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions for seven days from Friday in Tripura via a Twitter handle, which is identical to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s micro-blogging site’s verified account.The detainee is a resident of Dhaleswar in Agartala. He tweeted a fake message on Twitter that the state government has announced reimposition of lockdown restrictions, starting Friday for the next seven days in a bid to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.“Looking at the situation of the pandemic, the Tripura government has decided to announce a seven-day lockdown from Friday (July 24),” the teenager had tweeted on Tuesday, masquerading as CM Deb.However, the police managed to track down the errant teenager and he confessed to his crime during an interrogation.“The boy was detained from his home on Tuesday. He has been sent to juvenile custody because he is a minor,” said Kishore Bhattacharya, in-charge, East police station, Agartala.Later, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that the Twitter handle was fake and so was the message.Tripura Police has appealed to the public not to indulge in rumour-mongering on social media about the reimposition of lockdown restrictions or any other news related to the viral outbreak and warned stern action against rumour mongers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teenager-detained-for-spreading-fake-news-from-twitter-handle-identical-to-tripura-cm-s-account/story-O6T2eCiUsJm8X5BctFLRPP.html
22-07-2020||India||Twin naval exercises with US supercarriers signal QUAD has arrived||As four Indian naval ships participated in a two-day joint exercise with the American supercarrier USS Nimitz off the Andaman coast this week, another supercarrier USS Ronald Regan teamed up with navies of Australia and Japan to carry out a similar exercise 4,000 km away on the mouth of the contested South China Sea.The official statements on the exercises did not name China that has been trying to throw its weight around its neighbours. It didn’t have to as the danger is clear and present with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi clearly stating this week that Beijing was moving to the centre of the globe - in effect expounding the Middle Kingdom concept.The United States has emerged as the bulwark against China in the South China Sea and beyond, deepening partnerships with countries in Asia, Europe and Australia to secure Indo-Pacific from a bellicose China.The two exercises make it evident that India will be the principal ally to US in securing Indian Ocean Region while Japan and Australia will be key to protecting Pacific region.The message that put China at the centre of the United States’ focus was reinforced by US defence secretary Mark Esper late on Tuesday. Esper explained the presence of the US supercarriers in and around the South China Sea, which irks Beijing, “to back up the sovereignty of friends and partners and to reassure them that we will be there to defend those things” in the face of ‘China’s bad behaviour”.The four navies that participated in this week’s two exercises - US, India, Japan and Australia -- would be in the Indian Ocean later in November as part of the expanded Malabar naval exercise led by India. Australia is expected to be formally invited soon to the exercise.“This would be a QUAD exercise by default,” a military commander said, referring to the four-country Quadrilateral security dialogue or QUAD.The US, which plays the lead role in QUAD, has become a pivot against China; exercising with the Indian Navy in the Indian Ocean and Japan and Australia in the Philippine Sea near the mouth of the South China Sea.Mark Esper said the exercise in the Indian Ocean reflects the shared commitment of the US and India to boost naval cooperation in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific.The exercise with the Indian Navy was conducted beyond the Six Degree channel which separates Great Nicobar from Banda Ache in Indonesia’s Sumatra. The USS Nimitz, which reaches more than 23 stories high from the keel to the top of the mast, was coming down from the South China Sea into the Strait of Malacca.Simultaneously, USS Ronald Regan conducted the trilateral military exercise as a show of naval might in the Philippine Sea on the doorstep of the disputed South China Sea.“Throughout the cooperative exercise period, participants will operate and train together, exercising integrated maritime operations in an all-domain warfighting environment,” the US Navy said in a statement, pointing that the exercise would help their response “to any situation”.China claims much of the neighbouring South China Sea, though the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan and Brunei also have overlapping claims in the waters. The US, in a marked change in stance on China’s disputes in the South China Sea, had described Beijing’s pursuit of offshore resources “completely unlawful” and condemned its “campaign of bullying to control” the disputed waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twin-naval-exercises-with-us-supercarriers-signal-quad-has-arrived/story-8J11B7NURit4ZqpVBMP4VO.html
22-07-2020||India||Journalist Vikram Joshi who was shot in UP’s Ghaziabad, passes away||Ghaziabad: Vikram Joshi (35), a Ghaziabad-based journalist with a local Hindi newspaper, succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital early morning on Wednesday after he was shot at by a group of men in front of his two minor daughters on Monday late evening.The police arrested nine people in connection with the crime on Tuesday, while one suspect is absconding.Joshi, who was on way on his bike along with his two minor daughters, was cornered by a group of men at Mata Colony in Ghaziabad on Monday late evening and was roughed up. Soon, one of the attackers shot at him from a close range and he sustained bullet injuries in his head. “Joshi was admitted to the intensive care unit and was put on ventillator support. There were internal haemorrhage and acute blood loss due to the gunshot injury in his head. He suffered cardiac arrest and expired at 4:01 am on Wednesday,” said Dr. Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent, Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar, Ghaziabad.On Monday morning, Joshi’s family members refused to take his body away for a post-mortem examination and demanded to speak to the district magistrate (DM) Ajay Shankar Pandey and the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad, Kalanidhi Naithani, who later arrived at Yashoda Hospital.“The DM spoke to the deceased’s family members and offered financial help, including taking care of his minor daughters’ education and a job for his wife depending upon her educational qualification. Later, the family members allowed his body to be taken away for an autopsy,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer, City-1, Ghaziabad Police.The SSP, however, was unavailable for his comments, despite repeated attempts by HT.“The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government and district administration are concerned about the murder of Joshi. The state government has announced an Rs 10-lakh compensation to his family. Free education will be arranged for his two minor daughters. The family was also assured of a job to his wife as per her educational qualification,” said the district information officer.The police have identified the nine suspects as Ravi Kumar, Chotu (who goes by a single name), Mohit Kumar, Dalvir Singh, Akash Nath, Yogendra Singh, Abhishek Kant, Abhishek Mota, and Mohammad Shakir, while another one, Akash Bihari, is still absconding.All suspects are residents of the same locality in Ghaziabad.Earlier on July 16, a fight had broken out between Joshi’s family and the rival group after which both parties had approached the local police authorities in Vijay Nagar. The rival group alleged that Ravi Kumar -- one of the suspects behind the journalist’s murder --sustained severe injuries, while Joshi’s family alleged that the men were harassing the journalist’s niece.The police said that investigation is on over Joshi family’s allegations of harassment of the girl.The police said Ravi was hospitalised after the July 16 fistfight, but he sent his accomplices to physically assault Joshi on Monday late evening. Joshi was shot at in the presence of his two minor daughters. The incident was caught on closed-circuit TV (CCTV) cameras, where one of his minor daughters was seen crying for help after Joshi sustained bullet injuries in his head. “Nine people, including Ravi, have been arrested. One suspect is still on the run. The SSP has suspended the local police post in-charge and a departmental probe has been initiated against him,” Mishra added.The incident has snowballed into a raging political controversy, as former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday morning tweeted and offered condolences to Joshi’s family and also slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led UP government over its rising crime graph.“Vada tha Ram raj ka, de diya gundraj (Ram raj was promised but they gave gunda raj),” Gandhi tweeted.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also weighed in on the incident.“My heartfelt condolences to the family members of Vikram Joshi, a fearless journalist, who passed away on Wednesday morning. He was shot in UP for filing an FIR to book his niece’s molesters. An atmosphere of fear has been created in the country. Voices are being muzzled. Media not spared. Shocking,” Banerjee tweeted.On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi, general secretary, Congress; and Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav also slammed the UP government and questioned the worsening law and order in the country’s most populous state.“The government has directed the Ghaziabad administration for all help to Joshi’s family and financial assistance. Besides free education to his children, his wife will get a job in the state government. The police have acted promptly in the case and nine people were arrested. An investigation is on in the case,” said Chandra Mohan, BJP’s UP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-vikram-joshi-who-was-shot-in-up-s-ghaziabad-passes-away/story-ieGfxQnx2s8IPZ2DYJgKjI.html
22-07-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, six-day lockdown announced in Kashmir Valley||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday announced complete lockdown in areas of Kashmir zone which have been categorised as red zones due to spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.According to news agency ANI, the complete shutdown will be observed in all such areas of the Kashmir zone, except Bandipora, from Wednesday to July 27. “The agriculture/horticulture and construction activities will continue during this period,” the Information and Public Relations department of Jammu and Kashmir said in an order.Jammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan has already announced partial lockdown beginning July 24.The order on July 19 said that there will be complete restrictions on movement of individuals, vehicles and all activities within the jurisidiction of the Jammu district from 6 pm on all Fridays till 6 am on all Mondays, except the movement for emergency medical requirements for which no pass is required.There were 502 fresh cases in the Valley on Wednesday.Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 608 new Covid-19 cases, which took the infection tally in the union territory to 15,258, according to Union health ministry. Nine fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 263. Out of these, 243 deaths have been recorded in the Valley and 20 from the Jammu region.There are now 6,540 active cases in the union territory, while 8,455 patients have recovered from the infection.The officials said Srinagar district in central Kashmir recorded the highest of 213 new positive cases on Tuesday, followed by 83 in nearby Budgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-six-day-lockdown-announced-in-kashmir-valley/story-gxD8WfpEMyUvT4vedBMSUN.html
22-07-2020||India||India reports record Covid-19 recoveries in 24 hours with over 28,000 cured or discharged: Govt||India has reported the highest ever number of Covid-19 recoveries in the last 24 hours with as many as 28,472 patients getting discharged or cured across the country, the Ministry of Health said on Wednesday. More than 7.5 lakh coronavirus patients have recovered from the deadly contagion till date. The recovery rate has crossed 63 percent, the ministry said, adding that 19 States/UTs have registered higher than 63.13 percent recovery rate. India added 37,700 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 648 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this India’s tally of Covid-19 infections rose to 1,192,915 on Wednesday. The Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 28,732 while the number of patients recovered is at 7,53049.This is the seventh consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 30,000. Of the 648 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 246 are from Maharashtra, 75 from Tamil Nadu, 62 from Andhra Pradesh, 61 from Karnataka, 37 from Uttar Pradesh, 35 from West Bengal, 34 from Gujarat, 27 from Delhi, 18 from Madhya Pradesh, 9 each from Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan, government data showed.  Also read: 6-day lockdown in Kashmir Valley to stem Covid-19 spreadHighest ever number of recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours; 28,472 patients discharged. More than 7.5 lakh #COVID19 patients have recovered so far. Recovery Rate crosses 63%. 19 States/UTs register higher than 63.13% Recovery Rate: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/OP0NHzyw6GTelangana has reported seven fatalities each followed by Odisha with six deaths, Chhattisgarh four, Goa three, Jharkhand two while Kerala, Puducherry, Punjab and Tripura have registered a fatality each.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 1,47,24,546 samples have been tested up to July 21 with 3,43,243 samples being tested on Tuesday.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state with 327,031 cases followed by Tamil Nadu (180,643), Delhi (125,096), Karnataka (71,069) and Andhra Pradesh (58,668).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-record-covid-19-recoveries-in-24-hours-with-over-28-000-cured-or-discharged-govt/story-mQ8k8awzLMv1eQyN8Pk2xH.html
22-07-2020||India||Delhi’s Minto Bridge reopens after waterlogging amid heavy rains||An underpass below the Minto Bridge in the heart of Delhi was closed on Wednesday, the second time this week, for commuters for some time after heavy rainfall in the national capital region triggered waterlogging in the area.Delhi Traffic Police issued an advisory requesting people to use an alternate route and later said was opened. “Traffic movement is now normal under Minto Bridge,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Heavy rainfall lashed parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) in the morning leading to water-logging in several areas of the Capital. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted moderate to heavy intensity rainfall for Delhi and some parts of Haryana on Wednesday.This was the second time in three days that the area near central Delhi’s Connaught Place was flooded after rains. A 56-year-old man drowned on Sunday as he tried to navigate his mini truck through eight feet-deep water on the Minto Road underpass.Kundan Singh Mehra sat on his submerged vehicle for several minutes before his death, according to a video clip that was authenticated by his family members who said passersby did not try to rescue him. Fire officials, who rescued three others stranded there, said they were unaware there was a fourth person. Mehra’s body was later spotted by a linesman working nearby.Photos on social media also showed a Delhi Transportation Corporation (DTC) submerged under the bridge.At least one other person also drowned that day in a separate incident after the first spell of heavy rains in the national capital this monsoon.The flooding in several areas of the national capital led to a war of words between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and opposition. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said all government and civic agencies must work together instead of indulging in blame-game at a time when the city is battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Raghav Chadha, the AAP’s spokesperson and vice-chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board, said the work was delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-minto-bridge-reopens-after-waterlogging-amid-heavy-rains/story-O6hrmNoBFbQp5u4oImxPFM.html
22-07-2020||India||CAG reports help enhance effectiveness of governance: Vice president||Several reports of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) have led to changes in regulatory framework, governance structures and delivery mechanism of the government, ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness of operations, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu said on Wednesday.“Today, the CAG has evolved as an enabler to Balasaheb’s vision that not only ensures public financial accountability but also acts as a friend, philosopher and guide of the executive,” he said, while unveiling a statue of BR Ambedkar in the CAG office in New Delhi.He said Ambedkar is the architect of the Constitution and one of the builders of modern India, which mandates the CAG to promote accountability, transparency and good governance through high-quality auditing and accounting and provide independent assurance to our stakeholders, the legislature, the executive and the public, that public funds are being used efficiently and for intended purposes.Though the history of the audit department is almost 160 years old, it was the Constitution that proved catalytic in transforming this organisation of the colonial era into an independent pillar of Indian parliamentary democracy, he said.“Today, CAG is a strong and credible institution and the credit for this must go to the framers of our Constitution, particularly to Dr Ambedkar, who had the vision to ensure independence and wide mandate to the CAG,” he added.Ambedkar’s life and work have inspired the nation and it is heartening to see the core values of CAG – independence, objectivity, integrity, reliability, professional excellence, transparency and positive approach – draw inspiration from his life and work, he said.He said corruption is a major malaise affecting growth and development and all stakeholders – the government, civil society and people – must endeavour to collectively stamp out the menace.“While the Constitution reflected the vision of Dr Ambedkar and its framers gave us one of the best living documents, it is for every Indian, be it an ordinary citizen or a person occupying high constitutional post, to ensure that the sanctity of our Constitution is upheld at all times and never violated. Otherwise, it will be tantamount to betraying the trust and faith of the founding fathers,” he said.“For all the citizens of India, the Constitution remains a sacred book and a guiding beacon on all matters. We should salute the constitution-framers for their vision and statesmanship in giving us a constitution that laid a strong foundation for our parliamentary democracy and stood the test of times,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-reports-help-enhance-effectiveness-of-governance-vice-president/story-auSwJu4KOsbLGMddYRwm7M.html
22-07-2020||India||Gujarat: Record 1,026 new cases; coronavirus tally crosses 50,000||With a highest one-day spike of 1,026, around 300 of them from Surat district, coronavirus cases in Gujarat crossed the 50,000-mark on Tuesday, the health department said.While the case tally reached 50,465, the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 2,201 with 34 patients succumbing, it said.744 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Tuesday, hence the recovered cases increased to 36,403.Surat district reported 298 new cases, the highest in the state, followed by Ahmedabad at 199.The total Covid-19 cases in Surat are now 10,840 while Ahmedabad has reported 24,767 cases so far.Vadodara on Tuesday reported 75 new cases and Rajkot 58. Among other districts, Dahod reported 39 new cases, Bhavnagar 38, Gandhinagar 31, Banaskantha 25, Surendranagar 21, Patan 20, Narmada 19, Gir Somnath and Mehsana 18 each, Navsari and Panchmahal 17, Bharuch 16, Kheda 14, Junagadh 12, Valsad 13, Kutch nine, Anand and Botad eight, Amreli seven.Of 34 deaths during the day, the highest 21 were reported in Surat, taking the district’s toll to 467.Ahmedabad reported the death of six Covid-19 patients, raising its toll to 1,557.Vadodara reported two deaths, while Bhavnagar, Gir Somnath, Jamnagar, Kutch and Patan reported one fatality each, the health department’s release said. The number of recovered cases in Ahmedabad rose to 19,413 and that in Surat rose to 6,961 with 205 and 173 patients getting discharged, respectively.Gujarat now has 11,861 active coronavirus cases. The condition of 82 patients is critical, the release said. 4,16,520 persons have been quarantined in the state -- 2,701 persons in quarantine centres and 4,13,819 at home. Gujarat coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 50,465, new cases 1,026, deaths 2,201, discharged 36,403, active cases 11,861 and people tested so far 5,62,682.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-record-1-026-new-cases-coronavirus-tally-crosses-50-000/story-CcnAAlXcn0zq1fXo8SsPLM.html
22-07-2020||India||New Rajya Sabha MPs take oath||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday administered the oath or affirmation to 45 of 61 members newly elected to the upper house.Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the ceremony was held inside Rajya Sabha chambers during inter-session for the first time. Other MPs who were not present for the ceremony will be administered the oath at a later date.Among the members who took oath were 18 BJP MPs, including Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki from Madhya Pradesh; Nabam Rebia from Arunachal Pradesh; Bhubaneswar Kalita and Biswajit Daimary from Assam; Vivek Thakur from Bihar; Abhay Bharadwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin from Gujarat; Ram Chander Jangra from Haryana; Indu Goswami from Himachal Pradesh; Deepak Prakash from Jharkhand; Ashok Gasti and Iranna Kadadi from Karnataka; Udayanraje Bhosale and Bhagwat Karad from Maharashtra; Maharaja Leishemba Sanajaoba from Manipur;; and Rajendra Gehlot from Rajasthan. K Vanlalvena from Mizoram also took oath; his party thee Mizo National Front is an NDA ally.The BJP’s strength in the House has gone up; even though the party is still short of majority in the upper house, it now has 8 MPs in the Rajya Sabha up from 75. The tally of the National Democratic Alliance has also gone up from 90 to over 100 in the 242 member house. Parties that are friendly to the BJP, include the BJD and AIADMK which have nine MPs each and the YSRCP that has six.From the Congress, which has 40 MPs in the house, the leaders who took oath were KTS Tulsi from Chhattisgarh; Shaktisinh Gohil from Gujarat; Deepender Singh Hooda from Haryana; Mallikarjun Kharge from Karnataka; Digvijay Singh from Madhya Pradesh; Rajeev Satav from Maharashtra; and Neeraj Dangi and KC Venugopal from Rajasthan.Oath was also administered to JDU’s Harivansh and Ramnath Thakur and RJD’s AD Singh and Prem Chand Gupta from Bihar; and to Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, of the CPI-M from West Bengal. Priyanka Chaturvedi from Shiv Sena, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and RPI chief and minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale were administered the oath from Maharashtra.Three MPs from YSRCP who represent Andhra Pradesh include Ayodhya Rami Reddy Alla, Pilli Subhaschandra Bose and Venkataramana Rao Mopidevi.Representing Odisha, Muzibulla Khan, Subash Singh, Sujeet Kumar and Mamata Mohanta from the Biju Janata Dal also took oath. From Tamil Nadu, KP Munusamy of the AIADMK and M Thambidurai of the AIADMK and GK Vasan of the Tamil Maanila Congress also took oath.Of the 61 new MPs, 49 were elected to the upper house for the first time while 12 were re-elected. After vacancies arose in March in 20 states, 42 were elected unopposed, including 28 first timers, and elections were held for 19 vacancies and 15 other first-timers won a berth in the Rajya Sabha.Addressing the new members, Naidu said they should reflect on their role and responsibility and not fall for the temptation of disrupting the House for short-term gains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-rajya-sabha-mps-take-oath/story-gFQ8ExcKGEJugtNDlgwp9H.html
22-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress attacks govt over journalist Vikram Joshi’s death and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Is it a crime to be a journalist in UP?’ Congress attacks govt over Vikram Joshi’s deathThe Congress party went all guns blazing against the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday after Vikram Joshi, a 35-year-old journalist, died following an attack in Ghaziabad. Read moreAfter Dahal stand down in round 1, fight with Oli is now for cabinet berths in Nepal reshuffle aheadAfter a dramatic stand down by Nepalese Communist Party co-chairman P K Dahal during a political duel with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli last week, the stage is now set for a possible cabinet reshuffle in the Himalayan Republic after the party standing committee meets on July 28. Read moreAsus ROG Phone 3 India launch today, here are 5 key things to knowAsus is set to launch its new phone, ROG Phone 3, in India later this evening. This will also mark the global debut of ROG Phone 3. Targeted at gaming enthusiasts, ROG Phone 3 will aim to undercut the upcoming premium smartphones such as Samsung Galaxy Note 20. Read moreHow many times did The Beatles sing the ‘Na na na’ chorus in Hey Jude? This pie-chart explainsTo call The Beatles the greatest band of all time would not be an exaggeration. That is just a fact. ‘We’re talking about a revolution’ when it comes to their unique sounds and creativity. Read moreFamilies of soldiers see them off as they board train in Pune, Piyush Goyal tweets emotional videoRailway Minister Piyush Goyal recently shared a video on Twitter which has now left many emotional. The video shows the families of Indian Army soldiers seeing them off at a train station in Pune. Read more‘We’ve had trouble with you before’: When Dhoni was left miffed with umpire Daryl Harper’s callBesides Steve Bucknor, if there was an umpire the Indian cricket team is not a fan of is Daryl Harper of Australia. Read moreSero Survey says 23% exposed to Covid in Delhi, no Amarnath Yatra this yearHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India so far, results of Sero Survey, how different parliament would be next month, govt’s warning against N-95 masks. Watch to know more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-attacks-govt-over-journalist-vikram-joshi-s-death-and-all-the-latest-news/story-a6E4rFux3xJvqrBG3kRb4H.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Is it a crime to be a journalist in UP?’ Cong attacks govt over Vikram Joshi’s death||The Congress party went all guns blazing against the Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday after Vikram Joshi, a 35-year-old journalist, died following an attack in Ghaziabad.Vikram Joshi had sustained a gunshot injury in the head after he was attacked by a group of men late on Monday night at Vijay Nagar of the city. Police have said Joshi was attacked by the men after he had lodged a complaint against one of them for harassing his niece.Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said Joshi’s ruthless murder has exposed the face of “goondaraj” (rule by hooligans) in Uttar Pradesh as he listed a number of crimes against journalists in the state.“When the situation is like this in Ghaziabad which is adjacent to Delhi-NCR, then you can guess how goodaraj and jungle raj in Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh are on their peak,” Surjewala said during a press conference.The senior leader related the sequence of events before and after Monday’s attack on Joshi as he criticised the law and order situation in the state.“Is it a crime to be a journalist in states ruled by the BJP? Are journalists now gangsters? Will the police not heed to calls by journalists like Vikram Joshi? Will journalists be killed by gangsters in broad daylight? The situation in Uttar Pradesh is pitiful,” he said.He said examples of such attacks of journalists and their families are important as he talked about the crimes against them.“And now Vikram Joshi is murdered ruthlessly in public. Where is Adityanathji? Where is the rule of law under the BJP? Is it the same Ram Rajya that BJP promised after it came to power?” he asked.Before that, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also termed the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government as “goondaraj”, hours after Joshi succumbed to the bullet injury.“Journalist Vikram Joshi was killed after he protested against the harassment against his niece. My condolence to the family. They promised Ram Raj but gave goondaraj,” Gandhi tweeted.Several other leaders of the Congress party also attacked the Adityanath government on the same lines.Party leader and lawyer Abhishek Singhvi also expressed his shock over the incident.“Shocking jungle raj in #Ghaziabad area with journalist #Joshi, already known as the complainant in #FIR, being shot on a scooter while with his daughters, struggling in a coma with a bullet in the skull! Thank God daughters not hit. Shocking, scary, disgusting lack of fear of law & order! #UP.”Ajay Kumar Lallu, president in of Congress’ state unit, demanded the chief minster’s resignation. “The Ghaziabad incident has shocked the entire state. It’s a tragic incident. Nobody is safe in Uttar Pradesh. If it is not jungle raj then what is,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“The government remains silent while criminals are becoming more active. While leaving home in the morning, people in the state worry whether they will be able to return in the evening or not,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-it-a-crime-to-be-a-journalist-in-up-congress-attacks-adityanath-govt-over-vikram-joshi-s-death/story-quCm89FoNFEJ6nGTVM4llO.html
22-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Speaker moves Supreme Court against HC order giving breather to Pilot camp||The political crisis in Rajasthan reached the Supreme Court on Wednesday with assembly speaker CP Joshi filing a speacial leave petition (SLP) against a high court order that asked him not to decide the disqualification notices he had issued to the group of 19 lawmakers led by Sachin Pilot.In his petition, Joshi called the order “illegal, perverse, and in derogation of the powers of the Speaker”.“The proceedings under the Tenth Schedule before the Speaker are proceedings of the legislature and as such cannot interfered with as repeatedly held by this Hon’ble Court as envisaged under Article 212 read with para 6(2) of the Tenth Schedule,” the Speaker said in his petition.The high court’s order restrained the Speaker from even calling and conducting the disqualification proceedings pending against the respondents till July 24, the petition said.ALSO WATCH | ‘With an innocent face...’: CM Ashok Gehlot’s fresh attack on Sachin Pilot The petition further stated that the high court order violated Kihoto Hollohan case decided by the Supreme Court in 1992.In that case, a Constitution bench of five judges expressly held that courts cannot interdict the Speaker from proceeding ahead at the quia timet stage (apprehension of injunction).The high court had on Tuesday told the Speaker not to move forward on the disqualification notices till Friday when the judges are expected to deliver its ruling.Sachin Pilot and 18 lawmakers close to him were issued disqualification notices last week on a complaint from the Congress that has accused them of trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government.Joshi had announced his decision to move the Supreme Court at a press conference on Wednesday morning where he warned that they were “heading for a constitutional crisis”.“I don’t want a confrontation. I respect the judges... but the roles are well defined,” Joshi had told reporters.The Speaker has twice before deferred his deadline for action on the notices as the court proceedings continued beyond the expected time.The deferment on Tuesday is being construed as a breather for the Pilot camp.Mahesh Joshi, the Congress’ chief whip, had sought the disqualification of rebel MLAs from the assembly due to their abstinence from the CLP meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-rajasthan-speaker-moves-supreme-court-against-hc-order-giving-breather-to-pilot-camp/story-SMAKGXnaMtXDnUIApPU7hK.html
22-07-2020||India||Rajasthan speaker moves SC against HC directive to defer disqualification proceedings till Friday||The Speaker of Rajasthan assembly moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday against the order passed by the Rajasthan high court deferring action on notices issued by him to Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident Congress legislators till July 24.Speaker CP Joshi said that according to the Supreme Court’s 1992 judgment in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu, the court cannot interfere with the speaker’s powers to decide a disqualification petition till he gives a final decision on such a plea.Such interference amounts to transgression by the judiciary into his exclusive domain, he contended. In this case, the speaker had only issued show-cause notice to the rebel MLAs and the court couldn’t have interfered at this interim stage, he said.“In Kihoto, a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court expressly held that courts cannot interdict the speaker from proceeding ahead. The proceedings under the Tenth Schedule before the Speaker are proceedings of the Legislature and as such cannot be interfered with...In view of the aforesaid, the (high court) order is ex-facie illegal, perverse, and in derogation of the powers of the Speaker under the Constitution and hencedeserve to be set aside,” the petition said.The Rajasthan high court had, on Tuesday, directed the speaker not to take any action based on his July 14 notice to the Pilot camp.This order was passed after Pilot and the other MLAs had approached the high court on July 15, challenging the speaker’s notice which had asked them to furnish an explanation by July 17 on why they shouldn’t be disqualified from the assembly for their conduct, which the Congress party alleged was detrimental to the interest of the party and showed their intention to quit the party.Pilot and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot have been at loggerheads since the Congress government came to power in 2018 and Gehlot was made CM while Pilot had to settle for the post of Deputy CM.The tussle had come out in open earlier this month after Rajasthan police had sought to question Pilot over allegations against him attempting to pull down the Congress government in Rajasthan in cahoots with the BJP.Gehlot and Pilot had traded allegations before Pilot was eventually sacked as deputy CM. Without Pilot and 18 MLAs who are supporting him, the Congress government enjoys a wafer this majority in the 200-member strong assembly.The speaker’s notice to Pilot was based on the disqualification petition filed by the chief whip of the Congress in Rajsthan, Mahesh Joshi. He had in his plea cited the absence of the MLAs from two Congress legislature party meetings, held on July 13 and 14, despite specific instructions to attend it. This was cited as the main reason which showed the intention of the MLAs to leave the Congress.Pilot and the other dissident MLAs have maintained they never had the intention to leave the Congress and were exercising their right to criticise the party leadership and the functioning of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. In a democratic set-up, voicing disagreement with policies or decisions made by the party doesn’t amount to acting against the interests of the party, so as to lead to disqualification, they said in their petition.The speaker has maintained throughout that the petition by Pilot is premature since the Kihoto vs Hollohan judgment bars any interference by courts while proceedings are pending before the speaker.The high court had reserved its judgment on Tuesday after hearing the parties for three days and also said that it will pronounce its verdict on July 24. The speaker, however, approached the top without waiting for the order.He has sought urgent listing of the case.“In these circumstances, it is respectfully submitted that the impugned order (of Tuesday) which is in direct contravention to the law laid down by this court in Kihoto Hollohan is liable to be immediately stayed so that the dignity of Constitutional authorities envisaged by the Constitution is protected”, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-speaker-moves-sc-against-hc-directive-to-defer-disqualification-proceedings-till-friday/story-mM6og72opiGx2Zxf03X7cK.html
22-07-2020||India||Supreme Court issues notices to Prashant Bhushan, Twitter in contempt proceedings||The Supreme Court has issued notices to advocate Prashant Bhushan and Twitter India taking suo moto contempt of two tweets posted by Bhushan last month. The apex court has sought a detailed response from lawyer Prashant Bhushan on his alleged tweets while Twitter India has been asked to file its response in the case. The top court also issued a notice to Attorney General KK Venugopal for assistance and posted the matter for hearing on August 5.A three-judge bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, stated that the matter relates to two tweets posted by Bhushan last month - one directed against the CJI with his photo showing him riding a bike. The tweet was posted on June 29. Another tweet by Bhushan was posted on June 27 wherein he spoke about the role of four former CJIs in “destroying democracy without a formal emergency”.  When historians in future look back at the last 6 years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the Supreme Court in this destruction, & more particularly the role of the last 4 CJIs“When historians in the future look back at the last 6 years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the Supreme Court in this destruction, & more particularly the role of the last 4 CJIs,” Bhushan had tweeted.For Twitter, senior advocate Sajjan Poovayya appeared and informed the Court that Twitter can only disable a tweet on orders passed by the Court. He proposed the Court to pass an order to this effect but the Court refused. Nobody appeared for Bhushan.According to the rule of contempt, for a publication (including web/social media platform too), the author and the publisher, both are called out in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notices-to-prashant-bhushan-twitter-in-contempt-proceedings/story-qakEHM0Yj6sEqMn7v2GjDN.html
22-07-2020||India||ED raids premises of Ashok Gehlot’s brother Agrasen in connection with fertiliser scam||The officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday raised the premises of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s brother Agrasen in a money laundering case linked to fertiliser scam.Other places too were raided by ED officials as part of a natiowide search. A Jodhpur-based company named Anupam Krishi, owned by Agrasen Gehlot, is among those where raids are being conducted.The probe revolves around the export of Muriate of Potash or MoP, which is essential for plant growth and quality. According to ED officials, Agrasen Gehlot is accused of selling the MoP, which he got at subsidised rate, to companies based abroad.The export was first caught by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in 2012-13.The ED has registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA); it said Rajasthan CM’s brother got the MoP between 2007 and 2009.The ED officials said that the MoP was sold to companies in Malaysia and Singapore as industrial salt. The loss incurred to the government due to wrongly claimed subsidy was Rs 60 crore, said ED officials.Six places in Rajasthan, four in Gujarat, two in West Bengal and one location in Delhi are being raided by the agency under the PMLA, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-premises-of-ashok-gehlot-s-brother-agrasen-in-connection-with-fertiliser-scam/story-QLeD9axSPukvao5q1pWWLI.html
22-07-2020||India||Heavy rains lash Delhi, parts of NCR; temperature drops||Heavy rainfall lashed parts of Delhi/NCR on Wednesday morning with many areas in the national capital reporting incidents of water-logging. Traffic was affected on Girdhari Lal Marg, Guru Ravidass Marg, under Mayapuri flyover, under Prahlad Pur flyover, from Dhaulakuan to Gurugram, Narayana to Loha Mandi, among other areas in Delhi/NCR due to water-logging. Temperature in the national capital dropped to 28 degree Celsius as a result of the heavy downpour. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted moderate to heavy intensity rainfall for Delhi and some parts of Haryana on Wednesday.“Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of most places of entire Delhi, Hissar, Hansi, Bhiwani, Jind, Meham, Kaithal, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Bagpat, Meerut, Mahendergarh, Kosli, Farukhnagar, Shamli, Gurugram, Panipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Karnal, Kurukshetra during next 2 hrs,” the IMD tweeted.In its morning weather bulletin on Wednesday, the MeT department predicted widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during next 3-4 days. It said the rainfall intensity is very likely to decrease thereafter.  Also read: More rainfall likely in flood-ravaged Assam today, predicts IMDSeveral parts of Delhi receive heavy rainfall; visuals from Vijay Chowk pic.twitter.com/bgin8njXhnIt also cautioned against the intensification of flood conditions in Bihar and Northeast India and warned against landslides in some areas of Northeastern states and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim. “The intense spell over Bihar and Northeast India may accentuate existing flood conditions and lead to landslides in some areas of Northeastern states and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim,” the bulletin read. Moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning also likely at isolated places over Bihar, Vidarbha, Jharkhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Meghalaya and north Odisha during next 12 hours, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-lashes-delhi-parts-of-ncr-temperature-drops/story-ctdKz0mXHCjhg2e2WJAjlJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Rajasthan: Construction worker’s son scores 99.20% in Class 12, wants to be a civil servant||Prakash Fulwariya of Loharawa village in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, who came second in the Grade XII state board examinations’ humanities stream, is cross with himself for losing out on a 100% percentile by four marks.He had expected that he would score full marks -- 100 out of 100 -- in all five elective subjects.However, the results that were announced on Tuesday showed that he has scored 99 in Hindi Literature and English and 98 in Political Science.“I had worked hard and expected to score full marks in all the subjects,” he said wistfully.He has made his institution proud – the Government Senior Secondary school in Loharwa, which is located 70 kilometres (km) away from Barmer town, the district headquarters.Fulwariya aspires to become an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, as he hopes it will help set a template for “people like me, who have to struggle hard to study”.His father, Channa Ram is a construction worker, who has been bed-ridden for a while after a paralytic attack, compounding the family’s financial woes.He had to brave several odds to come out with flying colours in his higher secondary board examinations.“In our native village, there is an acute shortage of power supply. My elder sister and I used to study using a torch, as electricity was few and far between in most evenings,” said Fulwariya, who is the second of his four siblings.His elder sister, too, scored 83% in her higher secondary board examinations.Fulwariya has his task cut for the immediate future. “I shall attend a nearby college due to lack of resources. I shall prepare for the civil services examinations after I complete my graduation. I want to become an IAS officer to help poor and needy students like me, who live in remote areas,” he added.However, he is uncertain about his future prospects because of his bed-ridden father, the family’s sole bread-winner. Will he able to able to make a trip to Jaipur or Delhi after his graduation to pursue his IAS goals?The consistent performer wonders aloud, having bettered his Class X board results, when he had scored 97% two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-construction-worker-s-son-scores-99-20-in-class-12-wants-to-be-a-civil-servant/story-MvSK7Ges64AaIHsYTAaMCL.html
22-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Speaker to move SC over HC’s ‘intervention’ in rebel MLAs’ disqualification||Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi said on Wednesday that he would move the Supreme Court (SC) against what he felt was an intervention in his authority to decide on an anti-defection petition.“We need to see if a show-cause notice on an anti-defection petition was beyond a Speaker’s authority,” he said in a press conference at his official residence on Wednesday morning.Joshi said in 1992, the SC’s constitutional bench had settled that Speaker was competent to decide anti-defection petitions.A division bench of the Rajasthan high court (HC) is hearing a joint petition by 19 rebel Congress lawmakers, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, against the defection notice sent to them by Speaker Joshi.On Tuesday, the two-member HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta, posted the matter for next hearing on Friday.“We further request the Speaker to extend the said petition till the delivery of the order by this court on July 24 (Friday) and we direct accordingly,” said the HC order.The Speaker objected to the use of the word “direct” in the HC order and questioned the legal intervention, when the notice had been issued.The notice was served on the 19 rebel legislators following a complaint from the chief whip of Rajasthan Assembly Mahesh Joshi. The chief whip has stated in his complaint that the 19 lawmakers be disqualified for not attending two consecutive Congress legislature party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14.Pilot and other dissident MLAs challenged the disqualification notice in the HC last Friday following which the bench heard their plea on Monday and Tuesday.Speaker Joshi has put off his deadline twice for taking action on the notice because the court proceedings have exceeded the expected timeframe.Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, who argued on behalf of Pilot’s camp, cited that the HC’s power in this case cannot be curtailed and that it has the jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the matter.“Each and every judgement has to be read along with the facts prevalent in that case,” Rohatgi said.He also maintained that the Speaker’s order is against the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, which deals with anti-defection.Rohatgi pointed out the fundamental flaws in the Speaker’s notice and cited precedence to bolster his argument.He argued that the 19 Congress members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) were given only three days by Speaker Joshi to respond to his notice, but the complaint by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Madan Dilawar regarding six turncoat lawmakers, who had left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) last year to join the Ashok Gehlot-led government was yet to be heard.Rohatgi claimed that the proceedings “reek of malafide intent”.“Mind you, we are in the middle of the Covid–19 (coronavirus disease) outbreak and only three days’ time is given for the reply,” Rohatgi said.The deferment is being construed as a breather for the Pilot camp.Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Sanghvi argued the case on behalf of the Gehlot government after Rohtagi and senior advocate Harish Salve represented the Pilot camp.“Pilot’s petition is premature. It’s not maintainable,” Singhvi said. He contended that the Speaker is yet to adjudicate on the matter.Speaker Joshi’s counsel Prateek Kasliwal also weighed in.“It is wrong to accuse the Speaker of being biased. It is up to the Speaker to decide which matter he wants to take up first. If that argument is allowed, then people will begin questioning why their petitions have not been taken up first,” Kasliwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-speaker-to-move-sc-over-hc-s-intervention-in-rebel-mlas-disqualification/story-sX2y7ncojwu0EcPRLi6v2H.html
22-07-2020||India||Over 2,300 villages under water, 1.10 lakh hectare crop area destroyed in Assam flood; more rain likely today||The Northeastern states of Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur and Tripura are likely to receive heavy rainfall on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.“Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning ia very likely at isolated places over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh,” the IMD’s weather bulletin on Wednesday morning stated.Assam is already reeling under flood due to incessant rain and 24.19 lakh people in 24 districts are affected, a government report said. A total of 87 people have died in flood-related incidents.The Central Water Commission (CWC), which has been regularly releasing updates on the river level, said on Wednesday morning that the Brahmaputra is expected to rise 30 cm by Thursday evening. Other rivers like Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki, Gaurang, Kushiyara and Sankosh are also flowing above the danger mark.A report by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said that the mighty Brahmaputra is flowing above the danger marks in Dibrugarh, Dhubri and Goalpara cities, besides at Nimatighat in Jorhat and Tezpur in Sonitpur districts.The ASDMA report further said that at present 2,323 villages across Assam are under water and 1.10 lakh hectares of crop area has been damaged.The flood-affected districts are: Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Darrang, Baksa, Nalbari, Barpeta, Chirang, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, Dhubri, South Salmara, Goalpara, Kamrup, Kamrup Metropolitan, Morigaon, Nagaon, Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Sivasagar, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Cachar.Massive erosion has been witnessed at different places of Majuli, Baksa, Sonitpur and Udalguri districts, it added.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal visited the erosion hit areas of Tulsijhara village near Hagrama bridge in Chirang district on Tuesday and assessed the devastations caused by Aie river.Rescue personnel evacuated 869 stranded people by boats in nine of the affected districts on Tuesday and shifted them to safer locations.A total of 66 roads in six affected districts remain submerged or were damaged on Tuesday, according to ASDMA. Five bridges were damaged in Darrang and one in Barpeta on Tuesday.A total 397 relief camps and distribution centres have been opened in 18 districts where 44,498 people have taken shelter currently, the ASDMA report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-300-villages-under-water-1-10-lakh-hectare-crop-area-destroyed-in-assam-flood-more-rain-likely-today/story-KahQBSFBJAaZyVIHtiq3wM.html
22-07-2020||India||Silent spread of Covid-19 keeps scientists grasping for clues||One of the great mysteries of the coronavirus is how quickly it rocketed around the world.It first flared in central China and, within three months, was on every continent but Antarctica, shutting down daily life for millions. Behind the rapid spread was something that initially caught scientists off guard, baffled health authorities and undermined early containment efforts — the virus could be spread by seemingly healthy people.As workers return to offices, children prepare to return to schools and those desperate for normalcy again visit malls and restaurants, the emerging science points to a menacing reality: If people who appear healthy can transmit the illness, it may be impossible to contain.“It can be a killer and then 40 percent of people don’t even know they have it,” said Dr. Eric Topol, head of Scripps Research Translational Institute.Researchers have exposed the frightening likelihood of silent spread of the virus by asymptomatic and presymptomatic carriers. But how major a role seemingly healthy people play in swelling the ranks of those infected remains unanswered — and at the top of the scientific agenda.The small but mighty coronavirus can unlock a human cell, set up shop and mass produce tens of thousands of copies of itself in a single day. Virus levels skyrocket before the first cough, if one ever arrives. And astonishing to scientists, an estimated 4 in 10 infected people don’t ever have symptoms.The slyness of the virus remains on the minds of many scientists as they watch societies reopen, wondering what happens if silent spreaders aren’t detected until it’s too late.Travelers with no coughs can slip past airport screens. Workers without fevers won’t be caught by temperature checks. People who don’t feel tired and achy will attend business meetings.And outbreaks could begin anew.The first hintsAs early as January, there were signs people could harbor the virus without showing symptoms. A 10-year-old boy in China who traveled to Wuhan had no symptoms but tested positive, along with six others in his family who had coughs and fevers. More troubling was a report out of Germany: A business traveler from China spread the virus to colleagues in Munich, even though she appeared healthy.Still, many scientists remained unconvinced.The concept of people unwittingly spreading disease has never been an easy one to grasp, from the polio epidemic of mid-century America to the spread of HIV decades later.At the turn of the 20th century, a seemingly healthy New York cook named Mary Mallon left a deadly trail of typhoid infections that captivated the public and led to her being forced into quarantine on an East River island. “Typhoid Mary” remains a haunting symbol of silent spread.As Covid-19 emerged, health officials believed it would be like other coronaviruses and that people were most infectious when showing symptoms like cough and fever, with transmission rare otherwise.“We were thinking this thing is going to look like SARS: a long incubation period and no transmission during the incubation period,” said Lauren Ancel Meyers, a disease modeler at the University of Texas at Austin.Behind the scenes, scientists like Meyers were sharing their alarming finding with health officials. By scouring the websites of Chinese health departments, Meyers and her team found more than 50 cases between Jan. 21 and Feb. 8 where the person who brought the virus home didn’t develop symptoms until after infecting a family member.“When we looked at the data, we said, ‘Oh no, this can’t be true,’” Meyers said. “It was shocking.”Clues on a cruise shipRebecca Frasure, who contracted the virus while aboard the Diamond Princess cruise, sat in bed in Japan in late February, frustrated to be kept hospitalized even though she didn’t have any symptoms.“I’m perfectly healthy except having this virus in my body,” Frasure said.Without widespread and frequent testing, it’s impossible to know how many people without symptoms might carry it. The Diamond Princess, which idled in the Port of Yokohama, while the virus exploded onboard, enticed researchers.After an ill passenger tested positive, only those with symptoms initially got tests.Rein Houben, a disease tracker at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, set out to build a mathematical model to estimate how many infected people without symptoms were being missed. After four weeks, it indicated a startling three-quarters of infected people on the Princess were asymptomatic.At first, the researchers worried they had done something wrong. But they hadn’t, and they had their answer: Asymptomatic carriers “may contribute substantially to transmission.”In Washington state, similar clues emerged for Dr. Jeff Duchin as a team of investigators examined the Life Care nursing home — where the first major U.S. cluster of coronavirus cases broke out —and found health care workers were spreading the virus to other elder care facilities. They believed at least some of them were working while infected but before feeling symptoms.In March, more than half the residents at another nursing home who tested positive didn’t have symptoms, though most would go on to develop them.That underscored the need to shift gears and acknowledge the virus couldn’t be totally stopped.“This disease is going to be extremely hard to control,” Duchin recalled thinking.Unanswered questionsThe nose and mouth are convenient entryways for the coronavirus. Once inside, the virus commandeers the cell’s machinery to copy itself, while fending off the body’s immune defenses. Virus levels skyrocket in the upper airway, all without symptoms early on. Many scientists believe that, during these days, people can spread virus just by talking, breathing or touching surfaces.In the truly asymptomatic, the immune system wins the battle before they ever feel sick. That may have been what happened with Jessie Cornwell. After an outbreak at her Seattle assisted living facility, Cornwell tested positive for coronavirus, although she never had symptoms. She may have infected the Rev. Jane Pauw, who drove Cornwell to a Bible study meeting and later ran a high fever and tested positive.As it became clearer that healthy people could spread the virus, U.S. health authorities opted not to wait for scientific certainty. In early April, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended people wear masks.Days later, Chinese researchers published a paper saying patients are most infectious two to three days before developing symptoms. Evidence continues to accumulate, and the CDC now estimates 40% of transmission is occurring before people feel sick.Still, doubt remains among scientists, most notably among the World Health Organization, which has discounted the importance of asymptomatic infection, though it recently began to acknowledge that possibility and advised people to wear masks.U.S. health officials blame China for delays in sharing information on silent spread. But Topol contends the U.S. could have mounted its own testing program with viral genome sequencing.That’s no small matter: Gaining scientific clarity earlier would have saved lives.“We’ve been slow on everything in the United States,” Topol said. “And I have to say it’s shameful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silent-spread-of-covid-19-keeps-scientists-grasping-for-clues/story-O8siWIXtItWFgzGoWds1PN.html
22-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate her govt bungalow; will shift to house in Gurugram||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is set to vacate the government bungalow in Lodhi Estate here before the end of this month and shift to a house in DLF Aralia, Sector 42, Gurugram, Haryana. Sources close to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have stated that she will stay in Gurugram for the next few months. She is currently scouting two or three places in the national capital for rented accommodation and is expected to finalise it soon, sources added.One of these houses, likely to be finalised, is located near Sujan Singh Park in New Delhi where repair work is underway. Sources added that the repair work will take about one or two months, till then the Congress leader will stay at the Gurugram house. She will shift to New Delhi once the repair work at the house is through.Sources further said that most of the household goods have been shifted to the Gurugram house and security inspection process has also been completed. CRPF has already done a security check of the house after she informed about her shift of residence. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has Z+ category security entitlement. It is understood that she will now use the official residence of her mother and Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi for political meetings in Delhi. In view of SPG security, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was allotted 35 Lodhi Estate in New Delhi area since 1997. However, after the SPG security was removed and her security was categories to Z+ last year she was asked to vacate the house.On July 1, the Central Government’s Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry issued a notice to her to vacate the Lodhi Estate residence by 31 July.It was then indicated that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would shift to her relative’s house ‘Kaul Niwas’ in Lucknow. However, it was decided to use the residence for her, the Congress in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, while she is on a tour of the state.It is also being called her political base camp. According to sources, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will spend most of her time in UP in the coming days in view of Assembly elections in the state in 2022. Sources in the UP Congress stated that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra may visit UP in August.Interestingly, there has been no response from Priyanka Gandhi Vadra after the Central Government notice to vacate the bungalow. However, leaders of the Congress have called the notice a move inspired by the politics of revenge.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also rejected any suggestions that she had sought an extension to retain the house and said that she will vacate the bungalow before July 31.A source close to the Congress leader stated the decoration-design that has been added to 35 Lodhi Estate in the last 23 years will remain intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-vacate-her-govt-bungalow-will-shift-to-house-in-gurugram/story-iUpPJrEp1MZIw1EpliaoBN.html
22-07-2020||India||Manipur district put under complete curfew, lockdown after spike in Covid-19 cases||Authorities in Manipur’s Thoubal have put the district under complete curfew and lockdown till July 27 after the detection of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in some residents with no recent travel history outside the state.Dr J Suresh Babu, Manipur’s chief secretary and the chairperson of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order on Tuesday.“There shall be a complete curfew in the entire Thoubal district until further orders or till July 27 whichever is earlier. Only the personnel of essential services permitted by the deputy commissioner, Thoubal will be allowed,” the order said.“No inter-district movement including passing through Thoubal district will be allowed,” it added.Officials have said 25 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday.Chief minister N Biren Singh acknowledging the development and said in a Facebook post on Tuesday: “To prevent further spreading of Covid-19 - Thoubal district will be under total lockdown.”Earlier in the day, N Bandana Devi, Thoubal’s deputy commissioner directed all the main markets, including Thoubal and Lilong Bazars, located within the district to remain closed with immediate effect.Several regions of Thoubal district have been notified containment zones to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the last few days.Manipur’s Jiribam district, which borders Assam on the west, had been under complete lockdown since July 5 after a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases. It is scheduled to continue until July 22.The state recorded 90 new Covid-19 cases, according to a press release issued by Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, the additional director and spokesperson of the state health department, on Tuesday.With the discharge of 64 people in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate in the state has increased to 68.68%, the release said. The cumulative number of positive cases in the state now stands at 2,015 and that of active and recovered cases is 631 and 1,384 respectively.In another development, 158 people and 230 vehicles were detained for violating lockdown norms and fined a sum of Rs 32,100, sources in the state police department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-district-put-under-complete-curfew-lockdown-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-Oa1JhzFuZN616AXjN0zmTO.html
22-07-2020||India||Surrender or meet the same fate: Vikas Dubey’s mother warns another son||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s mother has appealed to her younger son to surrender to the police, saying he and his family will be killed otherwise, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.Sarla Devi’s warning to Deep Prakash Dubey came days after Vikas Dubey, accused of killing policemen earlier in the month, was shot dead by Uttar Pradesh police on July 10 after he tried to escape while being brought back from Madhya Pradesh after his arrest.Dubey’s younger brother is still untraceable and officials have said he went into hiding fearing arrest following the ambush on July 3 in Bikru village. Eight police personnel were killed and seven others, including a civilian, left seriously injured in that attack.“Deep Prakash, please come forward and surrender, else police will kill you and your family,” Sarla Devi was quoted as saying by ANI.“You will get the safety of the police. You have done nothing, don’t hide because of your relationship with your brother,” she added.Police have said Vikas Dubey was the prime accused behind the Bikru village ambush. Sarla Devi had refused to attend the last rites of her son and said that she has nothing to do with him.A day before Vikas Dubey was killed in the police encounter, Devi had said that she will have no regrets if her son was gunned down for being responsible for the killing of the eight policemen.Devi had said Dubey was involved in criminal activities from a young age and did not change his path despite repeated requests by his family members.Vikas did not have amicable ties with his family members, including his younger brother. The relationship Dubey shared with his younger brother was strained and the differences were so grave that the family did not live under one roof, she had said.The mother had moved in to live with Deep Prakash’s family while Vikas, along with his wife Richa Dubey and two kids, stayed in the separate house in the same locality in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-or-meet-the-same-fate-vikas-dubey-s-mother-warns-another-son/story-0d1jWEkWibyb4wfYK3H2HN.html
22-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally at 1,192,915, death toll over 28,700||With more than 37,700 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 648 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s tally of the infection rose to 1,192,915, Union health ministry’s data showed on Wednesday.According to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, 37,724 coronavirus infections were reported across the country between Tuesday and Wednesday. India has added 607,422 Covid-19 cases in 22 days and 256,734 were added in just eight days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government has said the confirmation rate or positivity rate for India is continuously reducing and currently stands at 8.07%. There are 30 states and Union territories which have lower positivity rate than the national average, it said. There have been 28,732 deaths in the country so far. India, the government has said, continues to have one of the lowest case fatality rates at 2.43% and it is consistently falling.The health ministry data on Wednesday showed 753,049 patients of the respiratory disease have been cured till date indicating a recovery rate of 63.12%, slightly up from 62.72% a day before. In the last 24 hours, 28,472 people were sent home.The difference between active cases of Covid-19 and recovered people has further widened to 341,916. There are 411,133 active cases on Wednesday morning.Maharashtra, which has crossed the 300,000-mark,Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Karnataka continue to add thousands of Covid-19 cases to country’s tally every day. A serological survey conducted in the national capital indicated the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, is much less deadly and far more transmissible than previously thoughtExperts believe that the study’s findings suggested the Capital city could be closer to achieving herd immunity than previously believed.The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) tested 21,387 people at random from across Delhi between June 27 and July 10, a survey that showed that 23.48% of these had antibodies for the virus, which causes Covid-19, in their blood. Officials have said that 22.86% of the population may have been exposed to the virus after adjusting for false positives and negatives based on the performance of the kit. The national average of tests every day per million population has substantially jumped to 180, as on date. There are currently 19 states and Union territories which are conducting more than 140 tests every day per million population as advised by the World Health Organization (WHO), it said.Goa is testing highest at 1,333 tests per day per million, the government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-nears-2-million-mark-death-toll-at-28-732/story-QTFX4cQn60n03nvwjd69aL.html
22-07-2020||India||PM Modi to address India Ideas Summit tonight, share views on ‘building better future’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the ‘India Ideas Summit’ organised by US-India Business Council (USIBC) tonight at 9 pm via video conferencing. In a tweet, the prime minister said that during the event he will share his views on “Building a Better Future”. “Looking forward to addressing the #IndiaIdeasSummit, organised by @USIBC today at 9 PM. Will be sharing my views on ‘Building a Better Future.’ Do watch,” PM Modi tweeted. Looking forward to addressing the #IndiaIdeasSummit, organised by @USIBC today at 9 PM. Will be sharing my views on ‘Building a Better Future.’ Do watch. https://t.co/70XBBZRghLThe Summit is being hosted by the US-India Business Council. This year marks the 45th anniversary of the formation of the Council. The theme for this year’s India Ideas Summit is ‘Building a Better Future’.The virtual Summit will feature high-level presence from Indian and US government policymakers, state-level officials, and thought leaders from business and society. Other key speakers at the Summit include Minister of External Affairs Dr S Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Former US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, among others. Also read: Commerce minister Piyush Goyal proposes ‘preferential trade agreement’ with the US Smt @nsitharaman addresses the 2020 #IndiaIdeasSummit by U.S.-India Business Council today through video conference. pic.twitter.com/GChm7X8X1U“The Summit will witness discussions on areas including India-US cooperation and the future of the relation between the two counties in a post-pandemic world,” a release issued by the PMO stated. Union ministers like Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal and Nitin Gadkari have already shared their views at the Summit.  Welcome to the 2020 #IndiaIdeasSummit As we celebrate 45 years of work to grow the #USIndia 🇺🇸🇮🇳partnership, we are excited to deliver a dynamic virtual summit with high-level speakers from business, government and society in the United States and India. pic.twitter.com/teLbo2izEB“We need to create more jobs. Without that, we cannot solve the problem of poverty which is the most important agenda of the government. And for that, we need foreign investment especially in the MSMEs, NBFCs, banks; and infrastructure,” Gadkari said while addressing the virtual Summit on Tuesday. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that green shoots were visible in the economy and the stimulus package provided by the government has made a big difference to companies coping up with effects of lockdown enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19. Indian Commerce Minister @PiyushGoyal proposes 'preferential #trade agreement' with the US at the @USIBC #IndiaIdeasSummit @CimGOI @htTweets pic.twitter.com/arZkjMPucyGoyal said India and the United States are closing in on a trade deal after two years of negotiations.“In the long term, I believe we have a quick trade deal which has some of the pending matters built up over the last couple of years, which we need to get out of the way quickly. We are almost there,” Goyal said at the US-India Business Council’s India Ideas Summit on Tuesday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-india-ideas-summit-tonight-share-views-on-building-better-future/story-OgQv2xggH5b3CVR7zfSZ5J.html
22-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Speaker to move Supreme Court against high court order giving breather to Pilot camp||The Rajasthan political crisis is set to reach the Supreme Court with assembly speaker CP Joshi headed to the top court against the high court that asked him not to decide the disqualification notices he had issued to the group of 19 lawmakers led by Sachin Pilot.The high court on Tuesday told the Speaker not to move forward on the disqualification notices till Friday when the judges are expected to deliver its ruling.Sachin Pilot and 18 lawmakers close to him were issued disqualification notices last week on a complaint from the Congress that has accused them of trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government.CP Joshi announced his decision to move the Supreme Court at a press conference where he warned that they were “heading for a constitutional crisis”.Also Read: At CLP meet, CM Ashok Gehlot assures of win, attacks ‘betrayers’Joshi stressed that there were more than one Supreme Court verdicts that ruled the judiciary could not interfere before the assembly speaker delivered its ruling.“I don’t want a confrontation. I respect the judges... but the roles are well defined,” Joshi told reporters.“The Speaker has the complete authority to send a showcause notice. I have asked my counsel to file SLP in Supreme Court,” he added. Joshi said he is dismayed by the high court judgement.The Speaker has twice before deferred his deadline for action on the notices as the court proceedings continued beyond the expected time.The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Prakash Gupta heard the petition filed by the Pilot camp challenging the disqualification notice from Speaker on Monday and Tuesday.Mukul Rohatgi, arguing on behalf of Pilot, mentioned that the high court’s power in this case cannot be curtailed and that it has the jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the matter.Rohatgi also maintained that the Speaker’s order issuing notices goes against the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution.He also said that while on one hand, the 19 Congress MLAs (including Pilot) were given only three days by the Speaker to respond to the notices, on the other hand, the complaint by BJP’s Madan Dilawar regarding six turncoat MLAs who left BSP to join Congress was yet to be heard. Rohatgi claimed that the proceedings “reek of malafides”.“Mind you, we are in the middle of Covid–19 and only three days time is given for reply,” Rohatgi said. The deferment is being construed as a breather for the Pilot camp.Also Read: Rajasthan cops stay put in Manesar, Delhi to quiz elusive rebel MLAAfter arguments from Rohatgi and Salve, Congress leader Abhishek Manu Sanghvi argued the case on behalf of Rajasthan Government. “Pilot’s petition is premature. It’s not maintainable,” he said. Singhvi’s contention was based on the fact that the Speaker has not adjudicated on the matter so far. Prateek Kasliwal, Counsel for Joshi, said, “It is wrong to accuse the Speaker of being biased. It is up to the Speaker to decide which matter he wants to take up first. If that argument is allowed, then people will begin questioning why their petitions have not been taken first. All arguments have concluded.”Mahesh Joshi, the Congress’ chief whip, had sought the disqualification of rebel MLAs from the assembly due to their abstinence from the CLP meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-rajasthan-hc-breather-for-sachin-pilot-and-other-rebel-congress-mlas-speaker-to-hold-press-conference/story-AfGUbMNFLu49hoUXqM6V0H.html
22-07-2020||India||Price, trial timeline of Serum Institute’s Covid-19 vaccine||Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest maker of vaccines by volume, has partnered with biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by University of Oxford.Adar Poonawalla, SII’s chief executive officer, said they will launch the vaccine under the brand name of Covishield if the trials are successful both in the United Kingdom and in India.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe potential coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University appears safe and induces a strong immune response within the body, scientists announced on Monday after the first phase of “promising” human trials against the deadly disease that has infected more than 14 million people and claimed over 600,000 lives across the world.Doses of the vaccine were given to more than 1,000 healthy adults, aged between 18 and 55, in five UK hospitals in April and May as part of the phase one clinical trial, according to trial results published in The Lancet medical journal on Monday.The vaccine prompted no serious side effects and elicited antibody and T-cell immune responses with the strongest response seen in people who received two doses.AstraZeneca has tied up with Pune-based Serum Institute to manufacture and supply the vaccine to India and more than 60 other countries having a combined population of 3 billion.DosesSerum Institute is going to produce 3 to 4 million doses of the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca by December this year, Poonawalla has said.“We will be going for large scale manufacturing in mid-August-early-August… By the end of this year, we should be able to produce 3 to 4 million doses come end of December. That’s the target and I hope we can do that,” Poonawalla said in an interview to a news channel.The company will manufacture up to 70 million doses of the vaccine per month up to October as part of the special permission and plans to take it up to 100 million per month by December so that it is ready to hit the market once the final approvals are in place.If this goes to plan, the phase three trials will take two months after the patients get injected and the vaccine gets a final nod by November, he said, adding that in such a scenario, it can get introduced either in the “first quarter of 2021”.The company has already manufactured around 2-3 million doses of the vaccine for getting the process correct and also stabilising its machinery, Ponnawalla said, clarifying that these will never be used on humans.He added it is extremely likely that the Covid-19 vaccine would require two or more doses, like in the case of antidotes for measles and other diseases.“We have got a lot on the line and bet big on this (Oxford-AstraZeneca) candidate. And we really hope it works,” he added.Price of CovishieldPoonawala said they expect the vaccine to reach the people of India in large numbers by the first quarter of 2021. “We are going to give it at a very affordable price… We are planning to put it at about Rs 1000 or less than that… I don’t think any citizen of India or of any other country is going to have to pay for it because it is going to be bought by the government and distributed free,” he said.“It is going to be very affordable… in line with our general philosophy of giving everything at a very affordable price. We generally don’t want to make a profit at all, in fact, in the Covid crisis and after the pandemic is over, we may look at a more commercial price that could be available in the market,” he said.TrialThe trials of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate will start by the end of August on up to 5,000 Indian volunteers after getting the necessary nods and the company will launch Covishiled by June next year if all goes well.“The vaccine under development will be injected into 4,000-5,000 volunteers in Pune and Mumbai, which have high rates of coronavirus infections, as part of the crucial phase three of the trial which will determine if the antidote can be introduced in the market or not,” he said.Poonawalla said unlike the exclusion of older people in the initial phase of trials at Oxford, the Indian trials will include elderly people and health workers as well because the initial phase has conclusively proven the safety of the vaccine.InvestmentSII, Poonawalla said, is putting $200 million at risk by manufacturing nearly 300 million doses before the final nod to launch the vaccine in market.“We are making this application within the next 48 hours to the Drug Controller General of India’s office. They will probably take about 1-2 weeks on what kind of study and trial we will have to do,” Poonawalla said, speaking to the CNBC-TV-18 news channel.It will take another three weeks to inject patients in hospitals, he said, adding, “We are talking about a month or month and a half maximum from today...maybe even sooner.”Other than the process of applying for trials and having actual trials on humans in India, the company will also be applying for special permission to start manufacturing the vaccine in the country, which exposes it to a commercial risk if the vaccine fails at the last stage, he said.“If you look at the process right now, the risk of the opex (operating expenditure) which we are putting in is more than $200 million. If this vaccine fails, we will be down (by) $200 million,” he said, adding the expenses exclude the opportunity cost of using the same facility for some other purpose.Further plansPoonawalla also said SII is looking at external investors for the vaccine-related endeavour and added that it has tie-ups with five other vaccine candidates which will be housed into a separate step-down subsidiary, where the family will dilute its stake by 15-20%.Apart from the five tie-ups already forged, SII is in talks with two other candidates, he said, adding that a manufacturing plant with a capacity to produce 1 billion units of the vaccine per year will also get housed in the subsidiary.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-trial-timeline-of-serum-institute-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-ElHaypXDfhOpzNFeTTlfLL.html
22-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi airport makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for international passengers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi airport issues fresh Covid-19 guideline, makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for international passengersThe Delhi airport authority has issued latest guidelines for international passengers arriving here. The guidelines were issued on Tuesday. Read more3-4 mn doses of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine to be ready by December: Serum InstituteSerum Institute of India (SII) has said the company is going to produce 3 to 4 million doses of the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca by December this year. Read moreThis picture of a cat named Mingus proves that felines always do what they wantMany on the Internet know cats as being masters of their destiny. Now, here is a picture that exemplifies that notion and proves that only a feline can decide its fate. Read moreExclusive | Gavaskar told me ‘son, sit in the balcony & watch me score a hundred’: Maninder Singh recalls ’86 England tourFormer Indian left-arm spinner Maninder Singh played in an era when Indian cricket was going through a revolutionary phase. Read moreNetflix tests new Mobile+ plan with HD streaming, laptop supportNetflix has started testing a new mobile subscription plan in India. The new Netflix plan is priced at ₹349 per month and it comes with support for HD streaming. Read moreCovid-19: Nobel Prize banquet cancelled for first time since 1956The Nobel prize banquet has been cancelled for the first time in over half a century as fears over the coronavirus spread continue around the world. Read moreThey allegedly stole 112 cars worth Rs 11 crore, now busted by Lucknow copsLucknow police claimed a major victory after busting a stolen car racket. Cops arrested 5 people & recovered over 110 stolen vehicles from them. The stolen vehicles included high-end cars like BMW, and many SUVs. Watch the full video for more details. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-airport-makes-7-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-international-passengers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AjpBQi4oyDyM4CgmWltLsK.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Has rule of law become law of he who rules?’ Kapil Sibal’s sharp attack at Centre||Congress leader Kapil Sibal used the recent developments in the country to attack the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre.He tweeted on Wednesday morning to allege that the rule of law has become the law of “he who rules” in the country.“In my country, has the “Rule of Law” become the law of “He who Rules”. Custodial deaths, Fake encounters, Toppling elected governments (money +), Intemperate language by the powerful, Persecuting the innocent, Highly questionable judicial verdicts. Save my country!” Sibal tweeted. In my country Has the " Rule of Law "become The law of " He who Rules "Custodial deaths Fake encounters Toppling elected governments ( money + )Intemperate language by the powerfulPersecuting the innocent Highly questionable judicial verdicts Save my country !With this tweet, Sibal continued the Congress’ attack on the government in the recent days. The attack has been led by Rahul Gandhi, who has been targeting the central government over the border row with China and a host of other issues.On Tuesday, he took a swipe at the Centre, listing the alleged “attempt to topple” the government in Rajasthan and the “Namaste Trump” event among its “achievements” in the Covid-19 times. He said due to such “achievements” of the government, the country is now “Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant)” in the fight against the pandemic.“Achievements of the government in the Covid-era: February - Namaste Trump, March - toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh, April - making people light candles, May - government’s sixth anniversary, June - Bihar virtual rally, July - attempt to topple the government in Rajasthan,” Gandhi said in a sarcastic tweet in Hindi.The BJP hit back, saying the Congress will become a “party of tweets” as it is doing no work among people and “losing” one leader after another.Union minister Prakash Javadekar responded to Gandhi, calling protests against the amended citizenship law, the Delhi riots in February the Congress’s “achievements” followed by loss of Jyotiraditya Scindia and power in Madhya Pradesh in March, and “incitement” of migrant workers in April.Sibal then released a video message in which he said that Javadekar should stop polluting the country’s politics with his harsh words and instead focus on better governance.Sibal said the BJP does not know how to govern but knows how to attack and use harsh words.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-rule-of-law-become-law-of-he-who-rules-kapil-sibal-s-sharp-attack-at-centre/story-8lG2Rq81HV3UjGQrBx933I.html
22-07-2020||India||US leading the world in Covid-19 testing, India second: Trump||The United States is leading the world in terms of Covid-19 testing and India is at second position, President Donald Trump said while giving an update on his administration’s response to the coronavirus pandemic.So far more than 140,000 Americans have died due to coronavirus and 3.8 million have tested positive. While the US economy is slowly coming back to normal, the pandemic is now spreading in the Sun Belt of the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“As one family, we mourn every precious life that’s been lost. I pledge in their honour that we will develop a vaccine and we will defeat the virus. We’re doing very well with vaccine development and therapeutic development,” Trump said at a White House news conference on Tuesday, his first on coronavirus after several weeks.Trump also said his administration will stop at nothing to save lives and shield the vulnerable.“We’ve learned so much about this disease. And we know who the vulnerable are, and we are going to indeed shield them,” he said.Trump assured that the vaccines against the novel coronavirus will be coming a lot sooner than expected.Replying to a question, Trump said the US is “leading the world” in terms of Covid-19 testing.“We’re going to be over 50 million tests,” he said, adding that “second country is India with 12 million (tests). Then you have seven million, six million, and four million. I think that we are doing a tremendous amount of testing.” The “China virus”, Trump said, is a vicious and dangerous illness.“It’s a nasty, horrible disease that should’ve never been allowed to escape China, but it did. It infected the world, and the world is suffering. But we’re going to get it taken care of, and we’re helping lots of other countries,” the US president said.On tackling the virus, Trump said his administration is developing a powerful strategy. “We’ve learned a great deal about it (Covid-19) and who it targets. We are in the process of developing a strategy that’s going to be very, very powerful,” he said.“Some areas of our country are doing very well; others are doing less well. It will probably, unfortunately, get worse before it gets better,” Trump said.He said the median age of those who succumb to Covid-19 infection is 78 years, adding that roughly half of all deaths have been individuals in nursing homes or in long-term care.“Young adults may often have mild or even no symptoms. They won’t even know they’re sick. They won’t have any idea that they have a virus. They won’t have any idea at all,” he said, adding that youth will act responsibly.Trump said the data shows children have the lowest fatality risk as 99.96 per cent of all virus fatalities are adults.“By understanding these risk profiles and learning how to treat the disease, we’ve been able to greatly reduce mortality in the United States,” Trump said. Several treatments are already available in the US that can significantly reduce the severity and duration of the disease, including remdesivir, he said.“We’ve learned best practices for treatment of the virus at every stage and have shared these findings with medical providers, and we’ve shared them all over the world. The relationship with other countries has been very strong. We’re all working together,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-leading-the-world-in-covid-19-testing-india-second-trump/story-KoNjyXXGKWr7fsG49DccDM.html
22-07-2020||India||‘Risk of locust swarms migrating to Indo-Pakistan border from Somalia’: UN agency||There remains a risk that a limited number of locust swarms could migrate from northeast Somalia to the Indo-Pakistan border area during the remainder of this month, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of United Nations said on Tuesday.In its last situation update, the FAO said that in Somalia, ground and aerial control operations are underway against immature swarms on the northern plateau between Hargeisa and Garowe. The swarms are moving eastwards across the north and they could continue to migrate across the Indian Ocean to reach the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border.“Control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands in the Nagarparkar area of southeast Sindh near the Indian border in Pakistan. Groups of adults are maturing in Tharparkar and Cholistan deserts where laying is expected in areas that have already received monsoon rains. This will cause a further increase in locust numbers as hatching and hopper band formation occur in the coming weeks,” the FAO said.On the situation in India, the organisation said that adult groups and swarms are maturing throughout Rajasthan where laying is underway in many areas. So far, a few hopper groups and bands have formed but substantial hatching is expected in the coming weeks. There have been no recent reports of additional locusts in the northern states as most of the adult groups and swarms have returned to Rajasthan as expected.“We have an eye on FAO’s updates and ground situations. Every effort is being made to control locusts. So far, the state government and the organisation together have controlled locusts in about three and a half lakh hectare area,” said KL Gurjar, Deputy Director of Locust Warning Organization (LWO).The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) had recently said that locust attacks are posing a serious threat to food security in parts of East Africa, India and Pakistan as a result of changing climate conditions that can be linked to human activity.The specialised agency of the United Nations said extreme weather events and climatic changes such as increases in temperature and rainfall over desert areas, and the strong winds associated with tropical cyclones, provide a new environment for pest breeding, development and migration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/risk-of-locust-swarms-migrating-to-indo-pakistan-border-from-somalia-un-agency/story-mAx2d5KNSWNAGdZRn6uUGI.html
22-07-2020||India||Warming waters drive unprecedented algal blooms in Antarctica, scientists find||Scientists at the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (which comes under Ministry of Earth Sciences), located in Goa, have noticed the unprecedented algal blooms within sea ice sheet of Antarctica which they say is indicative of the warming climate in the region.The algal bloom was noticed in the Maud Rise polynya, a large stretch of open water that is surrounded by ice, using satellite data to measure the concentrations of chlorophyll-a from 2017 onwards and are an indicator of warm water which helps algae propagate. “Satellite derived chlorophyll-a concentration showed the new phytoplankton blooms reached up to 4.67 mg m-3. Multi-satellite data indicated that the bloom appeared for the first time since the entire mission records started since 1978,” Dr Babula Jena who led the research study said. The bloom, he said was mainly a result of upwelling of warm water as well as a combination of factors like availability of nutrients and sunlight which only help the bloom grow further. “The appearance of phytoplankton blooms within sea ice cover is of high importance with implications for atmospheric CO2 and global climate and demonstrates how the phytoplankton in the Southern Ocean would likely respond in the future under warming climate conditions and continued melting of Antarctic sea ice,” Dr Jena said.A polynya is a ‘hole’ in the Antarctic sea ice that occurs if ice begins to melt in the middle of the ice sheet, rather than at the edges as is usually the case.In September 2017, one such polynya - the Maud Rise - reappeared in mid‐September 2017 and grew to as large as 80,000 km2 by the end of October 2017, appearing like a large lake surrounded by sea ice. It is one of the largest known polynya and was last spotted in 1976.Back then too, the scientists at the NCPOR accurately explained the sudden and ‘abnormal’ melting of ice at Maud Rise seemingly in the middle of an otherwise thick sea ice sheet, that published in Geophysical Research Letter.It is within this polynya that the algal bloom has been recorded. Despite being high in nutrients, the seawater that surrounds Antarctica is not favourable for the growth of oceanic algae owing to the lack of sunlight and cold temperatures. The blooms occurred in October-November of 2017 during the austral summer and spring in the southern hemisphere. “With the frequent reoccurrence, the associated physical processes could possibly modify the region into a productive environment and likely have an impact on the regional ecosystem and carbon cycle. The occurrence of polynya and phytoplankton blooms may turn it into a potential sink of atmospheric CO2 through biological pumping and can be a major source of carbon and energy for the regional food web,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warming-waters-drive-unprecedented-algal-blooms-in-antarctica-scientists-find/story-gryzNnXVvxb1ZFKhtYNCxK.html
22-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand releases guidelines for private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday released guidelines, including rules on minimum charges and separate wards and doors, for private hospitals on treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).According to the guidelines, a co-morbid Covid-19 positive patient will be given treatment as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe guidelines said hospitals should be registered under the Clinical Establishment Act, 2010, have a separate Covid-19 ward with separate entry and exit doors, 24x7 emergency and ICU facilities with specialists on-call.They also mentioned that hospitals can charge co-morbid patients for the original disease as per those set by them but only bare minimum extra cost to treat the patient for Covid-19—like that of personal protection equipment or PPE—can be charged.Uttarakhand reported 210 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 4,849 with 85 recoveries.With 65 new cases, Dehradun district accounted for the highest number of cases in the state. The other districts that reported the coronavirus disease cases were Almora (5), Champawat (2), Haridwar (52), Nainital (15), Tehri (21), US Nagar (34) and Uttarkashi (16).Of the infections reported on Tuesday, 77 were found to be contacts of earlier detected positive cases while the others had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Hyderabad, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu. Many had also come back from foreign countries.Eighty-five patients were also discharged from hospitals during the day with a maximum of 61 patients being from US Nagar.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 20.21 days, while the infection rate is 4.20%. The state has so far tested 1.27 lakh samples of which results of over 11,000 are awaited.In Nainital district, five sub-inspectors along with 13 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. All police personnel have been isolated at Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani. The close contacts of these police officials have also been quarantined.Sunil Kumar Meena, Nainital’s senior superintendent of police, on Tuesday ordered police officials to follow the lockdown rules like wearing masks properly and maintaining social distancing.All field staff have been asked to do their duty by taking full precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-releases-guidelines-for-private-hospitals-for-treating-covid-19-patients/story-czc2zH6PifAqdzgrq65a7L.html
22-07-2020||India||Senior Uttarakhand cop warns criminals: Surrender or be ready to face consequences||The Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), US Nagar, did some tough talking on Tuesday asking the criminals to either surrender or be ready to face the consequences.The newly-appointed SSP, Dilip Singh Kunwar, issued a stern warning to the criminals. He asked them to surrender in 15 days. He also said that the police will not hesitate in carrying out encounters for those who try to escape.“There are 144 wanted criminals including 45 who have a reward on their heads. The ones with reward should surrender before courts, police stations or police checkposts concerned in next 15 days while the remaining wanted criminals should surrender within seven days. The deadline will start from tomorrow (Wednesday),” Kunwar said on Tuesday, informing about his letter to his subordinates.“If the criminals don’t surrender, then they will arrest them. And if in the process of arrest if any criminal attacks police to escape it, the police will reply accordingly including encounter. Police will not hesitate to resort to encounter if needed in such cases,” he added.Emphasising on reducing the crime in US Nagar district, which borders Uttar Pradesh, the senior police officer said, “Criminals have no place in the society and are meant to be dealt with stringent possible action. I have instructed all COs and SHOs on the same lines.”Out of the 45 wanted criminals with bounty on their heads, some of them are from outside the district while others belong to US Nagar. Two of them have a reward of Rs 20,000 and Rs 10,000 while others have reward ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-uttarakhand-cop-warns-criminals-surrender-or-be-ready-to-face-consequences/story-icWxrCnQoLzPy16di1WioI.html
22-07-2020||India||Delhiwale: The tomb of a single-screen||Old Delhi is all Urdu, Hindi and Punjabi. No argument about that. But it has at least one link to Latin, too. Here’s a landmark named after the Latin for “higher”— Excelsior.The single screen Cinema Excelsior stands on the main street of the congested Lal Kuan. The film theatre has been closed for many years, and now it exists like those anonymous Lodhi-era tombs littered across the city — it too stirs a fleeting curiosity for a way of life that is no more. This morning, a dog is lounging outside the locked metal grilles. A maze of power cables is hanging just above. The side panels are plastered with old movie posters, so tattered that it feels like they’ve been peeled off, put into a shredder, and pasted back again.Peer through the grilles to see the lobby inside. A splash of colours! Walls in green and grey. Red hoardings outlined in glowing yellow. A narrow staircase snuggling up into a corridor of sea blue.If only it was possible to squeeze through the grills and move about the lobby. It would then be like magically entering into a modernist painter’s three-dimensional art work.There’s also another set of staircase, very broad and imposing, emanating a silence that seems extremely fragile. As if the movie were soon to be over and that hundreds of footsteps were about to thunder on the steps on their way out.But this is only a small portion of the Excelsior, and doesn’t give a complete sense of the cinema hall’s majestic scope. To experience its true scale, you have to walk further ahead and turn left.The narrow alley trundles through a tunnel-like gallery, covered with a pair of arches. It opens into a much wider space, with a view of the theatre spread out to a great distance. The building’s yellow paint coating has faded off at various places, revealing the bricks beneath. A thick tall column graces a small flight of chipped steps — they resemble the segments of those old buildings one finds in the mansions of north Calcutta—evoking that familiar feel of dilapidated aristocracy.An arched window is framed towards the top, but it is blocked up with bricks as if some nihilist wanted to purposely destroy its straightforward beauty.Cinema Excelsior opened in 1938, and shut down in early 2016, according to Ziya Us Salam, author of the book Delhi 4 Shows: Talkies of Yesteryear. The last movie to be screened here was Deewana, he informs.There used to be another single-screen cinema nearby: the Chawri Bazaar Metro station stands in the place of ‘New Amar’.At the moment this alley is empty, save for a very ill-looking, very untidy mud-stained cat sitting atop a lamp post — she is intently watching at a pigeon perched on a power cable. A monkey suddenly appears and the cat escapes by jumping on the theatre’s roof.The cinema’s pediment has its name printed in Urdu script as well as in Roman, or Latin—obviously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-tomb-of-a-single-screen/story-A7Op78gtjBXuRjDhspWkeL.html
22-07-2020||India||Holding onto faith in the middle of the pandemic||A pandemic can be a test of God’s existence for man. How do you worship without a church, temple, mosque? What shape does faith take as thousands die of a viral infection every day?Back in his hometown of Bhopal since the first lockdown, Nizamuddin Siddiqui, 32, a senior research fellow at the OP Jindal law school in Haryana, has been watching with interest as his community navigates faith without a functioning mosque amid restrictions imposed for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.All large gatherings, including for religious purposes, have been barred since March. This has meant most temples, mosques, churches, gurudwaras and other places of worship have either been closed or functioning under very changed circumstances.“The masjid is our social and religious centre,” says Siddiqui. “The main challenge for us has been how to keep the mosque alive. You meet your neighbour there five times a day and suddenly there is a void. In future, you may even develop a habit of not going.”The issue is not one of being left without religion, he adds (he prays in his room and has access, via YouTube and WhatsApp, to his religious leaders), but of being left without a community. Even for those who do still go to the mosque, there must be social distancing; ablutions are done at home; talk and interaction are at a minimum.***In Varanasi, a city of over 2,000 temples, religion cannot be seen to be organising itself too differently from pre-lockdown times. A temple is not a museum, it can’t really be closed, says Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, the mahant of Varanasi’s Sankatmochan temple. “And so, my temple is open. I’m available to devotees online,” he says. “The pandemic is for human beings, not for God.”A recent Pew Research survey found that 24% of American adults had felt their faith become stronger during the Covid-19 pandemic; 2% said it had weakened. The majority said their faith hasn’t changed much (47%), and a large number (26%) said the question wasn’t applicable because they were not religious to begin with.The average Indian, says psychoanalyst Ashok Nagpal, has a different alchemy. “For us, religion is a socio-cultural encounter and to be able to replicate old habits maintained through institutions like the family is to be able to draw on inner recesses, and keep hope and faith alive. In times like these, it’s a force that releases new meanings and rituals.”Nagpal points to an interesting development — how the language of the state changed during the pandemic. “In a recent interview, the Delhi CM said no one institution can do everything on its own. That there would be lapses in management and he would learn from criticism and from lived experience. He then added that only thus can we all come together, in collaboration, something religion also preaches. In this way, he brought faith and governance together in secular language.”***For doctors, it is almost always the age of science. On a few occasions, though, Dr Hoshedar Tata, a professor of surgery, invoked god. While emerging from the OT to speak to a patient’s family, he would refer the matter upwards, says his student, Ambarish Satwik, now a surgeon with Gangaram Hospital, Delhi, and a writer. “For a man who was famously antipathetic to any superintending deity, this referral was never done shiftily or casually, but with the highest seriousness, almost as an act of faith,” says Satwik. As the patient’s family would move away, he would then lob at the small congregation of surgery students trailing him, Marx’s line: “‘To call on them to give up their illusions about their condition is to call on them to give up a condition that requires illusions.’ But we do need to find out, he’d often say, “if God can heal oesophageal anastomosis.”’Gods have been seen as crisis managers through history. The cults of Mariamman, a village goddess of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, coincided with smallpox epidemics in the areas, as did Sitala’s in Bengal in the 17th century. But pandemics are hard to navigate for priests and religious institutions.Surender Shukla, a priest at Trimbakeshwar, Nashik, one of India’s most-visited Hindu pilgrim towns, knows he is in for a long wait. No temple is open in Maharashtra. As numbers rise steadily, months into the pandemic in India, it is unlikely that places of worship will return to anything resembling normalcy for months yet. Pratik Sharma, an event manager and Shiva devotee from Nashik, says he would rather be safe than make the trek to the city’s famed temples; he now prays before a framed image of Shiva at home.Donations have taken a hit, admits Sribash Bhattacharya, secretary of the Kali Mandir Society of Chittaranjan Park, Delhi. “On average, earnings from daily offerings, before the lockdown would be around Rs 2.5 lakh. To make up for low physical attendance, we started the puja online in end June and asked for a minimum of Rs 101 online deposit per person. We have had 489 deposits so far.”People of all faiths are feeling the pinch. Santosh Kambli, a third-generation artist who makes the idol of Lalbaugcha Raja, Mumbai, one of most revered of Ganesh pujas in Maharashtra, says the pandal committee is cancelling its festivities, which were due to begin on August 22, as its puja draws huge crowds. “But Bappa lives at Lalbaug. If you pass the spot, you will feel his aura,” Kambli says.On a YouTube channel, the disembodied voice of Father Stephen can be heard singing a psalm. He is one of three priests holding fort at south Delhi’s St Teresa church. Father Suresh fixes the camera on a stand. Father Julius leads the prayer.“At times, it does feel like a performance,” he says. “But then people start sending messages for prayer requests so you think this has meaning. Earlier 20 people would come for Mass, now 100 people watch live…. There have been requests that we continue this even after things get back to normal.”What does this say about the future of religious institutions and its clergy? Can access to technology, video calls, lead to a new kind of congregation? “These questions are not new,” says Archbishop Anil Couto of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese, Delhi. “Organised religion has always faced the question of an unmediated, private relationship with God but the vibe that I’m getting is that people want to come to a place of worship.”Delhi churches are closed till at least end-July. “The problem is that unlike temple ceremonies where darshan involves people coming and going ours [as in Islam] is worship in a congregation,” says Father Julius.But faith will endure. John Dayal, spokesperson for the All India Catholic Union, says religions and ideologies and persuasions including atheism and agnosticism will survive Covid-19. “This tussle is good. It keeps the quest alive,” he adds.Jasjit Chugh, a practising Sikh, says: “Religious ceremonies require the attendance of people even if you do away with crowds. I would think the gods want us to be safe. Religious practices should not become more important than faith.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-onto-faith-in-the-middle-of-the-pandemic/story-AYl835u4QgwTZXtmnuKsiM.html
22-07-2020||India||GMR, BHEL show interest in private train project||The GMR group, which owns and operates two airports in the country, Bombardier India, Spanish coach and component maker CAF, rail PSUs RITES and Bharat Heavy Electricals are among 16 companies which have shown interest in the private train project, sources said on Tuesday.The other companies include the Hyderabad-based Medha Group, which had bid for the Train 18 project, RK Associates and Railways’ tourism and catering arm IRCTC Sterlite Power, Bharat Forge and JKB Infrastructure, they said.The 16 firms attended a pre-application conference on the private train project held on Tuesday. The Railways has however officially not revealed the names of the companies which participated in the meeting. This is the first initiative of private investment for running passenger trains over the Indian Railway Network. The project would entail private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gmr-bhel-show-interest-in-private-train-project/story-6As6xEfdgwERUAI4cQ9sPI.html
22-07-2020||India||Fall in hospitalisations in 2017-18 compared to 2014||Did Indians get healthier between 2014 and 2017-18? After all fewer Indians reported ailments or required hospitalisation in 2017-18 as compared to 2014. The findings of the latest survey on the state of India’s health by the National Statistical Office shows that the number of Indians reporting ailments dropped by 2.1 percentage points in rural areas and 2.7 percentage points in urban areas between 2014 and 2017-18. These findings are based on ailments reported by people in the 15 days preceding the survey. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The survey also found that the share of the population admitted to a hospital in the year preceding the survey dropped by nearly one percentage point in both rural and urban areas between 2014 and 2017-18. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Interestingly, the proportion of those reporting ailments and those hospitalised rose between 1995-96 and 2014, according to three NSO surveys on health in this period. Infection was most common ailment It was also the most cited reason for hospitalisation. One in three ailing people reported having suffered an infection. Cardiovascular disease was the second most reported ailment, followed by endocrine and metabolic disorders (body’s over- or under-production of certain hormones and disorders affecting the body’s ability to process certain nutrients and vitamins), and respiratory diseases.Three in four ailing people suffered one of these diseases. However when it comes to hospitalisation,infection was also the leading cause for hospitalisation (31.5% people were hospitalised with an infection). While cardiovascular disease was the second most reported ailment, it was the fourth biggest cause of hospitalisation, trailing injuries and gastrointestinal diseases.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Most do not have health insuranceNearly 86% people in rural India and 81% in urban India are not covered by health insurance . As a result, about four in five Indians pay for hospitalisation out of their household income or savings. Indeed, 13.4% people in rural areas and 8.5% in urban areas borrow money to pay their hospital expenses. These figures significantly vary among states. For example, nearly everyone in rural Goa and 98% people in urban Goa pay for their hospital expenses out of their household income or savings, while only 52% people in rural Andhra Pradesh and 65% in urban Andhra Pradesh use household income or savings. Andhra Pradesh has the highest proportion of people who borrow money to pay for hospital expenses – 28% in rural areas and 16% in urban areas. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Rs16,000-25,000 paid for each hospital visitA single case of hospitalisation costs on average Rs 16,676 in rural India and Rs 26,475 in urban areas. As expected, being admitted in a private hospital costs a lot more than a government hospital – six times more in rural areas and eight times more in urban areas. A spell of hospitalisation in urban areas costs ~38,822 in a private hospital on average, compared to ~4,837 in a government hospital.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Indians spend 7 days in hospital on averageOn average, a person who is hospitalised in India stays admitted for 6.9 days. But a person admitted to a private hospital is likely to stay admitted for a day more than a person admitted to a government hospital. Nearly 71.7% patients in government hospitals and 66.4% in private hospitals are discharged in less than seven days. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The time spent in a hospital also depends on the kind of ailment a person has. For example, a cancer patient admitted to a hospital spends an average of 13.2 days in the hospital while one with an eye ailment spends only three days. Psychiatric and neurological patients spend the second highest time in hospitals, 8.7 days on average, followed by those admitted with injuries, who spend 8.3 days on average.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Professor Indranil Mukhopadhyay, who teaches public health at Jindal School of Government and Public Policy, said it needs to be studied why the number of people reporting ailments and those being hospitalised has dropped. “It’s very strange and counterintuitive because throughout the world there’s no evidence that utilisation of healthcare has dropped with increasing income and availability of health care,” he said.However, he said one reason for a drop in the number of people reporting ailments could be the seasonality of the survey. “It’s for the first time in two decades that a full round of the health survey was conducted, which means that it was conducted throughout the year unlike six-monthly surveys in the past two rounds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fall-in-hospitalisations-in-2017-18-compared-to-2014/story-w19gRXpFljpcwurBsV4NUO.html
22-07-2020||India||12 held for ostracising health staff in Bengal||Sending a strong message against social ostracism of front-line Covid-19 workers, the West Bengal government arrested 12 persons in separate incidents since Sunday.On Sunday, eight persons, including a government official and his school teacher wife, were held for allegedly harassing a block development officer at Arambagh in Hooghly district.Seven of the them were sent to judicial custody for a week by the court on Monday, while a woman, suffering from a heart ailment, was granted bail. In a separate incident on Tuesday, the police arrested five persons from southwest Kolkata, for allegedly heckling a government doctor, Saikat Basu, and his brother, Sudipta Basu, on Tuesday. A section of the neighbours had asked Saikat to stay indoors or stay away from the locality. When he was going for duty on Tuesday, a few neighbours heckled him and his brother, when he intervened.“This is probably the first time that so many people have been arrested for ostracization,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named.This comes after the Global Advisory Body, headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, had urged the West Bengal government to act against persons for ostracizing workers and family members of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-held-for-ostracising-health-staff-in-bengal/story-kZE17rqbe8ExpEo0T1CwyJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Amarnath Yatra cancelled due to spike in coronavirus infections||The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SABS) on Tuesday cancelled the annual Amarnnath Yatra in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, which has infected over 1.19 million people across India and affected more than 14,600 people in Jammu & Kashmir.The board is headed by the lieutenant-governor of J&K, Girish Chandra Murmu, who took the decision at the at the 39th meeting of SABS, held through video conference.The Amarnath cave is considered to be one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines, and hundreds of thousands of devotees undertake the annual pilgrimage in the South Kashmir Himalayas.“Based on the prevailing circumstances, the board decided with heavy heart that it is not advisable to hold and conduct this year’s Shri Amarnathji Yatra and expressed its regret to announce the cancellation of Yatra 2020. The board is aware of and respects the sentiments of millions of devotees and to keep the religious sentiments alive. The board shall continue the live telecast/ virtual darshan of the morning and evening aarti. Further, the traditional rituals shall be carried out as per past practice. Also, the Charri Mubarak shall be facilitated by the government,” said an official spokesman.Charri Mubarak is a ritual in which the holy mace of Lord Shiva is taken from Dashnami Akhara temple in Jammu to the holy cave, marking the beginning of pilgrimage.The meeting was attended by chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, SABS’s CEO Bipul Pathak, and other senior officers of board. They discussed the Supreme Court order on July 13 that left the decision to conduct the Yatra was left to the state administration after assessing the ground realities; the arrangements for the annual event; and how the pandemic has pushed the health care system to the limit, people aware of the proceedings said.J&K has kept religious places and places of worship closed for the public since the start of the nationwide lockdown in March.Cases have spiked in the region this month, with around 49% of the state’s total cases coming since July 1.The Amarnath Yatra was curtailed in 2019 following inputs of terror threats. The pilgrimage starts in mid-July and goes on till mid-August. On August 5 last year — when the Union government nullified Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution that gave special privileges to Jammu & Kashmir, and converted into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh — restrictions were imposed in the region on movement and other daily activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarnath-yatra-cancelled-due-to-spike-in-coronavirus-infections/story-8bxmBaD8mW93ZusNVQST0L.html
22-07-2020||India||Different forms of lockdown across India as cases spike||At least half of India’s population is under various types of lockdowns — full, partial or weekend — according to orders issued by different state governments over the past few days.States such as Bihar, Sikkim, Nagaland are under complete lockdown; West Bengal has announced a two-day lockdown every week, and states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have opted for weekend lockdowns.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSeveral districts such as Kamrup Metropolitan district in Assam, which includes capital Guwahati, Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh and Raipur in Chhattisgarh are among 326 districts of the total 734 districts in the country that are under some kind of lockdown. The national lockdown across India was lifted after 68 days from June 1. But the union home ministry has allowed state governments to enforce lockdowns or any other restrictions to control the spread of Covid 19.Since the lifting of the lockdown, the number of Covid cases in the country has almost doubled from 604,993 on June 1 to 1,153,428 on July 20.“Lockdown is not a solution for controlling Covid-19,” Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa said on Tuesday as he ruled out extension of the week-long shutdown in the capital city of Bengaluru and elsewhere. “We were successful at the beginning in controlling the COVID, but in recent days, especially in Bengaluru, COVID cases have increased....I want to tell the people of the state that for the control of the virus, lockdown is not the solution. The solution is wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” Yediyurappa said.However, some more districts across India enforced complete lockdown to control the spread of Covid on Tuesday.The Ballia district administration in Uttar Pradesh, for instance, decided on Tuesday to extend the lockdown in the district headquarters and adjoining areas till July 26. The lockdown was imposed on July 3. “Following the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district, the lockdown has been extended till July 26 in district headquarters and adjoining areas,” said District Magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi.Thoubal district in Manipur was put under lockdown till July 27 and urban areas of Durg, Korba, and Bilaspur districts in Chhattisgarh came under lockdown restrictions from Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/different-forms-of-lockdown-across-india-as-cases-spike/story-8d6KnHwVi2nV5VBaDZWZMP.html
22-07-2020||India||15 per cent population may have virus antibodies, says private lab data||A new analysis by a private laboratory has indicated that nearly 15% of the country’s population may have developed antibodies against SARS-CoV-2.Thyrocare, a private diagnostic laboratory shared data from 60,000 antibody tests across 600 pincodes that it conducted over 20 days. Of those 15% tested positive for antibodies. Dr A Velumani, Promoter, Chairman, Managing Director and CEO of Thyrocare had tweeted on July 17 that 180 million Indians may have been already silently immunised in India. “Too good to believe. Hope kits do not have high false positives.”According to Thyrocare’s data the highest positivity rate for the antibody test is in Bhiwandi, Thane at 47.1% . The lowest positivity rate was found to be in Alibag in Maharashtra at 0.7%.Thyrocare used Elisa (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and Chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA) antibody tests to arrive at the findings.Independent experts said the findings cannot be generalised. According to the ICMR’s (Indian Council of Medical Research) antibody testing survey, less than 1% of the population – 0.73%--in non-containment zone districts was found to have contracted Covid 19. That was conducted in mid-May.Interestingly, the Thyrocare findings are in sync with the results of an antibody testing survey in Delhi that were released Tuesday and showed that 22.86% of the population has been exposed to SARS-CoV-2. “Its good that a private laboratory has conducted as many as 60,000 antibody tests. ICMR had conducted around 20,000. However, the numbers are too low to generalise. I don’t know if most representative areas are covered and population heterogeneity is also a factor,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, IISc, Bengaluru.“From the list of areas it appears that the focus has been urban or semi-urban areas. We cannot generalise the findings for rural areas. Johns Hopkins says 70% of the population should grow antibodies for herd immunity. So what is the significance of these findings?” asked Dr Shobha Broor, former head, microbiology department, AIIMS, Delhi.“We considered random tests conducted between June 28 and July 19 in only those areas where we have conducted at least 50 tests. I have shared the data with ICMR. By July 30, I expect to do 1.2 lakh tests which will give us a clearer picture,” said Velumani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-per-cent-population-may-have-virus-antibodies-says-private-lab-data/story-mUddIj9kxI4vRzYu4KMUiI.html
22-07-2020||India||Ministry warns against public use of N-95 masks with valves||The Union health ministry on Monday warned against the “inappropriate” use of N-95 masks, particularly those with valve respirators, by people other than designated health workers. Dr Rajiv Garg, the director general of health services, wrote to principal secretaries (health) of all states and union territories (UTs), and national health mission directors in this regard. “It is to bring to your knowledge that the use of valved respirator N-95 masks is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus as it does not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask. In view of the above, I request you to instruct all concerned to follow the guidelines on the use of face mouth cover and prevent inappropriate use of N95 masks,” the letter read.Dr Shobha Broor, former head, microbiology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, said, “The masks with valves were widely used to prevent air pollution exposure. But it is not suited for Covid-19 because during expiration, droplets can leak out, infecting other people.”Using N-95 masks with valves is recommended when pollution levels are high because they do not allow carbon dioxide to accumulate inside the face cover, experts said. But the same valve — used for exhalation — could act as an easy passage for germs and endanger those in close proximity if the user has an infection.The government, in April, had issued an advisory on the use of home-made protective cover for face and mouth, asking people to wear it, particularly when they step out of their residences.The advisory stressed that such face covers must be washed and cleaned daily, and recommended the use of used cotton cloth to make these covers. The colour of the fabric does not matter but one must ensure that the fabric is washed well in boiling water for five minutes and dried well before making the face cover. Adding salt to this water is recommended, it said.Listing the procedure and condition for home-made masks, the advisory stated that masks must fit the face perfectly and that no gaps are left on the sides.The advisory urged people to wash hands thoroughly before wearing the face covers, switching to another fresh one if the face cover becomes damp or humid, and never reusing it after single use without cleaning it. “Never share the face cover with anyone. Every member in a family should have separate face cover,” the advisory stated.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-warns-against-public-use-of-n-95-masks-with-valves/story-CM2b8yKcrD4U1SZ4gRAMXI.html
22-07-2020||India||HC to give Rajasthan order on Friday, asks Speaker to defer move||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 rebel lawmakers from the Congress who are loyal to him won protection from possible disqualification proceedings till July 24, with the Rajasthan high court reserving its verdict on their challenge of these proceedings till then. The decision is bound to heighten uncertainty in the state where the Congress government has a wafer-thin majority after the rebellion. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has hardened his stance against his rival and former deputy Pilot, terming him good for nothing, much to the discomfiture of some members of the party’s central leadership who are still hoping that Pilot can be mollified. The disqualification notices were issued on July 14 by Assembly speaker CP Joshi.A division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta reserved its verdict on Tuesday after hearing the case over three days.It also directed the speaker to defer action on the notices till July 24. Pilot and other MLAs had approached the high court on July 15 challenging the speaker’s notices that asked them to furnish an explanation by July 17 on why they should not be disqualified from the assembly for their conduct, which Congress party has alleged is detrimental to the interest of the party and shows their intention to quit the party. The speaker’s notice was based on the disqualification petition filed by chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who in his plea, cited the absence of the MLAs from two Congress Legislature Party meetings -- held on July 13 and 14 -- despite instructions to attend, which showed their intention to leave the party. The chief whip also cited statements made by some of the MLAs and their allegedly hostile conduct against the party as grounds of their intention to quit the party. Pilot and other dissident MLAs have maintained that they never intended to leave the Congress party and were merely exercising their right to criticize the functioning of the CM. Arguing for the MLAs, Mukul Rohatgi challenged the speaker’s notice stating that his action reeked of bad faith since the notice was issued to the MLAs without any application of mind and on the very same day the chief whip filed his complaint.“Consummate reading of these facts leaves no manner of doubt that the decision (to suspend MLAs) is a foregone conclusion. What was the tearing hurry?” he demanded. Rohatgi also pointed out that the Speaker gave the MLAs only three days to respond to the notice which also stated that the disqualification plea would be decided ex-parte (without hearing the MLAs) if they failed to respond in writing within the prescribed deadline.“No reasons were recorded for issuing the notice”, he said.Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat appearing for speaker rebutted this, stating that reasons are not required to be furnished as per the assembly rules.The Speaker has maintained throughout that the petition by Pilot is pre-mature since, as per the 1992 SC judgment in the Kihoto Hollohan case, the court can interfere only after the Speaker decides the disqualification petition. Rohatgi asked the court to distinguish the current case from the Kihoto Hollohan case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-to-give-rajasthan-order-on-friday-asks-speaker-to-defer-move/story-KCJeT6Z02yVuzAdVo1jWYK.html
22-07-2020||India||Live screens, shifts in House Covid-19 plan||Giant screens, engineers from the National Informatics Centre (NIC) on call, provisions for possible latency — these are among the issues Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and their teams are wrestling with as they finalise plans to hold sittings of the Lok Sabha across both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha chambers to meet the requirement of social distancing made necessary by the Covid-19 pandemic. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe plan is to stagger timings of the two Houses so that they never sit simultaneously, and hold sittings of each across both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The exact timings of each House have not been finalised yet. HT learns that the government is likely to call the session after August 15. Also part of the plan are fibreglass or plexiglass sheets between seats, reduced workforce across the Parliament complex, working over weekends to ensure the Houses can sit for enough time, inputs from multiple ministries, teething technical troubles and countless queries—all part of an ongoing, mammoth exercise to hold Indian Parliament’s monsoon session in these uncertain times.With 770 seats across the two Houses, India has the world’s fourth-largest Parliament by number of lawmakers after the UK, Italy and France. Holding a session is such a big affair that Naidu and Birla have already met six times to strategise. Both are familiar with every small detail of Parliament complex, but they undertook field visits to physically check how MPs could sit across different areas.The ministries of home affairs, health, urban development, and civil aviation and CPWD were consulted in the last few weeks, a top functionary added, as aspects related to logistics, security, and health were worked out. Seating arrangement The Lok Sabha MPs will sit in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha chambers, the galleries of both houses, and the Central hall. Similarly, the Upper House MPs will be divided between the two Houses and the galleries. The Lok Sabha has 529 members. The Rajya Sabha has 242. The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha chambers can accommodate 60 and 158 lawmakers respectively if strict social distancing norms are followed. The galleries of the Upper House (barring the press gallery) can seat another 67 MPs. The Lok Sabha galleries can seat 132. That works out to a total of 417 spots, enough to seat the Rajya Sabha members. The remaining Lok Sabha members will be seated in the Central Hall — typically, these will be members with no business in the House. Central Hall can seat another 190. A second functionary said that Central Hall will largely be treated as a “buffer area”, which means it will be filled last, and only with people who do not need to be in the House to conduct some business. A third functionary added that the expectation is that attendance will not exceed 420, which means that the hall will not be needed. Vigyan Bhawan, another prospective venue that can hold at last 200 MPs, was ruled out as it has facility for telecasting live proceedings, and it will be difficult for MPs and ministers to shuttle between Parliament and Vigyan Bhavan through the day.An idea for the Houses to sit on alternate days was shot down as it would have meant a longer stay for MPs from other states in Delhi. A Rajya Sabha official said that Naidu “has even received suggestions to hold proceedings on Saturdays and Sundays. MPs told him since there will not be much to do (outside the House), it is better that the House sits on weekends too, so that the session can be wrapped up early.”Health concerns On a typical day, around 3500 people visit Parliament complex. That will come down. “We decided only those who are absolutely essential for the daily proceedings would be allowed to enter. It means reduced staff for ministers, select visitors and limited parliament officials,” said the top functionary.In addition to fibreglass or plexiglass dividers in the House chambers, the health plan also includes jet-sprays with disinfectants that will be used in public spaces and on vehicles, hand sanitizers that are placed across Parliament complex, more medical staff and additional ambulances to attend to emergencies. Birla and Naidu are aware that if any lawmaker tests positive after attending Parliament, they will come in for criticism and are ensuring that every precaution is taken, the second functionary said.Technical issues As the plan to sit across two Houses was being crystallised, officials pointed out to Naidu that there would be latency and that if a Rajya Sabha member seated in the Lok Sabha chamber said something, it would reach Naidu and the Upper House’s system with a fractional lag. So, the proceedings might get slower this time as both the chair and the members will need to provide for these lags. NIC, the government’s IT arm, will send engineers who will sit in both Houses and supervise the live proceedings that will be shown in giant screens in both Houses. The NIC officials will also help presiding officers mute members in the other chamber. And the interpreters of each House will sit in their respective Houses and interpret for members looking at live proceedings in one House and at the screen in the other.Naidu is also in touch with senior Opposition leaders such as Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, The main subject of discussion is the pandemic’s trajectory, especially in Delhi. The possible peak of infections may eventually settle the fate of the monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-screens-shifts-in-house-covid-plan/story-07lZ8xsePmmSNxNqdCvgUJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The math was always in favour of a vaccine being developed.A June article in the American Council on Science and Health (ACSH) cited an earlier paper by Chi Heem Wong, Kien Wei Siah and Andrew W Lo to show that vaccines for infectious diseases have a 33.4% chance of successfully traversing the various phases of a clinical trial. Once it clears the pre-clinical stage, a vaccine for an infectious disease (and Covid-19 is one) according to the article has a 76.8% chance of clearing Phase 1 trials and entering Phase 2. The success rate drops off a bit in Phase 2, to 58.2%, but it picks up in Phase 3 (which is understandable) to 85.4%.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The calculations presented in the paper are not probabilities that can be multiplied – which means the probabilities of success in each of the phases can’t be multiplied to arrive at the final success rate, which makes it difficult to predict the success of trials that combine two phases. Many of the Covid-19 vaccine candidates are doing this, in an effort to reduce the development time. But given that there at least four very promising candidates that are now in or entering Phase 2/3 trials (the ones from Moderna, Oxford-Astra Zeneca, Cansino, and Pfizer-BioNTech), the chances of success are definitely much higher than 33.4%. This writer’s opinion is that the probability could be as high as 50%. And a one-in-two chance doesn’t sound bad at all.According to the World Health Organization, there are around 160 vaccine candidates in development, with 20 already being tested on humans. Monday’s news from Oxford-AstraZeneca and Cansino -- that their candidates produced immune reactions in subjects, didn’t cause any significant adverse effects, and produced both antibodies and T-cells (the first attack the virus; the second attack infected cells, and they also remember how the infection looks and react similarly the next time) -- is more than anyone could have hoped for. There’s no doubt that the first vaccine for Covid-19 will be here soon, perhaps even by the end of the year (both AstraZeneca and one of its partners, India’s Serum Institute, have started work on manufacturing the vaccine – in anticipation of it clearing Phase 2/3 trials).That’s the good news.But there’s still a lot we don’t know yet. We do not know what the correct dosage is. Based on the studies released Monday by Cansino and Oxford-AstraZeneca – both used two shots of the vaccine – it is likely that the first vaccines for Covid-19 will be double-shot ones, which makes not just production but also the vaccination process that that much more complex. We do not know how long the vaccine can protect someone from the virus. We do not yet know about the long-term side effects (if any) of the vaccines that look so promising (but which have only been tested for weeks). And we do not know if it will protect everyone the same way – especially across race and age.All of these mean that the hope we feel at the initial success needs to be tinged with caution, even as we cheer the companies racing to develop a vaccine.Vaccine development has traditionally been a risky business – not just because of the success rate, but also because the timelines involved (8-10 years) meant that developers were taking a big chance that the disease targeted by the vaccine would still be relevant (and a problem) a decade into the future. From that perspective, the reduced development timelines for the Covid-19 vaccines lessens the risk to some extent. And scattered antibody tests carried out around the world indicate that the disease hasn’t been prevalent enough to cause herd immunity.On Tuesday, the results of one such survey for Delhi were released (see here).They showed that 22.86% (after adjusting for sensitivity and specificity of the tests) of a random sample of 21,387 people surveyed across Delhi’s 11 districts between June 27 and July 10 had antibodies to Sars-Cov-2, showing that they had been infected at some stage. That’s a high proportion, although a similar survey in New York returned a similar number, 19.3%. Even assuming a five percentage point error margin in the Delhi sero survey, this means at least 17.86% of the Capital’s population may have been infected.We do not know enough about Covid-19 to infer what kind of immunity this confers on someone – temporary or permanent. And if it is the first, how temporary? At 17.86%, the number of cases in Delhi works out to 3.54 million (the number of reported cases is 123,747). Delhi has seen 3,663 deaths on account of Covid-19 till Monday. The death rate works out to a little less than 0.1%. That’s exactly the same as the death rate for the common flu in the US. Which could mean one of two things – we have significantly undercounted the number of dead; or Covid-19 isn’t as dangerous as it was originally thought (see page 4).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ILuSl2AxHQusKw3VzrUPnJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Maharashtra to start rapid antibody tests soon||To gauge the spread of Covid-19, the state government plans to start rapid antibody tests from August. The state health officials will zero in on the kit by the end of the next week, while a four-member committee has been formed to analyse the accuracy of the available antibody testing kits. In Maharashtra, more than 3 lakh people have been infected with Covid-19 since its outbreak in March. Medical experts believe that as 80% of the patients are asymptomatic, a large number of the silent carriers are not accounted for. To identify such people, the Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR) has given the state government permission to start rapid antibody testing. Antigens are molecules that stimulate an immune response. Antibodies (immunoglobulins) are Y-shaped proteins produced by the immune system in response to exposure to antigens. An antigen test reveals if a person is currently infected with a pathogen, while the antibody test tells if he was infected over the month. “Just like the national sero survey, the kits will be used for identification of people carrying the antibodies for Sars-Cov-2 that causes the infection. Unlike the rapid antigen kits, the antibody kits will not be used for diagnosis of patients,” said Dr Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana.In the first week, Immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies are produced and gradually, the body starts developing IgG antibodies that stay in the blood for almost a month. “Depending on the types of antibodies and their concentration, we can estimate if the person is in the early stage of infection or the stage of recovery,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital. By the end of next week, the state will decide which testing kit is to be used. A four-member committee headed by Dr Shinde will test all available antibody test kits and send their findings to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for approval. “There are so many testing kits which have been recently developed by different companies and scientists. We will run tests on all those kits to find its accuracy. There are several determinants and parameters,” he said. Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ Hospital’s dean, who is also part of the committee, said the kit will mostly be used among frontline warriors. “As it is not a diagnostic tool, it will mostly be used among doctors, volunteers who are involved in screening, treatment and contact tracing. We are yet to decide if the kit will be used for mass screening in containment zones,” he said. In April, the central government had procured 5.5 lakh rapid antibody testing kits from China. The Maharashtra government procured 75,000 for testing. But before the process could begin, the Central government withdrew the kits after some of them were found faulty. According to experts, although antibody testings don’t give 100% accurate results, it can be useful to understand the pattern of the spread of the virus and surveillance among the population. “Antibody testing gives false reports too, but it can help in analysis of a larger community. It is not a perfect science, but can be helpful in a population with a large number of asymptomatic patients,” said Dr Om Srivastava, city epidemiologist and a part of the state task force for Covid-19.Antigen and antibody testAntigens are molecules that stimulate an immune response. Antibodies (immunoglobulins ) are Y-shaped proteins produced by the immune system in response to exposure to antigens. The first antibody produced is Immunoglobulin M (IgM). After seven-14 days of the exposure, the second antibody, Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is produced, which stays in the body for a long period.An antibody test reveals if a person was exposed to an infection, by detecting the type of antibodies in the blood. If the test is done too early, before the antibodies are produced, the result may be negative. An antigen test reveals if a person is currently infected with a pathogen. Once the infection is cured, the antigen disappears, but antibodies remain in the body for a month. “As it is not a diagnostic tool, it will mostly be used among doctors, volunteers who are involved in screening, treatment and contact-tracing,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ Hospital’s dean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-start-rapid-antibody-tests-soon/story-cLKh5xMjUYXQGabYkwlt4J.html
22-07-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir crosses 15,000-mark in 145 days with 608 new Covid-19 cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded nine Covid-related deaths and 608 positive cases, taking the UT’s tally to 15,258, officials said. The UT has crossed the 15,000 mark in 145 days.Of the new positive cases, 502 are from Kashmir and 106 from Jammu division. Among these, 87 patients have a travel history to affected regions. Officials said nine more people had succumbed to the disease, all of them in Kashmir. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 263, with 243 fatalities reported in Kashmir and 20 in Jammu division till date.The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in death toll and infections for the past one month. As many as 162 people have died in the last 21 days alone. The J&K government has collected 14,002 samples of labourers arriving at Qazigund toll post between July 14 to 20 for Covid-19 testing. Of these, as per official sources, 113 non-local labourers have tested positive for the novel coronavirus so far while reports of thousands of people are still awaited. The influx of labourers has triggered concern among health officials. They say the influx will stretch the already overburdened health services and infrastructure in the Valley.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole on Tuesday said all incoming migrant labourers will undergo Covid-19 testing in their respective districts from July 23.Three-member team formed“The laborers will be tested in the respective districts of work,” he said and has directed all DCs to constitute three-member teams and train them for smooth conduct of antigen testing of all laborers.Active cases in the UT stand at 6,540 after 181 more patients recovered on Tuesday. A government spokesperson said 36 people were discharged in Jammu division and 145 in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-crosses-15-000-mark-in-145-days-with-608-new-cases/story-8fDWjDsCrMh8Rh6PO0GG9K.html
22-07-2020||India||Positivity rate of antigen tests in Delhi: 6.33%||Around 6.33% of the people tested using rapid antigen kits in Delhi were infected with Covid-19, according to the data by the union health ministry. A total of 336,172 people were tested using the method between June 18—when it was rolled out in Delhi—and July 21, said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, health ministry, in a press briefing.However, at least 348 infected people did not test positive by this point-of-care method that can give results within 15 minutes. Only about 0.7% of people who exhibited symptoms similar to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were re-tested using the gold standard RT-PCR test.“Of those who were found negative, 2,294 symptomatic people underwent an RT-PCR test. And, 348 or nearly 15% of these samples tested positive,” said Bhushan.The test is highly specific—99.3% to 100%—meaning anyone who tests positive using the kit definitely has the infection. However, with a lower sensitivity—50.6% to 84%, depending on the viral load—the test may throw up a false negative for people who might have the infection.Hence, the testing protocol states that any symptomatic person who tests negative has to be retested. There are chances, however, of some asymptomatic positive cases being missed.“What this shows is that the rapid antigen test is not as sensitive as the RT-PCR test; it is rapid and scalable but cannot replace RT-PCR. Having said that, states where a higher number of cases are being reported cannot depend solely on the time-consuming RT-PCR, as the turnaround time would be very long and there would be delays in measures to be taken. Now, even pooling of samples [a method where tissue sample pools are created by pooling a certain number of randomly selected tissue samples (of the same population) together] isn’t helping as most pools are testing positive,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.“To check the results on field, the government can try testing via RT-PCR tests and rapid antigen method simultaneously for some samples to see how many positive cases are being missed. In Delhi, the decline in the number of cases coincides with the picking up of the rapid antigen tests; more than 50% of the tests are done using this method,” said Singh.Others, however, said that quickly detecting even some of the positive cases can help reduce the total burden of the infection.“The rapid antigen tests are used to quickly test a huge number of people, which would never have been possible with just an RT-PCR test. Now, for example, if 20 persons among a 1,000 are missed out, a successive RT-PCR will detect, say, 17 of these cases. Even if we miss the three people, we are still doing better because all the 20 people might have been missed if the testing had not been scaled up. Testing and isolating people early on helps reduce the further spread of the infection,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.In Delhi, initially, the tests were restricted to people living in containment zones, then expanded to hospitals, and are now available in dispensaries as well.The kits come with a sterile swab, an extraction tube, a viral lysis buffer to break open the cells for the test, and a Covid-19 antigen test device. Once the sample is collected, it has to be placed in the extraction tube that inactivates the virus reducing the bio-safety requirements. Once the sample is mixed properly, it is stable only for an hour. The cap of the extraction tube has to be replaced by a nozzle and 2-3 drops of the solution have to be put in the test well. The test can be interpreted between 15 and 30 minutes.Delhi casesDelhi recorded 1,349 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to over 1.25 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 3,690, authorities said.After reporting new cases in the range of 1,000 to 2,000 for nine consecutive days, fresh infections in the national capital had dipped to 954 on Monday.Twenty-seven fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to a Delhi health department bulletin issued on Tuesday.The number of active cases stood at 15,288, marginally up from 15,166 on Monday.The national capital had reported its highest single-day spike of 3,947 on June 23.The Tuesday bulletin said the death toll due to Covid-19 has risen to 3,690 and the total number of cases have mounted to 1,25,096.The death toll stood at 3,663 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positivity-rate-of-antigen-tests-in-delhi-6-33/story-0nW7jsM64qztwsldrtXDcP.html
22-07-2020||India||Sero survey shows 23 per cent may have been Covid positive in Capital||Close to one in four people in Delhi may have been exposed to the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19, the results of government-conducted blood sampling across the Capital indicated on Tuesday -- findings that prompted experts to suggest the city may have surmounted the peak of the epidemic, and could potentially alter the city’s response mechanism to combat the pandemic.The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) tested 21,387 people at random from across Delhi between June 27 and July 10 and results announced on Tuesday showed that 23.48% of these had antibodies for the virus in their blood. Adjusting for false positives and negatives based on the performance of the kit, 22.86% of the population may have been exposed to the virus, officials announced. “The implications can be interpreted both ways; the positive side to it is that the city has definitely crossed its peak as far as Covid is concerned, and that the fear of case explosion in the city that we were grappling with a month or so ago is gone,” said Dr Sujeet Singh, the head of NCDC, in an interview to HT. He added, however, that the numbers also illustrate that about 77% of the city is still vulnerable and people cannot afford to lower their guard and abandon precautionary measures such as social distancing or wearing masks.If the findings are extrapolated to the estimated 19.98 million population of the national capital, the 22.86% translates to 4.53 million people who may have been infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus and recovered, potentially building an immune response that – at least in the short term – protects them from reinfection.The statistics also have an implication for how deadly Covid-19 is believed to be. To date, the Capital has recorded 125,096 confirmed cases and 3,690 deaths, translating to a fatality ratio (in this case, known as case fatality ratio) of 2.95%. But if the number of actual cases is taken to be 4.53 million, the fatality rate comes to 0.08%. The 22.86% would have likely grown since July 10, the last day when samples were collected. A growing number of people who may be protected from infection is crucial for the epidemiological phenomenon known as herd immunity, in which an infectious disease stops spreading in a population if it does not find adequate number of vulnerable people. Experts have put this number between 40% and 65% for a disease like Covid-19.“The findings are suggestive of infection during mid-June, and since then we have seen a decent increase in the number of cases that means more people are exposed to the virus, and the disease prevalence could be higher. Also, it wasn’t a door-to-door sample collection that also means about 5-10% of the population probably was missed. If you factor in all these variables then the prevalence should easily be around 40%, which is good,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.“It also means the susceptible population is going down, which suggests that epidemic is moving downwards towards its end,” he added.The findings come a day after peer-reviewed studies showed two vaccine candidates were safe and effective, including the one developed by UK’s Oxford University that is largely seen as the front runner. “The biggest silver lining for me is that if we have such high population that was exposed in past but did not largely display serious symptoms or succumbed then it as good as a vaccine,” said NCDC’s Singh.There are, however, still several unanswered questions.“Since these many people have developed antibodies, there will be some immunity against the disease; however, what is pertinent to determine is the level of immunity; whether there will be reinfection among recovered patients, or will there be longer immunity against it,” he added. The results are being studied by the Delhi government to determine if there needs to be a change in strategy. “This captures the state of recovery from Covid-19 infection in mid-June, which is a month ago. We will consult with public health experts and epidemiologists to determine if the future course of Delhi’s strategy against Covid-19 should change in light of these survey results or not,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said in a statement on Tuesday. In an interview to HT on Saturday, Kejriwal had said he was eagerly awaiting the results because they would indicate that the public was approaching the herd immunity level. “I am anxiously awaiting the results of the survey -- the findings will indicate to what extent the virus has spread. And, most importantly, whether Delhi is inching towards herd immunity,” he said.The Union health ministry on Tuesday said that the findings showed “only 23.48% of the people are affected in Delhi, which has several pockets of dense population”. “However, a significant proportion of the population is still vulnerable. Therefore, the containment measures need to continue with the same rigour,” it added.A serological test involves collection of blood of individuals to check for the prevalence of IgG antibodies that develop roughly around a week after infection and can be detected for months. Delhi’s results mirror findings in other cities with large outbreaks, such as New York city. In a study published by researchers from Mount Sinai Hospital on June 29, around 19.3% of people in the city had been exposed to the virus through April 19. New York city, like Delhi was in India, was one of the first hot spots in the United States. It has now brought its infection under control while new clusters pop up across the country, similar to the case with Delhi and rest of India.The findings of any serological study into Covid-19, however, is subject to reliability of the test. According to an advisory by the United States’ Centers for Disease Control updated on June 30, a positive antibody test may also mean that a person has “antibodies from an infection with a virus from the same family of viruses (called coronaviruses), such as the one that causes the common cold”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-shows-23-may-have-been-covid-ve-in-capital/story-KWjeR7r13onM4KoqeGRjXN.html
22-07-2020||India||Govt tells makers of apps to stick to ban or face action||The Union government has asked the makers of 59 mobile applications from mostly China-based companies to comply with its ban order or risk further action, reminding them it is illegal for them to remain accessible in India in any manner.The apps were banned in late June and the government cited concerns to national security. The move came in the middle of unprecedented tensions with China following the first deadly military confrontation between the two countries earlier that month.According to an official who asked not to be named, the communication follows up on a set of questions sent to these developers about the location of centres and the data collection they carry out.The ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) has now conveyed that “if we come across any instances where you are not banned, or still accessible or available in the territory of India, then action will be taken against you in compliance with the company law,” the official, who asked not to be named, told HT citing the letter sent to these developers.The government on June 29 banned TikTok, CamScanner and UC Browser among these 59, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. At least some of these companies, such as TikTok which had a wide userbase in the country, shut down their services shortly after the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tells-makers-of-apps-to-stick-to-ban-or-face-action/story-0RQLdV6ss2f9HXPD3GaI4O.html
22-07-2020||India||After antigen test came negative, Odisha official dies of Covid-19||An additional district magistrate of Odisha’s Covid hot spot Gajapati district died of Covid on Tuesday.Karunakar Raika quarantined himself after developing Covid-like symptoms six days ago, but his condition turned serious on Monday after which he was given oxygen. The 55-year-old officer was in charge of the Covid hospital and Covid care centres in Gajapati that has recorded 718 cases and five deaths.An antigen test and a TrueNat test of his swab sample were taken on Tuesday morning but came back negative, officials said. An antigen test looks for the presence of a foreign molecule that induces an immune response in the body while a TrueNat test is a mobile version of the Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test that tests for the presence of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.After both tests results came negative despite Covid-like symptoms, swab for an RT-PCR test was sent to the MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town. The RT-PCR test result came on Tuesday evening and confirmed the presence of Sars-Cov-2 virus in the body, said Gajapti district collector Anupam Saha.Epidemiologists said it is quite possible for an antigen test and TrueNat test to produce a false negative. “Since in antigen testing the virus or its genetic material is not amplified, the swab sample may have too little antigen to be detected. This could produce a false negative result. Similarly, in TrueNat test, the portable chip-based diagnostic machine detects an enzyme called RdRp that is found in the RNA of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. However, ICMR has cautioned that it’s not always accurate. The RT-PCR is still the gold standard of Covid-19 test,” said Dr Binod Patro, a senior epidemiologist of AIIMS, Bhubaneswar.In May, the ICMR revised its testing guidelines to allow the use of the TrueNAT system for confirmation of Covid-19. In TrueNat system, a computer chip detects the Sars-CoV-2 gene in the swab.The death of the officer came as the total number of Covid deaths in Odisha climbed past 100 and the total infections stood at 18,757. Though the state government imposed lockdown in hot spots of Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack, Jajpur districts and Rourkela Municipal Corporation area since July 17 and weekend lockdowns in 19 districts, cases have spiraled in recent weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-antigen-test-came-negative-odisha-official-dies-of-covid-19/story-mexn2sUk81IzitVOmbpWeJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Contempt case against Bhushan over tweets||New Delhi The Supreme Court has initiated suo moto criminal contempt proceedings against advocate Prashant Bhushan over his tweets about the judiciary.The petition is listed for hearing on Wednesday before a bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari.While Bhushan has been named as the first contemnor, the suo moto contempt has also been initiated against the Indian arm of Twitter, Twitter Communications India Private Limited with its registered office at Bandra (East) in Mumbai.It wasn’t immediately clear which tweet or tweets by Bhushan provoked the contempt action against him. Bhushan has made tweets critical of the court and some of its judges on two instances. HT is not reproducing the contents of these in the event that they are not the matter of judicial scrutiny. The suo moto contempt petition was registered by the Court Registry on July 9.Advocate Prashant Bhushan speaking to HT said, “It is quite early to say anything. Let us wait till the Court issues notice. At present it is mere speculation that the Court has possibly issued notice on my CJI on Motorcycle tweet or an earlier tweet where I said about the role of past CJIs in destroying democracy without a formal emergency.”Bhushan faces two other contempt petitions in the apex court. One was filed against him in 2010 by senior advocate Harish Salve acting as Amicus Curiae (friend of the Court). Bhushan in an interview to Tehelka magazine, published in September 2010, alleged that in his view half of the past 16 CJIs were corrupt. He also criticised former CJI Justice SH Kapadia for deciding the Niyamgiri mining case involving Vedanta/Sterlite despite holding shares in Sterlite.It now emerges that this petition, which was last heard by the top court on May 2, 2012 has been listed on Friday for hearing before the same bench that is to take up Wednesday’s criminal contempt case. The contempt petition was held maintainable by a three-judge bench on November 10, 2010 following which the case was heard on 17 occasions. Interestingly, Bhushan’s father and former Law Minister Shanti Bhushan filed an application bringing on record the instances of corruption against six CJIs. This was produced in a sealed cover ; the Court is yet to open the seal.The other contempt petition against Bhushan was filed in March 2019 by the present Attorney General KK Venugopal and the Union of India through Secretary to the Government , C Chandramouli. In their separate contempt petitions, they highlighted a February 1, 2019 tweet by Bhushan alleging that the Government misled the Court about the appointment of M Nageswara Rao as interim Director of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). That matter too is being heard by a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra.As the appointment of Nageswara Rao was challenged by Bhushan in a PIL, the A-G informed the Court that the High Powered Committee of January 10, 2019 took the decision to appoint Rao. Countering this, Bhushan tweeted that he spoke to Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, one of the Selection Committee members, who confirmed to him that the decision on Rao’s appointment was not taken by the committee.During the proceedings, Bhushan accepted that he made a “genuine mistake” on his part and apologized to the Court. A-G Venugopal agreed to withdraw his contempt plea. Meanwhile, Bhushan filed an application seeking Justice Mishra’s recusal from the case on the grounds that he did not expect to get a fair hearing from Justice Mishra in the contempt case. Following this, the centre remained firm that the contempt plea should not be dropped. The court decided to examine whether it was open for anyone to criticize the court proceedings in order to influence public opinion and to what extent this affects the rights of litigants and administration of justice. The matter was last heard in April 2019.Bhushan refused to comment on both the contempt petitions pending against him since March 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-case-against-bhushan-over-tweets/story-CWH5Wzbd4xiT94vqDt0X2N.html
22-07-2020||India||RSS top brass begins 3-day meet in Bhopal||A three-day meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) top leadership began in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal on Tuesday, said persons aware of the details. “This is for the first time since March that all the senior functionaries will be present together for a meeting. Since large scale gatherings and meetings with many people in attendance are not allowed for sometime, the Sangh will shift focus on smaller, regional meetings,” said a functionary.The Sangh leadership is expected to hold discussions on the recent national and international issues including the India-China face-off; bilateral relations with Nepal, the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on economy and jobs and the upcoming Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya that will mark the beginning of the Ram Temple construction, the persons aware of the details said.Economy and the employment sector are expected to be the area of focus at the three-day meeting, which will be attended by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and seven other top functionaries. A senior functionary said, the Sangh is concerned by the severe impact that the pandemic has had on economy, particularly the small and micro manufacturing sectors. “Job losses and winding up of business have been a fallout of the pandemic, but the Sangh leadership is keen that the government should offer help to the small and micro sectors to revive. This was also discussed ahead of the government’s announcement of an aatmanirbhar package. There will be further discussions based on the feedback from the ground on the steps that can be taken to ensure production is back on rails,” said the functionary. The Sangh and its affiliates have already lauded the government’s efforts to cut dependence on China and have been aggressively pushing for scaling indigenous production. It has also backed India’s response to China. RSS general secretary, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, in an interview to a Sangh publication said the people of this country will support the current dispensation on steps being taken on the standoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh.On whether the Sangh has any concerns about the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya, a second functionary said there are no differences between the Sangh and the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust.Since March, when the Sangh cancelled the meeting of its highest decision making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha in the wake of the pandemic, this is the first formal meeting of the functionaries. In June, meetings between a few functionaries including RSS general secretary and BJP functionaries were held in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-top-brass-begins-3-day-meet-in-bhopal/story-8lHtHWNwpCYGIvToO5BHoJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Mamata kicks off election campaign with virtual rally||Gujarat cannot rule all states in the country and Trinamool Congress (TMC) will return to power through a historic victory in the 2021 Bengal assembly polls, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at a virtual rally on Tuesday. Flagging off her election campaign a year before the polls, Banerjee focused her attack solely on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Centre.Banerjee did not name Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah, but referred to Gujarat, their home state, instead.Calling the BJP “outsiders,” she talked of Bengal’s heritage and pride. “Gujarat will not rule Bengal. There is a conspiracy against our government. I faced a lot of humiliation in life. I am not a machine. I have feelings. I will not tolerate this. Remember that an injured tiger can be dangerous,” Banerjee said in her 75-minute address.Banerjee was addressing the TMC’s biggest annual show — a public rally in Kolkata in memory of the 13 youth Congress workers killed in police firing in Kolkata on July 21, 1993. In view of the pandemic, giant screens were installed in public places and TMC offices across the state.Banerjee accused BJP of using money to win state elections and overthrow opposition governments in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. She accused the Centre of introducing “kaala kanoon” (dark laws) and destroying India’s economy and democracy.The chief minister made an array of promises such as free ration, medical treatment and free education to the underprivileged. She said that Bengal has surpassed other states in many fields, including poverty alleviation.Last year, the rally was held after the BJP had won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. This time around, the BJP has set an agenda to win 200 of the 294 assembly seats.“Don’t think that people have forgotten how you (BJP) want to divide people using the National Register of Citizens and National Population Register. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians are all citizens of India,” said Banerjee.“Railways, Air India, Coal India Limited et al are being sold off. I am sorry that you are in power at the Centre. If Gujarat has to rule all states then what is the use of the Election Commission of India, the judiciary, the other parties? Let there be one party and a Presidential form of government,” said Banerjee.“I invite those who joined other parties to return. I am inviting dedicated youths to join us and work on the field. We want the next line of leadership,” said Banerjee.The BJP dismissed Banerjee’s claims, while the Congress and the CPI(M) also attacked her.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “In 2019, her party dreamt of seeing her as prime minister, but we won 18 seats. This is her last martyr’s day speech as chief minister. In 2021, we will give permission for the rally but it will be reduced to a street corner meeting,” said Ghosh.The BJP also welcomed five public personalities from different fields, including Mehtab Hossain, former captain of the Mohun Bagan and East Bengal football teams, into its fold on Tuesday afternoon.“I am predicting that in 2021, Banerjee will have to seek help from the Congress and CPI(M) to survive. She is shaken by the BJP,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha.Md Salim, CPI(M) politburo member and former Lok Sabha member, said, “Banerjee is making tall promises while her government has failed to control the pandemic, stop looting of ration and generate employment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-kicks-off-election-campaign-with-virtual-rally/story-QZiMTlWVktWhN9nmtFwmFN.html
22-07-2020||India||Lalji Tandon, a people’s man who loved Lucknow||About a month ago, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath called on an ailing Lalji Tandon, the governor of Madhya Pradesh. Lying on a hospital bed in Lucknow, Tandon discussed development projects for the impoverished Bundelkhand region that stretches across the two heartland states.“I am in Raj Bhawan and can push some projects,” Tandon told Adityanath.That was not to be. The 85-year-old veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader died early Tuesday morning after spending nearly six weeks in hospital for breathing problems, fever and kidney and liver complications. He is survived by his wife and three sons.His life and four-decade-long political career ended in the city he lived in and loved.In Lucknow, thousands knew him personally and he knew them by their first names. He was known for his love of local delicacies, his culinary prowess and his revival of the Lucknow Holi procession, where Muslims and Hindus participated with equal vigour, underlining the unique Ganga-Jamuni syncretism of the city.Also read: PM Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh condole Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon’s deathHe forayed into electoral politics in 1971 after being elected corporator from old Lucknow. A two-time member of the Legislative Council, the state upper house, and three-time member of the legislative assembly, Tandon quickly grew used to comfortably win elections from the Muslim-dominated Lucknow West assembly constituency. He won his first assembly election in 1978.At the height of the Ram temple movement in the 90s that propelled the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh, many crucial meetings were held at Tandon’s Mall Avenue residence, which also became the nerve centre for talks between the BJP and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ahead of the short-lived coalition government in 1997.In 2002, when the BJP extended outside support to BSP and Mayawati became chief minister for the third time, Tandon became her ‘rakhi’ brother. The relationship between the two parties soured within a year, but he laughed away all the criticism he faced.His personal moment of pride came in 2009 when he inherited mentor and former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Lok Sabha seat of Lucknow. An emotional Tandon described himself as Atal’s ‘khadau’ (slippers). By then, he had served as cabinet minister in UP thrice, holding the power, urban development, housing, and finance portfolios, among others. He would go on to win the Lok Sabha election by over 40,000 votes.Ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Tandon handed over Vajpayee’s constituency to defence minister Rajnath Singh. His son Ashutosh Tandon became a cabinet minister in 2017 and holds the urban development portfolio.Also read: Lalji Tandon had over 40-year-long political career, was close to Atal Bihari VajpayeeIn May 2018 Tandon became the governor of Bihar, a post he held for 11 months before moving on to Madhya Pradesh in July 2019. Throughout his two stints, Tandon frequently visited Lucknow and served Lakhnavi cuisine in both Raj Bhawans. He would tell people, “Lucknow is much more than kebab and nawab -- it’s every street has a rich heritage, history, culture and cuisine.”In Lucknow, innumerable tales circulate about his close relationship with Vajpayee, with whom he shared a passion for Lucknow’s unique culture and cuisine. Their ties were summed up by state cabinet minister Surya Pratap Shahi at the launch of Tandon’s book in May 2018: “ I remember how difficult it was to meet Atalji without Tandon’s nod,” Shahi said.He was of the opinion that secularism ran in the blood of Lucknowites. He loved sipping coffee in the city’s decades-old coffee house and host heated debates.When asked why he hadn’t written a book on Lucknow cuisine, Tandon once said, “No chef or cook can give information on Lucknow cuisine or spices as I can -- the real taste of Awadh. Do you know there are 1,000 types of sweets, 20 kinds of ‘laddoos’, ‘rabri’ and ‘malai’?” The book, Ankaha Lucknow, which talked about the history, architecture and cuisine of the city, was launched by vice president Venkiah Naidu in May 2018“This book tells the real story of Lucknow. It may create some controversies too. But history can’t be distorted; truth cannot be hidden,” Tandon had told this author. That was Lalji Tandon, a people’s man who didn’t hesitate to call a spade a spade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalji-tandon-a-people-s-man-who-loved-lucknow/story-A17N1QxQmIeRPIGomffIPK.html
22-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA custody of accused extended||Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and others had conspired together and separately to damage the country’s monetary stability by destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Tuesday, even as a special court on Tuesday extended their custody till July 24.In a report submitted in the Special NIA court, the central investigation agency probing the Kerala gold smuggling case, which came to light on July 5, said that it is suspected that the accused used the proceeds to finance terrorism through various means.The report further stated that the accused deliberately used the diplomatic baggage of United Arab Emirates (UAE) as a cover to transact illegal business, which may have serious repercussions in India’s diplomatic relations with the UAE government.Suresh worked at the UAE consulate general’s office before she joined as an operational manager of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited under the state IT Ministry in 2017. Nair was a former employee of the Consulate as well. Meanwhile, Suresh’s bail plea stated that she was being implicated in the crime on a wild imagination without any basis and the case was the offshoot of the political rivalry between the state and central governments, triggered by the colourful and fictitious stories aired by the media.The NIA charged five persons under Sections 15, 16, and 17 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) soon after 30 kilos of 24-carat gold, estimated to be worth at least Rs 15 crore, was uncovered from a carton addressed to an attache of the UAE Consulate, who has since left the country.In a related development, Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel will be questioned in connection with the case, a senior official aware of the investigation said. Last week, Jaleel had said that he had accepted a sponsorship for food worth Rs 5 lakh from the UAE Consulate to distribute as ‘zakat’ (alms, one of the five pillars of Islam).A list purported to show Suresh’s phone records were leaked to media which indicated that she had spoken to the minister. The purported list showed nine calls in June, with the duration ranging from 64 seconds to 195 seconds. Suresh also got in touch with the minister’s office.Jaleel clarified that he had spoken to Suresh in her capacity as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits being offered by the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. However, state ministers are not supposed to directly interact with the representative of a foreign country and it is against diplomatic protocol and norms. “All such contributions will have to come through the MEA only,” said former diplomat T P Sreenivasan.“The conduct of the minister is punishable under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. We have requested the PM to include this also in the ongoing probe into smuggling,” said Congress parliamentarian and United Democratic Front convener Benny Behnan. The Bharatiya Janata Party has sought his immediate resignation. “I did not accept direct money or fund. I accepted ‘zakat’ to distribute it to poor people in my constituency. I did it through a government agency. It is sad such a humanitarian move is mired in a controversy,” Jaleel said adding that during Diwali and Christmas, foreign missions often perform similar acts of goodwill. The smuggling case,monitored by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, is being probed by the Customs (Preventive) Division, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, the Intelligence Bureau, and Enforcement Directorate. The agencies have arrested 15 people in connection with the case till now.Two senior officials, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, were removed after their name cropped up in the investigation.“We hope the probe will not take a political colour,” said senior CPI(M) leader K N Balagopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-nia-custody-of-accused-extended/story-CeQoRgCgsTn2U5WySHgtjM.html
22-07-2020||India||Survey results show that Delhi has definitely crossed infection peak: Dr Sujeet K Singh||Dr Sujeet K Singh, the director of the Union health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), who has been spearheading India’s Covid-19 surveillance strategy through the centre’s integrated disease surveillance programme network, spoke to Rhythma Kaul about the implications of Delhi’s sero surveillance findings; the strategy to deal with the disease outbreak in the wake of these results; and whether it means people have developed immunity against the disease, among other issues. Edited excerpts:Delhi’s sero surveillance results are out. What does the data imply?The implications can be interpreted both ways -- the positive side to it is that the city has definitely crossed its peak as far as Covid is concerned, and that the fear of case explosion in the city that we were grappling with a month or so ago is gone. The exponential increase of cases in Delhi is not a worry anymore. The challenge, however, is that it cannot be said categorically that the outbreak has ended as there is still susceptible population -- about 77% as per the sero surveillance data -- and cases are still being reported. So we cannot afford to drop our guard or be complacent. We have to be vigilant at all times and follow all preventive measures to the T.Also read | Nearly 1 in 4 Delhiites exposed to Covid-19: Sero-survey dataNow that the Delhi sero surveillance data is out, what impact will it have on the containment measures?It is important data to guide containment strategies from now on. Earlier, same measures were being used, but now we have the opportunity to devise a customised approach both for low prevalence and high prevalence districts. For example, in some eight districts where the disease prevalence was found to be quite high (above 20%), the focus now will be on identifying the population at risk and bringing it under surveillance. The high-risk population would be the people above 60 years of age, and those who are immuno-compromised because of any health conditions. These people need special focus, as this section has stayed protected by being largely indoors all these months. Those districts with low prevalence will need us to start aggressively testing, tracking and treating its population, as these districts have higher percentage of susceptible population that has not been exposed to the virus.Will there be any follow up of this surveillance exercise?This exercise cannot be a one-off and needs to be repeated periodically to know the exact burden from time to time. The figures that we have today are not current figures as most samples were collected between June 27 and July 5, and the infection must have happened around mid-June because it takes about two weeks for IgG antibodies to develop. To establish a trend this type of survey needs to be repeated and it will be repeated in coming months. Will there be any follow-up studies done related to this sero-survey to know more about the quality of antibodies or duration of its presence in the body?We will be following up on the results as there is lots more that we need to know. We will be monitoring a select population from the number of 20,000-odd people surveyed for this sero surveillance on a regular basis, especially those who have shown a high volume of antibodies (titre) in their sample. These people will be monitored at three months, six months and till the completion of a year, to see whether they still posses antibodies against the disease, and even if they do how has the volume changed over a period of time.Also read | Covid-19: Govt wants you to stop wearing valved N95 masks. Here’s whyWhat is the significance of knowing that these many people have developed antibodies; does it mean they have protection against the disease?Since these many people have developed antibodies there will be some immunity against the disease; however, what is pertinent to determine is the level of immunity; whether there will be reinfection among recovered patients, or will there be longer immunity against it. We don’t have answers to these crucial questions yet; and evidence for or against it needs to be established through robust scientific studies.What is one thing that you are most happy about from the survey results?The biggest silver lining for me is that if we have such high population that was exposed in past but did not largely display serious symptoms or succumbed -- then it as good as a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-results-show-that-delhi-has-definitely-crossed-infection-peak-dr-sujeet-k-singh/story-0hc7o9DH7Rd32mzh6RwL7O.html
22-07-2020||India||CBI quizzes CM Gehlot’s OSD, MLA Poonia||New Delhi/Jaipur: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday questioned Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s officer on special duty (OSD) Deva Ram Saini and Congress MLA Krishna Poonia in its probe into the death of station house officer (SHO) Vishnudutt Vishoi, whose body was found hanging from the ceiling of his house on May 23, officials familiar with the development said.A team of CBI’s special crime unit in Delhi was in Jaipur to record their statements. The team questioned Saini for nearly two hours, while Poonia was quizzed for about two-and-a-half hours at her residence, an official said on condition of anonymity.This was the second time Poonia, an Olympian, was questioned in connection with the matter. The agency quizzed her for nearly three hours at her Jaipur residence on Monday evening.On May 23, Vishnoi, an SHO at the Rajgarh police station in Churu district, was found hanging from the ceiling of his official residence. Two suicide notes were recovered from Vishnoi’s mobile phone – one addressed to his parents and the other to then superintendent of police, Churu. One of the notes, still being verified, appeared to suggest that Vishnoi indicated he was trapped in “dirty politics”.Shorty after the incident, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and its ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party alleged that Vishnoi was being pressured by Congress MLA Poonia, a charge she has denied. The two parties demanded a CBI probe.The questioning comes at a time when Gehlot is locked in a political battle with Sachin Pilot, who has been ousted from the posts of the deputy chief minister and the state Congress president.While the Rajasthan government recently withdrew its default consent to the CBI to probe cases in the state after its July 19 notification, the state government itself handed over the probe into Vishnoi’s death on June 4.On Tuesday, the CBI said Poonia and Saini were not being treated as suspects at this point. The official said that the questioning was being conducted to seek clarification on certain aspects of the case. Saini, who is a Rajasthan police officer posted in the chief minister’s office, said: “I am extending full cooperation and provided all required information.”Poonia said: “I have nothing to do with the suicide. I am cooperating with the CBI and will answer all their questions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-quizzes-cm-gehlot-s-osd-mla-poonia/story-mCQf2JnYYaYxLF0qObM9XO.html
22-07-2020||India||Delhi govt to consult experts to assess if a change in Covid-19 strategy is needed||After a test to identify Covid-19 antibodies in a randomly chosen sample of 21,387 across Delhi’s 11 districts shows that almost one in every four residents of the city has antibodies, indicating exposure to the virus , the Delhi government said it will consult medical experts to assess whether the Capital needs a change in its Covid-19 strategy. Antibody tests are conducted to assess prevalence; the presence of antibodies in people indicates that they have at least short-term immunity against the disease. The survey, conducted in Delhi between June 27 and July 10, was aimed to determine the extent of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)’s spread in the city. Interestingly, the number of daily new cases in Delhi started declining from around the end of June and at least some experts believe that the worst is behind the Capital. Responding to the survey results released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday, the Delhi government said the Covid-19 situation in the Capital has improved . It said the daily new cases now have come down to around 1,300 and that at the time of the survey, more than 2,000 new cases were being added every day. “The results of the sero-prevalence study conducted by NCDC in Delhi show that on an average, across Delhi, the prevalence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies is 23.48% in the population. This captures the state of recovery from Covid-19 infection in mid-June, which is a month ago. We will consult with public health experts and epidemiologists to determine if the future course of Delhi’s strategy against Covid-19 should change in light of these survey results or not,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said in a statement. To be sure, the 23.48% prevalence is still lower than the 60% or 43% required for herd immunity (based on various studies). When a certain proportion of the population is exposed to the virus and has antibodies, the infection can’t travel very far before encountering someone immune to it -- thereby breaking the chain. This is called herd immunity. The government’s current Covid-19 strategy is focused on testing and isolating. Delhi has tested 43,708 people per million of its population till Tuesday as per the delhifightscorona web portal. These tests are a combination of RT-PCR confirmatory tests, rapid antigen tests which are quicker in terms of its results but are non-confirmatory and CBNAAT and TrueNAT tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-consult-experts-to-assess-if-a-change-in-covid-19-strategy-is-needed/story-a2r893EMC1B0N48id93GUP.html
22-07-2020||India||Rahul takes a dig, Javadekar hits back||New Delhi: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government, listing the alleged “attempt to topple” the government in Rajasthan and the “Namaste Trump” event among its “achievements” in the Covid-19 times. He said due to such “achievements” of the government, the country is now “Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant)” in the fight against the pandemic.The BJP hit back at Gandhi over his regular tweets against the central government, saying the Congress will become a “party of tweets” as it is doing no work among people and “losing” one leader after another.“Achievements of the government in the Covid-era: February - Namaste Trump, March - toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh, April - making people light candles, May - government’s sixth anniversary, June - Bihar virtual rally, July - attempt to topple the government in Rajasthan,” Gandhi said in a sarcastic tweet in Hindi.Gandhi has been repeatedly attacking the government over its handling of the Covid-19 situation and also questioning its planning to combat the pandemic. Union minister Prakash Javadekar responded to Gandhi, calling protests against the amended citizenship law, the Delhi riots in February the Congress’s “achievements” followed by loss of Jyotiraditya Scindia and power in Madhya Pradesh in March, and “incitement” of migrant workers in April.He said May marked the sixth anniversary of the Congress’ loss of power at the Centre while the party “advocated” for China in June and then it was “finished” in Rajasthan in July.“Rahul Gandhi is tweeting on a daily basis. It seems the Congress will become a party of tweets as they are doing no work among the people and losing one leader after another. A frustrated and depressed party is trying to launch all sorts of attacks on the government,” Javadekar told reporters.He said Gandhi’s mocking reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to the people to light candles is a reference to the masses and also to “corona warriors” as this was aimed at motivating these emergency workers.“People are standing with Modi. The Congress has become helpless,” he said.Javadekar also said India has done much better than countries such as the US and Brazil in tackling the coronavirus pandemic.“Rahul baba, note India’s achievements in ‘war against Corona’. India has the least average cases, active cases and death rate than the US, Europe and Brazil. By making fun of candle lights, Rahul Gandhi ji you have insulted the people of India and brave corona warriors,” he later tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-takes-a-dig-javadekar-hits-back/story-EnpgH9kOOivKMkexAQotIP.html
22-07-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Spread wider, but impact less deadly||The Sars-Cov-2 virus is much less deadly and far more transmissible than previously thought, results from a serological survey conducted in the national capital indicated, and its findings suggested the city could be closer to achieving herd immunity than previously believed, according to experts.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) tested 21,387 people at random from across Delhi between June 27 and July 10, a survey that showed that 23.48% of these had antibodies for the virus, which causes Covid-19, in their blood. Adjusting for false positives and negatives based on the performance of the kit, 22.86% of the population may have been exposed to the virus, officials announced. Extrapolating the serological prevalence data against recorded deaths in Delhi puts the state’s Covid fatality rate at 0.08%, against 9.7% for severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), 34% for middle eastern respiratory syndrome (Mers), 2.5% for Spanish Flu 1918, and 1.3% for H1N1 2009/10 (swine flu). The new coronavirus, according to these results, may therefore be less deadly than these, but far more transmissible since it has caused manifold more infections.  Delhi’s 22.86% number is higher than what has been established till now for New York, London and Tokyo. According to studies from these cities, New York had a Covid-19 serological prevalence of 19.3%, London 17.5%, Madrid 11.3%, Geneva 10.8%, and Tokyo of 0.1%. “The antibody positivity rate reported in the Delhi Covid-19 antibody survey is among the highest in the world, matched only by New York. Even while accounting for false positive results from other coronviruses and the higher likelihood of such results in asymptomatic persons, the result indicates a high level of transmission,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.High prevalence because of undetected infection means India’s case fatality rate would be significantly lower than 2.43%, which is calculated based on recorded deaths among diagnosed cases. Prevalence is likely to be higher still since people who may have had mild disease in the early course of the pandemic may have lost protective antibodies. “Antibodies have been known to decline in three months, some of those infected early on may not have tested positive. These false negatives may partly balance the false positives,” said Dr Reddy. “While this is good, we must continue to vigorously implement public health measures to contain the transmission so that lives can be saved,” he added.This means herd immunity may have already started setting in, said another public health expert. “Around half the population is not susceptible to infection because of various reasons, such as cross immunity or geographical isolation. This unexplained phenomenon is what Dr Karl Friston calls ‘immunological dark matter’, because we know it exists to account for what is happening but we can’t see it. So if you account for 20-25% prevalence and 50% natural immunity, you have at least 70% of the population with some amount of immunity to Covid-19,” said Dr Dileep Mavlankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health-Gandhinagar. Dr Friston is a neuroscientist at University College London in the UK, and has done several modelling studies to predict the progression of the Covid-19 pandemic.“This means that the benefits of herd immunity against Covid-19 may set in even with a seroprevalence of 20-30%,” Mavlankar said.“Of the nearly 3,000 antibody samples that we analysed, we did not find any difference in the quality of antibodies among the various age groups. Although samples from people 60 years and older were few, the proportion with antibodies against the infection was the same as young age groups. The belief that older adults do not develop antibodies that leads to higher mortality rates among them is simply not true,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. The focus should be on preventing a potential second wave in a few months. “We don’t know how long the immunity last, as it could be short duration immunity, as with common cold caused by coronaviruses, or last for decades. Testing-and-tracing people must continue to prevent a potential second wave till a vaccine is available,” said Dr Reddy.“The survey results indicate that about a quarter of the population has been exposed to the infection. Our response should continue to focus on core public health measures – detect, test, trace contacts, isolate and treat - while promoting physical distancing, hand hygiene and wearing of face masks. All possible efforts should continue to be made to break the virus transmission chains,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, World Health Organisation South East Asia Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spread-wider-but-impact-less-deadly/story-4rM1owBujUafNfCbwD45pK.html
22-07-2020||India||MLAs’ disqualification: HC to decide on July 24||Jaipur Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 rebel lawmakers from the Congress who are loyal to him won protection from possible disqualification proceedings till July 24, with the Rajasthan high court reserving its verdict on their challenge of these proceedings till then. The decision is bound to heighten uncertainty in the state where the Congress government has a wafer-thin majority after the rebellion. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has hardened his stance against his rival and former deputy Pilot, terming him useless ad worthless, much to the discomfiture of some members of the party’s central leadership who are still hoping that Pilot can be mollified. The disqualification notices were issued on July 14 by Assembly speaker CP Joshi.A division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta reserved its verdict on Tuesday after hearing the case over three days.It also directed the speaker to defer action on the notices till July 24. Pilot and other MLAs had approached the high court on July 15 challenging the speaker’s notices that asked them to furnish an explanation by July 17 on why they should not be disqualified from the assembly for their conduct, which the Congress party has alleged is detrimental to the interest of the party and shows their intention to quit the party.The speaker’s notice was based on the disqualification petition filed by chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who in his plea, cited the absence of the MLAs from two Congress Legislature Party meetings -- held on July 13 and 14 -- despite instructions to attend, which showed their intention to leave the party.The chief whip also cited statements made by some of the legislators as well as their allegedly hostile and prejudicial conduct against the party as grounds of their intention to quit the party. Pilot and other dissident MLAs have maintained that they never intended to leave the Congress party and were merely exercising their right to criticize the functioning of the chief minister. In a democratic setup, voicing disagreement with the policies or decisions taken by the party does not amount to acting against the interests of the party so as to lead to disqualification, they argued in their petition.Arguing for the MLAs, Mukul Rohatgi challenged the Speaker’s notice stating that his action reeked of bad faith since the notice was issued to the MLAs without any application of mind and on the very same day the chief whip filed his complaint.“Consummate reading of these facts leaves no manner of doubt that the decision (to suspend MLAs) is a foregone conclusion. What was the tearing hurry?” he demanded.Rohatgi also pointed out that the Speaker gave the MLAs only three days to respond to the notice which also stated that the disqualification plea would be decided ex-parte (without hearing the MLAs) if they failed to respond in writing within the prescribed deadline.“No reasons were recorded for issuing the notice”, he said.Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat appearing for Speaker rebutted this, stating that reasons are not required to be furnished as per the assembly rules.The Speaker has maintained throughout that the petition by Pilot is pre-mature since, as per the 1992 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Kihoto Hollohan case, the court can interfere only after the Speaker decides the disqualification petition. Rohatgi, however, asked the court to distinguish the current case from the case of Kihoto Hollohan, which upheld the Constitutonal validity of the 10th schedule (the anti defection laws). “Kihoto must be read in the context of the (facts of the) case. Kihoto doesn’t say that if an MLA criticises chief minister, the high court will be powerless. Kihoto cannot be used to oust my challenge at the preliminary stage”, Rohatgi submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlas-disqualification-hc-to-decide-on-july-24/story-aaxsU9646fc13TYM745f1M.html
22-07-2020||India||Amid tensions with China, Esper hails India-US security ties||At a time when China is engaging in “systematic rule-breaking” and coercion, the US sees its growing security cooperation with India as “one of the all important defence relationships of the 21st century”, US defence secretary Mark Esper said on Tuesday.The exercise in the Indian Ocean between Indian Navy warships and a US Navy carrier strike group led by the USS Nimitz reflects the shared commitment of the two countries to boost naval cooperation in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific, he added.Delivering a speech on the US strategy and vision for security in the Indo-Pacific during a virtual event organised by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Esper didn’t directly refer to the India-China border standoff but made numerous references to what he described as rule-breaking and coercive behaviour by Beijing, especially in the South China Sea and against members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean).He made a special mention of warming India-US security ties, which in recent years have expanded to the 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers and big ticket deals for defence hardware, including aircraft and missile systems.“I want to highlight our increased defence cooperation with India, one of the all important defence relationships of the 21st century,” he said. “We conducted the first ever joint military exercise last November and as we speak today, the USS Nimitz is conducting combined exercises with the Indian Navy in the Indian Ocean, demonstrating our shared commitment to stronger naval cooperation in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific.”Esper added: “We also continue to grow our defence sales and look forward to a robust 2+2 ministerial dialogue later this year to build on this progress.”On the other hand, China has continued to engage in “systematic rule-breaking, coercion and other malign activities” amid the Covid-19 crisis, while the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has engaged in “aggressive behaviour” in the East and South China Seas, including sinking a Vietnamese fishing boat, harassing Malaysian oil and gas development, and escorting Chinese fishing vessels into Malaysia’s exclusive economic zone, he said.Asked about the India-China standoff during the question-and-answer session after his speech, Esper said the US is monitoring closely “what’s happening along the Line of Actual Control (LAC)”. He said the US was “very pleased to see that both sides are trying to de-escalate the situation”.In response to a separate question, Esper said the exercise between the Indian Navy and the carrier strike group led by USS Nimitz “shows the growing cooperation between our countries and our ability to project power into the region and to sustain it with our allies and partners”.The US, he noted, is encouraging Indo-Pacific nations to expand intra-regional security relationships and networks of like-minded partners. In this regard, he pointed to the logistical support agreement finalised by India and Australia in June.Esper also referred to what he said was China’s “catalogue of bad behaviour” that accompanies a pattern of disregard for international commitments, failure to uphold commitments under the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and disregard for the rights of other countries under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).China, he added, bullied Asean nations out of an estimated $2.6 trillion in potential offshore oil and gas revenues and cut off access to important fishing grounds even as it made incursions into waters around Japan’s Senkaku Islands and looked the other way as North Korea violated UN Security Council resolutions related to its nuclear programme.“We call on China’s leaders to abide by the international laws and norms that China and the Chinese people have benefited greatly from over the years. While we hope the [China] will change its ways, we must be prepared for the alternative,” he said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tensions-with-china-esper-hails-india-us-security-ties/story-k31oMZNAw0UUX0wyhvCCiK.html
22-07-2020||India||Focus on envoys to Bangladesh, Taiwan as India seeks to boost relations||As a string of ambassadorial appointments were finalised this month, attention was focused on the new envoys to Bangladesh and Taiwan, two countries with which India is keen to boost relations in the post-pandemic situation.Gourangalal Das, the former joint secretary (Americas) in the external affairs ministry who played a key role in arrangements for US President Donald Trump’s visit to the country this year, has already left for Taipei to take over as the representative in-charge of the India Taipei Association.Vikram Doraiswami, the additional secretary in-charge of international organisations and summits at the ministry and the former head of the Indo-Pacific, will head to the Bangladesh capital Dhaka as the new envoy, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The two appointments signal the importance attached by the external affairs ministry to relations with both Bangladesh and Taiwan, the people said.They also come against the backdrop of the border standoff with China. There is a concerted effort to counter China’s fresh attempts to woo Bangladesh, while experts and analysts have called for India to upgrade its relations with Taiwan at a time when both countries are dealing with the fallout of tensions with China.Under the “One China policy”, India doesn’t have full and formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan. Taiwan established the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC) in New Delhi in 1995 as its representative office while India set up the India Taipei Association at the same time to promote ties in fields such as trade, investment, education, science and technology and tourism.Das, who belongs to the 1999 batch of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and is fluent in Mandarin, has done two stints in the Indian embassy in Beijing during 2001-04 and 2006-09. He also served as deputy secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office during the term of Manmohan Singh and as a counsellor in the Indian embassy in the US.Doraiswami, who is from the 1992 batch of IFS, is set to replace Riva Ganguly Das as the envoy in Dhaka. She is expected to take over as secretary (East) when the incumbent, Vijay Thakur Singh, retires in September. A former journalist who speaks Mandarin and French, Doraiswami also served as joint secretary (Americas) during 2012-14 and as the envoy to Uzbekistan and South Korea. He too had a stint in the Prime Minister’s Office.He will head to Bangladesh at a time when India is looking to boost bilateral cooperation by enhancing connectivity between the two sides. Various initiatives have been taken in the past few years to promote connectivity and both sides recognise that increased connectivity by air, water, rail and road offers mutually beneficial opportunities for economic cooperation between Bangladesh and India, especially the northeastern states, the people cited above said.On July 16, the two countries launched the first trial movement of containers by sea from Kolkata to Agartala via Chattogram port in Bangladesh. This was done under an agreement to use Chattogram and Mongla ports for movement of Indian transit cargo through Bangladesh.“This could create a win-win situation for both economies. The two countries signed an agreement on coastal shipping in 2015 and an agreement on the use of Chittagong and Mongla ports for trans-shipment of goods to and from India in October 2018,” said one of the people cited above.This agreement and standard operating procedures permit movement of goods in Bangladesh via waterways, railway, road or multi-modal transport. Eight routes are part of the agreement to enable access to the northeastern states.These routes include those linking Chattogram and Mongla ports to Agartala in Tripura, Dawki in Meghalaya, Sutarkandi in Assam and Srimantpur in Tripura.“Once this gets fully implemented, it will reduce distance, time and logistical cost for transporting goods from the rest of India to the northeastern states and will be a win-win for both economies. The advantages that will accrue to Bangladesh include job creation, investments in the logistics sector, integration of supply chains and promotion of business services such as finance and insurance,” the person cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-envoys-to-b-desh-taiwan-as-india-seeks-to-boost-relations/story-MRIOv59ckNXT7mkvUZByTK.html
22-07-2020||India||US open to talks on security tax burden on Indian professionals||New DelhiThe US has finally agreed to discuss with India differences over a social security tax levied on Indian professionals employed in America -- the first step towards reaching an agreement that could allow Indians working in the US to be repaid social security deposits when their work visas expire, and they return to India, three officials said.According to an industry estimate, Indians working in the US forfeit almost $1 billion annually in social security tax. For the first time in almost a decade, the US recently acknowledged that social security tax is a bilateral issue and agreed to discuss it, said the officials cited above, who work in three different ministries, requesting anonymity.“Last week, (US) commerce secretary Wilbur Ross told commerce minister Piyush Goyal that the issue of social security tax could be discussed. This is certainly an extremely important development that India was trying bring on the table for several years without much success,” one of the officials mentioned above, who works in the ministry of external affairs, said.Indian workers, particularly information technology (IT) professionals, make social security contributions in the US when they work there, but most of them come back home before they are eligible to withdraw money from their social security contributions. An agreement on the issue would save them this financial loss.A second person, who works in the commerce ministry, said Goyal raised the matter in a conversation with Ross on July 16 and the US commerce secretary’s response was positive. Ross offered to arrange a meeting between the US Social Security Administrator and Indian officials to discuss the matter and find a possible solution, this person added.It is expected that a team of Indian officials representing the ministries of external affairs, commerce and labour will take this matter further.“This has opened up the possibility of initiating exploratory talks. A final solution will emerge after several rounds of talks, which may take several months. But at least we are moving in the right direction,” the first official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought up the issue in February this year during President Donald Trump’s India visit.Addressing a joint press conference with the US president at Hyderabad House in New Delhi on February 25, PM Modi had said, “I have requested President Trump that the contribution of our professionals, in terms of social security, should be discussed further within the framework of a totalization agreement. This will be of mutual interest to both of us.”A totalization agreement is an international tax treaty that seeks to eliminate dual taxation on social security and medicare taxes in the United States. Shivendra Singh, vice president and head of global trade development at the National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom) , an industry association representing the $180 billion technology industry, said a totalisation agreement would provide huge relief to the Indian employees n the US. “Further, in order for the negotiations to proceed, as we are told, considering that statute dictates the requirements, the US Congress’s needs to pass legislation to change these regulations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-open-to-talks-on-security-tax-burden-on-indian-professionals/story-YDg71LU3Beo9d29pFUVAsL.html
22-07-2020||India||Navy deploying MiG-29K jets to key bases in north||The Indian Navy is in the process of deploying its MiG-29K fighter jets to key air force bases in northern India amid the ongoing border tension with China in the sensitive Ladakh sector, people familiar with the developments said, asking not to be named.The navy has a fleet of at least 40 MiG-29K fighters, of which 18 are deployed on India’s sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, and the rest are based in Goa.Some of the jets are being moved from Goa to IAF bases in the north keeping in mind the current security scenario, said one of the officials cited above. IAF has moved several of its fighters from bases in North India to the Ladakh sector as part of India’s plan to strengthen is military posture there, said a second official. It was not immediately clear in what role the naval fighters will be used.“If assets and operational pilots are available, why not utilise them?” said naval affairs expert Captain DK Sharma (retd).The Indian Navy has been a part of the military’s ongoing efforts in the Ladakh sector.The navy’s P-8I maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircraft have been used for surveillance in the region, while their primary role encompasses carrying out anti-submarine warfare, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance of the oceans. The P-8Is, imported from the United States, carried out similar surveillance missions during the 2017 Doklam standoff.The navy has also been active in the Indian Ocean region, where it is keeping a close watch on possible Chinese naval activities. On Monday, a US Navy carrier strike group, led by USS Nimitz, conducted maritime drills with Indian warships in the Indian Ocean, against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff. The passage exercise involved a total of eight Indian and US warships.The drills also came at a time when tensions have mounted over China’s activities in South China Sea, where the US Navy just conducted a major exercise that involved two carrier strike groups.The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean, where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row. It has positioned warships along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points under its mission-based deployment model and the vessels could be diverted for any mission.Indian warships are deployed from the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait, and northern Bay of Bengal to the south-east coast of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-deploying-mig-29k-jets-to-key-bases-in-north/story-QjTIQWOhxrBSqfhJdw3FqJ.html
22-07-2020||India||Ahead of Bengal polls, NIA asked to probe ’09 Rajdhani hijack||Ahead of West Bengal assembly elections next year, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to investigate the 11-year-old case of the hijacking of the Bhubaneswar-Delhi Rajdhani Express train by PCAPA (Peoples Committee Against Police Atrocities), people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. PCAPA is an alleged overground outfit of Maoists and they were demanding the release of their jailed leader Chhatradhar Mahato. The hijacking happened in Jhargram. Interestingly, the Mamata Banerjee led Trinamool Congress (TMC) earlier this year indicated that it would like Mahato to work for the party in West Midnapore, where he wields considerable influence among tribals. The Bharatiya Janata Party has already made inroads in the region and won the Jhargram Lok Sabha seat last year. The West Bengal government released Mahato on February 1 after the Calcutta High Court commuted his life term to 10 years.TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee said in February that he would be glad if Mahato joins the party. The BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh claimed after TMC’s statement that Banerjee was inducting Maoists to revive its dwindling fortunes. The BJP and the TMC are engaged in a bitter political battle in the state. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats last year, up from the two it won in 2014. Assembly elections in the state are scheduled early next year. The people cited in the first instance said MHA handed over the investigation to NIA in April this year citing three main grounds – it involves a proscribed outfit; the original FIR registered by state police in Jhargam on October 28, 2009 includes sections 121 and 121A of Indian Penal Code (pertaining to waging war against India) which fall in category of scheduled offence; and that case merits probe under UAPA Section 15C as it deals with kidnapping/hijacking of persons to threaten sovereignty of India.The NIA has registered a case under various sections including 121, 121A, 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting) of IPC as well as railways act and a full-fledged investigation has begun already, an officer said. The central agency is also looking to invoke UAPA (unlawful activities prevention act) although the original FIR doesn’t mention the terror angle, officials added.This also means that West Bengal government and police’s consent need not been taken to go ahead with the NIA probe in the decade old case.Mahato, the leader of the Lalgarh movement, a popular uprising of Adivasi villagers backed allegedly by the Maoists (the Communist Party of India - Maoists) in 2008, was arrested on September 26, 2009 by the state CID from Jhargram for an alleged attempt on the life of former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in Kantapahari area of West Midnapore district on November 2, 2008. Subsequently, around 500 activists of PCAPA, who were guided by 25 armed Maoists, hijacked the Bhubaneswar-Delhi Rajdhani on October 27, 2009 near the Banstala station at Jhargram demanding the release of Mahato. The train was under their control for five hours before CRPF and state police commandoes reached the spot forcing the hijackers to flee.“For the past 7-8 years, NIA has extensively investigated all Maoist-related cases including murders, bomb blasts, attack on security forces, their funding and drugs smuggling and has a robust data on all Maoist sympathizers. It is crucial to solve the mystery and larger conspiracy behind this hijacking in 2009,” said one of the people cited in the first instance. Raju Banerjee, Vice President of Bengal BJP, said – “Mahato was the right hand of top CPI (Maoist) leader Kishenji. He is being brought by TMC as the entire Adivasi votes has shifted to the BJP so Mamata Banerjee wants to use him to get the tribal votes back. But they (TMC) won’t be able to win”.The TMC refused to comment on the development. Mahato also could not be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bengal-polls-nia-asked-to-probe-09-rajdhani-hijack/story-spu1SNlkWh98Ll9gimj0KI.html
22-07-2020||India||NDRF teams put on alert as toll due to floods climbs to 90||The flood situation remained grim in several parts of the country as the number of deaths in rain-related incidents reached 90 on Tuesday. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 24 of the state’s 33 districts are still reeling under floods. Nearly 44,500 people uprooted by flood waters are still taking shelter in 397 relief camps where local administrations are trying to ensure social distancing and safety protocol to prevent outbreak of Covid-19.Two more deaths due to drowning were reported from Nagaon and Morigaon districts on Tuesday taking the total number of deaths to 85 this season. Kaziranga National Park, 90% of which is under water, has lost 116 animals, including 88 hog deers and 11 rhinos, to the floods.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal visited the erosion hit areas of Tulsijhara village near Hagrama bridge in Chirang district on Tuesday and assessed the devastations caused by Aie river.In Meghalaya, at least five people have lost their lives and over a lakh have been affected in the plain belt of West Garo Hills, area district collector Ram Singh said. Most victims hail from Tikrikilla community. Chief minister Conrad K Sangma announced ~4 lakh ex gratia to the kin of deceased. Union Home Minister Amit Shah called the CM and assured all support in dealing with the flood situation in the state.In Bihar, heavy rainfall in catchment areas of river Gandak led to the discharge of excess water from Valmikinagar barrage in West Champaran district, flooding parts of north Bihar.Several rivers except the Ganges continued to flow above the danger mark and flood waters have hit nearly 400,000 people in eight districts, a disaster management department bulletin said.The bulletin, however, did not mention any loss of human life or cattle. “All the embankments are safe and there is no breach in any of them,” water minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said.Meanwhile, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has positioned 122 teams across the country to tackle the flood and heavy rain situation during the ongoing monsoon season. A force spokesperson said 85 rescue and relief teams have been pre-positioned in “vulnerable” states and has ordered all its 12 battalions to be prepared(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-teams-put-on-alert-as-toll-due-to-floods-climbs-to-90/story-kDfQhChuaPBLyBfR8GPv2K.html
22-07-2020||India||35 years on, 11 cops convicted for Rajasthan ex-royal’s murder||A special Central Bureau of Investigation court in Mathura pronounced 11 policemen, including a former Deputy Superintendent of Police (SP), guilty on Tuesday in the controversial 1985 murder of Raja Man Singh who was shot dead by the police a day after he crashed his jeep wilfully in a fit of anger into a helicopter being used by the then chief minister .The quantum of punishment will be announced on Wednesday.The CBI named 18 policemen in its charge sheet ; four of them died during the trial and three others were acquitted. The convicted police officials include Kan Singh Bhati who was DSP of Deeg in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur.The verdict came 35 years after Singh was killed in police firing. Raja Man Singh was the younger brother of the last ruler of Bharatpur, Maharaja Sawai Vrijendra Singh, and son of Maharaja Kishan Singh. Born on December 5, 1921, he studied engineering in England and was a seven-time Independent MLA from Deeg between 1952 and 1984.Raja Man Singh’s daughter Krishnendra Kaur Deepa was the tourism minister in the last BJP government in Rajasthan. The CBI court hearing was shifted to Mathura from Rajasthan on a plea in the Supreme Court by her in 1990.Man Singh was shot dead along with his two supporters in police firing in February 1985 after an incident of violence in which then chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s helicopter was damaged. Mathur was campaigning for Congress candidate from Deeg, Brijendra Singh, who was contesting against Man Singh. Ahead ofa meeting he was to address, Congress workers removed flags and banners of Raja Man Singh from the area. An enraged Man Singh reached the meeting venue with his supporters. He drove his jeep into the chief minister’s helicopter. Curfew was imposed soon after. The following day, February 21, Singh, according to Deepa, was on his way to surrender to the police who had registered a complaint against him when he was shot dead by Kan Singh Bhati and other policemen who stopped his jeep. Apart from Singh, his supporters, Thakur Sumer Singh and Thakur Hari Singh, were also killed in the police firing.The 11 police personnel convicted are Kaan Singh Bhati, Virendra Singh, Sukhram, Jagram, Jag Mohan, Sher Singh, Padmaram, Hari Singh, Chhitar Singh, Bhawar Singh and Ravi Shekhar.Krishnendra Kaur Deepa said her husband Vijay Singh registered a complaint against the policemen charging them with murder. “We are happy there has been justice after 35 years,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-yrs-on-11-cops-convicted-for-raj-ex-royal-s-murder/story-OonuoocveRArbn3u3XdJOO.html
22-07-2020||India||CBI seeks Jharkhand govt’s nod to prosecute Madhu Koda in coal block scam||The Jharkhand government has initiated the process to grant sanction to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to prosecute former state chief minister Madhu Koda and former mines secretary Jai Shankar Tiwari for corruption in the allocation of a coal block, a top Jharkhand government official said.“The government has received the CBI request seeking prosecution sanction against former CM Madhu Kora and former mines secretary Jai Shankar Tiwari regarding allocation of Parbatpur coal block to Electrosteel Casting,” said Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. “We have initiated the process for granting the sanction.”Koda’s wife Geeta Koda is Congress Lok Sabha member from the state.The CBI has sought from the Jharkhand government sanction to prosecute Koda and Tiwari in connection with the infamous scam related to the allocation of Parbatpur coal block to Electrosteel Castings, officials said.The agency will file its charge sheet against Koda, Tiwari and others after getting the sanction from the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government, they said.Koda has already been convicted for corruption in the allocation of Rajhara North coal block. A trial court in 2017 held him guilty of corruption and conspiracy in the allocation of the coal block in Jharkhand to Kolkata-based company Vini Iron and Steel Udyog Ltd (VISUL).The CBI has almost concluded its probe in the allocation of Parbatpur coal block to Electrosteel Castings for their proposed pig iron plants at Khardah in West Bengal and Kalahasti in Andhra Pradesh. The Odisha-based Electrosteel allegedly acquired about 48.5 per cent shares of an Andhra Pradesh-based private company and the allocation was made for a plant of the latter which never independently applied for a coal block.The CBI has alleged that Electrosteel resorted to the sale of 50,162.42 metric tonnes of middlings dishonestly to another private company based at Jharkhand and the company disposed of 42,500 metric tonnes of inferior ungraded coal, jhama and slurry to the non-approved end users.(With input from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-seeks-jharkhand-govt-s-nod-to-prosecute-madhu-koda-in-coal-block-scam/story-WURxKLSNaQ1sL2Z179Zu0L.html
22-07-2020||India||India struggled to gain influence due to 3 foreign policy ‘burdens’: Jaishankar||India has had to struggle mightily to gain influence in a domain that could have come more easily earlier as its foreign policy carries “three major burdens” from its past -- Partition, delayed economic reforms and prolonged exercise of the nuclear option, says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.The former diplomat makes these remarks in his new book “The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World”, which is scheduled for release on September 7.With the period from the 2008 global financial crisis to the 2020 coronavirus pandemic seeing a real transformation of the world order, Jaishankar analyses the challenges India faces and spells out possible policy responses.Also read: How India can act as a global bridgeAs India rises in the world order, it should not only visualise its interests with great clarity but also communicate them effectively, he writes in the book.Jaishankar says India’s foreign policy carries three major burdens from its past. “One is the 1947 Partition, which reduced the nation both demographically and politically. An unintended consequence was to give China more strategic space in Asia. Another is the delayed economic reforms that were undertaken a decade and a half after those of China … the 15-year gap continues to put India at a great disadvantage.” The third, Jaishankar says, is the prolonged exercise of the nuclear option. “As a result, India has had to struggle mightily to gain influence in a domain that could have come so much more easily earlier...” He terms his book an “effort to contribute to that endeavour, encouraging an honest conversation among Indians, without discouraging the world from eavesdropping”.In a statement, publishers HarperCollins India says the very nature of international relations and its rules is changing and for India, this means optimal relationships with all the major powers to best advance its goals. “Jaishankar analyses these challenges and spells out possible policy responses. In doing so, he is very conscious of balancing India’s national interest with international responsibilities. He places this thinking in the context of history and tradition, appropriate for a civilisational power that seeks to reclaim its place on the world stage,” it says.Also read: The power gap with China | HT EditorialAccording to Jaishankar, international relations may be mostly about other nations, but neither unfamiliarity nor indifference lessens its consequences. “So, rather than allow events to come upon us, these are better anticipated and analysed.” “I have had a ringside view of recent global changes. Above all, interacting with our own leadership over many years at different levels of hierarchy had a value that is difficult to put in words. From that, the big takeaways were the importance of defining strategic goals, recognising optimal outcomes and appreciating the interplay of politics and policy,” he writes in the book.Publisher Krishan Chopra says the book brings clarity to a complicated scenario and indicates the path forward.Jaishankar had earlier served as the Foreign Secretary (2015-18), Ambassador to the US (2013-15), Ambassador to China (2009-13), High Commissioner to Singapore (2007-09) and Ambassador to the Czech Republic (2000-04).He has also had other diplomatic assignments in embassies in Moscow, Washington DC, Colombo, Budapest and Tokyo, as well as in the Ministry of External Affairs and the President’s Secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-had-to-struggle-to-gain-influence-in-foreign-policy-due-to-3-past-burdens-s-jaishankar/story-GqzlvcpEnRUB1aYMCoYm6H.html
22-07-2020||India||Pilot camp hits back at Gehlot, demands apology, resignation||Former Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Hemaram Choudhary on Monday condemned the “intemperate language” used by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot against his former deputy Sachin Pilot, saying this shows that he is “flustered” by the turn of events in the state.Choudhary, who is one of the 18 Congress MLAs supporting Pilot in his fight against Gehlot, is a former minister and a six-time legislator from the Gudamalani constituency in Barmer. He added that Gehlot has “hurt the sentiments” of the people of Rajasthan with his remarks against Pilot, and must apologise for them.“This is unfortunate. If he doesn’t apologise, the people of Rajasthan will teach him a lesson and never forgive him for this,” he said, indicating the thinking within the Pilot camp.ALSO WATCH | Rajasthan legal chess game: Gehlot vs Pilot explained in 3 simple moves A prominent Jat leader of Rajasthan, Choudhary, in turn, attacked Gehlot for “history of deceiving” those under whom the party had won the assembly elections.Also read: Omar Abdullah fumes after Chhattisgarh CM links his release to Sachin Pilot“In the past, we have seen what happened to Parasram Maderna and CP Joshi, and this time Pilot — after the Congress came to power under their leadership. They were overlooked, and Gehlot became the chief minister thrice,” Choudhary said.Meanwhile, another Pilot loyalist, Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked as a state minister, accused the Rajasthan government of “strangling” democracy. Assembly speaker CP Joshi has issued disqualification notices to 19 Congress legislators, including Pilot. They have approached the Rajasthan high court against the move. The speaker has told the court he will not take any action on the basis of the notices until 5.30pm on Tuesday. A court verdict in the matter is expected on Tuesday.Choudhary contended the Congress came to power in the 2018 assembly elections -- when it won 99 seats in the 200-member assembly -- only because of the hard work put in by Pilot after the party was reduced to 21 seats in 2013.Also read | ‘More concocted allegations coming’: Sachin Pilot after MLA’s bribe chargeReiterating that the rebel Congress legislators who are supporting Pilot will not join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said their only demand is the immediate replacement of Gehlot. “He should resign. The Congress cannot fight the next elections under his leadership. No pre-poll promise or even a single point in manifesto had been fulfilled so far. We are in the Congress and how can we go to the people with him as our leader and when we have given them nothing,” Choudhary said.Asked why the rebel legislators were not heeding the Congress leadership’s repeated demands to rejoin the “family” and air their grievances within the party fold, he said: “In Rajasthan, there is no democracy in Congress party. It has become Ashok Gehlot’s Congress. And the Congress leadership has shut doors on us by sending the disqualification notices to us. So, what do we do?”Choudhary also said the audio tapes that were leaked on social media -- they purportedly indicate a plot to bring down the Congress government in the state -- were “fabricated” to malign the Pilot loyalists.“We have not done anything wrong and are not scared of any threats. We have not done anything against the party and our only demand is to change the leadership in Rajasthan. I want to tell all that we will definitely emerge victorious,” Vishvendra Singh said.The Pilot camp also released a video of former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and current Congress legislator Giriraj Singh Malinga, who on Monday alleged that Pilot had offered him money to join the BJP. In the video, Malinga was seen refuting claims that he was offered money during the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections. At that time, Malinga had dismissed media reports that he was offered to vote against the party candidate in the polls. The Congress won two Rajya Sabha seats while the BJP bagged one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-camp-hits-back-at-gehlot-demands-apology-resignation/story-y80qrMsFhpho5LDOinpfWP.html
22-07-2020||India||Covid-19 rapid antigen tests high on accuracy, but protocols crucial||About 1,365 (0.54%) of the 262,075 people who tested negative for Covid-19 through antigen tests are believed to have showed symptoms for the disease, and, among these, 243 (17.8%) were found to have the virus through lab tests, according to data with the government that appears to address some concerns over the rapid kit’s accuracy, although experts said the protocols and the opinion of diagnosticians in each case may have a bearing on this. Between June 18, when testing with these kits began in the national capital, and 10:15am on July 15, there were 281,555 rapid antigen tests (RAT) of which 19,480 people were found positive for the virus. From the 262,075 people who were negative, 1,365 people showed symptoms of Covid-19 and were referred to take a test through the RT-PCR method, which is regarded as the most accurate type of test yet for detecting the Sars-Cov-2. Of these, 243 were eventually found to be positive, meaning they had a false negative on a rapid antigen test, which has been crucial to ramping up testing – and thus tracing and isolation of active cases – in the country. “The follow up testing on RT-PCR is only for symptomatic negative persons on rapid tests as per the protocol laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). RAT negative persons are administered the RT-PCR tests only after due clinical classification by the medical officer in charge at the concerned antigen centre,” said Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister who is currently also heading the health department at present. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage As per ICMR guidelines, symptomatic persons who test negative in the rapid antigen tests should be followed up with an RT-PCR test. Rapid antigen detection tests are quicker (take up to 30 minutes compared to 2-5 hours in RT-PCR test). The accuracy levels of these kits are such that if someone tests positive, they are considered a ‘true positive’ case but a negative result might be a false one, which is why those with symptoms are advised to go for an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test. The government’s data, seen by HT, showed that of the 11 districts in Delhi, Southwest conducted the maximum number of rapid antigen tests and hence, had the highest positive cases through this technique. It has carried 39,804 antigen tests of which 3,798 were positive, while 38 among those who tested negative were followed up with an RT-PCR test, of which 11 tested positive. Also read: Beaten projections but can’t be complacent, says Delhi CM on Covid-19 situationShahdara district conducted the maximum follow-up RT-PCR tests on RAT negatives. In all, 648 symptomatic persons were sent for follow-ups, of which 123 tested positive, the highest among all districts. Dr Lalit Kant, former head, division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, ICMR said that the process also depends on the judgment of the medical officer screening the people at the testing centres.“In this season, more and more people develop ILI and SARI symptoms, which are Covid-19 symptoms too. So, the number of symptomatic persons already must have increased in Delhi by now. Clear guidelines must be issued to all medical teams of every district that no symptomatic persons should be left without and RT-PCR test. Anyone with cough and fever should be tested,” said Kant.Dr T Jacob John, virologist and former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu said it is unlikely that across Delhi only 1,365 of the roughly 262,000 persons who tested negative in the rapid tests could have been symptomatic.“The antigen tests in Delhi started off from the containment and buffer zones which anyway should have increased the number of positive results. Widespread use of rapid tests is a good thing that Delhi is doing. But, this needs to be backed up with RT-PCR tests on all symptomatic RAT negatives because RT-PCR is the most accurate testing method so far. Otherwise, it would defeat the purpose of scaling up testing. The perception among the public that a negative result in the antigen test is the final word in a person’s Covid-19 diagnosis needs to be changed by the authorities,” he said. John further added that simple statistical extrapolation of the government data showed that if 17.8% people tested positive in follow-up RT-PCR tests out of the RAT negatives, then over 46,000 persons could, potentially, have had a false negative. “However, the sample size of 1,365 persons is too small. This statistical extrapolation can only give an indication. It is also indicative of the fact that in Delhi, post peak transmission of Covid-19 continues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-antigen-tests-high-on-accuracy-but-protocols-crucial/story-Nt9lT1Kzd1EqUhN4nlnN7L.html
