25-07-2020||India||India, China complete troop disengagement at three friction points, focus now on Finger area||In a significant development, troops of India and China have completed disengagement at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15, and Hot Springs/Gogra area in Eastern Ladakh amid the ongoing talks at the diplomatic and military level, sources said.“The ongoing engagement and dialogue between India and China at the military and diplomatic levels has resulted in complete disengagement at Patrolling Point 14 (Galwan area), 15 and 17 A (Hot Springs/Gogra) in eastern Ladakh,” a source told ANI here.The sources said that after disengagement in these areas as per agreements in the last Corps Commander-level talks, the only area where disengagement is left to be implemented is the Finger area along the Pangong Tso lake.A meeting between the senior military commanders is expected in the coming week to further work out modalities of the Pangong Tso lake area, they added.Also read | A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explainedEven though disengagement has been taking place between the two sides, the Chinese have not begun the process of de-escalation along the LAC opposite Eastern Ladakh where they have maintained a build-up of close to 40,000 troops with heavy weaponry deployed in front and depth areas.India has made it clear that for the situation to be normalized, the Chinese will have to completely deescalate and move back troops to their permanent locations.India and China had reviewed the situation on Friday in the India-China border areas at the 17th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) and agreed that early and complete disengagement of the troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), de-escalation from India-China border areas and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations.They also agreed that another meeting of senior commanders may be held soon so as to work out further steps to ensure expeditiously complete disengagement and de-escalation.The Indian delegation was led by Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the External Affairs Ministry and Director General of Boundary and Oceanic Dept of Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs led the Chinese delegation.Also read: The Galwan Valley face-off explained through 17 news reportsAn External Affairs Ministry release had said that the two sides reviewed the situation in the India-China border areas and the ongoing disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC )in the Western Sector.“They agreed that early and complete disengagement of the troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations,” the release said.The two sides noted that this was in accordance with the agreement reached between the two Special Representatives (SRs) during their telephonic conversation on July 5, 2020.The two countries have held military and diplomatic consultations following a face-off between troops of two sides in Eastern Ladakh and the military build-up by China.WMCC was established in 2012 as an institutional mechanism for consultation and coordination for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas, as well as to exchange views on strengthening communication and cooperation, including between their border security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-complete-troop-disengagement-at-three-friction-points-focus-now-on-finger-area/story-7aDibG5ICTvksF4R2e0RiN.html
25-07-2020||India||Pre-feasibility report for Uttarakhand’s greenfield airport submitted, CM underlines its strategic role||The Union secretary for civil aviation and chairman of airports authority of India (AII) on Saturday submitted the pre-feasibility report for the greenfield airport to be built in Pantnagar area of US Nagar district in the state, said officials. The report was submitted by Union secretary for civil aviation Pradeep Kharola and chairman of AAI Arvind Singh during a meeting with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun on Saturday. They submitted the report after inspecting the land earmarked for the project along with state chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh earlier on Saturday, said officials. According to a press release issued by the CM office on the development, both the Central officials informed Rawat that the land earmarked for the airport is a ‘suitable one.’In US Nagar, 1,100 acres of land has been earmarked for setting up of a greenfield airport, built completely from scratch. The airport would be built with prospects of getting upgraded to an international one in future. Also Read: Three people killed after car falls into river in Uttarakhand’s NainitalStressing on the importance of the soon-to-be-built airport and development of aviation infrastructure, CM Rawat said, “It is very important to strengthen the air infrastructure in Uttarakhand from tourism, disaster and strategic point of view. For this, the ministry of civil aviation and the AAI, have been supported by the state government in every way.”He also said that, “A lot of work has been done in the field of civil aviation in the state in the last three years with a large number of air services being introduced with the cooperation of the ministry of civil aviation.”Later, CM directed the state officials concerned to complete the necessary procedures for the greenfield airport at the earliest.Pantnagar airport currently has about 267 acres of land with a 530 sqm of passenger terminal. The current handling capacity of the airport is 50 passengers in peak hours. With the creation of the greenfield airport, the capacity will increase considerably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pre-feasibility-report-for-uttarakhand-s-greenfield-airport-submitted-cm-underlines-its-strategic-role/story-TVo89HVPWKrZddodQVcrLI.html
25-07-2020||India||BJP team meets guv over Cong’s ‘anarchy’||Jaipur: State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Satish Poonia on Saturday met Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra along with a 14-member delegation to express displeasure over chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s comments related to convening of the assembly session to prove his majority. Congress legislators backing Gehlot staged a five-hour sit-in on Friday asking Mishra to call a special assembly session for a floor test. They accused Mishra of acting under pressure and ignoring their demand as Gehlot expressed confidence of winning the trust vote amid his power tussle with his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Poonia said Gehlot’s threat that the state’s people will picket the governor’s house if Mishra did not convene the session threatens peace. “The CM [chief minister] and his government are guilty of pushing the state’s peace and calm into anarchy,” said Poonia. “There were scenes of anarchy on the streets in the state today and the CM, who is also the home minister of the state, is morally responsible for this.” He added demonstrations were held at district headquarters on the call of the ruling party in clear violation of Covid-19 guidelines. “The fact that district administrations remained mute spectators to these violations shows the state government’s apathy towards Covid-19.” The delegation gave a memorandum to Mishra saying Gehlot’s statement about picketing was a criminal act under the Indian Penal Code. “The CM came to the Raj Bhavan with his MLAs, who shouted slogans; this led to anarchy. The pressure on the Governor to get a decision in their favour is a derogatory attempt to threaten Constitutional institutions. They also violated Covid-19 advisory on social distancing,” the memorandum said. Ruling Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma linked the meeting to the BJP’s conspiracy to topple the government. “They are trying to delay the session and it is their tactic to topple the government in which they are not being successful. The meeting also proves that we have the majority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-team-meets-guv-over-cong-s-anarchy/story-pSn3VL10OsZ9rsPRjYs2EO.html
25-07-2020||India||CM Yogi Adityanath wants a lakh Covid tests daily in Uttar Pradesh by Monday||In a bid to combat the coronavirus disease outbreak, Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to take the total number of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests to one lakh per day by July 27 (Monday) across the state.Reviewing the Unlock-2 phase during a high level meeting at his official residence, Yogi Adityanath said 10 lakh testing kits should be procured for every 10-day period.Adityanath also said that while conducting the spot review, chief secretary and additional chief secretary, health, should focus on contact tracing, door-to-door survey, rapid antigen tests and ambulance services. The death toll due to the coronavirus disease outbreak in Uttar Pradesh has mounted to 1,387, while the state’s caseload has reached 63,742. The state on Saturday reported 39 more deaths due to Covid-19 and 2,971 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in the state. As of July 23, 17.05 lakh samples were tested in the state. At over 20.42 crores, Uttar Pradesh remains the most populous state in India but also the state which is not testing enough people, as the statistics show. “The (spot) review should be held at a health centre or a medical college,” he said, adding that the doctors should take rounds in hospitals and medical colleges.The officials should also focus on the number of beds in Level-1, L-2 and L-3 Covid hospitals, availability of oxygen in L-1 hospitals, oxygen and ventilators in L-2 hospitals and specialist doctors for co-morbidity patients in L-3 hospitals. They should also keep track of the home quarantine and paid isolation facilities, he said. The chief minister has asked the officials to send a proposal to the Centre to buy advance life support ambulances.In the meeting, the Adityanath also asked the chief secretary and additional chief secretary of health for a spot review of health services in Kanpur Nagar and Jhansi divisions on Saturday and in Prayagraj and Mirzapur divisions on Sunday. A report of the review meetings should be made available to him, the chief minister said, adding an action plan based on points given for the review meetings should be prepared. The divisional commissioners should implement the action plan. The nodal officers should camp in the districts allotted to them for five days to effectively implement the arrangements there, the chief minister said to the officials.Calling for effective cleanliness and sanitisation during the weekend special campaign, he said the urban development, rural development and panchayati raj departments should intensify the drive.Sanitisation, spraying of anti-larva chemicals and fogging should be done both in rural and urban areas, he said, adding that water-logging should be removed.The campaign to check spread of Covid-19 and other contagious diseases should be conducted with team spirit, he said.Work should be allocated separately for chief medical officers and deputy chief medical officers and monitored on a day- to-day basis, the chief minister said.“Patients should not be kept in holding areas and their medical treatment should start immediately,” he added.Of the 39 new deaths, five each were reported in Kanpur and Varanasi, followed by four in Gorakhpur, two each in Prayagraj, Bareilly, Firozabad and Sultanpur.One death each was reported from Lucknow, Jhansi, Moradabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Sambhal, Hardoi, Sant Kabir Nagar, Rampur, Etawah, Kannauj, Mau, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Bhadohi, Bahraich and Balrampur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-wants-a-lakh-covid-tests-daily-in-uttar-pradesh-by-monday/story-Jb465o0hVA6M3nd967VsNO.html
25-07-2020||India||India okays $400 mn currency swap for Sri Lanka||New Delhi India on Saturday announced it had finalised a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and people familiar with the development said Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion is being considered.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) signed documents for giving effect to the currency swap facility for the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on Friday. The arrangement will remain available till November 2022, and the Indian mission in Colombo informed senior officials of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka about the decision. This currency swap was extended by India following a request from the Sri Lankan side for the facility under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) Currency Swap Framework in order to cope with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.During a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 23, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had asked the Indian government to provide a special swap facility of $1.1 billion “to top up the $400 million under the Saarc facility”.One of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity: “While the agreement for the currency swap under the Saarc framework has been concluded, the bilateral swap request for $1.1 billion is being considered.” A statement issued by the Sri Lankan president’s office in May had quoted Rajapaksa as saying the special swap of $1.1 billion “would enormously help Sri Lanka in dealing with our foreign exchange issues”. A currency swap facility helps a country obtain foreign currency loans at better interest rates than by borrowing directly from the market, and repayment is done at the exchange rate fixed at the time of borrowing. This eliminates risks due to fluctuations in exchange rates.Sri Lanka has made several requests for assistance from India after the Covid-19 pandemic devastated the country’s tourism industry. The Indian move to aid the island nation comes at a time when New Delhi is shoring up relations with countries in the neighbourhood against the backdrop of the border stand-off with China. On July 14, India’s deputy high commissioner Vinod K Jacob met and discussed the currency swap arrangement with the Governor of Sri Lanka’s Central Bank, WD Lakshman. On July 22, the Indian high commission also facilitated technical discussions on rescheduling of bilateral debt repayment by Sri Lanka.During his visit to India earlier this year, Rajapaksa had sought a moratorium on repayment of loans worth almost $1 billion.“These positive developments illustrate active implementation of the leadership-level commitment to work together for addressing the challenges arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, and further the mutually beneficial India-Sri Lanka partnership, including in the economic domain,” said a statement issued by the Indian high commission in Colombo.The people cited above said the prime minister had already conveyed India’s support to Sri Lanka in dealing with the pandemic and its economic impact.“The request from Sri Lanka came against the backdrop of the country’s economy, like that of many other countries, slowing down. Increasing foreign exchange outflows in Sri Lanka resulted in the dwindling of its dollar reserves and added pressure on the Sri Lankan rupee,” said the person cited above. The currency swap agreement with Sri Lanka reflects India’s commitment to help its “friendly neighbour with its economic revival amid the pandemic”, the person said. Earlier, India had assisted Sri Lanka by sending four consignments of essential medicines and equipment during April-May to fight the pandemic. RBI’s currency swap arrangement for Saarc states has a corpus of $2 billion. This facility became operational in November 2012 to provide funding for short-term foreign exchange liquidity requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-okays-400-mn-currency-swap-for-sri-lanka/story-VoXlste2wkloBt17pLqp9I.html
25-07-2020||India||Ram Temple Trust asks devotees to stay home on August 5, light diyas||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust on Saturday issued an appeal to all saints across the country to perform puja in their respective temples and Maths from 11.30am to 12.30pm on August 5, the day on which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, requested people to watch the live telecast of Bhoomi Pujan at Ram Janmabhoomi on television and light earthen lamps at home in the evening.Rai also requested people not to come to Ayodhya for bhumi pujan due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A similar call was issued by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) to saints and seers associated with the front. It said the Bhoomi Poojan day must be celebrated keeping in mind the guidelines issued by administrations and governments to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.“On August 5, Wednesday, 2020, at 10.30 am, all the revered sant-mahatmas, in their respective monasteries, ashrams and all the devotees living in the country and abroad, sitting together in their homes or nearby temples or Ashrams, should worship their respective adored deities, recite kirtans, offer flowers, perform aarti and distribute prasad,” read a statement from the VHP quoted by ANI.Also Read: ‘Auspicious time for Ram Temple ceremony has come after 500 years’: Yogi AdityanathThe VHP hoped that devotees would be able to watch the live telecast of the ceremony in Ayodhya in their respective areas on televisions or on big screens.The parishad also asked the people to decorate houses, neighbourhoods, villages, markets, monasteries, gurudwaras, ashrams, etc and distribute Prasad and also light lamps after sunset instead of visiting Ayodhya on the occasion.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who reviewed the preparations for the foundation stone laying ceremony in Ayodhya today, too, asked all temples in Ayodhya to carry out special cleaning of their premises and light lamps on August 4 and 5 to celebrate the beginning of the construction of a grand temple of Lord Ram, sources quoted by PTI said. The Ram Temple Trust officials have indicated that the number of invitees for the foundation stone laying ceremony will be limited to around 200 people including PM Narendra Modi; some senior Union ministers including home minister Amit Shah; prominent faces associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement including former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and Vinay Katiyar; state chief ministers including Yogi Adityanath and Uddhav Thackeray and other prominent sages and seers.Yogi Adityanath vows to make Ayodhya pride of the world, reviews readiness for August 5 ceremonyThe Supreme Court had on November 9 last year directed the Centre to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple.The 15-member Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has been mandated by the central government to oversee the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-trust-asks-devotees-to-stay-home-on-august-5-light-diyas/story-1aiWGlcViVoMByM7MMhCuM.html
25-07-2020||India||Meet the corporate professional who found her calling in organic farming||Meenakshi Kishore has bucked the trend and traded her corporate job to try her hand at an organic farm-to-fork model four years ago. Kishore, who holds a Master in Business Administration (MBA) degree from the Symbiosis Institute of Management in Pune, took to organic farming in Agra in 2016 after holding several senior-level corporate positions in multi-national companies (MNCs), private equities (PEs) and venture capitals (VCs). Kishore, who is in her 40s and spent her better part of her formative years in a boarding school, made a conscious choice to give up her cushy corporate job and attractive monthly paycheque for healthy living and a union with Mother Nature. “I was in the quest for inner peace that was missing in the corporate world. I knew my penchant for a slow-paced life and also wanted to do something more meaningful in harmony with nature. Corporate life is an existence that thrives on excesses and it had ceased to have any meaning for me,” she reminisced. Her father Ajay Kishore, who is a partner-in-arms in her daughter’s unusual mid-life journey, is supportive of her entrepreneurial endeavour. “On her return to Agra, she wanted to do something different. Conventional farming was not to her liking. Health and the environment are key thrust areas. She spent the next two years researching, travelling across the country, and training herself under several farmers to learn new principles and best practices of farming. She learned about permaculture and regenerative farming,” said Kishore senior. “Regenerative farming explores the concept of nutrient-dense foods, where essential vitamins and minerals remain intact within the food structure. Nutrient-dense foods can only be grown on well-nourished soil and with the use of bio-insecticides and bio-fertilisers. The variants of food grown are unpolished, handmade, machine-free, or minimally processed, cold-pressed, and hormone-free. Ideally, they should be tree-ripened as well,” she explained. Her labour of love has come to fruition at Advait Living, a 40-acre farmland on the banks of the Yamuna river and on the Mathura-Agra border. The farmland was originally barren, and it took years to become fertile. Initially, the farm was used for traditional cash crops such as wheat and mustard. Now, it is designed as an integrated regenerative and bio-dynamic entity that has found a life of its own and whose popularity is growing, thanks to word-of-mouth publicity. Kishore cited that the farm integrates all beings — from farmers, livestock, birds, insects, plants, and micro-organisms into a single working unit, each interdependent upon another.“The farm has adopted a regenerative approach to build soil health, biodiversity, micro-climates and water management to grow nutrient-dense produce. Cow-based farming is another core pillar of our farming method. The cow manure and urine are used to make bio-fertilisers and soil-boosters that enhance the soil’s nutritional content,” she added. The farm produces oilseeds, wheat, millet, fresh vegetables, and fruits, among other things. It also processes raw produce into ghee, oils, spices, flour, jaggery, etc. “Advait Living also works with small and marginal farmers to provide expert training to convert traditional agricultural practices into regenerative farming and bio-dynamic systems that support the farmer’s access to better revenue, prices, and critical know-how. Farmers are also able to access new markets under the Advait Living brand and through our retail outlet and partner alliances across the country,” she said. “There is a growing awareness and our clientele is increasing with ‘immunity’ being the latest buzz amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Consumers are coming to us for organic products that are free from adulteration. There is a huge demand for mustard oil and jaggery. Many homemakers are asking for natural products and consumers are selecting foodstuff on the parameters of health,” said Kishore, who is a photography buff and also fond of cooking. Advait Living has been retailing Bilona A2 cow ghee, cold-pressed cooking mediums such as mustard oil, sesame oil, and coconut oil, unpolished dals, whole wheat flour, honey, jaggery and non-genetically modified (GM) rice variants and spices from its outlet at Bagh Farzana in Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-the-corporate-professional-who-found-her-calling-in-organic-farming/story-1LzXG9CBySvo6AJ5zFWD8K.html
25-07-2020||India||Probe alleged sexual exploitation of minor girls in Chitrakoot: Allahabad high court||The Allahabad high court (HC) has directed the district magistrate (DM), the chairman, and the district legal services authority (DLSA) of Chitrakoot to probe the alleged forced sexual exploitation of minor girls from tribal families working in illegal mines in that district for survival and submit their separate reports by July 28. The HC bench, comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice SD Singh, passed the order while taking cognisance of an e-mail sent by Dr Abhishek Atrey, a Delhi- based lawyer. The e-mail was addressed to Chief Justice Mathur and was treated as a petition for a writ in the public interest by the HC bench. The petition cited media reports in connection with the alleged sexual abuse of minor girls in Chitrakoot, and levelled allegations pertaining to the blatant violation of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986. As per some media reports, minor girls from poor tribal families are forced to work in illegal mines for survival, but the contractors and middlemen don’t pay their wages on time. These girls are allegedly forced to trade off their bodies in a bid to get their meagre wages. The court has directed its registry to send a notice of the petition to the DM, the chairman, the DLSA of Chitrakoot by facsimile within two days and fixed July 28 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-alleged-sexual-exploitation-of-minor-girls-in-chitrakoot-allahabad-high-court/story-HkZyueIuVehTuEFGSHK6fP.html
25-07-2020||India||Migrants return from J&K, become entrepreneurs in Bihar||A group of migrant workers, who returned to Bihar from Jammu and Kashmir following some respite in nationwide restrictions, have set up a paver block manufacturing workshop at Madhopur-Bairiya village in Gaunaha block of West Champaran.These 12 migrants are among the 46 workers identified by the district administration to be transformed into entrepreneurs from labourers.“We are getting good support here and we need to excel in our business. Days are not far off, when we would be able to give employment to others if things went our way,” said Suraj Kumar, 28, who has about 14 years of experience in manufacturing of paver at a factory near old Rawalpora airport in Srinagar.“Coronavirus has certainly been a factor and an eye-opener for us. The biggest problem lies in the fact that we chose to be defensive and not to risk anything in our lives,” said Maksudan Yadav, a resident of Madhopur-Bairiya village, a worker at the unit.Also Read: Patna tops Bihar’s districts with 316 Covid-19 cases; Bhagalpur, Gaya take tally near 40,000Their employer described them as hard workers. “It’s certainly a loss for us as they had pretty good experiences ranging from two years to 14 years with us. However, our door is always open for them,” said Umar Bashir, who runs JD group of industries in Srinagar.Within one month of working together, as many as 14 workers, 12 of them from Srinagar, have churned out about 75,000 pebbles (12x12 with one inch thickness), besides flower pots (about 60 pieces), cement bench (one piece), bed, tables and chairs.“All the materials needed such as stone dust, pebbles, sand, colour, hardeners and cement are readily available here,” said Om Prakash Yadav.“We used to earn ₹3.5 for each block in Srinagar which had to be shared among ten to twelve workers. However, we managed to save close to ₹1 lakh in seven to eight months of working due to the volume of production,” said Rahul Yadav.Watch:Bihar floods | ‘Over 10 lakh people affected, 1 lakh+ evacuated’: SDMAWhile, they have received orders for paver blocks from the panchayat and block officer, district development commissioner (DDC) also placed an order of 6,000 paver blocks.“The orders from panchayat and block office have been placed. We are helping them to get a loan from the bank,” said Harimohan Kumar, block development officer (BDO), Gaunaha.West Champaran district magistrate (DM) Kundan Kumar said the whole concept is aimed at turning migrant workers into entrepreneurs.“A multi-pronged strategy was adopted ranging from micro-detailing of their skills to backward and forward linkage (raw material procurement and marketing for finished products), to making ‘udyami mitra mandal’ (a group of productive people) during their stay in quarantine itself,” said Kundan Kumar.He added that senior officials have been engaged to help them set up their businesses and to open up new avenues for them as entrepreneurs as beneficiaries of Bihar government’s Nav Parivartan Yojna and bank loan scheme.Meanwhile, a group of 30 entrepreneurs from Noida, Gandhinagar, Ludhiana and other places visited Bettiah recently.The DM says they were apprised about the benefits they would receive from the district administration if they chose to outsource their work and source products from home grown units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-return-from-j-k-become-entrepreneurs-in-bihar/story-ReXVzFK1v1AalPSki0dxxH.html
25-07-2020||India||Rapid surge in Covid-19 cases forcing several states to impose selective lockdown||More high-risk areas were brought under lockdown on Saturday for varying periods, including weekends, by states in a bid to check the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in India. Over a dozen states have so far opted for such selective lockdown citing the need to revive economic activities and at the same time reduce the risk of spread of infection, though Bihar and Manipur have imposed a state-wide shutdown from July 16 and July 23 respectively. In Madhya Pradesh, where Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to a hospital, a 10-day lockdown has been imposed in state capital Bhopal after a spike in cases. The state has been observing total shutdown on Sundays. A complete lockdown till Monday morning was imposed in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, which too has been enforcing shutdown every Sunday. Tamil Nadu on Saturday breached the grim milestone of two lakh coronavirus cases with the biggest daily spike of 6,988 fresh infections, pushing the tally to 2,06,737, according to state officials. While Uttar Pradesh observed another weekend lockdown, similar curbs were imposed for the second time this month in Uttarakhand’s four districts -- Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts -- which have reported 1,348 cases since July 18. All shops were shut and transport suspended in West Bengal as part of the twice-a-week lockdown in the state. Jammu went into a 60-hour lockdown from Friday 6 pm, while a six-day complete lockdown has been imposed across the Kashmir Valley except Bandipora since Thursday. In its most recent update, the union health ministry placed the total number of cases at 13,36,861 and the death toll at 31,358. Nearly 11.4 lakh cases have been reported in June-July alone when lockdown restrictions were eased.  In worst-affected Maharashtra, where over 3.5 lakh cases have been recorded, civic authorities of Nagpur city announced a voluntary ‘janta curfew’ on Saturday and Sunday, when only essential services will remain functional. The step has been taken to bring public awareness about behavioural change towards Covid-19 rules, but if these rules are not followed, then a strict curfew could be imposed in the city, Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe warned. Chief Minster Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that he was not in favour of complete lifting of the coronavirus-induced curbs in the state only to address the economic concerns. Maharashtra too had imposed strict shutdown for varying periods in areas with high incidence of coronavirus infection including Pune. “I will never say that the lockdown will be lifted completely. But I have started reopening a few things gradually. Once reopened, it shouldn’t be shut again. Hence, I prefer taking steps in phases. You can’t just think about economy or health. There needs to be a balance between the two,” he said in an interview to Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’. From June onwards, the government had started lifting the restrictions in phase-wise manner under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative. A complete lockdown was imposed in Nagaland capital Kohima till July 31, while it will come into effect in Dimapur from Sunday till August 2. The Meghalaya government too has announced a complete lockdown in Shillong agglomeration from July 26 to July 29.In Chhattisgarh, a seven-day lockdown has been enforced from Wednesday in municipal limits of Raipur and Birgaon, besides 20 other urban bodies. Normal life came to a grinding halt in West Bengal on Saturday as shops were shut and all modes of transport went off the roads as part of the state government’s plan to clamp restrictions two days a week. A similar lockdown will take place next Wednesday. More than 3,800 people were arrested for flouting lockdown guidelines on Thursday when it was first imposed. Flight operations at the Kolkata airport were also suspended during the lockdown. Police patrolled all major traffic intersections in the metropolis to keep a check on people coming out on the streets. Barricades were also put up in various parts of the state to stop people from coming out of their homes, officials said. West Bengal has so far registered 53,973 Covid-19 cases and 1,290 deaths till Friday. Odisha had ordered a complete 14-day lockdown in five districts of Ganjam, Khordha, Cuttack, Jajpur and Rourkela districts from July 17. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday morning, Delhi has reported 1,28,389 cases, Karnataka 85,870, Andhra Pradesh 80,858, Uttar Pradesh 60,771, West Bengal 53,973, and Gujarat 53,545 cases.Karnataka has been enforcing a Sunday shutdown this month. A week-long lockdown in Bengaluru had ended on July 22. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 52,466 in Telangana, 34,178 in Rajasthan, 33,926 in Bihar, 29,755 in Haryana, 29,921 in Assam and 26,210 in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha has reported 22,693 infections, Jammu and Kashmir 16,782, Kerala 16,995, and Punjab 12,216. India’s first case of coronavirus was reported on January 30, and on March 25 the country was put under a 21-day complete lockdown, which was then extended periodically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-forcing-several-states-to-impose-selective-lockdown/story-jh2SjuXAWraJJrhyV7K07M.html
25-07-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: The dilemma of Covid-19’s second wave||Shuttering businesses, grounding airlines and ordering people to stay home was hard enough the first time. The thought of having to do it all over again is something world leaders don’t want to even contemplate.From Italy to New Zealand, irrespective of how well the virus was contained, governments acknowledge that fresh waves of the deadly coronavirus are likely and that the policy tools to mitigate the damage are limited. The hope is that localizing quarantines to towns, cities and regions will be enough to snuff out bouts of infections as they come.UK’s Boris Johnson was reluctant to order a lockdown and then ended up in intensive care fighting for his life after contracting Covid-19. Yet he finds the idea of isolating the nation again so off-putting that he compared it to a nuclear deterrent: “I certainly don’t want to use it.” French Prime Minister Jean Castex, was equally blunt: “We won’t survive, economically and socially.”Also read: No Covid-19 herd immunity yet, says WHO chief scientist Soumya SwaminathanAt the other end of the globe, New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern has warned that it just takes one mistake to be exposed to the virus again. But even for her, reverting to a nationwide lockdown would be a “measure of last resort.”It all speaks to the great elephant in the room: while scientists warn it could take years to control a deadly virus that has killed more than 630,000 worldwide, there is no appetite to sustain the hiatus on travel, work and leisure that has upended everyone’s lives in 2020.With the world facing its worst recession since the Great Depression and U.S. President Donald Trump fighting for re-election in November, voters are on edge. Politicians of all stripes are looking for ways to ease the pain—not add to it—as fear morphs into anger and discontent. “Populations can be summoned to heroic acts of collective self-sacrifice for a while, but not forever,” political scientist Francis Fukuyama, author of “The End of History and the Last Man,” wrote in Foreign Affairs magazine. “A lingering epidemic combined with deep job losses, a prolonged recession, and an unprecedented debt burden will inevitably create tensions that turn into a political backlash—but against whom is as yet unclear.”The political calculus is to try it and ride it out. Yet while efforts to get people back to stores, restaurants, bars and hairdressers demonstrate the urgency among governments of reviving economies, they also show the risks.Also read | Covid-19: Finally, some good news from Delhi, writes Karan ThaparEurope’s hardest-hit country, Britain, reopened pubs and is now finding spikes in virus cases. Johnson, who aims to return to “significant normality” by Christmas, on Friday said his government is preparing the health service for a second wave of infections over the winter. Countries around the Mediterranean Sea pray a glimpse of tourism will get them through the summer before the cold snap drives people indoors and ushers a second chapter to the pandemic.Italy was the first Western democracy to quarantine the entire population as it became apparent its death toll was going to overtake that of China, where the virus originated. A person close to Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte described that decision as “shock therapy” that can’t be repeated. The euro’s weakest economy this week became the biggest beneficiary of the European Union’s $860 billion rescue package.Populations have already shown they are restless. Spain had a similar trajectory to Italy and in Madrid the resentment spilled into the streets. In Serbia, a jump in cases prompted President Aleksandar Vucic, just re-elected in a landslide, to try and impose another curfew only for him to reverse course in the face of violent protests.The situation is so desperate in Croatia, which relies on tourism more than any other country in the EU, that it pivoted from lockdown mode to embracing the Swedish model that allows bars and shops to stay open and there is no limit to size of public gatherings.At one point the government considered banning all wedding celebrations after a cluster of cases were traced to one event. All it took was some bad press from prospective brides for the plan to be dropped.Nowhere is the disconnect between the health risk and reticence to lock down more pronounced than in the U.S., the worst-hit nation with more than 140,000 dead and the number of infections soaring in battleground states Trump needs to win. But as far back as May, the president made his priorities clear.“Will some people be affected? Yes. Will some people be affected badly? Yes,” Trump said during a factory visit in Arizona, a crucial swing state, that month. “But we have to get our country open and we have to get it open soon.”The approaches have been so different it’s impossible to predict what governments will do when there is an agonizing trade off between deaths and the economy.In places like Singapore or South Korea, mass testing and heavy fines were the strategies successfully deployed to stop the spread. By contrast, in the U.K., there was until recently no mandatory use of masks to go into a shop. It was left to “basic good manners.”However unpalatable, the need to shut everything down may ultimately be forced upon leaders.In Australia, residents of Melbourne have been ordered to stay home for six weeks and South Africa ordered schools to be shut again. Israel declared victory over the virus only for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to warn another shutdown could be inevitable.New Zealand is unique in having eradicated the virus within its borders. Now it’s on high alert to keep it that way. Ardern, herself up for re-election this year, has deployed the military to enforce a quarantine on anyone entering the country.Back in the U.S., Trump has resurrected his White House briefings on the virus in an attempt to reassure Americans he has the pandemic under control and life is going back to normal. On Thursday, though, he scrapped the highly attended Florida convention for the Republican Party he had been keen to hold for 20,000 ardent supporters.“The country is in very good shape, other than if you look south and west—some problems,” he said. “That will work out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-crisis-the-dilemma-of-covid-19-s-second-wave/story-TM4h0725piK5iw1BJqUHQN.html
25-07-2020||India||Tripura re-imposes total lockdown for 3 days next week||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, the Tripura government announced re-imposition of total lockdown for three days next week and a door-to-door survey to screen patients. The lockdown will be in force from 27 to 30 July.“ ......the Chairman of the State Executive Committee of Tripura State Disaster Management Authority, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22 (2) (h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 direct enforcement of “ Total Lockdown” in entire area of the State of Tripura for 3 days w.e.f. 5 A.M. of 27th July 2020 ( Monday) to 5 AM on 30th July,2020 ( Thursday). This will be in continuation of night curfew to be in force at 9 PM on 26th July,” said the government notification.The government would start conducting a door-to-door survey throughout the state from Monday to detect Covid-19 cases. The health officials would be using Antigen Detection Kit for the same.The government will also use plasma therapy soon for treatment of Covid-19 disease.The state has a total of 3675 Covid-19 patients out of whom 2,125 have recovered. Total 11 Covid-19 patients have died while one died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-re-imposes-total-lockdown-for-3-days-next-week/story-b4ERwyh9LR0Zt6QcDLf76M.html
25-07-2020||India||BJP files complaint against Congress in Rajasthan, says protest violated Epidemic Act||The legal cells of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) filed complaints across all districts on Saturday against the Congress party demonstration that allegedly violated prohibitory orders under section 144 (prohibition of gathering of four or more people) and Epidemic Disease Act amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Across all the districts of the state, reports were submitted in the local police station against the Congress demonstrations. The Congress violated the Epidemic Act,” said Surendra Singh Naruka, state BJP legal cell convener. He said that in Jaipur state general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha Rajesh Gurjar gave the report to Sadar police station.Hundreds of workers of the Congress held demonstrations across Rajasthan on Saturday against what they called the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) “conspiracy to topple” the state government and to press for an assembly session.Congress workers took out a rally in Kota, staged a sit-in protest in Jodhpur and held protest demonstrations across the state. They accused the BJP of working against democratic values by conspiring to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government.“We have the mandate. The governor is head of the family and we do not want any differences. If our constitutional rights are violated and if that is from the Raj Bhavan, then we can at least say that people will gherao as it will be an insult to the public,” Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, the state transport minister had said earlier in the day.A BJP delegation which met Governor Kalraj Mishra late Saturday afternoon lashed out at chief minister Gehlot for his statement on Friday that people of the state will picket the Raj Bhavan if Governor didn’t convene a session of the Assembly soon.BJP state unit president Satish Poonia who led the 15-member delegation said the CM and his government was guilty of pushing the state’s peace and calm into anarchy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-files-complaint-against-congress-in-rajasthan-says-protest-violated-epidemic-act/story-h8TGwWUlbPUhOQtVitPUXK.html
25-07-2020||India||Indian woman files lawsuit against US Immigration for delay in issuing work permits||An Indian woman has filed a lawsuit against the US Citizenship and Immigration Services for the alleged delay in issuing work permits, accusing the authorities of sitting on a backlog of at least 75,000 unprinted Employment Authorisation Documents. Ranjitha Subramanya, who is on an H-4 dependent visa and her husband Vinod Sinha on H-1B work visa, in a lawsuit filed before a federal court in Ohio said that while her application to extend her H-4 status and Employment Authorisation Document (EAD) was approved on April 7, she did not receive the work authorisation card till date. As a result, she was forced to stop working for her employer after her initial EAD expired on June 7, 2020. “To date, she has not received her EAD and remains unable to work. Worse, her employer has notified her that she will lose her job if she does not provide proof of employment authorisation by August 9, 2020,” said her lawyer Robert H Cohen in the lawsuit.An H-4 visa is a visa issued by the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to the immediate family members of the H-1B visa holders. Spouses on an H-4 visa can apply for an EAD. The lawsuit alleges that the USCIS is sitting on a backlog of at least 75,000 unprinted EADs. “By delaying or refusing to provide EADs to plaintiffs and class members, defendants have abused their power in an egregious and outrageous manner, without any reasonable justification in the service of a legitimate governmental objective, and with either an intention to harm plaintiff and class members or deliberate indifference,” the lawsuit said. Early this week, the USCIS said it has “reduced its capacity to print secure documents,” such as work permits and permanent residency cards, after ending its contract with a third-party company that previously printed the cards. Noting that generally, the EAD is produced and sent to the applicant within 48 hours of the approval, the lawsuit said it has been over 105 days since the USCIS approved Ranjitha’s application but did not print and send her the EAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-woman-files-lawsuit-against-us-immigration-for-delay-in-issuing-work-permits/story-fZtXRhAVMf8mojkgVYQEiN.html
25-07-2020||India||PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat tomorrow will also feature stories of transformation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11 am on Sunday, July 26. For the 77th Mann Ki Baat episode, to be broadcast tomorrow, the Prime Minister had invited people to share “inspiring anecdotes” of collective efforts which have brought about changes in other’s lives.“I am sure you would be aware of inspiring anecdotes of how collective efforts have brought about positive changes. You would surely know of initiatives that have transformed many lives. Please share them for this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 26th!” PM Modi had tweeted on July 11.He had also tweeted a number for citizens to post their recorded messages to and also invited people to use the NaMo app and MyGov website to post their stories. Tune in to PM Shri @narendramodi's #MannKiBaat program at 11 am on 26 July 2020.Listen LIVE at• https://t.co/vpP0MI6iTu• https://t.co/KrGm5hWgwn• https://t.co/lcXkSnweeN• https://t.co/jtwD1yPhm4 pic.twitter.com/2WifTCM50KDuring his last Mann Ki Baat episode on June 28, Modi had spoken about the border standoff with China and also praised the Indian Army soldiers who were killed in the Galway Valley clash with Chinese troops on June 15.Since then, he has visited the forward post in Leh to meet soldiers of the Indian Army deployed at the Line of Actual Control and even shot off an indirect warning to China saying the age of expansionism was over.Since last month’s episode, the Prime Minister has made renewed pitch for self-reliance as India’s policy mantra to emerge stronger out of the current crisis precipitated by coronavirus.In the last episode, Modi had reiterated the importance of wearing masks and following social distancing norms during the Unlock period.“We have to be more cautious during the Unlock phase than we were in lockdown. Your alertness will protect you from corona,” he said during the 66th episode of Mann Ki Baat.In the May episode of the programme, he had forewarned that the battle against coronavirus pandemic was going to be long but expressed optimism that India’s collective will prevail against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-at-11-am-will-also-feature-stories-of-transformation/story-JoUWc23vEZADjS1n9VxVxO.html
25-07-2020||India||Import licenses for Covid-19 kits of 3 firms cancelled, 16 suspended by DCGI||India’s drug regulator has cancelled the rapid diagnostic kit import licenses of three firms and suspended that of 16 others saying the USFDA has removed the manufacturers from their list of coronavirus serology test kits with directions that they should not be distributed. The three firms are Cadila Healthcare, MDAAC International and N W Overseas while the 16 companies include Transasia Bio-Medicals, Cosmic Scientific, Inbios India, S D Biosensor, Accurex Biomedicals, Biohouse Solutions and Trivitron Healthcare among others.     The companies were issued a show cause notices on July 17 asking why their import licenses shall not be cancelled since the diagnostic kits of the manufacturers have been removed by USFDA with direction that it should not be distributed from the list of product of serology test kits for Covid-19 disease, according to an official order by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). They were directed to submit their reply by July 20, failing which it would be presumed they have nothing to say in the matter and action deemed fit will be initiated under provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. “Your response to the show cause notice has not been found satisfactory with respect to removal of said kit, by USFDA from their list mentioning not to distribute,” the DCGI order issued to the 16 companies on July 21 stated. “However, it has been mentioned by you to not to cancel your said import license for the above product. Therefore, in public interest, your import license for above product becomes inoperative and stands suspended, till further orders,” it said. As for the three companies whose licenses were cancelled, the orders said, “Your response to the show cause notice has not been found satisfactory with respect to the removal of said kit, by USFDA from their list mentioning not to distribute.” “Further, it has been mentioned by you that you intend to surrender your license for the above product. Therefore, in public interest, your import license for above product becomes inoperative and stands cancelled with immediate effect,” the order issued on July 21 read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/import-licenses-for-covid-19-kits-of-3-firms-cancelled-16-suspended-by-dcgi/story-jk8JXeQX1AIdb3wm6jtpnM.html
25-07-2020||India||BJP CMs target Rahul over one district, one product scheme||The BJP on Saturday accused Rahul Gandhi of “copying” their idea after the Congress leader tweeted that he had suggested promoting one product from every district.“This is a good idea. I had suggested it some time back. Its implementation will need a complete change of mindset,” Gandhi tweeted, tagging a news item about a survey in BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh by the industries department to select one product in each district for the centrally-sponsored cluster development programme for micro and small enterprises.But it only drew a sharp riposte from Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani.“Rahul ji, copying Gujarat’s initiatives and selling them as your ideas does not show your smartness. I don’t expect you to know details of anything, but your script-writers should know better! How about a ‘One defeat, One reinvention’ policy for you?” Rupani said while attaching a February 2016 tweet of the then state chief minister Anandiben Patel in which she had mentioned the “one village one product” concept.  Rahul ji,Copying Gujarat’s initiatives and selling them as your ideas does not show your smartness.I don’t expect you to know details of anything, but your script-writers should know better!How about a ‘One defeat, One reinvention’ policy for you? https://t.co/RreTEOK0IK pic.twitter.com/dtTeaTDj7UUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also targeted Gandhi, without naming him, and said his government had given the mantra of “one district, one product” and has been working to implement it. This scheme is proving very effective in giving employment to people locally during the coronavirus crisis, he said. Will he ever desist from his “childish” behaviour, he added. “His memory is either weak or is like this only. He will remember this if he thinks hard. The BJP in its 2017 manifesto had spoken about promoting local products of every district. This has proved a boon for small industries and artisans,” Adityanath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cms-target-rahul-over-one-district-one-product-scheme/story-9IemRW7CChdhvHJu22ZDEK.html
25-07-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh reports single-day spike of 2,984 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported the steepest one-day spike of 2,984 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 63,742, according to official data. There were 39 more deaths in the last 24 hours as the total count of fatalities went up to 1,387.Among the fresh Covid-19 cases, the maximum 429 were reported from Lucknow, 174 from Ballia, 171 from Kanpur, 164 from Varanasi and 101 from Ghaziabad, according to data available with the state health department.Kanpur and Varanasi reported five deaths each, Gorakhpur four and Prayagraj, Bareilly, Firozabad and Sultanpur two each. There was one death each in Lucknow, Jhansi, Bulandshahr, Moradabad, Hapur, Sambhal, Hardoi, Sant Kabir Nagar, Rampur, Etawah, Kannauj, Mau, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Bhadohi, Bahraich and Balrampur.“Apart from the districts reporting a major chunk of positive cases, other districts also need attention to bring down the death rate. For instance, Etah has reported over 250 cases and 10 deaths till now. Similarly, Shravasti reported 105 cases and two deaths,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary- general of the Association of International Doctors.The number of active cases in the state stood at 22,452 and 2,191 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, according to the health department data.The first Covid-19 infection case in Uttar Pradesh was reported from Agra on March 2. Since then, the tally has crossed the 63,000 mark in 145 days. As many as 39,425 cases have been reported in July alone. This is 61.9% of the state’s total Covid-19 count. The state’s Covid-19 tally was 24,285 on July 1. The grim milestone of 1,000 cases was crossed on April 20, about 49 days after the first case was reported.The total count was above 10,000 cases on June 6. It crossed 20,000 cases on June 25 and 30,000 on July 8. It stood at 41,471 on July 15, 53,598 on July 21 and 60,771 on July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-single-day-spike-of-2-984-new-covid-19-cases-39-deaths/story-jcKQiqVmqNKWqR5lssdxMO.html
25-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Striving to restore status quo ante at LAC, says Northern army commander and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Striving to restore status quo ante at LAC, says Northern army commanderAmid border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh, Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi on Saturday said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution.Read more. AAP promotes Delhi’s Covid turnaround story with 87.29 % recovery rateDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday drew attention to the turnaround in the national capital’s Covid 19 situation in the past one month by highlighting that the city-state was now left with only 9.77% active cases of the disease.Read more. Rajasthan political drama is back in the Supreme Court, hearing on MondayThree judges of the Supreme Court will hear Rajasthan speaker CP Joshi’s appeal against the high court order staying the disqualification proceedings against 19 Congress lawmakers led by Sachin Pilot at 11 am on Monday, according to the top court’s case list released on Saturday evening.Read more. Why ‘biryani challenge’ features in Kerala CM’s daily Covid briefingsAmid a raging coronavirus pandemic, a ‘biryani challenge’ has taken Kerala by storm. Every evening in Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s press briefing in the state capital, though the opposition dubs it ‘record briefing’ or ‘baddai’ (self-complementary), an often-heard word is ‘biryani challenge’.Read more. Body of Odisha cop who died of Covid-19 lay on hospital floor for hoursMaking a mockery of the state government’s claim of honouring Covid warriors who die in the line of duty, the body of a police officer who tested positive after death in Ganjam district lay in a hospital overnight before it was taken for funeral Saturday afternoon.Read more. Dil Bechara, Sushant Singh Rajput’s final film, gives Disney+Hotstar its biggest opening everDil Bechara has registered the biggest ever opening for Disney+Hotstar, the streaming service tweeted on Saturday, less than 24 hours after the film’s release. The film marks actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s final role, after his death on June 14. Sushant died by suicide at the age of 34.Read more. IPL 2020 will be bigger than all previous seasons: Gautam GambhirFormer India opening batsman Gautam Gambhir believes the 13th edition of the Indian Premier League will be the biggest season of the tournament so far. Gambhir’s confidence stems from the fact that the IPL 2020 is finally going to happen, after its chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed the United Arab Emirates to be the host. With India battling a serious pandemic, the former India batsman feels this year’s IPL promises to ‘change the mood of the nation’.Read more. This PS5 is 24-karat gold plated, and will definitely break your bankWhen Sony revealed the design of its upcoming console, the PlayStation 5, it had the fans divided. While many loved the design, others were not wholly over the moon. However, while they decide whether like it or hate it, it seems the decision on a PS5 console dipped in 24-karat gold might be easier to take a call on.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-striving-to-restore-status-quo-ante-at-lac-says-northern-army-commander-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R9FvWRW3RqxD65gvETftGI.html
25-07-2020||India||Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2 lakh-mark with 6,988 new cases||Tamil Nadu on Saturday breached the grim milestone of two lakh coronavirus cases with the biggest daily spike of 6,988 fresh infections, pushing the tally to 2,06,737. The death toll climbed to 3,409 with 89 fatalities.The number of those discharged today after recovery was 7,758, taking the recoveries to 1,51,055, a health department bulletin said.Continuing with the aggressive testing, health workers tested 64,315 samples,pushing the aggregate to 22,87,334.Chennai reported 1,329 new cases, and the state capital’s tally stood at 93,537.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-past-crosses-2-lakh-mark-with-6-988-new-cases/story-fZZjEVAtqkWaU7FOmhMWOK.html
25-07-2020||India||India finalises $400 mn currency swap for Sri Lanka, to consider President Rajapaksa’s request for further aid||India on Saturday announced it had finalised a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and people familiar with developments said Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion is being considered. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) signed documents for giving effect to the currency swap facility for the Central Bank of Sri Lanka on Friday. The arrangement will remain available till November 2022, and the Indian mission in Colombo informed senior officials of the Central Bank Sri Lanka government about the decision. This currency swap was extended by India following a request from the Sri Lankan side for the facility under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) Currency Swap Framework in order to cope with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. During a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 23, Sri Lankan President President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had asked the Indian government to provide a special swap facility of $1.1 billion “to top up the $400 million under the Saarc facility”. One of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity: “While the agreement for the currency swap under the Saarc framework has been concluded, the bilateral swap request for $1.1 billion is being considered.” A statement issued by the Sri Lankan president’s office in May had quoted Rajapaksa as saying the special swap of $1.1 billion “would enormously help Sri Lanka in dealing with our foreign exchange issues”. A currency swap facility helps a country obtain foreign currency loans at better interest rates than by borrowing directly from the market, and repayment is done at the exchange rate fixed at the time of borrowing. This eliminates risks due to fluctuations in exchange rates. Sri Lanka has made several requests for assistance from India after the Covid-19 pandemic devastated the country’s tourism industry. The Indian move to aid the island nation comes at a time when New Delhi is shoring up relations with countries in the neighbourhood against the backdrop of the border standoff with China. On July 14, India’s deputy high commissioner Vinod K Jacob met and discussed the currency swap arrangement with the Governor of Sri Lanka’s Central Bank, WD Lakshman. On July 22, the Indian high commission also facilitated technical discussions on rescheduling of bilateral debt repayment by Sri Lanka. During his visit to India earlier this year, Rajapaksa had sought a moratorium on repayment of loans worth almost $1 billion. “These positive developments illustrate active implementation of the leadership-level commitment to work together for addressing the challenges arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, and further the mutually beneficial India-Sri Lanka partnership, including in the economic domain,” said a statement issued by the Indian high commission in Colombo. The people cited above said the prime minister had already conveyed India’s support to Sri Lanka in dealing with the pandemic and its economic impact. “The request from Sri Lanka came against the backdrop of the country’s economy, like that of many other countries, slowing down. Increasing foreign exchange outflows in Sri Lanka resulted in the dwindling of its dollar reserves and added pressure on the Sri Lankan rupee,” said the person cited above. The currency swap agreement with Sri Lanka reflects India’s commitment to help its “friendly neighbour with its economic revival amid the pandemic”, the person said. Earlier, India had assisted Sri Lanka by sending four consignments of essential medicines and equipment during April-May to fight the pandemic. RBI’s currency swap arrangement for Saarc states has a corpus of $2 billion. This facility became operational in November 2012 to provide funding for short-term foreign exchange liquidity requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-finalises-400-mn-currency-swap-for-sri-lanka-to-consider-president-rajapaksa-s-request-for-further-aid/story-PADXBEHmsMsEzKz3AeQNzL.html
25-07-2020||India||Jobless, homeless woman rides 1,800 km on scooter from Pune to meet son in Jamshedpur||For the past three month, the Covid-19 lockdown had left a young woman jobless and homeless after she was evicted from her rented accommodation in Mumbai – far from her 5-year-old son and family. But it could not break Sonia Das’s resolve and she rode 1,800 km from Pune via Mumbai on a scooter with her friend Sabia Bano to reach Jamshedpur on Friday evening to see her family from a safe distance before the two women were shifted to a quarantine centre.“I saw my son and other family members standing on the balcony upstairs from the road outside our house in Kadma Bhatiya Basti in Friday evening before being shifted to Telco quarantine centre along with my friend Sabia Bano who accompanied me all the way from Pune on the Scooty. The administration here got my son here and arranged my meeting with him after I tested negative for coronavirus today,” Sonia said here Saturday afternoon.Sabia is a Pune resident.The Jharkhand health department had taken the duo’s samples for Covid-19 tests as Sabia was running fever while Sonia had developed a cough and cold with a minor breathing problem. Deputy superintendent of police Arvind Kumar and Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) special officer Krishna Kumar were present during the meeting. “We have shifted both Sonia and Sabia to 14-day home quarantine as per their wish and SDO has provided dry ration,” the DSP said.Sonia was forced to stay at Sabia’s place in Pune after she had to vacate her paying guest accommodation in Mumbai for failure to pay rent.“I had no money, food, no job and now no room to stay. I had shifted to Sabia’s place in Pune. I tweeted to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, called helplines of Maharashtra and Jharkhand governments but none was working. I tweeted to (actor) Sonu Sood Sir too but to no avail. Finally, I decided to return to Jamshedpur on my own and left on the night of July 20,” said Sonia.Sonia’s husband Abhishek Ghosh is a heart patient fitted with implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) machine. “He is not in a position to work anymore and for the past two years, I have been doing jobs in production houses in Mumbai on a freelance basis. I had gone to Mumbai in February for such a job and was supposed to return on March 20 but got stuck there as lockdown came into effect,” said Sonia.Sonia and Sabia stopped at ten petrol pumps and three dhabas on the way as they crossed Covid-19 affected states and cities on the way but faced no safety and security issues during the four days on the highway.“We mostly survived on bada-pav and water. Most people took us for boys as our faces were covered with helmets and we were wearing shirts and pants. At some places people did stare at us but we left those places immediately. On the other hand, some locals also came forward to help us and gave food and water. One such person whom we met at the Maharashtra border kept calling Sabia enquiring about our wellbeing and safety,” recalled Sonia.The unique journey finally came through after Jamshedpur deputy commissioner (DC) Suraj Kumar gave the permission to enter Jamshedpur a few days ago after Abhishek Ghosh’s repeated requests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jobless-homeless-woman-rides-1-800-km-on-scooter-from-pune-to-meet-son-in-jamshedpur/story-NqpZl5DNiVasoMbkNU3p9K.html
25-07-2020||India||To promote Indian vendors, Railways cite need to introduce clause in procurement process||The Indian Railways have pushed for promoting Indian vendors and products under the government’s ‘Make in India’ scheme in the procurement process of the national carrier.The national carrier on Saturday said there is a need to introduce a clause for promoting local content in procurement so that it get more bids from local vendors to give a boost to the government’s mission of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. The Railway ministry says it has sought the support of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade to make suitable policy revisions, if required.In a review meeting held on Saturday for steps to promote ‘Make in India’ products in procurement process, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal emphasized the need to increase the participation of local vendors in the procurement process.Also read: Railways earned Rs 430 crore from Shramik Special train faresGoyal instructed officers to interact with the industry to ensure increased participation of Indian manufacturing.“While reviewing the steps to promote Make in India products in procurement process, it was emphasized to increase the participation of local vendors in procurement process. It was also decided that the local content clause in the procurement should be such that we may get more bids from local vendors/suppliers. This would also give a boost to mission Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Active support of DPIIT was sought to make suitable policy revisions, if required, to facilitate the efforts of Indian Railways in this direction,” the ministry said in a statement.“It was felt that encouragement needs to be given to such vendors who can supply higher locally manufactured content. It was also suggested to create a FAQ section and a helpline number so that vendors may get clarity on various issues relating to procurement process,” it added.The review meeting was also attended by Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, Railway Board members, CEO, Government e-Marketplace (GeM) and representatives of DPIIT and Ministry of Commerce. Goyal emphasized the need to do procurement of approximately Rs 70,000 crore on the GeM platform to open up the market to the industry even at remote places and specially MSMEs.Also read: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Indian Railways plans to implement QR code-based contactless ticket-checking system“A need for devising strategies for further increasing the participation of Indian service providers and component manufacturers was felt. Government e-Marketplace (GeM) is a highly innovative idea in public procurement, across the globe,” the ministry said.“Indian Railways, one of the largest procurement agencies of the Government of India, is integrating its procurement systems with GeM to use GeM’s full potential,” it added.The e-marketplace by the Centre is intended to becoming the single point of public procurement portal for all agencies of the government.This also comes days after the finance ministry amended its public finance rule that barred all government agencies to procure goods and services from bordering countries such as China and Pakistan on the ground of national security.The Centre amended the General Financial Rules, 2017, imposing restrictions on public procurement from bidders of countries that share a land border with India, citing grounds of defence and national security.Railways has also scrapped a tender for thermal cameras meant for ‘Covid-19 surveillance’ after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company.Apex traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) earlier this month had also objected to the bid placed by a Chinese joint venture company for a global tender by the railways for manufacturing Vande Bharat trains.This also comes at a time when India and China are involved in a tense border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. A brutal brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 led to 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers being killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-promote-indian-vendors-railways-cite-need-to-introduce-clause-in-procurement-process/story-PWs4Sc1hzFOeq2zgQKa30L.html
25-07-2020||India||AAP promotes Delhi’s Covid turnaround story with 87% recovery rate||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday drew attention to the turnaround in the national capital’s Covid 19 situation in the past one month by highlighting that the city-state was now left with only 9.77% active cases of the disease.“12,657- Active cases; 87.29 %- Recovery rate; 1,142- New cases in last 24 hours; 2,137- Recovered in last 24 hours,” a tweet posted by Aam Aadmi Party said.Kejriwal re-tweeted a post which cited the above data to state that the situation in Delhi had completely changed in the past one month and underlined the fact that this has been achieved without imposing any additional restrictions.The city on Saturday recorded 1,142 new Covid 19 cases taking the city’s infection tally close to 1.3 lakh-mark including 3,806 fatalities, 29 of which were reported in the last 24 hours, according to data released by the state health department. A total of 110,931 patients have been cured, discharged or have migrated.Consistently logging a higher number of recoveries than new cases has meant that the total number of active cases is declining regularly to reach 12,657. Out of these, 7,339 remain under home isolation.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn July 20, Delhi’s daily case count dropped under 1000 for the first time since June 1.Earlier today, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain described the situation as “satisfactory” but added that there is a need to do “preparations”.CM Arvind Kejriwal, too, highlighted that Covid-related parameters have improved in Delhi in the last one month and claimed that the two crore people of the city, his government and the Centre have together attained “victory” in controlling Covid-19 spread but cautioned that the fight was not over yet.He was speaking at the inauguration of a 450-bed Delhi government hospital in Burari.Watch: Delhi: 80% hospital beds unoccupied; CM inaugurates new facility | Covid“The two crore Delhi people, Delhi government and the Centre have together attained victory over corona but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.He also congratulated all the corona warriors with special mention to the health care professionals.“This is a result of the hard work of all the people. I want to congratulate all the doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, officials, and whoever has worked hard to achieve this goal,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying.While the Burari hospital will bring a welcome addition to the total bed capacity in the capital, the current availability of beds is not so bad according to the Saturday health bulletin. The city has currently 12,340 vacant Covid beds as against the total of 15,475. Burari hospital has further added to the capacity.The Delhi government recently gave its nod to make 200 beds operational at the under-construction Ambedkar Nagar Hospital in order to further ramp up the bed strength.Delhi has consistently increased its testing capacity, Covid bed capacity and adopted aggressive surveillance and contact tracing to isolate symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with the aid of increased cooperation between Central, state and municipal authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-promotes-delhi-s-covid-turnaround-story-with-87-29-recovery-rate/story-VeSxuRVz1VMZYcfD08kt6L.html
25-07-2020||India||Why ‘biryani challenge’ features in Kerala CM’s daily Covid briefings||Amid a raging coronavirus pandemic, a ‘biryani challenge’ has taken Kerala by storm. Every evening in Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s press briefing in the state capital, though the opposition dubs it ‘record briefing’ or ‘baddai’ (self-complementary), an often-heard word is ‘biryani challenge’.Towards the end of his daily briefing, the CM reads out contributions to Covid relief fund and here pops up ‘biryani challenge’ prominently. In simple words, an organization or a collective of youngsters collect money by conducting a biryani mela and contribute the same to the CM’s fund.It is a different story though that yummy biryani has topped the order list of an online food delivery platform (Swiggy) in the country knocking down the favorite masala dosa during the lockdown.The CM’s office said at least Rs 25 lakh came to the fund through ‘biriyani challenge’ in the last two months. “Youngsters really deserve a salute for this. We must appreciate their dedication and humane activities during trying times,” said the Chief Minister lauding the youngsters for their work.Now let us ask some youngsters how this challenge works? “Since it is for a noble cause, it sells like hot buns. Some buy it and distribute to others. At times, some contribute provisions and meat for this free,” said T Sooraj, a worker of a left youth movement who conducted four challenges and contributed Rs 2 lakh to the relief fund.“Usually a chicken biryani costs between Rs 100-150. Once you make it in bulk the actual cost will be below Rs 50.Since it is voluntary work, no wage is involved at any stage. So at least 80 percent of the sale proceeds go to the fund,” another volunteer said.In some areas, there is a healthy competition among left youth outfits to bring in maximum proceeds. Before the challenge, they collect orders so nothing goes to waste. Since lockdown is in force, biryani reaches the doorsteps and no delivery charge is deducted.In Malabar (north Kerala), left youth outfits popularised beef biryani making use of inclement weather. Right-wing groups like Seva Bharati and upper caste outfits resorted to curd rice and traditional sadya (feast) to check this. “You can’t have politics everywhere,” said P Suresh, a Seva Bharati leader from Kannur.Politics apart, some smart ones put a prefix ‘Thalassery’ before biryani for a quick movement. A coastal town in Kannur district sells Thalassery dum biryani - a mix of Persian, Arabian and Indian cuisine - sought after in south India for its flavour and minimum oil use.A battle for ‘original biryani’ stamp surfaced again after a restaurant in Pune put up a board in July first week saying that all “biryani other than Hyderabadi is pulao,” making many people angry. Earlier also biryani tiffs were there. The most popular one was after Telangana minister K T Rama Rao’s tweet in February: “Best biryani in the world belongs to Hyderabad. Rest are only poor imitations,” he tweeted.Niti Ayog CEO Amitab Kant, who started his long innings from Thalassery as its sub collector, and veteran journalist Vir Sanghvi batted well for Thalassery biryani then.Tiffs apart, the challenge is getting stronger in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-biryani-challenge-features-in-kerala-cm-s-daily-covid-briefings/story-vQNmgbcQ8NQlQtylZ0yZ0H.html
25-07-2020||India||Striving to restore status quo ante at LAC, says Northern army commander||Amid border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh, Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi on Saturday said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution. Joshi told news channels that the army would continue all efforts to restore status quo ante, referring to the situation as it existed in early April, along the LAC. India and China have lately failed to make a breakthrough in reducing border tensions despite intense negotiations at the military and diplomatic levels, and the disengagement process at some friction points has virtually stopped. Also read: The Galwan Valley face-off explained through 17 news reportsJoshi’s comments came a day after the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs reviewed the situation in the border areas and the disengagement process in the western sector of the LAC. At the meeting, the two sides agreed that another meeting of corps commanders “may be held soon so as to work out further steps to ensure expeditiously complete disengagement and de-escalation” along the LAC, the ministry of external affairs said in a statement on Friday. Another meeting of the corps commanders is expected to be held next week but no dates have been finalised yet. Joshi said disengagement was initiated after four rounds of talks between senior Indian and Chinese military commanders, and it was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” He said de-escalation of the border conflict would begin after achieving complete disengagement. Also read | A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explainedThe ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas. During a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh indicated that the negotiations to resolve military tensions along the LAC were complex. He said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added that he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved.” On Wednesday, Singh asked the Indian Air Force to stay prepared for any eventuality, The disengagement process has barely made progress after the last round of meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders on July 14. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/striving-to-restore-status-quo-ante-at-lac-says-northern-army-commander/story-BXg2LF1gaJTbzvPSapMn2N.html
25-07-2020||India||PM Modi reviews implementation of PM-SVANidhi Scheme, 2.6 lakh applications received||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the implementation of the PM-SVANidhi Scheme of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs earlier on Saturday. It was informed over 2.6 lakh applications have been received, over 64,000 have been sanctioned and over 5,500 have been disbursed.Prime Minister Modi expressed satisfaction on the use of end-to-end IT solution through a web-portal and mobile app for the administration of the scheme to ensure transparency, accountability and speed. While noting that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is working on a complete IT solution including a mobile application for seamless implementation of the scheme, Prime Minister said that the scheme design should incentive the use of end-to-end digital transactions by the street vendors.“This should cover the entire gamut of their business - from procurement of raw material to the collection of sale proceeds. Appropriate incentives and training should be conducted for this purpose. Use of digital payments would also help build a credit profile for the street vendor helping them in future financial needs,” he said.The Prime Minister stressed that the scheme should not be just seen from the perspective for extending loans to street vendors.Stating that the scheme can be seen as a part of an outreach to the street vendors for their holistic development and economic upliftment, he said: “One step in this direction would be by capturing their entire socio-economic details to facilitate necessary policy interventions. Such data could also be used by different Ministries of Government of India to benefit them under various schemes for which they are eligible, on priority.”These include housing under PMAY-U, cooking gas under Ujjawala, electricity under Saubhagya, health under Ayushman Bharat, skilling under DAY-NULM, Bank account under Jan Dhan, among various other schemes.The Centre has launched PM SVANidhi Scheme to facilitate collateral-free working capital loan up to Rs 10,000 of one-year tenure, to approximately, 50 lakh street vendors, to resume their businesses. Incentives in the form of interest subsidy (at 7 per cent per annum) and cashback (up to Rs 1,200 per annum) are being provided to promote good repayment behaviour and digital transactions respectively. The interest subsidy effectively works out to 30 per cent of the entire interest burden for a loan of Rs 10,000 at 24 per cent annual interest.Therefore, in effect the vendor does not pay any interest, rather gets a subsidy on the loan amount if he repays in time and uses digital transactions for all receipts and payments. The scheme entails enhanced next tranche of loan on early or timely repayment. Loan processing has begun since July 2 this year through an IT platform “PM SVANidhi” with Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), which is the implementing agency for the scheme administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-implementation-of-pm-svanidhi-scheme-2-6-lakh-applications-received/story-Dy1OHSoQMtgBKzdZcqKbGN.html
25-07-2020||India||Kashmir University student arrested under UAPA||Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Police arrested a Kashmir University (KU) student, Aqib Ahmad Malik, on Saturday in connection with a 2018 case filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967. Malik (26), a resident of south Kashmir’s Shopian district, was summoned to Nigeen police station in Srinagar near KU on Friday and was arrested a day later. Malik is a post-graduate degree in biochemistry at KU, but was at home for over three months because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the Kashmir Valley. “Malik has been arrested in a 2018 case under the UAPA,” said Gowhar Ahmad, station house officer (SHO), Nigeen police station. He was booked under Section 13 (a person who advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any unlawful activity) of the UAPA, 1967. Sudhanshu Verma, superintendent of police (SP), Hazratbal, said Malik was arrested after collecting evidence in the case against him. “We wouldn’t have arrested him without any evidence. It took a while because of the prevailing pandemic,” SP Verma said. Malik’s family members said that they suspected the case was related to a protest he had held in a hostel of KU against the poor quality of food. They are travelling to Srinagar to meet him. “He was at home for the past three months and was called by SHO Nigeen to reach the police station, where he was arrested. He had protested in2018 against the bad quality of food served at the KU hostel,” said Faizan Mushtaq, younger brother of Malik. “He had raised his voice against corruption in the varsity and that is why he has been arrested,” he added. KU officials said that the case was not filed by the varsity authorities. “The university has been closed owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and all classes have been suspended. He is a student at the university and appeared for an examination recently. It is a 2018 case lodged at Nigeen police station. We have not filed any case against him. Hostel issues are always confined to the university,” said Nisar Ahmad Mir, registrar, KU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-university-student-arrested-under-uapa/story-zhg5VD7kllNbaZglT25OCM.html
25-07-2020||India||Kerala reports 1,103 Covid-19 cases, highest since coronavirus outbreak||Kerala on Saturday registered 1,103 new coronavirus cases, highest since the outbreak began in January, said the office of the state health minister K K Shailaja. It also reported four casualties taking the death toll to 60.The state capital Thiruvananthapuram remained worst-affected with 240 new cases and many areas of the city remained under triple lockdown. With 1,103 new cases total went up to 18,098. Out of this, 9,420 are active cases and recovered 8613. Now at least 80 per cent of the new cases are locally-transmitted, a worrying point for the state which has been effectively controlling the spread of the virus so far. In north Kerala’s Kasaragod, a newly-married couple were tested positive. And at least 40 guests who attended their wedding ceremony were also tested positive. The district collector has asked police to book all of them under relevant sections of the disaster management act. “It is sad such slips are happening despite high vigil. The state is going through a difficult situation and it is no time to lower our guard,” said Shailaja. The state has 481 hot spots now.Despite steep rise in cases the state had on Friday decided not to enforce complete lockdown in view of difficulties being faced by common man. The Confederation of Indian Industry Kerala chapter has also warned the government that such drastic actions would inflict a severe jolt on the economy which is already limping.A flare up in transmission can result in high casualty among the elderly and infirm in care homes. A care home in Ernakulam was converted as covid hospital after many inmates were tested positive. The government has also barred entry for others in care homes. The state has got a large population of elderly people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-1-103-covid-19-cases-highest-since-coronavirus-outbreak/story-NntUYxbYffKsuaN3WiRXBJ.html
25-07-2020||India||Karnataka BJP plans slew of events from July 27 to celebrate one year in office||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday said that it would mark the first anniversary of being in office in the current term by outlining the achievements of the BS Yediyurappa-led government in Karnataka starting 27 July, through a series of events.After the May 2018 assembly elections in which BJP emerged as the single largest party but short of a majority, the Congress and JD(S) had come together to form a coalition government after Yediyurappa unable to prove his numbers had to resign within three days of being sworn in. However, the coalition government led by HD Kumaraswamy collapsed after 14 months in power when 17 Congress and JD(S) MLAs resigned and eventually crossed over to BJP.Yediyurappa was sworn in on July 26. So, as a part of its first anniversary celebrations, the party is planning a host of events. Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan said that on July 27 a booklet containing all the achievements of the government would be released. From July 28 till the end of the monsoon season across all 58,000 booths in the state the party plans to plant more than one crore saplings.From July 29 to 31, the BJP is planning a house-to-house outreach of 50 lakh households to inform them about the achievements of the government. On August 1, it intends to hold a virtual rally to be addressed by CM Yediyurappa and state unit party chief Nalin Kumar Kateel which BJP says will be attended virtually by one crore people.On Saturday, speaking to the media at the state BJP headquarters ‘Jagannath Bhavan’ Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan claimed that when it came to power the state was suffering from drought and in a short while large parts of the state were inundated with floods. “Later we had to face bypolls and now the Covid-19 situation which we are tackling under the guidance and leadership of PM Modi,” he addedAshwath Narayan said in spite of the challenges the state government ensured Rs 6,000 crore relief for the flood-affected, two lakh families were given Rs 10,000 each, Rs 911 crores was released for the repair of 1.25 lakh homes, Rs 1,185 crores was released for the farmers whose crops were destroyed.Political analyst Manjunath said that while the BJP government which earlier faced a precarious situation is stable with a simple majority it faces several challenges including having to come to terms with a post-Yediyurappa leadership situation in the state, continued dissidence among loyalists who feel that only defectors have been rewarded and the poor financial position of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-plans-slew-of-events-from-july-27-to-celebrate-one-year-in-office/story-TyFyUWqS0orx2y5euGlsYM.html
25-07-2020||India||Body of Odisha cop who died of Covid-19 lay on hospital floor for hours||Making a mockery of the state government’s claim of honouring Covid warriors who die in the line of duty, the body of a police officer who tested positive after death in Ganjam district lay in a hospital overnight before it was taken for funeral Saturday afternoon.Assistant sub-Inspector of police Rabindranath Behera died Friday evening at Kodala community health centre of Ganjam district a few hours after he was admitted there. His antigen test showed positive for Covid-19. Behera, 55, who was posted at the Bhanjanagar court had returned home four days ago because he was not feeling well.However, after his death, his family members did not come near the body fearing infection. The body was not kept in a mortuary. Some hospital staff then wrapped the body and kept it on the floor of the hospital attracting the attention of the patients coming to the hospital. As the news of the body lying unattended spread, the authorities quickly arranged a coffin. But as no cops were ready to shift the body into the coffin, two local journalists Bhagaban Padhi and Santosh Sethi with the help of hospital staff carried the body to the coffin after wearing PPE suits.Click here for Covid-19 full coverage.Ganjam’s superintendent of police Brijesh Ray said the local police officials including the Kodala police station inspector, sub divisional police officer, local BDO and other government officials gave a guard of honour to the policeman at the funeral Saturday afternoon.“For the purpose of inquest, the dead body was kept on the pucca floor. We never compromise with the dignity of Covid warriors,” said the SP.In Odisha, all policemen are considered Covid warriors. There was no explanation why the body was not shifted to the mortuary.After the incident, special relief commissioner PK Jena issued a circular detailing the procedure and precautions to be taken at different levels for management of dead body of the suspect or confirmed cases of Covid-l9. “The body is to be placed in a leak-proof plastic bag, exterior of the body bag decontaminated with 1% hypochlorite, wrapped with a mortuary sheet or the sheet provided by the family members and handed over to the relative of the deceased for cremation/burial. The family member(s) of the patient are allowed to view the body at the time of removal from the isolation room or area with the application of standard precautions. The ash also can be collected to perform the last rites. All these are to be performed including transportation of the body following due precautions and hygienic procedures,” said the circularIn another incident in Ganjam district on Friday, four journalists performed last rites of a retired headmaster as neighbours stayed away suspecting that he died of Covid-19.Of the 10 Covid-19 casualties reported in Odisha on Saturday, three were from Ganjam district. So far 73 people in Ganjam district have died of Covid-19.In April this year, the Odisha government had issued a resolution for giving a guard of honour to any private or government person dying on Covid duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-odisha-cop-who-died-of-covid-19-lay-on-hospital-floor-for-hours/story-T3ObM2Lg3X6jWWhePXQKnI.html
25-07-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 cases near 1.3 lakh mark, CM says fight not yet over||Delhi on Saturday recorded 1,142 new cases of coronavirus disease, pushing the city’s tally close to 1.3 lakh-mark. The national capital also recorded 29 new deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative death toll to 3,806. The total number of active cases has been brought down to 12,657, down from 13,681 on Friday. Out of these, 7,339 remain under home isolation. Even as Delhi continues to bring the number of cases down from last month, when the highest number of cases was recorded on June 23 with 4,947 cases within 24 hours, the fresh cases continue to hover over 1,000-mark. Delhi on Saturday also added 450 additional beds with the partial opening of Burari hospital, which has 700 beds in total. Around 125 beds will have oxygen supply available with them, and the capacity will be enhanced in the coming days, officials said.Also read | In its fight against coronavirus, Capital has turned a corner: CM KejriwalChief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, people of the city, his government and the Centre together have “attained victory over Covid-19 but the fight is not yet over”.On July 20, Delhi had witnessed its lowest case count of 954, first time since June 1. However, the tally was from weekend when fewer tests had been conducted – only 11,470 as opposed to an average of almost 20,000 over the last three weeks.Also read: Delhi records lowest Covid-19 cases reported since June 1, case fatality rate at 2.96 per centAs of July 25, Delhi has over 18,000 beds available for treating patients infected by coronavirus disease. There are 704 containment zones in Delhi at present. In the last 24 hours, state authorities have conducted 20,509 tests – including nearly 5,000 under RTPCR and CBNAAT and TrueNat tests; and 14,819 under rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-cases-near-1-3-lakh-mark-cm-says-fight-not-yet-over/story-5jm3UjnRh1d4yrN5YHLCKJ.html
25-07-2020||India||BJP delegation meets Rajasthan Governor, seeks action against Cong’s ‘anarchy’||A delegation of the opposition BJP which met Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra late Saturday afternoon lashed out at chief minister Ashok Gehlot for his statement on Friday that people of the state will picket the Raj Bhavan if Governor didn’t convene a session of the Assembly soon.BJP state unit president Satish Poonia who led the 15-member delegation to the Raj Bhawan said, “The CM and his government is guilty of pushing the state’s peace and calm into anarchy. There were scenes of anarchy on the streets in the state today and the CM, who is also the home minister of the state, is morally responsible for this.”“Demonstrations were held at district headquarters on the call of the ruling party in clear violation of Covid-19 guidelines by the Disaster Management Authority. The fact that district administrations remained mute spectators to these violations shows the state government’s apathy towards the coronavirus pandemic,” Poonia said.The delegation submitted a memorandum to the Governor in which they pointed out that CM’s statement on Friday -- about threatening to picket the Raj Bhavan -- was a criminal act under section 124 of the IPC. “The CM came to the Raj Bhavan with his MLAs, who shouted slogans which led to anarchy. The pressure on the Governor to get a decision in their favour is a derogatory attempt to threaten Constitutional institutions. They also violated Covid-19 advisory on social distancing,” the BJP said in the memorandum.The delegation demanded action and legal protection from the Governor, the Constitutional head of the state, at a time when the common people of the state were suspicious of the government.Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore and Jaipur Rural MP Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore were part of the delegation.“What Congress government did at the Governor’s House was a low-point in Rajasthan politics. There is no governance. Those in power are lodged at a five-star hotel since weeks. People are suffering due to various issues,” ANI quoted Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore as saying.Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma maintained that the BJP was trying to delay the assembly session. “The meeting of the BJP delegation with the governor reflects that the BJP was conspiring with some MLAs to topple the government. They are trying to delay the session and it is their tactics to topple the government in which they have not been successful. The meeting also proves that we have a majority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-delegation-meets-rajasthan-governor-seeks-action-against-cong-s-anarchy/story-HleuCfdgs5gQfPLlFYd9vO.html
25-07-2020||India||‘Covid-19 is like common cold’: 100-year-old woman who recovered from coronavirus||A 100-year-old woman resident of Huvina Hadagali town in Bellary district, Karnataka, recovered from Covid-19 after testing positive for the virus earlier this month.“Doctors treated me well. Along with regular food, I was eating an apple a day. The doctors are giving me tablets and injection, and I am healthy now. Covid-19 is like a common cold,” said Hallamma while speaking to ANI.The woman’s son, daughter-in-law, and grandson had also tested positive for the virus, and the family was treated at their home. According to health department officials, her son works at a bank and had tested positive on July 3, after which Hallamma tested positive on July 16; the 100-year-old reported negative for the virus on July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-is-like-common-cold-100-yr-old-woman-who-recovered-from-coronavirus/story-zW5ltX0xmRblPmO2EIhDgN.html
25-07-2020||India||Gehlot has new proposal for convening Rajasthan assembly, will be sent to governor||The Rajasthan government has come up with a fresh proposal to convene a session of the state assembly in four to five days’ time, following objections raised by governor Kalraj Mishra over its convening at a short notice among others, said people familiar with the development.The decision was taken in the state cabinet meet chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday evening. The people quoted above said the meeting, lasting for about 15-20 minutes, decided that the government should make a fresh submission to the governor for convening a session of the state assembly. It is not clear if the chief minister will himself meet Mishra with the request. Gehlot was earlier supposed to meet him at 4pm this afternoon, however, the meeting didn’t take place.The need for the fresh proposal with new dates as options was felt after the governor’s house raised several questions over the original proposal submitted by the government to hold the session starting Monday. The governor said the note containing the request neither explained the urgency, nor mention the agenda for the session. He added that it didn’t even indicate if the state cabinet had approved it. Mishra alleged the ‘haste’ shown by the government along with its intent to face a floor test was irrational since no one has demanded a show of strength on the floor of the house. He had argued that a 21-day advance notice was needed for calling a new session of the assembly and the Raj Bhawan needed time to consult legal experts over the proposal.Also Read: Supreme Court to hear Rajasthan Assembly Speaker’s appeal against HC order at 11am on MondayGehlot had yesterday alleged that the governor was under pressure from “higher ups” and demanded that he acted as per his constitutional obligation without succumbing to the alleged pressure.Noted senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who is appearing in the Rajasthan High Court for Congress rebels headed by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, told HT that the governor’s office was a constitutional post and therefore Kalraj Mishra may be entitled to advise Gehlot to put off the session for the next two weeks citing the Covid outbreak.Former union law minister and senior Congress leader Ashwani Kumar is, however, of the view that Kalraj Mishra cannot refuse to convene the assembly session sought by the chief minister since the governor’s office is bound to the advice of the council of ministers.Earlier today, Gehlot told the MLAs at the Congress legislature party (CLP) meeting at the Fairmont hotel that the Congress party will not let BJP succeed in their “conspiracy”, people familiar with the proceedings of the meeting said.He added that he was willing to go to the President’s house if needed and even stage a dharna outside the Prime Minister’s house if required.Gehlot and his supporting MLAs had laid siege to the governor’s house yesterday for around 5 hours and shouted slogans demanding convening of the assembly session.Meanwhile, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) delegation led by Rajasthan BJP President Satish Poonia and leader of opposition Gulab Chandra Kataria met governor Kalraj Mishra at Raj Bhawan in the evening on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-has-new-proposal-for-convening-rajasthan-assembly-will-be-sent-to-governor/story-5OL8ptZhb3TnE7DomlqLtJ.html
25-07-2020||India||Party drugs worth Rs 2.5 crore seized in Kolkata, two drug peddlers held||Kolkata Police have seized a large consignment of Yaba tablets – a party drug - worth around Rs 2.5 crore in the international grey market. A preliminary investigation revealed that the consignment was to be smuggled out to Bangladesh. Two people have been arrested in this connection, police said. Smuggling of Yaba tablets has shot up since 2019 across the porous Indo-Bangladesh border in south Bengal, after the Border Security Force (BSF) cracked down on cattle smuggling. Acting on a tip-off, officers of the city police’s Special Task Force (STF) conducted a raid and arrested two Murshidabad-based drug peddlers from Garden Reach in the western parts of Kolkata. Murshidabad district is located along the international border in south Bengal. “Around 50,000 tablets were seized from the peddlers. Further investigation is going on,” said a senior officer. Earlier in February, two drug dealers from Manipur were arrested by the STF from south Kolkata with Yaba tablets worth Rs 2.3 crore in the black market. The consignment was seized from a car. A mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine and sold as red or pink pills, Yaba originated in Myanmar and entered the Bangladesh black market in early 2000 and gained instant popularity due to the paucity of such stimulants locally. The fact that it was cheap also helped. Till June this year, despite the lockdown, BSF personnel of south Bengal frontier have seized around 28,690 such tablets. In 2019, between January and June the BSF seized around 29,180 tablets. In 2018, no such consignments were sized till June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-drugs-worth-rs-2-5-crore-seized-in-kolkata-two-drug-peddlers-held/story-FbHniDQRvs6kTKfjLDAr5M.html
25-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political drama is back in the Supreme Court, hearing on Monday||Three judges of the Supreme Court will hear Rajasthan speaker CP Joshi’s appeal against the high court order staying the disqualification proceedings against 19 Congress lawmakers led by Sachin Pilot at 11 am on Monday, according to the top court’s case list released on Saturday evening.The legal battle is a crucial sideshow in the continuing political battle between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot who has rebelled against him. Pilot and 18 lawmakers from his camp are challenging notices issued to them by speaker CP Joshi on complaints from the Congress that wants the 19 MLAs disqualified from the assembly under the anti-defection law for their rebellion. Pilot had moved the high court against the notice, which stayed the speaker’s proceedings.The hearing on Monday is speaker CP Joshi’s second attempt to get the high court’s stay order cancelled.The Speaker had moved the top court complaining that the state court had no jurisdiction to ask him to defer the disqualification proceedings. In his petition, Joshi called the court order “illegal, perverse, and in derogation of the powers of the Speaker.In its 1992 judgment in the Kihoto Hollohan case, the top court had held that judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the speaker/chairman. No interference would be permissible at an interlocutory stage of the proceedings, the court had said. In the present case, the top court is proposing to re-examine this legal principle.The top court had this week refused to accept CP Joshi’s initial request to cancel the high court’s stay order, pointing that the two high court judges had already reserved their order to be pronounced on Friday. “As the high court has already heard the matter after prolonged arguments and reserved the order, we are not staying the passing of the order [by the high court]. However, whatever order is passed shall be ultimately subject to the outcome of this petition,” a three-judge Supreme Court bench led by justice Arun Mishra had said.The high court, however, didn’t deliver its ruling on the case. On Friday, it formally admitted Sachin Pilot’s petition against the disqualification notices, accepting the request to make the central government a party in the case and identified the legal points that it will take up during the hearings.As the Congress sees it, the high court’s Friday’s ruling implied that the two high court judges may not rule on Pilot’s application in a hurry.The Speaker has argued that it is the apex court’s duty to ensure that all constitutional authorities act within the “Lakshman rekha” drawn for each one of them.During the hearing this week, the top court said the larger question here is whether a legislator’s voice can be shut down with the threat of disqualification. Can expressing dissent invite disqualification under anti-defection proceedings, the court observed.“Can a person elected by people not express his dissent? Voice of dissent cannot be suppressed. In a democracy, can somebody be shut down like this?” the court asked. Sachin Pilot, too, has moved a caveat in the Supreme Court to ensure that no orders are passed on Joshi’s petition without hearing him and his supporting MLAs. A caveat is a notice seeking that certain actions may not be taken without informing the person who gave the notice.The disqualification notices were issued on the request of Rajasthan chief whip who said that the dissident MLAs did not attend the party’s CLP meetings. Pilot and other dissidents, meanwhile, argued that a whip cannot be issued when the assembly is not in session. Also, the disqualification notices were a violation of the freedom of speech right, they argued. Already, the Gehlot government is struggling to get governor Kalraj Mishra to convene the assembly so that he can prove his majority in the assembly. But the governor is reluctant, wondering why Gehlot was in such a hurry to face the trust vote when no one was asking him to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-speaker-s-appeal-against-rajasthan-high-court-order-on-monday/story-ZLgQTSsopxlzxgaXq2rB6I.html
25-07-2020||India||Kashmir’s saffron gets GI tag||Kashmir Valley’s Saffron has got the much-awaited geographical indication (GI) certification from the central government in a fillip to the homegrown spice, which is likely to fetch higher prices in the international markets. Jammu & Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G) GC Murmu expressed happiness at the Centre’s decision and said that this is the first major step to put Kashmir Saffron on the world map, thanks to the GI tag. The recognition would help Kashmir Saffron to acquire more prominence in the export market and would help the farmers get the best remunerative price, L-G Murmu said. The L-G complimented Altaf Aijaz Andrabi, director of agriculture, J&K, for his relentless pursuit for the GI tag for the homegrown Kashmiri spice. He said the restoration of Kashmir’s saffron’s pristine glory has been a top priority for both the union territory (UT) administration and the Central government. The inauguration of the state-of-the-art Spice Park at Pampore in south Kashmir in August under the National Saffron Mission (NSM) would prove to be a game-changer for the saffron industry, he added. Navin K. Choudhary, principal secretary, agriculture production department, J&K, said that GI certification establishes specific geographical origin and certifies certain unique qualities of the product. GI certification enables those who have the right to use the sign in order to prevent a third party from using the sign. The GI certification would also stop the prevalent adulteration of Kashmir Saffron and the authenticated spice would fetch a much better price, he added. Kashmir Saffron is the only one spice in the world grown at an altitude of 1,600 metres, making it a one-of-a-kind variant that is known for its unique characteristics such as natural deep-red colour, aroma, bitter flavor, etc. Choudhary said the sprinkler irrigation system is being installed in saffron fields as per L-G’s instructions. The installation to likely to be completed in the next two months, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-s-saffron-gets-gi-tag/story-N7VfEu6mG5vlti0lHr6MpN.html
25-07-2020||India||‘You be the judge’: Chidambaram digs out SC ruling after Rajasthan court order||Congress leader P Chidmabaram, in a Twitter post on Saturday, spotlighted an old Supreme Court ruling, which he says is in “simple English”, to explain that courts cannot judicially review disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution until the Speaker makes a final decision on the merits of the case.On Friday, the Sachin Pilot camp got a partial relief when the Rajasthan high court ordered maintenance of the status quo on the disqualification notices issued by Speaker CP Joshi to the group. Earlier, the court had also asked the Speaker to defer the decision in the matter till July 24. Meanwhile, refusing the Speakers’ plea, the Supreme Court allowed the state high court to rule on the validity of the anti-defection notices. But the decision in the state high court will be subject to the final decision in the top court as it involves the larger question whether a legislator’s voice can be shut down. The Congress leader said the common man, “mystified” by the orders of the high court, can take recourse to this passage by the top court in the Kihoto Hollohan case in 1992. “In 1992, the SC ruled: “Having regard to the constitutional scheme in the Tenth Schedule, judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speakers/Chairmen; and no quia timet actions are permissible.“Those words are simple and clear enough. That statement of the law by 5 judges was binding on all courts, HC or SC. Now, dear average citizen, you be the judge,” said Chidambaram in a Twitter post.Sachin Pilot, who was sacked as Rajasthan deputy CM and also as the pradesh unit chief last week, and his 18 MLAs were served the notices after the Congress requested the Speaker, citing the MLAs’ absence from successive Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings defying a party whip and also and hatching a conspiracy to bring down the state government.The rebel leader has maintained that he is not joining the BJP. The Pilot camp has argued that mere disagreement with the CM’s working style cannot be construed to be defection. Issuing such a notice is also a violation of their freedom of speech right. Also, that the whip applies when the House is in session and not outside, the MLAs argued.The Speaker, on his part, contended that a writ petition in the matter is premature as a decision is yet to be taken on disqualifying MLAs. Additionally, what conduct invites disqualification under the Tenth Schedule is the sole preserve of the Speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-be-the-judge-chidambaram-digs-out-sc-ruling-after-rajasthan-court-order/story-51ViuuzjK0X4OwLYohFQwN.html
25-07-2020||India||Patna tops Bihar’s districts with 316 Covid-19 cases; Bhagalpur, Gaya take tally near 40,000||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases over last week, Bihar on Saturday reported 2,803 new patients taking the eastern state’s coronavirus tally past the 36,000 mark, the state health department said. The total number of coronavirus patients in Bihar has now touched 36,314.Among the 2,803 new cases, as many as 1,021 cases were reported a day earlier on July 24, while at least 1,782 positive cases had been detected on July 23, the health department said in a tweet.Capital city Patna has logged the maximum number of coronavirus cases till date with 316 patients. On Friday, a 35-year-old Covid-19 positive man, who had been isolated at home died by suicide in Patna’s Malsalami, the police said on Saturday. Another Covid-19 patient also died on the same day after allegedly jumping off the fifth-floor bathroom of one of the buildings of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. The AIIMS-Patna and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) are the two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Patna.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data revealed that there are 11,363 active cases of coronavirus in Bihar, with 22,343 patients having been cured and discharged. Till date there have been 220 deaths due to the infectious disease.Among Bihar’s districts hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, Patna district is the worst affected with 316 Covid-19 cases, followed by Bhagalpur with 103 patients, Gaya with 60 and East Champaran with 55 coronavirus cases. Begusarai district has recorded 43 patients, Jehanabad has 42 cases, Madhubani district has 36, Muzaffarpur 33, Khagaria district has 31 and the state’s Nalanda district has reported 30 Covid-19 positive cases.A three-member Central team, headed by Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare had visited Bihar earlier this week to assess the Covid-19 crisis. Other team members were Dr SK Singh, director National Centre for Disease Control, and associate professor of AIIMS-Delhi Dr Neeraj Nischal.The Central team suggested increasing the number of hospital beds to keep pace with the surge in Covid-19 cases after the viral caseload recorded an increase over the last two weeks.Among the districts which have reported a lower concentration of Covid-19 cases are Arwal with 15 cases, Banka with 8, Buxar with 8, Darbhanga with 15, Dhanbad with 3, Gopalganj with 1, Jamui with 5, Katihar with 2, Kishanganj with 5, Munger with 8, Madhepura with 13, Nawada with 2, Rohtas with 19, Vaishali with 15 and Siwan with 2 Covid-19 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-tops-bihar-s-districts-with-316-covid-19-cases-bhagalpur-gaya-take-tally-near-40-000/story-TqdS1oTNqdZuSN1PTQJ0EL.html
25-07-2020||India||Western Army commander visits forward posts, reviews operational readiness of Rising Star Corps||Lieutenant General RP Singh, Western Army Commander, along with General Officer Commanding (GOC), Rising Star Corps, Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, on Saturday, visited Basohli, Bakloh, and Mamun military stations to review the current security situation and operational readiness of the troops. “The Army commander reviewed the operational preparedness in the forward areas and interacted with the field formation commanders. The Army commander boosted the morale of the troops on the ground and was confident about the preparedness of the Rising Star Corps to thwart any type of threat posed by the adversaries and anti-national elements,” said Lt Col Devender Anand, spokesperson, Indian Army. He exhorted all ranks to continue working with the same zeal and enthusiasm. Alka Singh, regional president, Army Wives Welfare Association (AWWA), Western Command, also accompanied the Army Commander. She interacted with families of soldiers and praised for their strong support and also for contributing to the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/western-army-commander-visits-forward-posts-reviews-operational-readiness-of-rising-star-corps/story-TepzDPUAm8ceMkwvJbtVJO.html
25-07-2020||India||Hit by cash crunch, Odisha defers cash assistance to farmers to next year||Facing a huge revenue shortage, the Odisha government announced Saturday that it has decided to defer the payment of Rs 402 crore cash assistance to at least 16 lakh families till the next financial year under the Kalia Yojana, its flagship scheme for small, medium and landless farmers.The state agriculture department had earmarked Rs 2,234 crore in 2020-21 for the beneficiaries of Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme, in which a farmer gets Rs 10,000 per year for two crops (Kharif and Rabi). The state scheme proved to be a catalyst in the assembly polls as it helped Naveen Patnaik become chief minister for a fifth consecutive time by curbing anti-incumbency sentiments in the countryside.But with the Covid-19 pandemic taking a huge toll on the state’s economy with its revenue earning down by 23 per cent in the first quarter of the current financial year in comparison to the corresponding period of last year, the agriculture department has now decided to defer the payment of Rs 402 crore to 16.09 lakh landless agriculture households to the next financial year.To lessen the financial burden, the state government in December last year had already merged the scheme with the PM Kisan scheme in which the state and centre shared the Rs 10,000 assistance in 2:3 ratio.Now to reduce the outgo in Kalia scheme, the department has asked 50,000 farmers who had received cash assistance under the scheme to return the money. Principal secretary in the Agriculture and Farmers Empowerment department, Saurabh Garg said 50,000 people were found ineligible. “We have sent request letters to the ineligible beneficiaries like farmers with large land holdings, income tax payees and government employees. They have been given a bank account number in which they have to deposit the money,” he said.The refund adds up to over Rs 10 crore. The Odisha unit of the BJP has condemned the government decision of deferring the cash assistance as well as asking the farmers to refund the Kalia money. BJP Krushak Morcha State president Pradip Purohit said at a time when the farmers are facing an uncertain future due to Covid-19 pandemic, the deferment of the cash assistance would stress them further. “The farmers would be forced to take extreme steps if the government does not come to their aid. The Centre is already sharing a major part of the expenditure. The state government should not fail the farmers at this time,” Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-cash-crunch-odisha-defers-cash-assistance-to-farmers-to-next-year/story-pgB1WlmCskfuGz6O3tAo3K.html
25-07-2020||India||‘Auspicious time for Ram Temple ceremony has come after 500 years’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has promised a grand foundation stone laying ceremony for Ayodhya Ram Temple on August 5 and stated that this momentous occasion has come after 500 years of struggle. The UP chief minister made the announcement while on a trip to the temple town to review the preparations for the conduct of Bhoomi Poojan ceremony. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple on that day.In a meeting with district officials, Ram Temple trust members and local people’s representatives, Yogi said the foundation stone laying ceremony will be performed in Ayodhya at the most auspicious time that had come after 500 years of struggle, according to a livehindustan.com report.Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, which has been formed to oversee all work related to construction and management of the Ram Temple, said the Bhoomi Poojan will be held during the ‘Abhijit Muhurta’, considered ‘the most’ auspicious time.“Abhijit Muhurta is capable of removing all obstacles,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the president of the trust.The chief minister visited Hanuman Garhi to oversee the ongoing construction work of pillars and other structures that are being carved separately to be used in the construction, which will begin after the ceremony on August 5.Earlier, he offered prayers at the makeshift Ram Lalla temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi followed by paying obeisance at Lord Hanuman temple at Hanuman Garhi.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath vows to make Ayodhya pride of the world, reviews readiness for August 5 ceremonyHe told the attendees that they had a collective responsibility to turn Ayodhya into a world-class destination and added that cleanliness will play a big part in it. He promised not to spare any effort in realising this dream. He added that the city will host a spectacle on the occasion of Bhoomi Poojan that will be similar to Diwali, celebrated to mark Lord Rama’s return home after 14 years in exile.“We all will be coming together for an auspicious event. There will be ‘deepotsava’ in all houses and temples on the nights of 4th and 5th August. Deepawali is associated with Ayodhya and the festival cannot even be imagined without Ayodhya,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/auspicious-time-for-ram-temple-ceremony-has-come-after-500-years-yogi/story-5g8ySBxkGmkSI8jCJ8hPGJ.html
25-07-2020||India||RSS meet discusses Ram temple, India-China stand-off: Report||Top office-bearers of the RSS discussed Ram temple, the Sino-India stand-off and other issues facing the country amidst the Covid-19 crisis during the four-day meeting which concluded here on Friday, Sangh sources said on Saturday.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and other office-bearers discussed the ways to make the proposed “bhoomi pujan” of a Ram temple in Ayodhya a big event by complying with Covid-19 protocols, they said.Strengthening the Swadeshi movement to counter the Chinese expansionism was also discussed, according to the sources.A member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust had recently said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the ground breaking ceremony on August 5.The four-day conclave, which began on July 21, was held at Saraswati Vidya Mandir Residential School in Sharda Vihar area on the outskirts of the Madhya Pradesh capital.The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief also held virtual talks with some functionaries based in Nagpur, Delhi and other places during the conclave, they added.Bhagwat left for Nagpur this morning, a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-meet-discusses-ram-temple-india-china-stand-off-report/story-bguws1sl6eTABR6f6Mc4dO.html
25-07-2020||India||Why hasn’t Centre dismissed Gajendra Singh Shekhawat? Ashok Gehlot asks||Rajasthan ‘s embattled chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday took another swipe at Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat asking why the Centre hasn’t taken any action even after his name has cropped up in a ponzi scam.On Thursday, a Jaipur court had ordered the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan Police to probe the alleged role of Shekhawat, his wife, and three others, in the Rs 884 crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society fraud case.Earlier, the Gehlot government and the Congress had accused Shekhawat of being involved in horse-trading and have alleged that his voice can be heard in audio tapes of purported phone conversations detailing a plot to topple the Rajasthan government.“First his name appeared in the tapes and now even in this case, Gajendra Singh ji’s name is increasingly appearing, so why has the government not taken any action and dismissed him, this is a matter of concern,” Gehlot tweeted Saturday as he tagged a newspaper report on the scam that also named Shekhawat.The court order came on a petition of two residents of Barmer, who, along with some 50,000 other people, invested in the scheme that offered interest between 10% and 12%. Ladu Singh, one of the petitioners claimed to have invested Rs 54 lakh and Guman Singh, the second petitioner said he invested Rs 14 lakh with Sanjivani Cooperative Society. They alleged that they got no return for their investments, and the money trail led to companies linked with Shekhawat and his wife.Shekhawat has denied the charge of being involved in horse trading and said he is ready for a probe. The Union minister had denied any role in the state’s political crisis, and said that none of the voices in the tapes are his.Gehlot had also named him in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about an alleged attempt by the BJP to bring down the Rajasthan government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-hasn-t-centre-dismissed-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-ashok-gehlot-asks/story-hgfdZe5cAuvi06uok1xuDM.html
25-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: VHP plans Diwali-like celebrations in Ayodhya, appeals to light diyas in houses across state and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.VHP plans Diwali-like celebrations for mega Ram temple event in AyodhyaThe Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) have planned Diwali-like celebrations in Ayodhya and across the state on August 5, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi will preside over bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir in the temple town. Read more‘What if people die?’: CM Uddhav Thackeray warns against lifting lockdownMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray strongly backed and justified his decision to not rush in to lift restrictions that are put in place to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding would those demanding lifting of the lockdown take responsibility for the fatalities. Read more‘I have a joke’ trend takes over Twitter. What’s your witty punchline?Trust Twitter to often present you with such online trends and memes which will tickle your funny bone and make you giggle uncontrollably. The latest in the list is ‘I have a joke’ trend and people are grabbing this opportunity to share all sorts of tweets. Read moreInternational Friendship Day 2020: History and significanceThey say friends are the family you choose, and if you’re lucky enough to have the ‘ride or die’ kinds, you’re set for life. True friendships are based on the mutual understanding that no matter what circumstances, the bond between them would remain. It is to honour this very connection that International Friendship Day is celebrated on July 30 each year. Read more‘Seven mistakes? Are you kidding me?’: Irfan Pathan lambasts Steve Bucknor for umpiring howlers in 2008 Sydney TestIrfan Pathan is not pleased with Steve Bucknor despite the former ICC umpire’s acceptance of the errors he committed during the 2008 Sydney Test between India and Australia. Bucknor made as many as seven mistakes in the match, which created controversy for biased umpiring and cost India the Test by 122 runs. Read moreGoogle is reportedly collecting data from rival apps to improve its own productsGoogle’s advantage over third-party Android developers might be extending above and beyond just building apps for an OS it owns, According to reports, Google has been collecting and studying usage data from competing apps to help develop its own apps better. Read moreIIT Kharagpur researchers develop novel technology for Covid-19 rapid testA team of researchers from IIT Kharagpur in West Bengal has developed a portable rapid diagnostic device that can test samples to detect Covid-19 infection within an hour for Rs 400 only. Read moreWatch: 2 terrorists, including top Lashkar commander, killed in J&K encounterTwo terrorists were neutralised by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir on July 25. An encounter took place in Ranbir Garh, near Srinagar, when the Indian Army was carrying out a cordon and search operation. Terrorists opened fire on the forces, leading to retaliation. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-vhp-plans-diwali-like-celebrations-in-ayodhya-appeals-to-light-diyas-in-houses-across-state/story-pPIVxnjZ7O1kkpE243qwoK.html
25-07-2020||India||In a historic first, Kashmir saffron gets GI certification||Saffron grown in Kashmir has received the geographical indication (GI) tag, with Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu saying that it is a major historic step in bringing the valley’s brand on the global map. The Union government issued a certificate of GI registration for the saffron grown in the Kashmir Valley, an official spokesperson said. Soon after taking over as lieutenant governor, Girish Chander Murmu took a personal interest in ensuring that Kashmir saffron gets GI certification, he said. Pampore, the hub of saffron in Kashmir, is expected to have a bumper crop of the spice this season due to initiatives taken by the National Mission on Saffron (NMS). Under the NMS, a project of Rs 411 crore was approved by the Union government under which an area of 3,715 hectare for saffron was proposed to be rejuvenated. “The GI certification will stop the prevalent adulteration of Kashmir saffron, thereby, authenticated saffron will fetch much better prices,” an official said. He said that Kashmir saffron is the only one in the world grown at an altitude of 1600 metres which differentiates it from other varieties due to its unique characteristics like longer and thicker stigma, natural deep-red colour, high aroma, bitter flavor and chemical-free processing. The official said that an area of 2,500 hectares has been rejuvenated so far and a bumper production is expected during the current season. Expressing happiness over the development, the Jammu and Kashmir LG said that this is the first major step to put saffron produced in the Kashmir Valley on the world map. With the GI tag, Kashmir saffron will acquire more prominence in export market and will help farmers get the best price for it, he said. Murmu said that with the completion and inauguration of the State of Art Spice Park next month, these measures will prove to be a game changer for Kashmir saffron. Navin K Choudhary, Principal Secretary to Government, Agricultural Production Department said GI certification establishes specific geographical origin and certifies certain unique qualities of the product. He said that on the directions of the LG, sprinkler irrigation systems are being installed on a war footing in saffron fields and are likely to be completed in the next two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-historic-first-kashmir-saffron-gets-gi-certification/story-xhVq8sB8BnCkXHX5Vm7JzN.html
25-07-2020||India||Teaching and non-teaching staff allowed to work from home in Goa||Teaching and non-teaching staff of various schools and educational institutes in Goa have now been allowed to work from home, the state government has said.A circular issued by Goa education director Suresh Amonkar stated schools, education and coaching institutions in the state will remain closed until July 31.To let them work from home has been a long-pending demand of staffers at schools and educational institutes in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.The number of cases in Goa rose to 4,540 as on July 24.As per government data, four teachers and a peon have been tested positive for the viral infection so far.Meanwhile, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) has asked schools to explore the possibility of starting online admission for students of class 11, after July 28 when results of class 10 would be announced.“Teaching and non-teaching staff etc shall as far as possible will work from home and they should not be called to school/institutions unnecessarily.“During this period, teachers have been asked to make full use of the online training undergone by them to prepare original videos, notes, feedback forms, questionnaire, assignments using different OERs (Open Educational Resources),” the circular said.Online classes will not be allowed to be hold for more than two hours a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teaching-and-non-teaching-staff-allowed-to-work-from-home-in-goa/story-rYAbHR1AAFWMnP2lqOlsoM.html
25-07-2020||India||SII seeks nod for phase 2/3 trials of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate||Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19, has sought permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting phase 2/3 human clinical trials of the potential vaccine, highly-placed sources said on Saturday.The sources told PTI that the Pune-based drug firm submitted its application to the DCGI on Friday seeking permission for conducting the trials of ‘Covidshield’.“According to the application, it would conduct an observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ‘Covishield’ (Covid-19) in healthy Indian adults. The firm said that an around 1,600 participants of more than 18 years would be enrolled in the study,” a source said.Initial results of the first two-phase trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the UK showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, the source said.To introduce the vaccine, SII, the world’s largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced and sold, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute (Oxford University) in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.On the partnership with AstraZeneca, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla had said, “Serum Institute of India has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce and supply 1 billion doses of the COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University.” These vaccines will be for India and middle and low income countries across the world (GAVI countries), he had said.The firm plans to start the phase 2 and 3 human trials in India in August.Oxford University on Monday announced satisfactory progress with the vaccine, making it one of the leading ones among the dozens of vaccine candidates being developed around the world. According to a report in The Lancet, the initial trial results showed that the vaccine is safe and prompts protective immune response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-seeks-dcgi-nod-for-phase-2-3-clinical-trials-of-oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-candidate/story-dO2QifoZ3PT4mAiwYf12YI.html
25-07-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath reviews Ram Temple bhoomi pujan preparations in Ayodhya, inspects sanctum sanctorum||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed preparations for bhoomi pujan of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi on his maiden visit to Ayodhya on August 5. After reaching Ayodhya, the chief minister went to Ram Janmabhoomi where he paid obeisance to Ram Lalla at the makeshift Ram Mandir. Members of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, district magistrate of Ayodhya Anuj Jha and other officials were also present. Also Read: VHP plans Diwali-like celebrations for mega Ram temple event in AyodhyaAccording to members of the Trust, Adityanath inspected the sanctum sanctorum at the Ram Janmabhoomi where PM Modi will lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, apprised the CM about preparations being made at Ram Janmabhoomi for bhumi pujan. Later, the CM reviewed progress of ongoing development projects in Ayodhya. PM Modi is also expected to announce several new projects for Ayodhya after bhoomi pujan. For PM Modi’s visit, Ayodhya will be decked up. The lane leading to Ram Janmabhoomi and its adjoining areas will be decorated. It may be pointed out that pre-construction activity of Ram Mandir began at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on May 11 after the Centre allowed construction work across the country. Now, this work is over and construction of Ram Mandir will start after PM Modi lays the foundation stone on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-reviews-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-preparations-in-ayodhya-inspects-sanctum-sanctorum/story-9Irq920ajjXW9767BB3OiM.html
25-07-2020||India||Pawar defends Thackeray, says Covid-19 situation different from Killari quake||Praising Maharashra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the Covid-19 management in the state, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that the situation caused by the devastating earthquake in Killari in 1993 was different from the present pandemic.Talking to reporters here, he also said that the benefits of the Centre’s package aimed at bringing the economy back on track were not yet seen.Replying to a query that he (Pawar) had shifted the CM Office to Latur after the Killari earthquake, while Thackeray was managing things from home, the former Union minister said, “The situation in Killari was different. That calamity was restricted to one district. But the present crisis has covered the entire state.” Pawar was the chief minister of the state when the earthquake hit Killari in Latur district, in which at least 10,000 people had died.“If the chief minister goes out everywhere in the state then coordination will be a tough task,” Pawar said.Leaders of the opposition BJP have been targeting Thackeray saying that despite the crisis, he was not stepping out of his house.Pawar said, “Thackeray has been working hard in this critical phase. The present goverment is doing well in pandemic. The CM is managing things well and he is busy in the coordination all the time.” When asked about the package announced by the Centre to bring the economy back on track, Pawar said, “The benefits of the package were not yet seen.” “But the state government is trying hard to bring back the economy on track,” he said.Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the rate of infection in Aurangabad district has come down to 10 per cent as compared to 26 earlier.The collector has been authorised to commission staff for Covid-19 management, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-defends-thackeray-says-covid-19-situation-different-from-killari-quake/story-jKdSGT330y94Au5j6vSDZJ.html
25-07-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath vows to make Ayodhya pride of the world, reviews readiness for August 5 ceremony||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered prayers to Lord Ram and Hanuman in Ayodhya on Saturday during his trip to the temple town to review preparations for the foundation stone laying ceremony for the Ram Temple. He also held a meeting with the members of the Ram Temple trust overseeing the preparations for the event marking the beginning of construction of the Ayodhya Ram Mandir. With the mega event shifting focus on Ayodhya, Adityanath said the city will soon become the pride of India and the world. “Prime Minister will be visiting Ayodhya. We’ll make Ayodhya the pride of India and the world. Cleanliness should be the first condition. There is an opportunity for Ayodhya to prove through self-discipline its capability and be the way the world expects to see it,” Yogi Adityanath was quoted as saying by ANI.CM Yogi first paid obeisance to Lord Ram at the Ram Janmabhoomi site, and then proceeded to offer prayers to Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi, not far from there, according to a news agency report. The chief minister’s visit is primarily meant to take stock of preparations for the August 5 Bhoomi Poojan, which is expected to be attended by around 200 invitees including chief minister of states, prominent figures of the Ram Temple movement, RSS chief, top central leaders and Prime Minister Narendra Modi among others.The time for the foundation stone laying ceremony has been set at 12.15pm. The construction of Ram temple will formally begin after the ceremony. While the carving of several pillars, stones and statues has been going on for some time at the temple workshop inside the premises, it will gain pace after the ceremony. Adityanath confirmed that the ‘bhoomi poojan’ event is to be celebrated on the lines of Diwali festival with all temples and residences across the country lighting up diyas and candles to signify the return of Lord Rama to his home in Ayodhya after spending 14 years in exile as per Ramayana.“We all will be coming together for an auspicious event. There will be ‘deepotsava’ in all houses and temples on the nights of 4th and 5th August. Deepawali is associated with Ayodhya and the festival cannot even be imagined without Ayodhya,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Senior VHP functionary and secretary-general Milind Parande, too, offered a glimpse of the spectacle being planned for the occasion.“Whole of Ayodhya including temples and houses will be decorated with flowers and diyas and lights. This is a historical event in the lives of all Hindus. The temple construction is beginning after a long battle. There would be the lighting of diyas at every household. Had it been at a time of Covid-19 spread lakhs and crores of people would be participating in this grand event,” Parande told news agency ANI. Preparations have been made to live telecast the day’s proceedings.Also Read: VHP plans Diwali-like celebrations for mega Ram temple event in AyodhyaThe organizers had said that they will ensure that social distancing norms are followed during the event.The Supreme Court had on November 9 last year directed the Central Government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram temple. The Prime Minister had on February 5 announced the formation of a trust for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-offers-prayers-in-ayodhya-reviews-readiness-for-august-5-ceremony/story-ZedtRHoqRQGx17xm1KOK8I.html
25-07-2020||India||‘Will go to Rashtrapati Bhavan, even stage dharna outside PM house’: Gehlot||A day after a sit-in at the Rajasthan governor’s house, chief minister Ashok Gehlot decided to take things a notch higher by telling his legislators that he was ready to go to the Rashtrapati Bhawan, the President’s official residence at Delhi, and even the Prime Minister’s house to defeat the “BJP conspiracy”.“We will not let the BJP conspiracy to succeed. If required will go to the Rashtrapati Bhavan and even stage dharna, if necessary, outside the PM house,” a senior leader quoted CM Gehlot saying so at the Congress legislature party meeting held this afternoon.The announcement came shortly before the CM is expected to meet governor Kalraj Mishra to present a fresh request to convene an assembly session.Yesterday, Gehlot and his legislators staged a sit-in on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan, demanding that the governor give the approval for convening a session of the state assembly. Gehlot has accused the governor of stalling a decision on summoning House session, saying there was “some pressure from the top”. The CM, who wants a session on Monday, said he wants to prove his majority.In unusual scenes, “Inquilab zindabad, Ashok Gehlot zindabad” slogans were raised by the MLAs, who were sitting on the lawns, in support of the CM.The dharna ended after some five hours. A list of MLAs was submitted to the governor with a plea that a session be convened for the floor test to take place.In partial relief to the Sachin Pilot camp, the Rajasthan high court ordered maintenance of status quo in the disqualification notices issued by speaker CP joshi to the group of rebel MLAs. Post this development, the CM escalated his demand for an assembly session to prove his majority in the hope to end the political uncertainty that has state in its grip for two weeks now. At an earlier CLP meeting, the CM exhorted the legislators to stand firm like a rock as the entire nation was watching them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-go-to-rashtrapati-bhavan-even-stage-dharna-outside-pm-house-gehlot/story-FlOujwXe71bK53rcpJcCMO.html
25-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate now at 63.54%, case fatality count marks sharp dip||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday said that the country’s recovery rate had climbed to 63.54%, a notch higher than the earlier national average of 63% with at least 32,223 Covid-19 patients recovering from the viral disease in the last 24 hours.India’s total recoveries have now touched 8,49,431 people and the number of recovered patients have crossed the country’s active cases by 3,93,360. In another encouraging development amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a sharp decline in the country’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) which has decreased to 2.35%. The Tests Per Million (TPM) has also increased to 11,485 and continue to maintain an upward trend, the ministry’s data underlined.ALSO READ | Nearly 49,000 fresh Covid-19 take India’s tally to over 13.36 lakh, death toll at 31,358India’s Covid-19 count surged past the 13 lakh mark on Friday, barely two days after it crossed the 12 lakh mark, while the recoveries indicated that at least 8,49,431 patients had been cured of the viral infection. Of the total number of coronavirus cases reported since the beginning of March in the country, nearly 60% affected people have recovered so far, according to the Union Health Ministry.The nation’s death toll now stands at 31,358 with 757 more people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours. Of the total 31,358 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops with a death toll of 13,132 fatalities, followed by Delhi 3,777, Tamil Nadu 3,320, Gujarat 2,278, Karnataka 1,724, Uttar Pradesh 1,348, West Bengal 1,290, Andhra Pradesh 933 and Madhya Pradesh 791. The Health Ministry has said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities in patients.ALSO READ | Formulating rules for patients recovered from Covid-19: GovtThere are currently 4,56,071 active cases of Covid-19 in the country.In India, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 3,57,117, followed by Tamil Nadu 1,99,749, Delhi 1,28,389, Karnataka 85,870, Andhra Pradesh 80,858, Uttar Pradesh 60,771, West Bengal 53,973, and Gujarat 53,545 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-now-at-63-54-case-fatality-count-marks-sharp-dip/story-HaC5spuMXQeZ0t6oQHuKuN.html
25-07-2020||India||To hike milk yield, Tripura to adopt sex-sorted artificial insemination of cattle||Tripura has decided to introduce sex-sorted artificial insemination of milch cows rather than the conventional artificial insemination for the first time in a bid to make the state self-sufficient in milk production. The state has targeted to increase the milch cow population by 1.56 lakhs through sex-sorted semen straws in the three financial years, ending at 2022-23. The state government data showed that Tripura produced 1,74,260 metric tonnes (MT) of milk in the 2017-18 financial year, followed by 1,83,515 MT and 1,97,270 MT in 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively. The state has an annual average requirement of 2,34,350 MT of milk, and the current production is less than the demand. “We have decided to adopt a three-year plan to introduce sex-sorted artificial insemination during the mating season of milch cows. This decision has been taken to increase milk production in our state. We are aiming to increase the milch cow population in our state by 90% under the Mukhyamantri Unnato Godhan Yojana,” said Ratan Lal Nath, state law minister. The 13.10-crore scheme’s expenses will be borne the Central and the state government in a 90:10 ratio. Tripura is aiming to increase the milch cow population by 78,000, 46,800, and 31,200 in the next three financial years. Haryana, Maharashtra, Odisha, and Kerala have also adopted sex-sorted artificial insemination of livestock to boost their milk yields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-hike-milk-yield-tripura-to-adopt-sex-sorted-artificial-insemination-of-cattle/story-tNWfsaQb0C9kpH2f8Efc7M.html
25-07-2020||India||Covid-19 patients may report heart, lung probems after recovery: Expert||Severe cases of Covid-19 are characterised with breathlessness, drop in oxygen levels and acute respiratory problems. Experts are now of the opinion that people getting cured of coronavirus are visiting a doctor’s clinic with other symptoms after beating Covid-19. Besides the lungs, the virus is known to have impacted the brain, kidneys and other major organs such as the heart in some Covid-19 patients. While some patients were reported to have suffered from mild fever weeks after recovering from Covid-19, others suffered from diarrhoea, S Chatterjee, a Mumbai-based health expert told a news agency as reported by HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan. Also read: India tests 4.2 L samples for Covid-19 in 24 hrs, testing capacity at all-time highThere were some others who showed signs of inflammation in the heart tissue while others showed issues of blood pressure associated with body posture. Chatterjee said that many cured patients are now showing signs of lung fibrosis. He had seen 25 such patients whose oxygen levels in the lungs started to decrease. Health experts are trying to study the various impact that Covid-19 can have the human body. In a recent study published in the medical journal JAMA, experts found the virus inside the ear of deceased Covid-19 patients. On conducting the autopsy on the deceased Covid-19 patients, the virus was found inside the middle ear and in the mastoid area of the head. The mastoid is a hollow bone behind the ear.“Two of the 3 patients tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in the mastoid or middle ear, with viral isolation from 2 of 6 mastoids and 3 of 6 middle ears. Results for case 1 were positive for the right middle ear only. Case 2 had negative results for all samples,” the study stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-may-report-heart-lung-probems-after-recovery-expert/story-JYJlh5JnpAX1jBqxpbvomO.html
25-07-2020||India||Fresh tension at border after Indian villagers thrashed by Nepal’s armed police force||An eerie silence prevails at Kharsalwa village under Jharokhar police station on Indo-Nepal border on Saturday, a day after Nepal’s armed police force (APF) wounded two Indian villagers including a woman and opened fire to deter a gathering of angry crowd amid rising tensions.Eye-witnesses said jawans of Nepal’s armed police force (APF) thrashed a woman, identified as Seema Devi and her husband Ravindra Prasad, residents of Kharsalwa village under Jharokhar in Ghodasahan block of East Champaran, after the woman along with her co-villagers Manju Devi and Kundan Kumar stepped a few metres into Nepal’s territory of Narkatiya to collect fodder for the livestock at around 4pm.“A high drama unfolded as the APF misbehaved with the woman and thrashed her badly,” said Ram Pukar Sinha, a resident of Ghodasahan and JD-U’s state council member. Photos: 7.65 lakh affected, several villages submerged in Bihar floodsLocals said as the news spread, Seema Devi’s husband Ravindra Prasad rushed to her rescue but was held captive and attacked by Nepal armed police. “When I protested against them hurting my wife, they thrashed me, too, and took me to their outpost. But before this they freed my wife,” said Ravindra Prasad.His wife, who sustained injuries on head, spoke to HT over phone from Kharsalwa village and said they were assaulted without any provocation.“First they beat up Kundan (Kumar), accompanying me and the other co-villager. When I rushed to save him, they went after me,” she said.Also Read: India, China statements on border talks reflect a wide gap in perceptionsAt around 6pm on Friday, the situation on the border along Ghodasan turned volatile after Nepal’s armed police force opened fire in the air as a large number of villagers from Kharsalwa and a neighbouring village gathered along the border. The locals, in a huff, caught hold of an APF jawan who had come to the Indian side to buy some essential commodities.Meanwhile, Sikarahana sub divisional magistrate Gyan Prakash and sub divisional police officer (SDPO) along with Seema Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) officials and jawans rushed to the spot and prevented the situation from taking an ugly turn.“At around 11.30 pm, normalcy returned after Ravindra Prasad and APF jawan were freed by the two sides,” said Ram Pukar Sinha, a JD (U) leader. When contacted, Tapan Kumar Das, commandant of the 20th battalion of SSB confirmed the incident and said, “We came to know that the woman attacked an APF jawan with a sickle after they asked her and others to go back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-tension-at-border-after-indian-villagers-thrashed-by-nepal-s-armed-police-force/story-LF6SCFg5agrDxts7Crii1M.html
25-07-2020||India||I am a diehard Lucknowite: Abhijit Das||Director, ad maker and writer Abhijit Das believes in living the life to the fullest. “I have tried my hand in multiple turfs because I believe it’s one life and I need to be on the go. So, whatever came my way I opted for it and gave it my best shot,” says director of daily shows like ‘Dil Sambhal Jaa Zara’ and ‘Sanjeevani 2.’Born and brought up in Lucknow, Abhijit says he never planned his career, “I studied in St Mary’s College, RDSO branch in Lucknow and then we shifted to Kolkata. About a year in my college, I told my father I don’t want to study further. And, same year, I happened to meet advertising edupreneur Sumit Roy and joined Univads in Mumbai that was called world’s smallest university in the world teaching advertising.”It was work on learn course for him. “We were doing film making, advertising, writing, production and more for a year. Then I had long journey in advertising and came up with my own agency. After sometime quit it due to my health issues. Then I joined Mohit Suri as an assistant director for film ‘Who Lamhe’ and then joined Anurag Basu as an assistant. This was the best way to learn film making and I started from a scratch.”He started writing for Anurag’s TV show ‘Love Story’ and started directing telefilms and ads for him. “Then I directing and writing episodics for shows like ‘Webbed’, ‘Gumrah’ and many more. Along with all this, I started designing fashion and live musical shows also. Then, I came up with a platform where I got big directors, almost 12 of them, to make short films. Today there are around 3450 odd films available with that platform. Also, I made India’s first collaborated film ‘The Last Act,’ where 12 unknown film makers coming together to make one feature film.”Abhijit launched his own web platform to take his work to the audience. “I came up with an international project during the lockdown. ‘Unlocked’ it is a set of five short stories which breaks barriers geographically, linguistically and psychologically that was launched my new platform ‘Netanki.’ Actors from India, USA, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sweden and UK have been brought together to tell stories of their lockdown experience. Actors like Jason Tham, Taha Khan, Niki Walia, Shahana Bajpai and many more are part of this experiment.”The Lucknowite misses the city, “Those were some beautiful days and we friends used roam around the entire city. Hazratganj was our evening retreat. I say it with élan that I am a diehard Lucknowite,” he said.Of late, he has directed ‘Kar Sawaal’, a documentary on Right to Information Act, and an award-winning short film ‘Ambu’ featuring Smriti Kalra along with another web series ‘Medically Yours’ starring Shantanu Maheshwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-am-a-diehard-lucknowite-abhijit-das/story-hswQNQt7b69Mk8VWsoiSoO.html
25-07-2020||India||India tests 4.2 L samples for Covid-19 in 24 hrs, testing capacity at all-time high||India on Saturday tested a record number of 4, 20,000 samples in a single day, to detect the coronavirus infection among the population. This is the first time that the country has carried out tests on such a large number of samples in 24 hours since Friday morning, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 data indicated. With 4,20,898 samples tested in the last 24 hours, the Tests Per Million (TPM) has increased to 11,485 and the total testing capacity has climbed to 1,58,49,068.India crossed the 13 lakh mark of Covid-19 patients on Friday evening, overtaking Brazil to become the second country after the United States with a high concentration of coronavirus cases. The country’s Covid-19 tally surged past 13 lakh, just two days after it had crossed the 12 lakh mark. Recoveries too increased side by side, with the number of cured patients touching 8,49,431, according to the Union Health Ministry. The country’s recovery rate at the national level has also climbed a notch to 63.54 per cent.ALSO READ | Nearly 49,000 fresh Covid-19 take India’s tally to over 13.36 lakh, death toll at 31,358On Saturday, after reporting 48,916 fresh cases, the country’s coronavirus infection count surged to 13,36,861, while the death toll rose to 31,358 with 757 more people succumbing to the viral infection in the last 24 hours. This is the third consecutive day when Covid-19 cases increased by more than 45,000.There are currently 4,56,071 active cases of the infectious disease in the country. On Friday, the country started its first human trials of a coronavirus vaccine candidate The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the capital said in a statement that it had administered the first dose of a trial Covid-19 vaccine to a volunteer.ALSO READ | First dose of Covid-19 candidate Covaxin administered to 30-yr-old at AIIMS DelhiThe vaccine candidate, Covaxin, is among nearly 24 other vaccines that are in clinical trials globally. AIIMS, is among the 12 sites selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research for conducting the two-phase randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of Covaxin.The country’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, recently got regulatory approval for human clinical trials from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-4-2-lakh-samples-for-covid-19-infection-in-24-hours-testing-capacity-at-all-time-high/story-bCnYQczw06mIvwA7z9PthK.html
25-07-2020||India||Uniform country-wide peak in Covid-19 cases will not happen: Expert||There cannot be a uniform peak in Covid-19 cases in a large country like India and each state has its own trajectory based on when people there were exposed to the infection, a public health expert said. The peak could be witnessed in states like Delhi by this month end or early August while it may be around September in others such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka, Director of the Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH) here Prof. G V S Murthy said. IIPH was set up under the aegis of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). In states such as Jharkhand it may take longer time as the spread has started only after the return of the migrant labourers, he said. “So, each state has its own trajectory based on when people were exposed to the infection in that particular state.There is not going to be a uniform peak for the country. There is going to be a number of peaks in the country,” he told PTI. For example, Bihar seemed to be reporting a large number of cases suddenly after all those who migrated to other cities, specifically Mumbai and Delhi, started returning. It takes about 10-14 days for a Covid-19 person to infect others in their families and then the next wave of cases will happen, Murthy, who established and headed the first Community Ophthalmology Department in the public sector in the country at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences till 2010,said. Governments need to continue with measures to deal with the virus and the community also should strictly adhere to preventive guidelines such as washing hands and maintaining physical distancing, he said and stressed on taking intense steps in densely populated areas. States like Jharkhand (present total cases 7,564), Chattisgarh (6,819) and parts in eastern Uttar Pradesh too had reported much lower cases earlier but the spread would start occurring as the migrants have returned now to their homes. “There, the peak will take much longer. It would be somewhere towards the end of September or October that those states which had low reporting earlier, will have a peak,” he said. But, states like Haryana, Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu should be able to achieve the maximum number of cases by mid September, he said. All these states which were reporting very high numbers now, should not be getting the same numbers beyond mid- September. Some states should achieve the peak by mid-August also.For example, Delhi seems to be on a path where, by the end of this month or early August, it can be said that the peak has been crossed, he said. The same could be the case with Rajasthan and Punjab, and other states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh may reach the peak in September, he said. The peak should occur in Tamil Nadu by the middle or the third week of August, said Murthy, who had worked at the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Childhood Blindness programme. He said the governments need to continue with measures to deal with the virus as the health system would be overwhelmed if there was a sudden rise in cases and if the states are unprepared. Such a scenario had been seen in Mumbai and others, the expert, who was a UNAIDS Consultant with the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO), added. “Kerala, you have seen now. They thought they had seen the end of Covid. Suddenly, in the last over 10 days, Kerala has had a much larger number of cases than before,” he said. Complete monitoring was required in densely populated areas and intense steps should be taken when there is a sudden spike in cases. The three Ts Test, Track and Treatment were important to reduce the infections and slipping into serious complications, he noted. The community should follow precautions, including wearing a mask, hand-washing and maintaining physical distance,the health expert said. If somebody has any doubt of infection, they should immediately seek medical attention. Gatherings should be avoided. “As a community, we cannot put the entire onus on the government. As a community, it is our responsibility (to take the precautions),” he added. At the government level, Murthy suggested arranging mobile labs to collect samples (to avoid overcrowding) in a city like Hyderabad rather than people coming to certain locations to give samples. The community health centres can be strengthened with a few beds having oxygen supply facilities dedicated to Covid care to treat needy patients. Those having severe breathlessness should be transferred to bigger tertiary hospitals, he said, adding that the focus should be on saving lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uniform-country-wide-peak-in-covid-19-cases-will-not-happen-expert/story-91yZuc5gytscdccRtzzJjP.html
25-07-2020||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to meet Governor with fresh proposal for Assembly session||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will meet Governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday afternoon to submit a fresh proposal for convening Assembly session. The meeting is expected to take place at 4 pm.Gehlot had earlier called a meeting of his council of ministers at 4pm at his residence to rework a proposal to the Governor over calling a session of the state assembly.The meeting was scheduled to discuss the objections raised by Governor Mishra in holding an assembly session.Gehlot had chaired a meeting of the cabinet on Friday night to discuss the points raised by the governor on its earlier proposal.Also read: Ashok Gehlot calls another cabinet meet to discuss governor’s reservations over Rajasthan assembly sessionEarlier Saturday, Gehlot at the Congress legislature party (CLP) meeting at the Fairmont hotel Gehlot said the Congress party will not let BJP succeed in their “conspiracy”, sources claimed. “We will go to the President’s house if needed. We will stage dharma outside the PM house if required,” Gehlot said according to a person familiar with the CLP meet.The chief minister who had already met the governor twice this month, had accused him on Friday of dithering on calling the assembly session despite repeated requests to do the sameMeanwhile the Congress held demonstrations against the BJP across the state on Saturday amid the ongoing political crisis with party workers demanding that the governor should call an assembly session soon.The Congress workers accused the BJP of conspiring to topple the Gehlot government.Rajasthan Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “We have the mandate. The governor is head of the family and we do not want any differences.”The minister said it was the government’s right to call an assembly session but it wasn’t getting permission for it||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-to-meet-governor-today-with-fresh-proposal-for-assembly-session/story-XgtpJh0iaWzrU5WdtJBb4J.html
25-07-2020||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa served summons for alleged 2019 poll code violation||A court in Karnataka’s Gokak late on Friday issued summons to Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa for an alleged violation of the Model Codel of Conduct during the campaign for the 2019 assembly by-polls.“The accused on two occasions in his speech appeals to a specific community but not to the workers of the party attributing the caste and community for seeking votes in favour of the candidate of the Gokak constituency.” the Judicial Magistrate First Class court observed.On November 23 last year, Yediyurappa, addressing a rally in Gokak, had appealed to the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community to not split their votes and to back BJP candidate Ramesh Jarkiholi. Subsequently, both the Congress and the JDS had protested against what they said was an appeal on the basis of caste and community saying it was violative of the Election Commission’s Model Code of Conduct. They had also lodged cases in this regard.Gokak has a large presence of Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. In the by-polls, crucial to the survival of the BJP government, Ramesh Lakshman Jarkiholi managed to defeat his younger brother Lakhan Jarkiholi of Congress by a margin of more than 29,000 votes.Though the investigating officer filed a ‘B report’, meaning there is inadequate proof to prove the charges, making an appeal to dismiss the case, Veeresh Kumar, Principal Magistrate, rejected it.The CM, or his office, is yet to react to the summons issued by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-served-summons-for-alleged-2019-poll-code-violation/story-P9MsCGaGBsrvl5rXhakhLN.html
25-07-2020||India||Monsoon in north-central India can drop significantly: US agency||Rainfall in north-central India can drop significantly this year because of the projected reduction in monsoon low-pressure system, according to a study of an American scientific agency. The study by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), released on Friday, projected a significant decrease in Monsoon Low-Pressure System (MLPS) occurrence over the south Asian monsoon region, attributed mainly to a reduction in low-level relative vorticity over the core genesis region. Notably, MLPSs are the primary rain-producing synoptic-scale systems over the Indian subcontinent, and are estimated to be responsible for more than half of the annual precipitation in agrarian north and central India. Changes in the characteristics of MLPSs, whether natural or forced, have far-reaching socio-economic impacts, the NOAA said. Despite increases in the total precipitation across much of the monsoon region, the model simulates little change or even slight decreases in precipitation over the core MLPS genesis region. “Assuming a fixed radius of influence, the projected reduction in monsoon low-pressure systems would significantly lower the associated precipitation over north-central India,” it said. Generally poor representation of MLPSs in global climate model simulations erodes the confidence in future projections. To date, only a few studies have investigated the potential changes in south Asian MLPSs, without conclusive findings, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-in-north-central-india-can-drop-significantly-us-agency/story-JEMrASKF2Rp99gr0LnzI0L.html
25-07-2020||India||Three more Maharashtra policemen die of Covid-19, toll reaches 93||Three policemen died of Covid-19 in the last 24-hours in Maharashtra taking the toll death in the force to 93, a senior officer said. One of the three was from Mumbai where 53 policemen have died so far in the pandemic.Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order) on Saturday confirmed that three policemen from constabulary from Mumbai, Thane and Satara police commissionerates died of Covid-19. All of them were above 50 years of age.Mumbai police has maximum cases of Covid-19 cases with over 3,600 infected police personnel, followed by Thane police.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.A total of 8,232 policemen (861 officers, 7,371 constables) from across the state have contracted the virus till date. Of them 6,314 have recovered and many of them even joined duty. There are now 1,825 active cases among policemen who are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid care facilities.Senior IPS officer additional director general of police (law and order) Mumbai police, Vinoy Kumar Choubey is among the officers who contracted coronavirus.The police department has taken multiple measures to prevent the spread of the contagious disease in the police force and also allowed elderly cops to stay at home to slow down the mortality rate.In a recent move Mumbai police has decided to send all those policemen for Covid-19 tests who are more vulnerable and exposed to the disease prone areas. Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration) and also designated nodal officer for Covid management in Mumbai police, confirmed that the police personnel from age group of 45-55 will undergo the rapid antigen testing. After this younger policemen will undergo the tests. An internal assessment report prepared by the Mumbai Police to understand the spread of Covid-19 among its personnel till July 1, has found that the fatality rate in the city police is 1.34% while that of Mumbai is 5.83%. The fatality rate was the highest at 82% among those aged above 50 years.The report found that police personnel aged between 31 and 40 years were affected the most. High blood pressure and diabetes were the most common ailments among those with a medical history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-maharashtra-policemen-die-of-covid-19-toll-reaches-93/story-d3Rc85FI6uqR532uZ3C5hO.html
25-07-2020||India||Ahead of August 5 bhoomi pujan for Ram temple, Yogi Adityanath in Ayodhya today||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit Ayodhya on Saturday to review the preparations for the foundation stone laying ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5 at 12.15pm at Ram Janmabhoomi.Members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant have said the bhumi pujan will take place on ‘Abhijit Muhurta’, which is the most auspicious time to lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir.“Abhijit Muhurta is capable of removing all obstacles,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, said.Nritya Gopal Das is the chairperson of the trust.The construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which chief ministers of many states, Union ministers and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are also likely to participate.A trust member has said that in view of the coronavirus pandemic, only 200 people would attend the ceremony and all social distancing norms will be followed at the event.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, held its second meeting last week.The ‘Ram Lalla’ idol was shifted to a temporary structure near Manas Bhawan in Ram Janmabhoomi premises in March this year till the completion of the construction of the temple.The Supreme Court directed the Centre in November last year to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple. The Prime Minister had announced on February 5 the formation of a trust for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya.The 15-member Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has been mandated by the central government to oversee the Ram temple’s construction in Ayodhya.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-august-5-bhoomi-pujan-for-ram-temple-yogi-adityanath-in-ayodhya-today/story-D0oPZxe4pTpMkLyMZhgvNP.html
25-07-2020||India||CRPF personnel shoots senior before killing self at IB safehouse in Delhi||In an incident of fratricide, a sub-inspector (S-I) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) shot his senior dead before training the gun on himself and took his own life. The incident occurred inside a safe house of the Intelligence Bureau (IB) in south Delhi on Friday night. Police said the two men, who were posted at the IB’s safe house and belonged to CRPF’s 122 Battalion, had a tiff over an issue that is yet to be ascertained, after which the S-I used his Avtomat Kalashnikova (AK)-47 rifle to shoot the inspector dead. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the two CRPF personnel shared the same room as their office space in the safe house. Police said that the incident occurred at around 10 pm on Friday, when employees of the safe house heard a loud gunshot from a room.They rushed inside the room and found that the CRPF inspector had been shot in the head. “Witnesses said the inspector was having his dinner, when he was shot at. In less than a minute, another gunshot was heard at the guard’s room near the main entrance of the safe house. The staff reached the guard’s room to find that the CRPF S-I was lying dead with a gunshot injury in his head. The incident was reported to CRPF officials immediately,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. “The AK-47 was issued to the CRPF S-I that he had used to fire upon his senior colleague and also to take his own life. The two bullets were fired from the same rifle. Both men were involved in a tiff over an issue that is yet to be ascertained. A murder case has been registered and a probe is on,” said Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), New Delhi. M Dhinakaran, spokesperson, CRPF, said: “The fratricidal event is an aberration and could have happened at the spur of the moment. An investigation has been ordered to establish the facts. The probe will be taken to its logical conclusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-personnel-shoots-senior-before-killing-self-at-ib-safehouse-in-delhi/story-H0z1TcBapjkrFiDgcTl6lJ.html
25-07-2020||India||‘What if people die?’: CM Uddhav Thackeray warns against lifting lockdown||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray strongly backed and justified his decision to not rush in to lift restrictions that are put in place to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding would those demanding lifting of the lockdown take responsibility for the fatalities.Thackeray, a first-time CM, has been criticised for treading cautiously on lifting curbs in Maharashtra. It is also said that Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar intervened to convince him to allow opening up of businesses and industry.The CM, in part one of the two-part interview to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, said that living with coronavirus is a tightrope walk that requires balancing the economy and health of the public.Also Watch: Mumbai ramps up efforts in plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients “There are several smart people speaking against lockdown… Fine, we will open everything for you but unfortunately if the people die due to this, will you take responsibility? There is no problem in opening up, but will they take the responsibility? I am not using the word ‘lockdown’ now. However, I will not say that I am now lifting the lockdown, but gradually restrictions will be lifted. And my attempt is that once an activity is opened, then it should not have to be shut again.“Just thinking about the economy too will not work. Those who only have a concern about the health situation, however grave it may be, must think a little about the economy as well. Living with coronavirus is a tightrope walk,” Thackeray said.In a wide-ranging interview, published in Saamna on Saturday, Thackeray spoke on a host of topics - covering the first six months of his government, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, the measures taken by the state government to tackle Covid-19, among others.On being questioned as to when will vada pav, a popular snack in Maharashtra and Mumbai, be available and when will suburban trains resume for common people, he said: “People may be bored [of the lockdown], but to give them a break from it we cannot lift restrictions. If we hastily unlock, and someone loses their life then what good is a livelihood. What will happen if this virus spreads in a factory? Then we must decide that no matter how many people succumb to this disease, we do not want a lockdown. Are you prepared? I am not. I am not [Donald] Trump, I cannot see my people suffer before my eyes… We will start [suburban] railway and vada pav [stalls on the roads]. Families are taking ill and dying. Who will open the lockdown in that family?”Thackeray, who will soon be 60, also remained measured in his response to the success in containing the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, and also on the dwindling number of Covid-19 cases from Mumbai.“I am not going to speak on it. The danger is still there. If I appreciate the work now, complacency may creep in,” said the CM.The ‘Dharavi model’ was praised by the World Health Organisation (WHO).CM Thackeray also took potshots at former chief minister and leader of opposition in the legislative assembly Devendra Fadnavis, who visited Delhi earlier this week.“He must have gone to see the Covid-19 situation there. But he did not say anything about it. He is going to Delhi because he has given Maharashtra’s fund to Delhi (Centre),” said the CM.Thackeray said that Fadnavis might have “stomach-ache” after an organisation ranked Thackeray as one of the best chief ministers in India.“He could have a stomach ache because without stepping out anywhere one organisation ranked me as [one of the] best chief ministers in the country. This must be a cause of stomach cramps because corona has varied symptoms,” Thackeray said, taking a swipe at Fadnavis.Thackeray dismissed the criticism that he has not gone to Mantralaya as much as he should have. He said that he is using the technology to take stock of the situation in the state. “Mantralaya is shut now. The technology has advanced to such an extent now. If one cannot use technology then it is really unfortunate. I am meeting officials and public representatives. In one go I am covering the entire state and I am taking decisions. When it is important to visit physically, then you do go to that place. With videoconferencing, you can cover the entire state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-if-people-die-cm-uddhav-thackeray-warns-against-lifting-lockdown/story-bzCtbUpQUaF6M084UHd5iN.html
25-07-2020||India||Etawah Lion Safari ready to help Gir national park probe big cat mortality||Wildlife experts from the Lion Breeding Centre and Multiple Safari (LBCMS) Park in Etawah, also known as Etawah Lion Safari, have expressed willingness to probe the deaths of Asiatic lions in Gujarat’s Gir Forest National Park.In 2018 also, the Etawah Lion Safari had helped out the Gir national park. “We are more than willing to assist the Gir Forest National Park by probing the death of such a large number of Asiatic lions. It has been reported that in the past five months, more than 80 lions have died due to various reasons,” said VK Singh, director LBCMS Park. Singh, who suspects canine distemper one of the possible reasons behind the frequent deaths, said they have a reserve of around 150 vials of the CDV vaccine, which they can offer to the Gir park. The Etawah Lion Safari has been populated with lions that were brought from Gir. Singh said the LBCMS Park has over the years gained expertise in administering the CDV vaccine, which is rare and not available anywhere in the country. Samajwadi Party chief and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s dream project, the Etawah Lion Safari first saw the usage of CDV vaccine in 2016 after the safari witnessed deaths of five lions between 2014 and 2016 due to canine distemper. “In a probe, it was found that the lions died of canine distemper which, until then, was believed to affect only dogs. Hence, we got the vaccine C-DV Ferret from San Diego zoo in the US and administered it to the lions,” said Singh. The director further said, “This vaccine is rare. We import it from the US. We are the only body in India to have CDV vaccine. Also there is a certain technique through which this vaccine is administered and over the years, we have gained expertise in administering the vaccine. No deaths have been reported at the lion safari since then.” At present the Etawah Lion Safari has 18 Asiatic lions -- 7 were born at the safari itself. Lion safari officials said in 2018 they had assisted them in probing the deaths of a large number of Asiatic lions and had also provided the Gir national park with 200 vials of CDV vaccine. “It was after they (Gir park) approached us that we had sent an expert and 200 vials of vaccine to administer to the lions. Back then, the park witnessed the deathof around 85 lions, of which 59 died of canine distemper virus infection,” Singh said. On Friday Akhilesh Yadav took to Twitter to express concern over the frequent deaths of lions in Gujarat in the past five months.“During our time, the Etawah Lion Safari became virus free. The first Asiatic Lion Breeding and Research facility was set up and it developed the vaccine for canine distemper virus. We have lots of vaccines which we would like to offer to Gir National Park to help save their lions,” he said in his tweet. He also shared a photo of lions with a caption — 85 lions have died in the past five months in Gir forest. Is it because of canine distemper virus? Officials at the Gir national park could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Being the lone agency to have the canine distemper virus vaccine, Singh said the Lion Safari also sends CDV vaccines to Kolkata, Darjeeling, Chandigarh and Guwahati zoos. In the last financial year, the Etawah Lion Safari has distributed around 1,000 vials of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/etawah-lion-safari-ready-to-help-gir-national-park-probe-big-cat-mortality/story-zIiHK7yxhOmYnpVs04kgTP.html
25-07-2020||India||40 cows die due to suffocation in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur||Around 40 cows, which were kept in a claustrophobic panchayat bhawan in a village in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur district, have died due to suffocation, officials said on Saturday. Bilaspur district magistrate (DM) Dr. Saransh Mittar said a first information report (FIR) has been filed.Senior officials have also reached the spot to assess the situation on the ground. The district authorities have rescued 20 bovines from the panchayat bhawan at Medapar village in Bilaspur’s Takhatpur, Dr. Mittar said. “Preliminary information has revealed that 60 cattle were kept in the claustrophobic panchayat bhawan in the village for the last couple of days by the sarpanch. We have rescued 20 of them, while 40 have died due to suffocation,” Dr. Mittar said. A team of veterinarians has reached the village and are attending to the rescued bovines. “The sarpanch put the cattle inside the panchayat bhawan without seeking the owners’ permission. An FIR has been registered and the cattle owners will get adequate compensation,” he added. Police have reached the spot and carcasses of the cows are being taken out from the panchayat bhawan. “An FIR has been registered as per the DM’s instruction. An investigation has started,” said Prashant Agarwal. superintendent of police (SP), Bilaspur. In June, the Chhattisgarh government had launched the “Roka-Chheka Abhiyan” in all villages in the state, which seeks to revive the traditional agricultural methods and to save Kharif crops from open grazing by stray cattle. The state government is aware that many villages in the state do not have cowsheds and cattle owners are likely to face major difficulties because of the ban on grazing to save Kharif crops. The government has come to the cattle owners’ rescue and is building 5,000 cowsheds across the state under the Suraaji Gaon Yojana. The government has appealed to all sarpanches to ensure cattle remain in cowsheds, when the ban on open grazing is in force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-cows-die-due-to-suffocation-in-chhattisgarh-s-bilaspur/story-RnGvr1Cm5Ld4VQSnLqkY2O.html
25-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Benefitting during a disaster, says Rahul Gandhi’s in fresh attack on govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Benefitting during a disaster: Rahul Gandhi’s latest attack on govtCongress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been lashing out at the Centre relentlessly, on Saturday attacked the “anti-poor” government for what he said was earning a profit during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Read moreUS eases export restrictions on unmanned drones, New Delhi to benefitPresident Donald Trump’s order on updated export restrictions on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), with the new speed limit of 800 kmph, will not only help its allies in the Middle-East facing the brunt of Chinese armed drones in Libyan theatre but will also help India acquire proven Predator-B armed and Global Hawk surveillance drones from the US. Read moreDharavi takes battle against Covid-19 ahead, comes forward to donate plasmaMumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, has managed to flatten the curve of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will now take the battle against the pandemic further through a plasma donation program. Read moreMadhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tests positive for coronavirusMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more‘Was shocked to find around 50 media people’: Umpire Daryl Harper recalls when Sachin Tendulkar’s delayed arrival created confusion in Cape TownThe 3rd Test between India and South Africa in January 2007 in Cape Town saw one of the most bizarre moments in cricket history. On the fourth day of the Test, India had to come out to bat in the 2nd innings. Read moreWhat is Whey Water? How can you include it in your diet?Proteins are essential nutrients for a human body. Its popularity and demand in fitness enthusiasts is always high. There’s a wide range of protein powders and supplements available in the market. Read more‘Mask On’: Tennis player Adil Kalyanpur’s rap on Covid-19 awareness wins people over. WatchTennis player Adil Kalyanpur has recently captured everyone’s attention with his coronavirus advisory rap. Titled Mask On, the video was shared on YouTube and since being posted it has earned applause from netizens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-anti-poor-government-earning-profit-during-pandemic-says-rahul-gandhi-in-fresh-attack-on-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hl5PdLR3PvGjhoMIC18jgL.html
25-07-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tests positive for coronavirus disease||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will get admitted to a hospital as advised by doctors.Chouhan made the announcement in a series of tweets.“My dear people of the state, I had symptoms of COVID-19 and after the test my report has come back positive. I appeal to all my colleagues that whoever came in contact with me, must get their corona test done. And my close contacts should quarantine themselves,” Chouhan said in a tweet in Hindi.“If COVID19 is treated on time, a person is completely cured. I have been reviewing the status of corona infection every evening since March 25. I will try to review corona situation through video conferencing as much as possible now,” he added.The chief minister said the review meeting will now be held by home minister Narottam Mishra, urban development and administration minister Bhuppendra Singh, health education minister Vishvas Sarang and health minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary in his absence.“I will also continue to do everything possible to help control COVID19 in the state during treatment,” he said.Chouhan later tweeted that he is going to be admitted to the Chirayu Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 institute. “A corona patient should not insist that they want to stay in home quarantine or not go to the hospital. We should follow the instructions of the doctors,” he said in that tweet.One of Chouhan’s ministerial colleagues tested positive for Covid-19 late on July 22. The chief minister along with the minister, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit president VD Sharma and state unit general secretary (organisation) Suhas Bhagat had visited Lucknow in a government plane on July 21 to attend the funeral of MP governor Lalji Tandon who died away in the Uttar Pradesh capital, his hometown. during hospitalisation. The minister is admitted to a private medical college’s teaching hospital in Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-VDlUx1awbrSkpXFWeHkp8H.html
25-07-2020||India||Lucknow’s most wanted criminal Tinku Kapala killed in encounter in Uttar Pradesh||Tinku Kapala aka Kamal Kishore, Lucknow’s most wanted criminal was killed by the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force during an encounter in Barabanki on Friday night, HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported. Kapala had a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on his head. In 2019, he was reported to have killed two people during a robbery. While his accomplices were caught by the police, he managed to dodge the police. The STF has seized ammunition and cartridges from the spot. His partner is being looked for. Kapala had over two dozen cases against him including robbery, murder, attempt to murder and other serious charges under the Arms Act. The police and the STF team were looking for him for a long time.On Friday night, the STF acted on a tip that Kapala will be near the Lucknow-Barabanki border to carry out a major crime. On the said information, the STF laid a trap in ​​Barabanki. Kapala tried to escape but was killed in an encounter with the STF.According to officials, Tinku Kapala alias Kamal Kishore alias Hemant Kumar alias Sanjay alias Mama used to go underground after committing a big crime. Apart from UP, he was also behind some big robberies in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Several cases were also registered against him in Vadodara, Gujarat and Pune, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-s-most-wanted-criminal-tinku-kapala-killed-in-encounter-in-uttar-pradesh/story-pkXHIWF5KZhqkMet3NOvOO.html
25-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot calls another cabinet meet to discuss governor’s reservations over Rajasthan assembly session||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday called a meeting of his council of ministers, the second in less than 12 hours, to rework a proposal to Governor Kalraj Mishra over calling a session of the state assembly.Ashok Gehlot and his ministers will discuss the objections raised by Governor Mishra in holding an assembly session during the cabinet meeting at the chief minister’s residence at 4pm, reports said.According to reports, they will work on an answer and resend the proposal to the governor to give a nod for holding the session. The revised proposal will be forwarded to the governor after an approval by the cabinet.The chief minister, who is facing a revolt by his former deputy Sachin Pilot and other Congress MLAs, had chaired a meeting of the cabinet on Friday night to discuss the points raised by the governor on its earlier proposal.The Congress will shortly hold its legislature party meeting to discuss the political situation in Rajasthan. The meeting will take place at the hotel where the MLAs of the Gehlot camp are staying.The Congress government is pushing for the assembly session so that Gehlot can prove his majority on the floor of the House, which came after Rajasthan High Court ordered that status quo should be maintained on the disqualification notices sent out by the assembly speaker to Pilot and 18 other MLAs.Governor Mishra had on Friday asked the Gehlot government why it wanted to call an assembly session to secure a vote of confidence if it already had the majority. He said “no one above constitutional decorum. There should not be any kind of pressure politics”.He also pointed out that neither had any date for convening the session been mentioned in the cabinet note, annexed with the government’s request, nor had the cabinet given its approval to it.He said he will follow constitutional norms to convene a session, denied there was any pressure on him from the BJP, and wondered why Gehlot was in a hurry to prove his majority on the floor of the House when no one had made such a demand.The government has neither given any reason for calling the session on such a short notice nor proposed any agenda for it, said the governor, pointing out that a 21-day notice is mandatory for calling an assembly session.The statement added Mishra had also asked the government “to ensure the independence and freedom of movement of all members of the legislative assembly”.On Friday, the chief minister said that a letter was forwarded to the governor on Thursday night for calling the session, but he had not taken any decision on it.Congress legislators supporting Gehlot had also staged a dramatic five-hour-long demonstration at Raj Bhavan on Friday, demanding that Mishra call a special session of the assembly and allow a floor test.As Gehlot met the governor inside, the MLAs sat on the lawns, shouting slogans and asserting that they will stay put till the governor issues an order for the session.The Congress party has it is confident of winning in the midst of their power tussle with Sachin Pilot and those backing him.Gehlot camp feels that going for an immediate floor test may be the best way to end the political impasse and save the government that has been staring at uncertainty in the wake of a split in its ranks.The chief minister has the support of 101 members, excluding Speaker CP Joshi. Pilot has 18 other Congress MLAs and three Independents in his camp, taking his tally to 22. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, one Congress MLA said to be close to Pilot, is indisposed.The Congress has accused the BJP of instigating the political crisis in Rajasthan and attempting to topple the state government. The BJP has denied the allegation and said the crisis in Rajasthan was triggered by an internal feud in the Congress.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-calls-another-cabinet-meet-will-discuss-governor-s-reservations-over-rajasthan-assembly-session/story-r93bflfNQzqFzzfQOFsK8L.html
25-07-2020||India||Benefitting during a disaster: Rahul Gandhi’s latest attack on govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been lashing out at the Centre relentlessly, on Saturday attacked the “anti-poor” government for what he said was earning a profit during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.The former Congress president’s tweet came after the railways ministry said the Indian Railways generated Rs 429.90 crore revenue through fares collected for Shramik Special trains till July 9. “There are ‘clouds’ of the disease, people are in trouble, one can make benefits - the anti-poor government is earning by turning a disaster into profit,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.He also attached a report about the railways’ revenue along with his tweet.The railways started operating the trains from May 1 to ferry migrant workers stranded in cities back to their villages after the national lockdown.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity, that the national carrier, however, spent around Rs 2400 crore in operating Shramik Trains, adding that the revenue generated “should be taken as receipt only in lieu of expenses incurred by the railways in running of Shramik trains”.The ministry had said in June said the average cost of fares for migrants aboard Shramik Special trains was Rs 600 and added that it spent around Rs 3,400 per person to operate the train.Railways operated 4,496 special trains between May 1 and July 9, ferrying 6.3 million people.Gandhi has been leading his party’s attack on the Centre over a number of issues, including the handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the border standoff with China, for some time now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/benefitting-during-a-disaster-rahul-gandhi-latest-attack-on-govt/story-1gsmzpG7S4G17qV05idEnO.html
25-07-2020||India||2 terrorists killed in ongoing encounter on outskirts of Srinagar||Two terrorists were killed and a soldier injured in an encounter that broke out on the outskirts of Srinagar on Saturday, police said.Ishfaq Rashid, a resident of village Sozeith, was one of the two terrorists killed. He was one of the top LeT commanders active since 2018 and wanted in many cases of terrorism. The other was from Pulwama district’s LeT cadre, Aijaj Bhat. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Ranbirgarh area on the outskirts of the city this morning following information about the presence of terrorists there, a police official said.As the forces were conducting the search, terrorists fired upon them, he said, adding that the forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter.The area falls in Panzinara on the outskirts of Srinagar city bordering North Kashmir’s Baramulla district.Exchange of firing is going on and further details are awaited.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-terrorists-on-outskirts-of-srinagar/story-tJUZfJ6B0mmhQMtmMA7I7J.html
25-07-2020||India||CRPF Sub Inspector kills senior, self in Delhi||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Sub Inspector allegedly shot dead his senior before killing himself in South Delhi, officials said on Saturday.The incident took place around 10:30pm on Friday at a safehouse of the intelligence bureau(IB) in South Delhi, they said.Officials said an argument took place between the Sub Inspector and his senior inspector, and the SI allegedly killed the Inspector with his service weapon and later shot himself dead, they said.Senior officials of the paramilitary force and local police reached the spot soon after. An inquiry is being conducted to ascertain the reason behind the incident, they said. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-sub-inspector-kills-senior-self-in-delhi/story-jBHz2kxXlGX3ABLfumtjjN.html
25-07-2020||India||Nearly 49,000 fresh Covid-19 take India’s tally to over 13.36 lakh, death toll at 31,358||India, the third worst-hit country in the world after the United States and Brazil, now has 13,36,861 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 31,358 people have succumbed till date, Union health ministry data showed on Saturday.The country’s tally of the coronavirus disease mounted to more than 1.3 million after 48,916 Covid-19 cases and 757 fatalities due to the viral disease were reported in the last 24 hours.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of Covid-19 cases saw a slight dip after India reported record new infections for two days in a row—45,720 on Thursday and 49,310 on Friday.There are 456,071 active cases of the respiratory disease and 849,431 patients have been cured so far, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard.With 32,223 people discharged from hospitals between Friday and Saturday morning, India saw another highest single-day recovery for the fourth consecutive day. The recovery rate has now reached a new high of 63.53%.The cumulative Covid-19 recoveries had crossed the 8 lakh-mark on Friday. The Union health ministry has said it is formulating guidelines to help manage long-term complications that some people have reported after recovering from severe Covid-19 illness.“The ministry is working on guidelines for discharged patients who may develop other complications post-recovery at home. It has been reported that a section of recovered patients may experience respiratory or heart-related issues, renal or liver complications, or even ophthalmological (eye-related) side-effects,” said Rajesh Bhushan, an officer on special duty, the health ministry.“Our experts are working on putting a document together to guide people on what kind of long-term care would they require, and what are the issues that they may face,” Bhushan said on Friday.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu have been responsible for nearly two out of every three new infections reported till early July but the current spurt in Covid-19 cases have been reported from states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal.Maharashtra reported 357,117 cases, Tamil Nadu 199749 and Delhi 128,389 so far, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.The government has asked nine states adding to the present spurt of the active caseload in the country to urgently ramp up testing, strictly implement containment plan, augment health infrastructure and ensure effective clinical management.Chief secretaries and health secretaries of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Assam were asked to review their response strategy and follow the central norms during a virtual review meeting chaired by the cabinet secretary. “The cabinet secretary stressed the need for prompt and proper delineation of containment zones as per the guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; intensive contact tracing and house-to-house active case search within the Containment Zones so as to effectively break the chain of transmission. Buffer Zones to be identified outside the Containment Zones and continued surveillance of SARI/ILI cases needs to be undertaken,” the government said in a statement.The attention of the states was drawn to the fact that early detection and timely clinical management is the key to contain the spread of Covid-19, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-49-000-fresh-covid-19-take-india-s-tally-to-over-13-36-lakh-death-toll-at-31-358/story-PfxGM1Bg0zMp10P6acHFXM.html
25-07-2020||India||Navlakha quizzed on links with ISI man held in US||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), earlier this week, questioned civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha about his links with Syed Gautam Nabi Fai, the US based Pakistan bankrolled Kashmiri separatist who was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in 2011 and later sentenced to a two-year term, two people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Navlakha, currently in prison, was taken into custody by NIA from July 17 till July 22 for interrogation, and was particularly asked about a claim made by US Attorney Neil H MacBride in an affidavit in 2011 on the basis of a FBI investigation that claimed “Gautam Navlakha was introduced to an ISI General for recruitment by Fai at the ISI’s direction”, the officials said.The agency is also investigating Navlakha’s visits to the US on few occasions to attend seminars on Kashmir organized by Fai’s Kashmiri American Council (KAC). Interestingly, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan met Ghulam Nabi Fai in New York during his visit there in September last year.According to US Department of Justice and FBI documents, Fai, who was arrested in July 2011, received around $3.5 million since 1990 from Pakistan government officials and the ISI. MacBride, in an affidavit dated December 7, 2011 in a court in Virginia, said: “For the last 20 years, Mr. Fai secretly took millions of dollars from Pakistani intelligence and lied about it to the U.S. government”. “As a paid operative of ISI, he did the bidding of his handlers in Pakistan while he met with U.S. elected officials, funded high-profile conferences and promoted the Kashmiri cause to decision-makers in Washington.”HT has reviewed the US Department of Justice and FBI documents. Fai pleaded guilty on all the charges against him after which he was sentenced in 2012 for two years with three more years of supervised release.NIA, according to officials cited above, has also learnt that after Fai’s arrest, Navlakha wrote to FBI supporting him. The agency is trying to trace this communication , they added.This is the first time that agencies have found a Kashmir link to one of the accused in the Bhima-Koregaon incident, for which which Navlakha was arrested.Bhima Koregaon case is that the speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave on December 31, 2017, which was allegedly funded by Maoists, “aggravated” the violence near Koregaon Bhima war memorial in Pune district the next day.Agency officials added that they are also investigating Navlakha’s trips to other countries as well to attend different seminars and conferences where Kashmir or other issues were discussed.The officers added that they have evidence which establishes that Navlakha visited to the jungles of Chhattisgarh to meet the Maoist leadership as well. The agency has recovered some invitation letters from Maoists to him in this regard while his phone, email and travel details are being checked.Yug Chaudhry, Navlakha’s lawyer said: I don’t know about his visits to the US but his visits to the jungle are already in the public domain. It was for academic purposes as he was doing a study on Maoism. He has written a book on the visits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navlakha-quizzed-on-links-with-isi-man-held-in-us/story-rO18dtAOXvmjTa5Wc1UMSJ.html
25-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Politics of pressure will not work, says Rajasthan governor and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Politics of pressure will not work, says Rajasthan governorRajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, the man of the hour, said he would follow constitutional norms to convene a session of the assembly session. Read moreTrade curbs signal decoupling from ChinaIndia’s order on Thursday, restricting purchases for large public projects (and even those being developed as public-private partnerships) from companies in countries that share a land border with it, citing national security concerns, is aimed at China. Read more‘The shot in the arm team needed’: When Sachin, Ganguly, Dravid uttered the same words to lift morale of Team India in NatWest finalIf ‘great minds think alike’ idiom needed an advertisement then Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly, and Rahul Dravid provided just that in the famous NatWest Trophy final against England at Lord’s in 2002. Read moreGalaxy Buds Live features, specs and price revealed ahead of August 5 launchGalaxy Buds Live is one of the five products Samsung is launching at its Unpacked event on August 5. We’ve already seen renders of how the bean-shaped Galaxy Buds Live look like but a new leak reveals almost all the specs and features of the wireless earbuds. Read moreRainy affair: Binge on these lip-smacking monsoon snacksPicture this. It’s a beautiful monsoon evening and you’re in your balcony. The aroma of fresh rainwater in the air, and the wind is blowing through your hair… What could be a better way of enjoying the evening than with a hot cup of tea and piping hot pakodas! Read moreVidya Balan on what it took to become Shakuntala Devi on screen | Aur BataoIn the latest episode of ‘Aur Batao’ RJ Stutee speaks to Vidya Balan about her latest film, Shakuntala Devi. The actor explaines what it took to become Shakuntala Devi on screen. Read moreKangana Ranaut explains ‘B-grade actors’ comment on Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker: ‘You are not fitting in’Actor Kangana Ranaut is still staying firm on the comment she recently made about actors Taapsee Pannu and Swara Bhasker. Kangana had called the two ‘B-grade actors’ who are not rising up in ranks despite being ‘chaaploos’ (bootlickers). Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-politics-of-pressure-will-not-work-says-rajasthan-governor-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DgIKG8LHmKbjjOOVfsvskN.html
25-07-2020||India||Man who married transgender five years ago arrested for kidnapping infant||A 31-year-old man was arrested in Jaipur on Friday on charges of kidnapping an infant because he didn’t have a child, the police said. They said the man married a transgender five years ago and was unhappy about not having a child. The Jaipur city police on Friday had arrested four persons identified as Neeraj Kumar (30), Jitendra Gurjar (31), Rajamohan (27), Rahul Singh (27). On Wednesday night around 8 pm, a two-year-old daughter of a construction labour was abducted by four bike-borne men from Pratap Nagar police station area. “Seeing the seriousness of the case, three special teams were formed to nab the accused and find the girl. On the basis of technical and manual investigations, teams were sent to Khaniya Bandha and Luniyawas area of the city who started looking for the girl. On Friday, the location of the girl was traced and she was rescued,” said Rahul Jain, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), East. Also read: Politics of pressure will not work, says Rajasthan governorA senior police official related to the investigation said that the preliminary probe reveals that Gurjar had married a transgender and wanted a baby to fulfil their wish of parenthood.  “As Gurjar had married a transgender five years back, he could not have a baby because of his partner. A few days back, Gurjar shared his problem with his friend Rajamohan and asked him to look for a baby. Rajamohan further asked Rahul and Neeraj to look for a baby after which they found a girl on July 20 in Ramnagariya police station area. They kidnapped her and later dropped her at her home and on July 22 as the child was older. They later kidnapped the victim on July 22 night,” the officer said. He further added that the girl is fine and has been handed over to her family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-married-transgender-five-years-ago-arrested-for-kidnapping-infant/story-lpq7piot0bPutElJp3NdII.html
25-07-2020||India||Railways earned Rs 429.90cr from Shramik trains||The Railways generated Rs 429.90 crore revenue through fares collected for Shramik Trains till July 9, according to ministry data. The national carrier spent around Rs 2400 crore in operating Shramik Trains, a senior ministry official said.The national carrier received highest revenue in fares from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with Rs 102 crore, Rs 85 crore and Rs 34 crore respectively, according to the data reviewed by HT. The fares were supposed to be paid by states, though there have been several reports of local administrations collecting the money from migrant workers.The trains were run starting May 1 to ferry migrant workers stranded in cities, back home to their villages in the hinterland. The national carrier however,spent around Rs 2400 crore in operating Shramik Trains, a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity, adding that the revenue generated “should be taken as receipt only in lieu of expenses incurred by the Railways in running of Shramik Trains”. The ministry in June said the average cost of fares for migrants aboard Shramik Special trains was Rs 600 and added that it spent around Rs 3400 per person to operate the train. The official cited above said the fares were taken from the states. “It may be noted that railways incurred 85% of the cost of operating Shramik Trains. It was an important operation to rise up for the need of the nation during the lockdown,” a spokesperson for the ministry said.Railways operated 4,496 special trains between May 1 and July 9, ferrying 6.3 million people. The fare structure included regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-earned-rs-429-90cr-from-shramik-trains/story-Z6S5647BtSrZ7ieHZhlMjJ.html
25-07-2020||India||Meghwal faces flak for ‘antibody papad’||Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal faced flak on Friday for promoting a brand of papad and claiming it had ingredients which could develop antibodies to combat Covid-19.In the video, Meghwal, who is the minister of state for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and Parliamentary Affairs, is seen holding a packet of the papad while he says “My country men, under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat campaign, a papad manufacturer has brought out this brand that helps in developing antibodies needed to fight Covid-19 through food. This papad will be helpful in the fight against Covid-19.”A senior government functionary posting unverified claims on social media evoked a barrage of reactions. “Fight against Covid-19 update: US govt: We are developing a vaccine. UK govt: We are on stage 3 of clinical trials. Indian govt: Ye lo Bhabhiji papad. It will help fight Corona,” said a user on Twitter.Another social media user said, “Why spend millions of dollars on vaccine development when you can sit at home and eat papad to protect yourself from Covid-19. P.S. The joke is on us 1.3 billlion Indians.”Political opponents and rivals of the government too seized the opportunity to take a dig at Meghwal. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted: “Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal has launched a ‘papad’ brand amid Covid pandemic claiming it contains some ingredients that help develop antibodies against the new coronavirus. Ministers, Ramdev all trying to profit from Covid peddling bogus cures.”The twitter handle of the youth wing of the Congress was also seen hitting out. “Breaking News : CORONA vaccine invented . Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal has launched a ‘papad’ , says ‘it can help develop antibodies against Covid-19’,” said the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghwal-faces-flak-for-antibody-papad/story-52VnH2G6KbtPQvzshmFsrN.html
25-07-2020||India||Isolated lockdowns not enough: Centre||Two to three-day lockdowns alone are not enough to contain Covid-19, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba told representatives of nine states at a special review meeting on Friday while cautioning against the delay in procurement of testing kits, officials aware of the matter said. Gauba warned the delay might have “grave consequences” and added some states have demonstrated “the situation can be turned around” while others have “showed how it can deteriorate”, they added.Many states have enforced lockdowns over weekends in select areas to tackle spiralling Covid-19 cases.Chief secretaries of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, West Bengal and Assam attended the meeting along with senior central government officials. “These nine states are new concern areas for us,” said a union government official. “...several issues of compliance and Covid-19 management have come up in these states.” Gauba usually holds meetings with representatives of all states on Covid-19, but Friday’s was a rare meet with select states.Along with the weekend lockdowns, systematic containment and surveillance would be required, the Centre told the states. It also asked the states to strengthen hospital infrastructure and clinical management.Gauba pointed out delay in decisions has shown grave consequences in some cases and asked the states to ensure advance procurement plans for testing kits and other medical equipment. An official, who attended the meeting, said the rate of testing suddenly dropped in some states and they did not have enough antigen kits.The Centre has emphasised stronger communication between the administration and the public. West Bengal chief secretary Rajeeva Sinha pointed out that his state has multiple issues, including occupancy of Covid-19 beds by non-symptomatic patients. Bihar’s representative said they have not involved private hospitals but it would be done from Monday and sought the Centre’s permission to set up rapid antigen test booths.The states were advised to ramp up testing with special focus on containment zones as sustained and aggressive testing is crucial for early identification of cases, and to prevent the spread of infection.“The rise in test per million has been achieved with a steady rise in the number of labs [1,290], and efforts by the Centre and State/UT [Union Territory] governments to facilitate wide-spread testing through an array of options,” said Union health ministry in a statement.Dr T Jacob John, a former virology department head at Vellore’s Christian College, said he cannot stress enough on how aggressive testing is a must to control the Covid-19 spread. “It is better to overdo it rather than inadequate testing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isolated-lockdowns-not-enough-centre/story-zHo461DmesWeUMuJ8jDicI.html
25-07-2020||India||Human trials for Covid-19 vaccines by Bharat Biotech, Zydus underway in 6 cities||Volunteers across the country are being administered the indigenous vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) and Zydus Cadila.Bharat Biotech and Zydus were granted permission for Phase I and II clinical trials of Covaxin and ZyCoV-D respectively and the pharmaceutical companies have said the first doses of their vaccine candidates were administered to volunteers on July 15.A third vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and backed by AstraZeneca Plc will soon be tested in India. Serum Institute of India is in a manufacturing partnership with the UK’s AstraZeneca. The Pune-based Serum Institute has said it will be starting trials of the Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate by the end of August on up to 5,000 Indian volunteers after getting the necessary nods and launch it by June next year if all goes well.Covaxin, which has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), will be tested at 12 institutes, including All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi and Patna, and PGI Rohtak.Testing of Zydus’ ZyCoV-D is limited to its research centre in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad right now and will be extended to multiple cities across the country.Zydus is looking to complete clinical trials of ZyCoV-D in seven months, the company’s chairperson said on Friday. The firm is looking to complete phase I and phase II clinical trials in the next three months and submit the data to the regulator, Zydus Cadila Chairman Pankaj R Patel said in a statement.It could take a total of seven months for the trials to be completed and for the vaccine to be launched, depending on the study outcomes and if the data is encouraging and the vaccine is found to be effective during the trials, he added. CovaxinCovaxin trials have already begun in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, AIIMS Patna, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Haryana’s Rohtak, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Kanchipuram and Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad.The centres are conducting simultaneous phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials to study the safety and immunogenicity of different doses and adjuvant combinations of the vaccine developed by the biotechnology company, in collaboration with ICMR’s National Institute of Virology. An adjuvant is a compound that helps increase the effectiveness of a vaccine.Vaccine trials are yet to start at King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam, Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belgaum, Gillurkar Multispeciality Hospital in Nagpur, Rana Hospital in Gorakhpur, Kalinga Hospital in Bhubaneswar, Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur and CROM Clinical Research Private Ltd and Medical Tourism in Goa.AIIMS DelhiAIIMS Delhi administered its first dose of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate to a 30-year-old healthy man on Friday as part of its combined phase 1 and 2 trials for the drug.“The vaccine candidate was administered to the first trial participant — a healthy 30-year-old man — around noon on Friday. He was monitored for two hours to check for any adverse reactions. All trial participants will be monitored every day for the first seven days. They will then be followed-up on day 14 and day 28. They will be tracked for up to a year to observe any long-term impacts,” said Dr Puneet Misra, one of the investigators of the trial and a professor of community medicine at AIIMS.The centre has received nearly 3,500 applications for the trials so far, and 100 healthy participants will be enrolled from among them. Participants have to be between the ages of 18 and 55 years and have no comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease.“Our priority is safety and hence we need healthy participants. Those who are called in for the trial have to undergo a battery of tests to determine their general health. They are tested for a current infection using RT-PCR test and for past infections using an antibody test. Participants are given the vaccine only if they are free of Covid-19. For now, we are also selecting participants only from Delhi and the National Capital Region for the ease of follow-ups,” said Dr Misra.The vaccine is currently being administered in two doses — 0.3 and 0.5 microgram. In the 0.5 microgram dosage, the vaccine is being given with two different adjuvants. Of the 100 who will be enrolled, 80 will get different dosages and combination of the vaccine, and 20 participants will receive placebos.PGIMSPGIMS became the second facility in India after AIIMS Patna, to begin the human trials. Dr Savita Verma, the principal investigator of the trial, said they had administered the first dose of vaccine (0.5ml) to three volunteers on July 17.“These volunteers were kept under observation for three hours. They tolerated the vaccine very well. Later, the volunteers were sent back home and a team of doctors will now examine their health every day. PGIMS, along with three other medical institutes, will conduct human trials on 50 volunteers in the first phase. The second phase will commence 14 days later after seeing the result of the vaccine in these volunteers,” she added.Dr Verma said 17 individuals have undergone rigorous medical scrutiny so far to check whether they have been previously infected with the virus or suffered from any liver, lungs or kidney ailments and any other infectious diseases.“Three of these volunteers, who were found eligible, were administered the vaccine today and the report of 13 is awaited,” she added.NIMSClinical trials for Covaxin began at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) in Hyderabad on July 20 with hospital authorities administering the first vaccine dose to two volunteers. In Hyderabad, as many as 30 volunteers have registered with the NIMS for the clinical trials.“Of them, seven more subjects are available and they would be administered the vaccine in the next few days,” NIMS director Dr K Manohar said.According to an official familiar with the development, the volunteers are being drawn from different parts of the state. These subjects would be administered two doses of the vaccine. There will be three types of vaccines — three micrograms, six micrograms and placebo. Each subject would be given the second dose of the same vaccine after 14 days.For two days after administering the vaccine, the subjects would be monitored by a team of doctors in the Intensive Critical Care Unit (ICCU) before being discharged.“Their health condition will be monitored from time to time. The doctors would also look into the interaction with the vaccine digitally as well as through frequent physical check-ups,” the official said.SRMHuman trials at SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre began on Thursday with two volunteers being administered 0.05 ml of the vaccine each. They will get the next dose on day 14.Other sitesKing George Hospital (KGH) in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, which was also selected by the ICMR for clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine, is yet to commence the exercise.“We have got the approval from the ICMR, but are yet to get the clearance from the state government. We have written to the Director of Medical Education to give the nod for clinical trials and once we get it, we shall start,” Dr K Indira Devi, in-charge superintendent of the KGH, told Hindustan Times.Institute of Medical Sciences and Sum Hospital, a privately-run medical college in Bhubaneswar, started screening prospective candidates on July 20. Reports said Nagpur’s Gillurkar Multispecialty Hospital and Research Centre, the only site for human trials of Covaxin in Maharashtra, is expected to start Phase 1 by end of July or the first week of August.Two private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh will also soon begin human trials of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech.The two hospitals—Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur and Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre in Gorakhpur—are also among the 12 institutes across the country where the human trial of the vaccine candidate will be conducted.Prakhar Hospital is looking at a sample size of 50 people in the first phase and another 150 in the second phase of the human trial. The Rana Hospital, meanwhile, is awaiting a safety certificate before the trials can begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-trials-for-covid-19-vaccines-by-bharat-biotech-zydus-underway-in-6-cities/story-FlIRk7lEIDMXdQafiLFmzO.html
25-07-2020||India||Man dies waiting for treatment at MP hospital for 14 hours, alleges wife; probe ordered||A man died in the district hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna after he had to allegedly wait for treatment for about 14 hours on Thursday as he did not have the money to pay for the patient slip, his wife has alleged, prompting the district collector to order a magisterial inquiry.The magisterial inquiry was ordered after the civil surgeon of Guna, 214km north of Bhopal, in his report submitted to the collector on Friday denied anyone from the hospital demanded any money from the man’s wife or that he was denied treatment. Local media reported on Thursday that Aarti Rajak, 20, a resident of Shankar Colony in Ashok Nagar, the neighbouring district of Guna, reached the hospital with her husband Sunil Dhakad, 22, and their two-and-a-half-year-old child on Wednesday evening. Rajak said while speaking to reporters she took her husband to Guna with the help of driver of a loading vehicle who didn’t charge any money from them. While her husband lay under a tree inside the hospital campus, she approached a counter for getting a patient slip to consult a doctor but the man sitting there demanded money. She didn’t have enough money so she returned to take care of her husband and they spent the night under the tree. On Thursday morning, she again made an attempt to get a slip but another man at the counter said she would have to wait till the next counter opened. Her husband died at about 8am on Thursday. Kumar Purushottam, Guna’s collector, said on Friday he had ordered an inquiry on Thursday by Dr SK Shrivastava, the civil surgeon of the district hospital after he got to know that a man had died on the district hospital campus without treatment. “In his eight-page report, the civil surgeon claimed that as per the CCTV footage the woman reached the hospital campus at 4am on Thursday and didn’t approach any hospital staff for any treatment. No money was demanded from her as, as per the state government’s order no fee is being charged by the hospital for the patient slip,” Purushottam said.“The civil surgeon has also claimed in his report that the woman in her statement in the hospital admitted that she didn’t get inside the hospital campus and that as per statement recorded from the deceased’s friend Jameel Khan the deceased was suffering from tuberculosis and was liquor and drug addict,” he added. The collector said when someone approached any hospital, it is the duty of the hospital staff to provide treatment to them and show sensitivity towards them. “Hence, I have ordered a magisterial inquiry to be conducted by deputy collector Sonam Jain to look into the matter and if anyone is found responsible for dereliction of duty a strict action will be taken against him,” he said. The woman, who returned to Ashok Nagar with her husband’s body, could not be reached for her comments. (With input from Yogendra Loomba in Guna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-waiting-for-treatment-at-mp-hospital-for-14-hours-alleges-wife-probe-ordered/story-TZztAc2g4BNAopwXGMLPLO.html
25-07-2020||India||6 foreign jamaat members, two others sentenced to one month imprisonment||As many as six foreign jamaat members and two from India who accompanied them were sentenced to a month-long imprisonment and are required to pay a fine by a trial court in Sehore, the neighbouring district of Bhopal, on Friday, as per the district prosecution unit in Sehore. As per an official release from the district prosecution officer Nirmala Singh Chaudhary, the convicts Khin Maung Zaw, Thnin Tharyi Khin Maung, Zawoo, Ye Lin Phyo, Thein Lni and Myoo OO are residents of Myeik, Myanmar. Mashur Rehman hails from Jharkhand and Ahmad Hussain is from Bihar. The official release said, “The convicts having visited Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi reached Bhopal and stayed in different mosques over there on February 21, 2020. The foreigners had a tourist visa. During the inquiry (by police) it came to be known that they reached Sehore on February 26 and stayed at Pukhta masjid for the propagation of their religion in violation of the tourist visa. They were advised by the Sehore district hospital’s civil surgeon to quarantine for 14 days but they continued to meet people while ignoring the advice.” The official release stated, “These eight were sentenced to one month’s imprisonment and a total fine of Rs 16,800 on all of them under section 51-B of National Disaster Act and section 14 of the Foreigners Act.” Additional district prosecution officer (ADPO) Kedar Singh Kaurav said, “The convicts were arrested by police on May 22 and produced before the court on May 23 and later sent to jail. They got bail as per an order of the high court on July 14. Since they have already been in jail for more than a month, they will not have to go to jail.” Kaurav said all the proceedings on Friday were completed through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-foreign-jamaat-members-two-others-sentenced-to-one-month-imprisonment/story-JVLtRe0L7SOb6vhyVOIDMJ.html
25-07-2020||India||Formulating rules for patients recovered from Covid-19: Govt||The Union health ministry’s technical wing is formulating guidelines to help manage long-term complications that some people have reported after recovering from severe Covid-19 illness, officials aware of the matter said.“The ministry is working on guidelines for discharged patients who may develop other complications post-recovery at home. It has been reported that a section of recovered patients may experience respiratory or heart-related issues, renal or liver complications, or even ophthalmological (eye-related) side-effects. Our experts are working on putting a document together to guide people on what kind of long-term care would they require, and what are the issues that they may face,” said Rajesh Bhushan, an officer on special duty, the health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe ministry’s technical wing, or Joint Monitoring Group (JMG), includes several domain experts. Dr Rajiv Garg, the director-general health services, chairs the group. The group includes experts from New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences, representatives from the Indian Council of Medical Research and World Health Organisation’s India office. “This group provides an expert opinion on various topics from time to time… it has been responsible for providing technical inputs to draft guidelines on issues related to testing, isolation of patients, home isolation dos and dont’s, clinical management of Covid-19 cases in and outside hospitals…” “My experience is that symptoms such as fever and breathlessness go away, and patients also become non-contagious after discharge, but they keep experiencing lethargy, disturbed sleep, body ache, loss of appetite, feeling feverish, and sometimes even fever that comes and goes. There is also a feeling of extreme anxiety and depression,” said Dr GC Khilnani, ex-pulmonary medicine department head at New Delhi’s AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/formulating-rules-for-recovered-patients-govt/story-5M94NRcJ7cEgt278J0zxAJ.html
25-07-2020||India||SC to hear 10-year-old contempt case against Prashant Bhushan on August 4||The Supreme Court on Friday fixed hearing on a decade-old contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan on August 4 indicating that it would not allow his father and senior advocate Shanti Bhushan to be joined as a party in the proceeding. The apex court had issued a fresh contempt notice against the same lawyer this week for his tweets directed against the judiciary and the present CJI which is listed for hearing on August 5.Bhushan faced contempt over an interview given to Tehelka magazine in September 2009 where he had said that half of the last 16 CJIs were corrupt. His father intervened in the case bringing out evidence against the CJIs in a sealed cover and offering to go to jail if his son was punished for contempt. The contempt plea against Bhushan was moved by senior advocate Harish Salve who assisted the Court as amicus curiae (friend of the Court).The hearing on the contempt petition started in January 2010 and was last heard on May 2, 2012. When the matter was taken up after a gap of 8 years by a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, the Bhushan camp requested the Court to put off hearing in the case till physical court resumes.Shanti Bhushan who appeared through video conferencing told the bench, “I find it very hard to address the Court through video conferencing. This matter has waited for 10 years. It can wait for a few more weeks till physical court hearing resumes.”But the Court bluntly put to him, “You are too much senior to be impleaded (joined as party) in this case. It’s a suo moto contempt petition. We are not impleading you.” The former law minister insisted that a decision to not implead him should be taken after hearing his application. The bench replied, “Your application repeats what is stated by your son. You have said, ‘I’m ready to go to jail if he is punished’. All this argument is made out of love and affection. We understand our responsibility.”For Prashant Bhushan, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan submitted to the Court that his case records were at Kasauli and cannot be procured. He requested for time to prepare on the question of having a Constitution Bench to hear the matter. He also raised doubts on Salve leading the contempt when he has not been officially appointed as amicus in the contempt case.The bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, said, “We will give you time as per your satisfaction. At least, let us start hearing it.” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal, another contemnor in this case, said, “This is not a matter where something impending is going to happen, unlike any demolition matter. This hearing can wait for some more time. It has waited for 10 years.”The bench remarked, “Through the virtual court, we are hearing all matters, including constitution bench cases. We will hear you all patiently.” The Court posted the matter on August 4 stating that it would like Salve to assist the Court on the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-10-year-old-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-on-august-4/story-JNh2Z5VekowNCKgUwO3PvL.html
25-07-2020||India||Can agriculture revive economy?||The Indian economy is all set to contract this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There is only bright spot in this year’s economic story; the agriculture sector. A good rabi (winter) crop harvest, adequate rainfall during the ongoing monsoon and encouraging data on sowing on kharif (monsoon) crops, all point towards a good performance by agriculture. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman echoed these sentiments while speaking at the India Ideas Summit organized by the US India Business Council. “We have had a very good rabi crop. All of what were necessary, have been procured at reasonable price so that farmers are not left high and dry looking for purchasers. Now the estimate for kharif crop has also come. We can clearly see agriculture driving the revival”, Sitharaman said on Tuesday.Can a high growth rate in agriculture boost demand? This cannot be taken for granted. Real growth rate calculations take into account value of production at constant prices. The constant price method is necessary to ensure comparability across time periods. Day to day purchasing power, and therefore demand, is more likely to be a function of current or nominal incomes. A HT analysis of recently released National Account Statistics (NAS) data shows that real and nominal incomes need not move in the same direction for India’s farmers.The NAS gives value of output for all crops at current and constant prices from 2011-12 to 2018-19. The value of output for crops can be taken as a proxy for farm incomes. In constant price terms, value of output of crops grew at the highest rate, 5.9%, in 2016-17. This was not the year of fastest growth in nominal farm incomes, though. The highest nominal income growth was 15.3% in 2013-14, when the real income growth was 4.9%. In 2012-13, when real incomes grew at 0.6%, nominal incomes grew at 11.6%. This is more than the 11.1% nominal income growth in 2016-17, when real growth was the highest. (See Chart 1)To be sure, the headline numbers on value of output of all crops hide significant crop-wise differences. For example, real value of output for cereals and fruits and vegetables grew at the almost the same rate, 1.3% and 1.4%, in 2018-19. However the growth in nominal values was drastically different. It was 8.4% for cereals and 0.1% for fruits and vegetables. (See Chart 2A and 2B)When read in consonance with wholesale prices index (WPI) data, which shows that fruit and vegetable prices are far more volatile than cereal prices, the divergence between nominal and real value of output does not seem surprising. WPI is a more useful measure as far as tracking farm gate prices is concerned. (See Chart 3)While it is common to track rice and wheat output as a metric of agricultural performance, fruits and vegetables are as important as cereals when it comes to farm incomes. In 2018-19, the total value of output of fruits and vegetables in constant prices was Rs 3.74 lakh crore. For cereals, this figure was Rs 3.61 lakh crore.A bumper crop this year might create a glut in agricultural markets. Given the fact that non-farm output, and therefore purchasing powers, are set to contract, this could well lead to a sharp fall in food prices. If this happens, the current value of output of crops and therefore growth in farm income may be lower than real growth in agriculture. This will have a direct bearing on agriculture’s ability to boost the rest of the economy. If the agriculture sector has to play a lead role in economic recovery, policy intervention is needed to make sure that farm prices do not crash and put a squeeze on farm incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-agriculture-revive-economy/story-EXizCX1lD0ktZKkkv4m6uL.html
25-07-2020||India||Covid-19 warriors invited to muted I-Day celebration||For the first time in 74 years, Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort in New Delhi will be a low-key affair with fewer guests invited and school children not a part of the festivities due to coronavirus pandemic.Instead, doctors, hospital workers, sanitation workers as well as some cured Covid patients will be invited to the ceremony as recognition of their services in the fight against the disease.In a detailed advisory issued to all the states and union territories, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states to use technology in the best possible manner for the celebrations and avoid large gatherings.Also Read: August 15 approaching, traders say tricolour sales lower than never beforeOfficials familiar with the arrangements being made at Red Fort, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the flag and deliver the annual speech, said the number of invitees at the venue has been reduced significantly and those being considered will sit at a distance. They added that school children will not be called for the ceremony as there are multiple guidelines that say children should stay at home during the pandemic.The Centre has asked all the states to promote the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme through various activities and messages during the Independence Day celebrations.According to the MHA advisory, “The events (at Red Fort and different states) organized could be web-cast in order to reach out people at large, who are not able to participate,”The celebrations in the national capital shall consist of the ceremony at the Red Fort that will include the presentation of a Guard of Honour by the Armed Forces and the Delhi Police to the Prime Minister, unfurling of the National Flag accompanied by playing of the National Anthem and firing of 21-gun salute. The Prime Minister’s speech shall be followed by the singing of the National Anthem and the release of tri-coloured balloons at the end. “At Home” reception at Rashtrapati Bhawan will take place.The MHA has said while organizing various events it is necessary to follow measures like maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, proper sanitization, protecting vulnerable persons and follow all other Covid-19 guidelines.The guidelines for the states include - unfurling of the national flag by the respective chief minister, playing of the national anthem, presentation of guard of honour by the police, including paramilitary forces, home guards, NCC, scouts, speech by the chief minister; and singing of the national anthem.“It would also be appropriate that Covid-19 warriors like doctors, health workers, sanitation workers are invited in the ceremony as a recognition of their noble service in fight against Covid-19 Pandemic,” the advisory said. “Some persons cured from Covid-19 infection may also be invited,” it added. “Performance of Police/Military bands may be recorded at places of historic importance associated with the Independence movement; and recorded versions thereof may be displayed through large screens/digital media, during public functions and on social media,” it noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-warriors-invited-to-muted-i-day-celebration/story-9IDOBgRRSedTpVCLfeQ2pI.html
25-07-2020||India||Distrust and verify: US ups ante against China||The US government launched one of its most strident attacks on China yet with secretary of state Michael Pompeo on Thursday repudiating decades-old American policy of engaging with communist China as a strategy that “failed”, and asking allies and world powers to use “more creative and assertive ways” to press Beijing to change its ways.Pompeo drew on a significant cold war terminology and said China’s military had became “stronger and more menacing” and the approach to Beijing should be “distrust and verify”, adapting President Ronald Reagan’s “trust but verify” mantra about the Soviet Union in the 1980s.The comments come at a time when Beijing’s ties with Washington, as well as New Delhi, are at their worst in decades, and other countries – such as the UK and Australia – have expressed new concerns over threats emanating from China, particularly those relating to how Chinese companies may be helping the government spy on people around the world and the way Beijing may be flexing its muscles in territorial disputes.“The old paradigm of blind engagement with China has failed,” Pompeo said in a widely anticipated policy speech at a legacy California library run by the foundation of late President Richard Nixon, who re-established diplomatic ties with China and paved the way for its opening up to the world with a historic visit in 1972. “If the free world doesn’t change Communist China — [it] will surely change us,” Pompeo added, attacking what is one of the most significant Republican foreign policy achievements in the last five decades. “The free world must triumph over this new tyranny,” he said.It was Nixon’s visit to China in 1972, the first by an American president since the Communists took power in 1949, that upended a Cold War paradigm and paved the way for the normalisation of relations in 1979. The thaw was precipitated by a deterioration in China’s ties with the Soviet Union. Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping visited the US in 1979 after the establishment of diplomatic ties, smiling in photos as he tried on a cowboy hat in Texas. The Houston consulate that is being shut this week opened later the same year -- it was China’s first in the United States.Thursday’s speech was the fourth in a formatted series by senior members of the Trump administration framing the deteriorating relations with China, which has also been marked by a slew of punitive measures such as, most recently, the closure of the Chinese consulate in Houston. On Friday, China ordered the US to close its consulate in the western city of Chengdu, ratcheting up the diplomatic conflict and prompting the White House to caution Beijing against engaging in “tit-for-tat retaliation”.“The current situation in Chinese-US relations is not what China desires to see. The United States is responsible for all this,” said foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin. “We once again urge the United States to immediately retract its wrong decision and create necessary conditions for bringing the bilateral relationship back on track.”China’s state-run broadcaster also quoted Wang as attacking Pompeo’s remarks: “Pompeo’s statement was filled with cold war mentality. It’s a combination of political lies by US politicians recently. We resolutely oppose this.” Also on Friday, the US State Department sent out a notice warning Americans in China of a “heightened risk of arbitrary detention”. “The kind of engagement we have been pursuing has not brought the kind of change in China that President Nixon hoped to induce,” Pompeo said at the lecture, adding: “President Nixon once said he feared he had created a ‘Frankenstein’ by opening the world to the Chinese Communist Party. And here we are.”He said there was now a need for “a new grouping of like-minded nations -- a new alliance of democracies” to change the way they deal with China. He did not specify which these nations were. “We cannot treat this incarnation of China as a normal country,” Pompeo said, adding the United States cannot do it alone because the Chinese have spread far too wide and deep into the world, unlike the Soviet Union, which had remained closed.When asked if he was urging nations to pick between the US and China, in line with a choice the US presented to the world in the 1940s between itself and the USSR, Pompeo said the choice for them was between “freedom and tyranny”.“If we bend the knee now, our children’s children may be at the mercy of the CCP (the Chinese Communist Party), whose actions are the primary challenge to the free world,” he had said in his speech, as he was laying out the threat the world faced form China. “General Secretary Xi Jinping isn’t destined to tyrannize inside and outside of China forever, unless we allow it,” he said. The secretary of state also argued for involving the Chinese people in changing the regime. “We must also engage and empower the Chinese people...a dynamic, freedom-loving people who are completely distinct from the Chinese Communist Party.” he said. He has been meeting Chinese dissidents and victims and survivors of Chinese oppression in Xinjiang and Hong Kong, and some of them were present in the audience at the invitation-only event. Scott Kennedy of Washington’s Center for Strategic and International Studies said cooperation with other democracies on China would be easier said than done, given the Trump administration’s record of dealing with allies.“How do you form a united front against China when the U.S. is bullying its allies, trashing multilateral institutions and pushing an economic decoupling (from China) that no one else supports?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/distrust-and-verify-us-ups-ante-against-china/story-9OHZT9gGipDs2W14RIf1zJ.html
25-07-2020||India||‘Dissent or defiance’: A ‘curious’ Ahmed Patel asks, throws in a scenario||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, in a Twitter post on Friday, threw in a scenario involving BJP chief and some MLAs going incommunicado. Broadening his argument, he said if the group is found to be collaborating with the opposition Congress what would one term it - dissent or defiance.The Congress in Rajasthan is battling rebellion from its very own Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident MLAs who are openly opposing their chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Till last week, Sachin Pilot was the deputy chief minister in the very government until he was sacked by the party for leading the revolt against CM Gehlot. Since the differences came out in public, team Pilot has been away from Jaipur and is reported to be camping in BJP-ruled Haryana. “Very curious to know if the BJP President goes incommunicado with 30 MPs , is actively collaborating with the Congress party & lodging himself in a Congress ruled stated under police protection - will it be mere dissent or defiance that merits disqualification?” tweeted Patel. Very curious to know if the BJP President goes incommunicado with 30 MP’s , is actively collaborating with the Congress party & lodging himself in a Congress ruled stated under police protection - will it be mere dissent or defiance that merits disqualification?Yesterday, the Rajasthan High Court ordered maintaining status quo on disqualification notices issued by the assembly speaker to 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including Sachin Pilot. The notices were served by the assembly speaker to the MLAs on July 14 after the party complained to him that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings last week. The MLAs argue that the issuance of disqualification notices by the speaker is a violation of their freedom of speech. Additionally, they also said that if a group of MLAs raises its voice against the style of CM’s functioning it cannot be termed defection. On the charge of defying the party whip, the MLAs contend that it applies only when the assembly is in session. The Rajasthan chief minister has repeatedly accused his former Number 2 of being hand-in-glove with the BJP and plotting the downfall of his government. Pilot, on his part, has maintained that he is not joining the BJP and is merely raising legitimate concerns against the party leadership of the state.Pilot, who is widely credited with leading the party’s successful 2018 poll campaign, was also sacked as the state unit chief. Before that he led a group of MLAs to Delhi to make his differences with the CM public. Last week, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, who is in Rajasthan as party’s central observer, asked Pilot to not accept the “hospitality” of BJP-ruled Haryana, if he was not joining the BJP.“Come back to your family, sit with your family and place your view before the family,” Surjewala was quoted as saying by ANI in Jaipur, where MLAs loyal to CM Ashok Gehlot are camping.The chief minister, however, was less accommodating and turned on the heat on the young rebel leader. “Our deputy chief minister and PCC president himself was doing the deal and was giving statements that no horse-trading was taking place. What clarification are you giving when you yourself were involved?” he had asked last week.However, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar denied any role in hosting the Congress rebel and several of his followers in a hotel in Manesar amid suggestions that its location indicated Pilot’s move had the blessings of the BJP leadership, which leads the ruling coalition in Haryana.Khattar denied the connection and said private hotels welcome everyone.“Private hotels are open for everyone, anyone can stay there. The Haryana government has no role in it,” said Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-or-defiance-a-curious-ahmed-patel-asks-throws-in-an-example/story-TpNy8lr6NL5a1YrVMK4K3I.html
25-07-2020||India||NDA will contest Bihar polls unitedly, says BJP chief Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda told party leaders from Bihar on Friday that the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state is intact and will fight the coming assembly polls together.In a meeting with Bihar leaders through video conference, he also asked them to continue with welfare work for people hit by the coronavirus crisis.Amid speculation over the assembly poll schedule, he noted that it is for the Election Commission to decide. The state elections are due in October-November but rising cases of Covid-19 and the call by some parties, including opposition RJD and BJP ally Lok Janshakti Party, to postpone them in view of the pandemic have caused some uncertainty.Quoting sources, news agency PTI said Nadda asserted that the NDA, which includes the BJP, chief minister Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP, will remain intact and fight the polls together. His remarks assume significance as the LJP and the JD(U) have been sniping at each other for months.However, senior BJP leaders, including party general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, have rejected speculation about any serious differences in the alliance and maintained that its constituents will fight the assembly polls together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-will-contest-bihar-polls-unitedly-says-bjp-chief-nadda/story-PYVgUeccPjX5w85BVhQmfL.html
25-07-2020||India||Covid stigma triggers group clash in Odisha, 18 arrested by police||The fear and apprehension over Covid-19 triggered a group clash in a village of Puri district today after a person from one village with a known positive case visited another village.Puri SP Akhileswar Singh said a person from Nisibhanra village under Puri Sadar police station area had gone to Kachapashi village when the people of the latter village attacked him over suspicion that he was infected by Covid. A Covid case was recently detected at Nishibhanra village which fuelled such speculation triggering a group clash. Few country-made bombs were also hurled by people of the two villages.In the clash, a person from Kachapashi village was injured and admitted to the Community Health Centre of Rebana village. Police later arrested 18 persons in connection with the group clash.Odisha’s road accident fatalities declined by 65 per cent during lockdownThe fear and stigma over Covid infection has led to several such incidents in the state. Early this week, a man in Mayurbhanj district had to carry his father’s body on a bike to funeral ground after they were deserted over fears that the man had died of Covid. The 56-year-old man had earlier tested positive, but had recovered. When he was being taken to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar from Mayurbhanj in a rented car by his son, he died on the way. The car driver then fled with the car fearing that the man had died from Covid. As the man’s son could not find a hearse van, he put his father’s body on a motorcycle and brought it to the cremation ground for last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-stigma-triggers-group-clash-in-odisha-18-arrested-by-police/story-dvvb5ukb9UGLSHZmzd8mgM.html
25-07-2020||India||Gehlot wants floor test after HC defers verdict||Congress legislators supporting Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot staged a dramatic five-hour-long demonstration at Raj Bhavan on Friday, demanding that governor Kalraj Mishra call a special session of the assembly and allow a floor test, which they said they were confident of winning in the midst of their power tussle with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and those backing him.Hours earlier, the Rajasthan high court, which was hearing a plea by Pilot and his loyalists against disqualification notices sent to them, ordered maintaining status quo on the matter. The ruling meant the assembly speaker CP Joshi cannot decide on disqualifying Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs for the time being. The court also formally admitted the plea by the Congress rebels and deferred its verdict in the case.The decision triggered a flurry of activity in the Gehlot camp, which feels that going for an immediate floor test may be the best way to end the political impasse and save the government that has been staring at uncertainty in the wake of a split in its ranks.At around 2:30pm, legislators led by Gehlot arrived at Raj Bhavan in four buses from the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur where they have been staying. As Gehlot met the governor inside, the MLAs sat on the lawns, shouting slogans and asserting that they will stay put till the governor issues an order for the session. “The governor is our constitutional head. We have requested him [for the session],” Gehlot said outside Raj Bhavan. Earlier, he said he requested Mishra to call a session of the assembly on Monday, but there was no word from him. Gehlot said if the demand for convening a session was not met, MLAs will “not be responsible” if people gherao the governor’s house.The Congress party also accused Mishra of acting on the behest of the Union government. “Governors are supposed to uphold the Constitution and the laws, but governors in this country are acting at the behest of the Union government,” Congress leader Kapil Sibal told a virtual press conference.Mishra later assured that he will call an assembly session though he wanted certain clarifications from the government, Congress functionaries said as the dharna came to an end. They said Mishra wanted the government’s response on these issues before the announcement, and that these will be discussed at a cabinet meeting at 9.30pm.Governor Mishra, meanwhile, sent a six-point questionnaire asking the government to respond as to why the assembly session was being called. “There is no one above constitutional decorum. There should not be any kind of pressure politics...,” he said.He said he will follow constitutional norms to convene a session, denied there was any pressure on him from the BJP, and wondered why Gehlot was in a hurry to prove his majority on the floor of the House when no one had made such a demand.According to the law laid down by the Supreme Court, the governor notifies the holding of a session on the recommendation of the council of ministers.“...the law is clear that a governor is bound by aid and advice of his cabinet, as long as it has not lost its majority on the floor of the house. In a parliamentary system, there cannot be a constitutional authority that prevents a house from being called,” senior counsel Sanjay Hegde told HT.Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan said: “If the Council of Ministers has the confidence of the House, there is no question that the Governor is bound by their advice in convening the legislature.”Gulab Chand Kataria, the leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, said: “The chief minister is saying that the public will come and gherao Raj Bhavan. I would request the Centre that it deploy the CRPF [Central Reserve Police Force] in Rajasthan to maintain law and order. It should not trust the Rajasthan police.”Gehlot has the support of 101 members (though this does not include speaker CP Joshi). Pilot has 18 other Congress MLAs and three independents in his camp, taking his tally to 22. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, one Congress MLA said to be close to Pilot, is indisposed.If Pilot’s tally is added to that of the opposition alliance, it takes their number up to 97. A three-member swing from the Gehlot camp to the Pilot camp or to the BJP could lead to the government falling in the event of a floor test.The Congress accuses the BJP of instigating the political crisis in Rajasthan and attempting to topple the state government. The opposition party denies the claim and says the crisis was triggered by an internal feud in the Congress.Earlier in the day, the Rajasthan high court’s order to maintain status quo on disqualification notices issued by the state assembly speaker to 19 rebel Congress MLAs came as a breather for Pilot.“We are of the considered view that the present writ petition is maintainable. The writ petition is admitted. After completion of filing of pleadings of the parties and the intervenors, counsel for the parties shall be at liberty to file an application for early hearing of the writ petition. Till then, the ‘status quo’ as exists today viz-a-viz impugned notices dated July 14 shall be maintained,” the order by the division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta said.The Congress chief whip, Mahesh Joshi, filed a complaint before the speaker on July 14, seeking action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House.The rebels said Pilot never indicated any intention to leave the Congress party. In their petition filed on July 15, Pilot and other 18 MLAs submitted that were merely exercising their right to criticise party leadership and the functioning of the chief minister.The Pilot camp also challenged the validity of paragraph 2(1) (a) of the 10th Schedule, contending that the provision was very wide since even expression of opinion or views against party leadership are construed as defection.Meanwhile, the assembly speaker moved the Supreme Court and filed a special leave petition on Wednesday, challenging the July 21 order of high court directing speaker to defer disqualification proceedings. The top court said it will look into the crucial question of whether the high court can interfere in proceedings initiated by the speaker even before a decision on disqualification has been taken.Normally, when a matter is admitted, it takes a very long time before it comes up for hearing in due course, Supreme Court advocate Sriram Parakkat said. “But the high court in its order has given liberty to the parties to file an application for early hearing after filing all pleadings. So the court can take up the matter without much delay if such an application is filed and the court finds it fit to hold an early hearing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-wants-floor-test-after-hc-defers-verdict/story-h6qWGe9zXbLeIJ28G8W81N.html
25-07-2020||India||Kanpur case: Man abducted, killed by friend||A 29-year-old man’s friend allegedly masterminded his kidnapping in Kanpur for ransom on June 22 and killed him five days later with of help of his five accomplices fearing the plan may go awry after the former tried to escape from captivity, the Uttar Pradesh police said on Friday. The kidnappers continued making ransom calls after murdering Sanjeet Yadav and allegedly received money as part of a botched police ploy to trap them, prompting the state government to order a high-level probe into their conduct and inaction alleged by his family.Inspector general (IG) of police (Kanpur Range) Mohit Agarwal said five of the six accused—Gyanendra Yadav alias Ishu, Kuldeep Goswami, Neelu Singh, Ramji Shukla, and Preeti Sharma—have been arrested. He added they were looking for the six accused, Simmy Singh, who remains on the run. He added Ishu, Sanjeet Yadav’s friend, masterminded the kidnapping with the help of the other accused.IG Agarwal said the captors stuffed Sanjeet Yadav’s body in a plastic bag and threw it in the Pandu river on Kanpur’s outskirts. He added the kidnappers started making ransom calls from June 29 and first demanded Rs 50 lakh and later accepted Rs 30 lakh after negotiations. Agarwal said Sanjeet Yadav’s family alleged they paid the ransom amount and Barra police station in-charge, Ranjeet Rai and other police officers (the Additional SP and CO, who were suspended in the matter), knew about it as it was a part of the plan to trap the kidnappers on July 13. He said the plan failed as the kidnappers turned out to be smarter and asked the family to throw the bag carrying ransom money from a flyover after making them travel several kilometres. “Those arrested claimed they had not received ransom but the family claimed that they paid. This is yet to be verified,” he said. “Inspector Ranjeet Rai and a sub-inspector Ramesh Kumar were earlier suspended for negligence in the matter around 10 days ago.”Additional police superintendent Aparna Gupta, and circle officer Manoj Gupta were suspended on Friday for their negligence in the case.The state government named additional director general of police Bhagirath P Jogdand to probe the controversy over the ransom. Jogdand will also probe the police negligence, how the kidnappers managed to escape after calling the victim’s family to a certain place and their claims of paying the ransom amount, according to a statement released by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-case-man-abducted-killed-by-friend/story-RcbsknJ2kTup17t7gsWojP.html
25-07-2020||India||US-China ties in nosedive as Trump faces Covid flak||Washington: The United States recorded its first Covid-19 case on January 21.“China has been working very hard to contain the coronavirus,” President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter three days later, taking an indulgent view of Beijing’s alleged culpability. “The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency. It will all work out well. In particular, on behalf of the American people, I want to thank President Xi.”Six months later, on Thursday, Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, was declared a tyrant by Trump’s top diplomat Mike Pompeo.There have been more than four million Covid-19 cases in the United States, and over 144,000 fatalities. SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), may be the “China virus” or the “Wuhan virus”, as Trump and his aides have sought to portray it to shift blame, but it is an American problem, more than anything else.And one that could rob President Trump of a second term.Polls have been brutal on Trump’s handling of the epidemic. Joe Biden, the former vice-president and the presumptive Democratic nominee, leads the President by nearly nine points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. Trump is also trailing Biden in the swing states that gave him the presidency in 2016.Trump is trailing Biden in more than just the polls.He is in such a desperately bad situation politically that he been forced to walk back his earlier attempts to downplay the epidemic. Trump has had to embrace masks (or any facial covering) after mocking Biden for wearing them; and cancel the Republican convention that he had wanted so badly to showcase his first term. He will accept the nomination virtually, it seems, following Biden’s lead.His frustration with China has grown exponentially at the same time. He has attacked Beijing for letting the virus escape its borders. “So it’s a shame that it happened. It shouldn’t have happened. China should have stopped it,” he said Thursday, re-litigating his case against China.Trump ran his 2016 campaign for the White House on the promise of ending China’s rogue behaviour on trade, including currency manipulation. He set into motion a series of measures soon after coming into office that led to a full-fledged trade war between the world’s two largest economies shortly.He pursued a trade deal even though it had become clear that China was not interested in conceding the main American asks, such as ending forced transfer of technology. He won a limited Phase 1 deal, but never got to the larger agreement that he had wanted to claim complete victory.It is no longer a priority. “The trade deal means less to me now than it did when I made it,” Trump told reporters Thursday.Trade ceded centre stage to Covid-19 as the main China issue when infections and fatalities began shooting around March. New York city and state soon replaced China’s Wuhan and Hubei province as the new epicentres of the raging pandemic, and Trump was left defending his shoddy handling of his administration’s first major crisis.Trump and his aides sought to deflect blame by putting it all on China, and soon US-China relations were in a precipitous downward spiral. This led to slew of sanctions, visa restrictions; and harsh remarks over the mistreatment of Uighur Muslims, restrictions in Hong Kong, and aggressive military postures in hot spots such as the South China Sea, and the disputed areas along its borders with India and Bhutan.Earlier this week, the Trump administration ordered the closure of the Chinese consulate in Houston, alleging it was being used as an intelligence-gathering hub. On Friday, China notified the US that it’s revoking the operating permit for the US consulate in Chengdu, according to a statement from Chinese foreign ministry.On Thursday, secretary of state Pompeo signalled the end of the decades-old US policy of engaging China with the hope of changing it and its behaviour.“The old paradigm of blind engagement with China has failed,” Pompeo said in a widely anticipated policy speech at a legacy California library run by the foundation of late President Richard Nixon, who re-established diplomatic ties with China and paved the way for its opening with a historic visit in 1972. “If the free world doesn’t change Communist China — [it] will surely change us,” Pompeo added, setting up his call for an international alliance of “like-minded” nations.There is a need for “a new grouping of like-minded nations -- a new alliance of democracies”, Pompeo said, without specifying which nations.In a question-answer session following the speech, the secretary of state said these nations will have the backing of the US for sure. When asked if he was urging nations to pick between the US and China, in line with a choice the US presented to the world in the 1940s between itself and the USSR, Pompeo said the choice for them was between “freedom and tyranny”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-china-ties-in-nosedive-as-trump-faces-covid-flak/story-Lnq44LQWwaPH2geCFKadtO.html
25-07-2020||India||Advani denies all charges in Babri masjid demolition case||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani, 92, on Friday denied all charges against him in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case and blamed the then Union government of fabricating them against him. Advani appeared before the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court hearing the case to record his statements via video conferencing from his residence in New Delhi. His lawyer, KK Mishra, represented Advani in the CBI court in Lucknow. “LK Advani answered around 100 questions during court proceedings. He denied all allegations against him in the Babri Masjid demolition case and held the then Central government responsible for fabricated charges against him,” said Mishra. The Babri mosque demolition trial is currently at the stage of the recording of statements of the accused under Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), during which the accused get an opportunity to refute the prosecution evidence against them. With Advani’s statement, the CBI court completed the recording of statements of all 32 accused in the demolition case, except Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan, who has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under quarantine in Mumbai. The court has fixed July 28 for Pradhan to record his statement online. Another accused, Om Prakash Pandey of Uttarakhand, has been absconding for 16 years and the CBI court has issued orders to seize his property.All the accused have denied charges against them. Another senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi, 86, appeared before the court. The Babri mosque was brought down by on December 6, 1992 by “kar sevaks” who believed it was built on the birthplace of Hindu God Ram. The decades-old dispute was settled last year when the Supreme Court ordered that the site be given to a trust to build a temple. The court also ordered that alternative land be provided in Ayodhya for a mosque. Advani, Joshi, and others have been accused of being involved in the conspiracy to demolish the mosque.The temple’s foundation-stone laying is expected to be held in the first week of August with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in attendance. Advani, too, is expected to attend the event.In April 2017, the Supreme Court ordered the special court to conduct a day-to-day trial of the demolition case and to conclude it in two years. The deadline expired on April 19. The Supreme Court on May 8 issued a new deadline of August 31 with instructions to deliver the judgment by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advani-denies-all-charges-in-babri-masjid-demolition-case/story-zDAZYXh7tIAIIR4pYbzOBL.html
25-07-2020||India||Daily cases near 50k, hit new high for the 3rd day||With the highest single-day spike of 48,887 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India’s tally of infections crossed the 1.3 million-mark on Friday. This was the third day in a row that India reported a record for new cases.After the United States and Brazil, India is the third worst-hit country in the world with 1,335,501 cases, and 31,394 fatalities that have been recorded in nearly five months since the first case on March 2.While Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu were responsible for nearly two out of every three new infections reported till early July, the latest burst of cases are the result of the spread of the virus to other states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal.On Friday, Maharashtra reported 9,615 new cases, the highest in the country, followed by Andhra Pradesh’s 8,147 and Tamil Nadu’s 6,785 cases, taking the total tallies in these regions to 357,117, 80,858 and 199,749 respectively. Delhi, with the third highest number of total cases in the country, reported 1,025 new infections. Total cases in the national capital are now at 128,389, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.As of Friday, the number of active cases in the country stands at 454,307, while 849,800 people (63.6% of those infected) have been cured or discharged.In the last week, India has added an average of 42,346 cases a day, up from 31,097 a day in the seven-day period before that. HT reported on Thursday that India’s trajectory of average new cases has overtaken Brazil’s and stands second only to that of the United States.On the back of the steady rise in the number of cases in the past week, the doubling rate of cases — the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double — touched the lowest recorded in nearly a month. As of Friday, the doubling rate of cases was 19.3 days, the lowest since June 29 (see chart).On March 25, when the nationwide lockdown started, the doubling time of cases in the country based on the previous week’s rate of new cases was 3.4 days. In the second week of July, it touched the highest so far — 21 days. However, on the back of a week of consecutive drop in the doubling rate, the number now stands at 19.3 days.India’s average weekly test positive rate has risen from 7.7% in mid-June to 11.6% at present, but the aggregate level statistics mask sharp differences in testing performance across the country. Maharashtra has a test positive rate close to 21%, while for Uttar Pradesh, this number is just a little over 4%.With a total of 4,202,361 cases and more than 147,740 deaths, the United States remains the hardest-hit country in the world, with Brazil (2,303,661 cases and 84,440 deaths) and India trailing in second and third place in terms of total infection numbers. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of people who succumbed to the illness from among known infections — was 2.4%, much better than America’s fatality rate of 3.5% and Brazil’s 3.7%. Together, these three countries continue to account for a large majority of new cases. In the last week, the three worst-hit nations are responsible for more than 1 million (60%) of the 1.6 million new cases reported across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-cases-near-50k-hit-new-high-for-the-3rd-day/story-pWX2XwCds7aXIcR7rRS6aO.html
25-07-2020||India||Covid-19 hits celebrations for President Kovind’s 3rd year in office||President Ram Nath Kovind will complete his third year in office on Saturday and all indications are that the Covid-19 pandemic, which has restricted the activities of the country’s first citizen and his office, just as it has for everyone else, may cast a shadow over Rashtrapati Bhavan’s traditional celebratory get-together on Independence Day.For the past four months, Kovind has cut down his public engagements, meeting only a handful of VVIPs. The government’s own guidelines prohibit large congregations and gatherings. A senior official in Rashtrapati Bhavan said that the At Home function will definitely happen, but with a much smaller group. “Usually, Rashtrapati Bhavan would invite about 1500 guests. This time, the invitee list might see just between 40 to 90 people. The function will be held in the conference centre.” That won’t be the only change. At Homes are known for the food on offer. ““But this time, we are contemplating if food should be served to guests or not. And if the food is to be served, how it should be served as arrangements have to be elaborate,”added the official. The Rashtrapati Bhavan’s pruned list may not even include all union ministers,or all ambassadors. “We have to pick and choose. We may call select diplomats to cover different regions. Only a few senior judges and a few editors from media might be included. We don’t see any scope for a large at-home gathering this time,” said the official.On his first and second anniversaries in office, Kovind visited a tribal village and an NGO for disabled children. This time, there is no such plan, but he will be engaged in charitable work and pay his respects to people safeguarding the health of the nation.His office will highlight his achievements: an austerity drive, donating 30% of his annual salary to fight the pandemic, the ban on plastic at Rashtrapati Bhavan, and the massive plantation drive in the estate. The President’s estate has also gone green with a biogas plant,the reuse of waste paper and a ferry service using electric vehicles.While all state visits are on hold, Kovid has hosted 9 state visits including the US president this year and received 15 global leaders. For the first time, ambassadors presented their credentials digitally.Officials said that Kovind wants to make the estate more accessible to people and has already had the huge collection of rare books in Rashtrapati Bhavan library digitized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-hits-celebrations-for-kovind-s-3rd-year-in-office/story-N8gcxM7Wme9o0BrQOAOLuL.html
25-07-2020||India||Floor test best chance for Gehlot, say Congress leaders||The Ashok Gehlot government now sees its best chance in Rajasthan in a floor test in the assembly, after the Supreme Court refused to stay the Rajasthan high court proceedings about speaker CP Joshi’s disqualification notice to 19 rebel Congress MLAs led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.According to two party strategists aware of the matter, a section in the party was wary of Joshi’s decision to go to the Supreme Court to seek stay the high court’s proceedings They also said on condition of anonymity that since the high court put on hold its verdict (and effectively the disqualification proceedings), until the top court weighs on the larger issue of the court’s jurisdiction in the matter, proving a majority in the assembly quickly is the only way forward for Gehlot while he is still confident of the numbers.Also Read: ‘Dissent or defiance’: A ‘curious’ Ahmed Patel asks, throws in a scenarioThe Congress strategists also contended that governor Kalraj Mishra, a former Union minister in the previous Narendra Modi government , will not be able to hold back consent for an assembly session for long if an elected government seeks it. But they saw little merit in going to court for a direction to the governor to hurry his consent, fearing that it might add to the delay. A delay, they added, would only give the Opposition and the Congress rebels time to win over more MLAs to their side.As things stand, Gehlot appears to have the support of 101 members — the majority mark in the 200-member state assembly (though this does not include Joshi). Pilot has 18 other Congress MLAs and three independents, taking his tally to 22. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. One Congress MLA, Bhanwarlal Meghwal, is indisposed, though he is said to be close to Pilot. If Pilot’s tally is added to that of opposition, it takes their number up to 97. This means a three-member swing from the Gehlot camp to the Pilot camp or to the BJP could lead to the government falling in a no-confidence motion.Also Read: Politics of pressure will not work, says Rajasthan governorIf 19 Congress MLAs were disqualified, it would bring down the strength of the assembly to 181, and the halfway mark 91, giving Gehlot a comfortable majority.The Congress legal team, led by Abhishek Singhvi, supported Pilot’s disqualification citing his conduct and remarks of aides under Chapter 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution which says a member can be disqualified “if he has voluntarily given up his membership”. But another section felt the evidence provided might not be enough to prove Pilot’s intention to leave the party. Chapter 2(1)(b) of Tenth Schedule says a lawmaker can be disqualified “if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs or by any person or authority authorised by it in this behalf without obtaining prior permission”. A senior Congress leader felt that once the house is convened, the Pilot’s camp refusal to adhere to party’s directions would be more serious grounds for disqualification than not attending two legislature party meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floor-test-best-chance-for-gehlot-say-cong-leaders/story-lAIWnOZoVQBpDe0PYFjliK.html
25-07-2020||India||Centre’s 5-point advice to 9 states driving recent Covid surge||The Centre held an important meeting on Friday to review the coronavirus situation in nine states that have witnessed a rapid rise in fresh Covid caseload in the past couple of weeks and advised the respective administrations on key areas of focus to contain the disease. The virtual review meeting was chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and was attended by the chief secretaries and health secretaries of nine states--Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, Karnataka, Jharkhand and UP.States were advised to measure their containment efforts in five key areas—testing in containment zones, delineation of containment zones, intensive contact tracing, house to house search within containment zones and mapping of high-risk population—to be able to get a better grip on the situation.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesUnion health ministry said that states were asked to ramp up testing while being advised on the merits of sustained and aggressive testing with special focus on containment zones.“It was reiterated that sustained and aggressive testing is crucial for early identification of cases and to prevent the spread of infection,” the ministry of health and family welfare said.Breaking the chain of transmission was also underlined as another key objective, which the centre said could only be achieved through prompt and proper delineation of containment zones as per the guidelines issued by the government from time to time. States were also advised to go for intensive contact tracing and house-to-house active case search within containment zones.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19India on Friday recorded the highest single-day surge of 49,310 Covid-19 cases that has taken India’s virus tally to 12,87,945. The death toll has risen 30,601 with 740 fresh fatalities. The government has been insisting that it was more important to keep the fatality rate low relying on early detection and treatment, especially among the vulnerable section.This was reiterated in today’s meeting with the above mentioned states. They were told to conduct mapping of high-risk populations, particularly the elderly and those with co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-5-point-advice-to-9-states-driving-recent-covid-surge/story-1hwihIlXzqw1co3q4dEPEN.html
25-07-2020||India||HC keeps status quo: Decoding the decision||The Rajasthan high court on Friday deferred its final verdict on the plea filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress lawmakers challenging the state assembly speaker CP Joshi’s notices of disqualification sent to them. It admitted the case and framed 12 legal questions, which it will examine. Importantly, the high court ordered Joshi to maintain the status quo, effectively barring him from acting on the notices.What are the implications of the order?The speaker cannot decide on disqualification notices against Pilot and the other lawmakers for the time being.When can the speaker act?If the Supreme Court stays the high court order, the speaker can act. The Supreme Court is slated to take up the matter for hearing on Monday on the larger legal question of the high court’s jurisdiction to interfere with the speaker’s proceedings.If the Supreme Court stays the high court order, then the speaker can proceed with the disqualification proceedings. But such relief is unlikely because the Supreme Court declined the stay it when the matter was heard on Thursday.If the Supreme Court does not stay the matter, then the speaker cannot act until the high court pronounces its verdict one way or the other. This will take a while since the high court has admitted the matter for the hearing, which means the case is fit for a very lengthy proceedings and is likely to come up only after some time.What are the issues the Supreme Court is examining?It is examining the limited legal question: whether a high court can interfere with the disqualification proceedings initiated before the speaker decides on them. The Supreme Court, in its 1992 judgment in the Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillu case, had held that judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the speaker/chairman. No interference would be permissible at an interlocutory stage of the proceedings, the court had said. The court is proposing to re-examine this legal principle. If the three-judge Supreme Court bench, which is currently hearing the case, thinks that a five-judge bench judgment needs re-consideration, then it might have to send the matter to a larger bench of seven judges. This means the Supreme Court verdict will take a long time.What are the issues the high court is hearing?The high court will examine the Constitutional validity of clause 2(1)(a) of the Constitution’s Tenth Schedule that contains provisions related to the disqualification of lawmakers for defection. Clause 2(1)(a) is about voluntarily giving up membership of a political party on whose ticket a lawmaker is elected on.The Pilot camp has contended that merely voicing opinion against party leadership does not amount to “voluntarily giving up membership” and clause 2(1)(a), to the extent it prohibits the expression of opinion, violates the basic structure of the Constitution and the freedom of speech under Article 19. The high court will also decide the validity of the speaker’s notices issued on July 14. In deciding these questions, it has framed 12 issues that it will consider.Has the high court said that it will wait for Supreme Court order?It has not expressly mentioned it in its Friday order that it will wait for the Supreme Court order before it hears the case again. But since the case has been admitted by the high court, it is not likely to come up for hearing immediately. Moreover, the Supreme Court has clarified the high court judgment will be subject to the outcome of the proceedings in the apex court. This means the high court might not take up the matter again until the Supreme Court settles the legal question.What other legal option does the speaker have now?The options are limited. The speaker can challenge Friday’s order before the Supreme Court by way of a fresh appeal. But since the speaker earlier challenged the July 21 high court order, which had also deferred his action, the subject matter of both appeals will be the same. In such a scenario, the new appeal is also likely to be tagged along with the pending appeal and heard together which means it might not yield any desired result. Therefore, the matter in all likelihood would be rendered infructuous for the speaker.TakeawaysIt is advantage Pilot camp. The high court order of status quo means the speaker cannot disqualify the rebel lawmakers for now. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will, therefore, have to ensure his 101 MLAs remain with him. This is because the full strength of the Rajasthan assembly—200—will vote in the event of a trust vote. Gehlot currently has a wafer-thin majority. If all the members vote, a change in the stance of one or two MLAs can bring down the government. Had either the high court or the Supreme Court allowed action on the disqualification pleas, the speaker might have proceeded with the disqualifications. This would have brought down the assembly strength to 181 and made it easier for Gehlot to secure a victory in the floor test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-keeps-status-quo-decoding-the-decision/story-vVSDBoSvrrPsIf8npemelK.html
25-07-2020||India||‘The HC has no regard for precedent’: Kapil Sibal||No court can pass any protective order for those against whom disqualification petitions are pending, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal told Sunetra Choudhury in an interview, adding that he was shocked by the Rajasthan high court’s Friday order. He also said he was concerned about what’s happening in the Congress. Edited excerpts:What according to you was the import of the High Court judgement today? I am shocked, totally shocked. Obviously the HC has no regard for precedent. There is a 5-judge judgement of the Supreme Court which says that the proceedings before the Speaker till the Speaker decides on the disqualification are proceedings of the house. And that therefore, no court can pass any protective orders for those against whom the disqualification petitions are pending. It’s a decision which was taken way back in 1992 in a case in which I was also a counsel. That’s the judgement of the SC and it is binding on every court. It’s a sad day if institutional authorities do not give respect to judgements of court. The argument is that pointing out the faults of the Chief Minister doesn’t warrant disqualification... The disqualification notice is a matter of public record and is 3-4 pages long and gives all grounds and sets out what the fears are. It has nothing to do with what you are saying. Many of them (the dissident MLAs) said they want a trust vote to be held. Now, if you are a member of the party, and you owe allegiance to the party and you haven’t left the party, then what’s the trust vote you want to hold? Why have you gone to Haryana which is not a Congress state? And you are being protected by the Haryana police and the CRPF-- what is that got to do with what you are saying? The issue jurisdictional, till the Speaker decides on those issues, the court cannot pass an order-- that’s the law of this country.Also Read: Why can’t Gehlot wait for floor test: Mukul Rohatgi As we speak there is a dharna (protest) by Gehlot and his legislators at Raj Bhavan. The CM used strong words against Pilot and is now criticising the governor ... I remember Gandhiji and the days of the British Raj. when the powers that be never listened to the freedom fighters. Ultimately what did Gandhiji do? He held dharnas. What did our national leaders do? They held dharnas, so a dharnas is not an uncivilised act. As far as language is concerned, every person uses the language that is judicious to use, I don’t want to comment on that. We may not have any knowledge or information about what was been happening in the past within the state, and what actions were taken by certain people. And that, I guess, the CM is privy to and he may have said something. Media should look at the issue and not the words. What’s the issue here? A man says he’s a member of the Congress party, and yet the man says my people and I will not go to meetings of the Congress party. Here is a man who became MP in his 20’s, then in 2009, in his early 30’s he became a minister. He lost in 2014, then when the assembly elections took place, he became deputy chief minister. He had 5-6 portfolios. What’s he unhappy about? Is this an unhappy journey? Can he have any grievances? Which member of the Congress party got what he did at such a young age? I don’t understand and I’m 72 years old. Have you had a change of perspective? It was your tweet which alerted everyone to the crisis within the party. You expressed concern about the situation which was making Sachin Pilot leave.  Of course I am concerned. I am concerned about what’s happening in the Congress. I have said that publicly. I have said these issues should be resolved much earlier. Sometimes we have people who do not want to resolve these issues. I am not talking in favour of A or in favour of B, I am a Congressman at heart. I am not for or against somebody, I am for the ideology, I am for what it (the party) stands for. And I am hurt when things like this happen to the only opposition party that can fight this government which is running roughshod over people. That’s what I am upset about and I am upset with my party also.Also Read: Politics of pressure will not work, says Rajasthan governorCould you elaborate on that?I am wedded to the party. Never in my life, would I leave this party or this ideology. I am upset with everybody but am more upset with this government than with my party.The other side says that it is the prerogative of the governor to decide when to call the session?That’s also governed by the Nabam Tuki (Arunachal Pradesh) judgement. Governor has no discretion in the matter. If the government wants to call the session, why isn’t he calling it? What’s the problem?There is the pandemic... When in March, the Madhya Pradesh session was called, there was no pandemic? Today government offices are working in Delhi and Jaipur. And if you don’t want to call the session because of the pandemic, then have it through video conferencing. What’s the problem? You can have any excuse not to call the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-hc-has-no-regard-for-precedent-kapil-sibal/story-nr9m1jZMXakD1zkbcKpmoN.html
25-07-2020||India||No relaxation in J&K 4G curbs yet, Centre tells SC||A special committee constituted as per the Supreme Court’s May 11 order to review restrictions on high-speed mobile internet in Jammu & Kashmir has decided against any relaxations for the time being, the Centre has told the apex court. In an affidavit on July 21, the Union home ministry said the committee on June 10 considered all aspects of the matter, including terror incidents, before deciding to continue the restrictions on 4G mobile internet. The committee will review the situation again in two months, it added.“A thorough and comprehensive consideration of all facets of the matter including [the] recent occurrence of terrorism-related incidents in the region was carried out [by the committee]. Ultimately, based on a wide-ranging assessment of the prevailing situation in this sensitive region, the committee arrived at a decision that no further relaxation on restrictions on internet services, including 4G services, could be carried out at present,” the affidavit said.The affidavit was filed in response to a plea from NGO Foundation of Media Professionals for initiation of contempt of court proceedings against the Centre and Jammu & Kashmir on the grounds that no action was taken to comply with the May 11 order.The May 11 order was passed after the NGO in April challenged restriction on mobile internet speed to 2G. The NGO sought restoration of high-speed 4G internet services saying patients, doctors, and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 pandemic because of the restrictions. It pointed out slow internet speed makes telemedicine, or online consultation, impossible.The Supreme Court on May 11 refrained from passing directions to restore 4G services and instead constituted the committee comprising high-level government officers, including Union home secretary, to take a call on the matter. The committee was asked to examine the necessity to allow faster internet in certain geographical areas. The NGO in June filed the contempt petition saying there was no information available in the public domain whether the constitution of the committee was notified and whether it has conducted any meetings or passed any orders.The Centre told the court the committee was constituted by virtue of the May 11 order and no separate notification was required. The committee met on May 15 and sought further inputs before taking any decision. It again met on June 10 and decided not to relax the restrictions, the Centre said. “In view of the above, the contempt petition is misconceived and without any merit and is liable to be rejected.”A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in J&K in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest the region of its special status. Most of the restrictions have since been eased even as the mobile internet remains restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-relaxation-in-j-k-4g-curbs-yet-centre-tells-sc/story-RILP9SPhDPMs8shbFdThrM.html
25-07-2020||India||Why can’t Gehlot wait for floor test: Mukul Rohatgi||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday admitted the plea of the state’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 legislators allied with him (and against chief minister Ashok Gehlot) against their disqualification proceedings, and asked the assembly speaker to maintain status quo, effectively putting the proceedings on hold. The Supreme Court is already hearing a case on the high court’s jurisdiction in the matter. Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Pilot and the dissident MLAs, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury on is reading of the situation. Edited excerpts: It’s a very significant order. The bottom line of the case is this: if an MLA raises his voice and a voice of dissent against the CM or another senior functionary of the party to which he belongs for legitimate reasons, say putting a demand of his electorate which is not being looked at or to strengthen inner-party democracy, does this act of dissent make an MLA liable to lose his seat for which he has been elected for five years? That is the question. So, suppose Mr Pilot was going to the rally of an opposition party and saying dismiss the government, that may be a clear incident of him leaving the party. But a mere dissent by an MLA against his leader while remaining in the party, cannot be grounds for being chucked out.  No, no, it’s the wrong assumption. Whenever a provision of the law or the constitution is challenged, it is incumbent on the party to involve the government of India because the GoI has to defend its laws and the constitution. In fact, the petition will not be properly constituted if the union of India is not added. It should have been done in the first instance but since it was done in a hurry, it wasn’t . It is mandatory else the petition is likely to get rejected.Also Read: The HC has no regard for precedent: Kapil SibalThe governor is a constitutional functionary. He is not sitting there only at the beck and call of the chief minister. He has some discretion. Why and when he will call the house, he will have the reasons -- I don’t know, I am not privy to what’s happening . From what I’ve read, the Governor is entitled to say ‘Let’s not hold the session for the next two weeks because of the onset of Covid’. There are a large number of people infected with Covid and to bring 200 or 250 people into the house, into one room and debate for 10 hours or 20 hours and then have another 100 people, the employees of the assembly, there... .  It’s not as if the opposition is asking for a floor test, so that the government falls. It is the man himself (CM) who is asking for a floor test, so he can jolly well wait for 10 days or 20 days if the Governor so desires. What’s the urgency?Also Read: Not held hostage, say 3 MLAsThere is no question . In Madhya Pradesh there was a wafer thin majority. Gehlot is saying his majority is more than 25. If his majority is more than 25, what is the fear? Why can’t he keep his people together if it is that many? He wants a floor test for himself, to assure himself that he has more than 25. In MP and in other cases, the opposition wanted a floor test to pull down the government. Here there is nobody who is saying they have more than him. I am not a political expert and I don’t know who is inviting who. Whatever I have seen of Mr PIlot, he doesn’t want to join the BJP.  I haven’t spoken to Mr Pilot on those issues. I have only dealt with him on the issue of disqualification.That’s not akin to leaving the party voluntarily. 19MLAs are not ostriches, they are together because they believe in something, that’s their position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-can-t-gehlot-wait-for-floor-test-mukul-rohatgi/story-3XXQ0nUtyEL6WQMVU9uufP.html
25-07-2020||India||3.5 mn hit by floods in Assam, Bihar||The flood situation in Bihar and Assam remained grim on Friday with close to 3.5 million people affected because of the deluge, officials in the two states said. Floods during the monsoon are not unusual in places like Bihar and Assam, but this year several parts of eastern Indian have received heavier rainfall and triggered severe floods.Officials said northern Bihar is among the worst-hit regions because of heavy rains in Nepal, which have claimed 132 lives there. The heavy rainfall has swollen the rivers that originate in Nepal.The Gandak has breached embankments in Gopalganj and East Champaran and flooded vast stretches in the districts. Engineer in-chief, flood control, water resources department, Rajesh Kumar, said the restoration work was going on the western embankment that breached in Gopalganj on Friday. Also read: Rework flood control strategies | HT EditorialThe floods in Bihar have so far affected around 7,65,000 people in 10 districts, officials said. They added Darbhanga is the worst-hit district, where the deluge has affected 3,25,000 people. The National Disaster Response Force and the state agencies have launched operations to rescue the marooned people and take them to safer places. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) data, floods have affected over 2.7 million people in 26 of the state’s 33 districts. As many as 96 people have drowned and landslides triggered by heavy rains have left another 26 dead in the state this season.Over 50,000 displaced people have been sheltered in 301 relief camps while floodwaters have inundated crops over 1.22-hectare area across Assam.“We are witnessing the third wave of floods. Rainfall and flooding have been taking place since May end. While rainfall has taken place as per IMD [India Meteorological Department] prediction, climate change could be a reason for lack of a gap between waves of floods,” said Pankaj Chakraborty, state project coordinator, ASDMA.The floods continue to affect the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) with 85% of its area of over 430 sq km inundated. This season, 125 animals of the park including 13 rhinos (9 due to drowning and 4 due to natural causes) have died in and around the park.Prince William, the second in line to the British throne, wrote to KNPTR director P. Sivakumar on July 21, saying he and his wife, Catherine, were heartbroken to hear about the appalling devastation to the reserve and its precious wildlife because of flooding. “We have the happiest memories of our visit to Kaziranga in April 2016 and are shocked by what has happened. The deaths of so many animals, including one-horned rhino, is deeply upsetting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-5mn-hit-by-floods-in-assam-bihar/story-F0WYjfWpEqbqQEVUnwdw8K.html
25-07-2020||India||Politics of pressure will not work, says Rajasthan governor||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, the man of the hour, said he would follow constitutional norms to convene a session of the assembly, denied there was any pressure on him to not convene the assembly from the BJP, the party to which he belonged before becoming governor, and wondered why chief minister Ashok Gehlot was in a hurry to prove his majority on the floor of the House when no one had demanded that he do. Mishra spoke to HT on a day when Raj Bhavan saw the unprecedented scenes of lawmakers staging a protest on its lawns. He said the CM wanted to meet him and said the MLAs would also come along. “But when they staged a dharna in Raj Bhavan, shouted slogans, I had to be firm and told them “dabav ki rajniti nahin chalegi (politics of pressure won’t work)”. Rajasthan has seen a political drama over the past fortnight with 19 Congress lawmakers, led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, mounting a rebellion against the chief minister. The launch of disqualification motions against them by the speaker has resulted in the battle reaching the courts with both the Rajasthan high court and the Supreme Court hearing cases related to this. Mishra said that the Rajasthan “cabinet has not taken a formal decision on convening the session of the Rajasthan Assembly; an informal meeting was held authorising the chief minister to take a decision. Neither any specific date or agenda was mentioned in their (the state government’s ) communique.”He added: “On July 23, the state government issued a letter inviting the assembly session at night with very short notice. Based on the merits in the paper, the Raj Bhavan examined and consulted by legal experts.”Following this, Raj Bhavan sent a letter to the Parliamentary Affairs Department of the state government mentioning that the date on which the assembly session was to be convened was not mentioned , and that there was no mention of formal cabinet approval. Meanwhile, Gehlot went public with his demand for a session and said he would not be responsible for his lawmakers picketing Raj Bhavan. Mishra said that he has never heard any chief minister give such a statement. “I am duty-bound to take constitutional advise on any letter that comes from you. And the Indian Constitution has given me this power. You expressed your desire on July 23 to convene a Vidhan Sabha session but before I could consult experts, you went before the press saying you will not be responsible for the gherao of Raj Bhawan,” he wrote to the CM. He also asked in the letter if the Rajasthan government is “unable to protect the governor”. Responding to the Congress allegation that he was under pressure from the top, Mishra said: “I am putting forth the constitutional position. You think there is any pressure?” Mishra demanded to know the emergency for summoning the session that too during the pandemic. “Why? What is the urgency? What is the agenda?” Nothing was spelt out in the letter he received, Mishra said. Commenting on the chief minister’s contention that he would prove his majority in the house, he said , ‘”Why? Who has demanded it?”He added: “After all the session has to be summoned as per the rules of the house. A 21-day notice is needed. The agenda has to be spelt out.”Raj Bhavan subsequently issued a statement reiterating many of these points -- that the cabinet note did not mention a date or an agenda; that it did not have formal cabinet approval; and that a 21-day notice is needed to call a session. The statement also asked for clarity on details of the cases in the Supreme Court and the Rajasthan high court “pertaining to some MLAs”, and information on how the session will be held in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. The statement directed the state government to “ensure the freedom and free movement to and from the assembly of MLAs” , perhaps a reference to most of them being lodged in hotels. Finally, it asked: “If the government indeed has a majority, what is the need to call a session to prove that majority?”(with Sachin Saini in Jaipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-of-pressure-will-not-work-says-governor/story-pAjgrz64glodVqvJ3ZaE9K.html
25-07-2020||India||Shekhawat targets Gehlot, calls ‘Raj Bhavan gherao’ remark anarchist||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Friday targeted Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot over his “people may gherao Raj Bhawan” remarks, calling it ‘anarchist’.“The chief minister who repeatedly vouches for democracy gave a statement that reeks of anarchism. He said the people of Rajasthan will gherao the Raj Bhawan and then don’t blame us for it. I feel such words don’t behove a person who repeatedly swears by democracy and calls himself a Gandhian. Any Constitutional position carries with it a responsibility, which these people should uphold,” he said.Gehlot has accused Governor Kalraj Mishra of acting under pressure for not convening the assembly session, despite his repeated requests and demanded that it be convened from Monday.Gehlot said his government should not be held responsible, if the public gherao the Raj Bhavan.The Congress has accused the Union minister of conspiring to topple the government after purported audio tapes - in which he was allegedly heard talking to the party’s MLAs - surfaced on social media. Shekhawat, however, has denied his involvement.“There is a political conspiracy where many things including false audio tapes have been used. Who are the people behind it and why they did it will become clear in coming days...I think it is a reflection of the infighting on his side. When we used to talk of it, they would refute it. Now they say people were misled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shekhawat-targets-gehlot-calls-raj-bhavan-gherao-remark-anarchist/story-hXQarDNMlwKzC8oGHQlAjJ.html
25-07-2020||India||Trade curbs signal decoupling from China||India’s order on Thursday, restricting purchases for large public projects (and even those being developed as public-private partnerships) from companies in countries that share a land border with it, citing national security concerns, is aimed at China, and, according to three government officials familiar with the thinking behind the order, will also deter private firms here from dealing with Chinese companies. This is a well thought-out move that will also deter all state-run banks and financial institutions from funding any public sector or private sector projects with direct or indirect connections with China, the officials added. “Thursday’s decision is certainly a retaliatory actions against Chinese aggression with wide-ranging impact. Even Indian states will stop procuring Chinese goods and services,” one of the officials said. The order is the latest in a series of moves aimed at reducing the penetration of Chinese commercial interests in India. Also Read: India builds a huge wall to stop Chinese firms from getting govt contractsIn April, India removed Chinese investments from the so-called automatic approval route fearing takeover of Indian firms at a time when the country was fighting Covid-19. The country also reacted to Chinese aggression in Eastern Ladakh in June in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers were killed. On June 29, the government announced ban on 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications, citing concerns that these are “prejudicial to sovereignty of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.” State-run BSNL was asked to keep Chinese suppliers out of its 4G upgrade project and it is likely that Chinese company Huawei, which has already been proscribed by some western nations who fear the data security of their citizens may be compromised. Also Read: US agrees to discuss social security tax burden of Indians working in AmericaThursday’s order will also bar, direct or indirect Chinese participation in strategic sectors such as power, petroleum, coal and telecom, the first official said. “In fact, some public sector companies are even contemplating taking legal opinion, how to scrap tenders already awarded to Chinese firms,” he added. Already the work at ~13,277 crore Talcher fertiliser and coal gasification project, which was awarded to Chinese firm Wuhuan Engineering Co Ltd last year, has been halted. HT reported this on July 7.Without directly naming China, India has also been raising its issues with the country at various forums. At the BRICS trade ministers’ meeting, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal called upon the members to build “trust” to prevent losing their role of pre-eminent trade partner, a message that was meant for China, the second official , who works for an economic ministry, said. “Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa are BRICS members and barring China, the issue of trust-deficit does not arise with any other members,” he added.Also Read: India imposes levy on all imported measuring tapes as Chinese dumping continues via third countriesThe first official said the Union government is cautious and plans to discourage states from using Chinese equipment and technology in the strategic power sector projects. It may even direct state-run financial institutions focused on the sector, Power Finance Corporation Ltd (PFC), Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd (REC) and Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA), to withhold financing to such projects that are based on Chinese technology or equipment, he added. Another major blow to Chinese companies would be their exclusion from implementing the government’s ambitious world’s largest smart metering project on security grounds, he added.A third official, who works in another economic ministry said, the government is considering duty protection against Chinese imports. There is a proposal to impose a basic customs duty (BCD) on all imported solar cells, modules, inverters and their components. HT reported on May 11 that India could also extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on at least two dozen Chinese goods amidst concerns that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers . Also Read: China holds out WTO threat over ban on 59 mobile apps. India bursts the bubbleThese need to be accompanied by “hard power” messages, an expert said. Anupam Manur, assistant professor at the think tank Takshashila Institution, said, “The banning of apps and stopping of procurement from China is merely signals of intent and posturing, but when these are not accompanied by actions and show of power, such as a counter-offensive somewhere along the border or building our maritime power in the Indian Ocean and South China Sea, these signals will lose credibility. The reality is that Beijing cannot be deterred without the use of hard power.”Samir Kanabar, tax partner at consultancy firms EY India said, “One would have to evaluate if the Order will delay the bidding process resulting into delay of large infrastructure projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-curbs-signal-decoupling-from-china/story-vvrtbK7P9JbLxgsJs7FAbI.html
25-07-2020||India||‘Americans can’t tell us what to do on Chabahar’: India envoy||India has told the US that it “cannot tell us what to do” regarding the development of Chabahar port in Iran, India’s ambassador to Tehran, Gaddam Dharmendra, has said.New Delhi is working to develop the port and heavy equipment has been ordered for the facility from countries such as Italy, Finland, Germany and China, Dharmendra was quoted as saying in an interview with Tehran Times.The envoy referred to “pressures” and said India is the only country which continues to “have a rupee-rial trade arrangement where we are financing bilateral trade between our countries”.“The fact [is] that we are working in Chabahar, we are buying equipment for Chabahar, we are preparing for Chabahar, we have told the Americans they cannot tell us what to do on Chabahar,” he said.The interview by Tehran Times was done on July 14, though a video with Dharmendra’s remarks emerged only on Friday.Chabahar port is being developed under a tripartite agreement signed by India, Afghanistan and Iran and has been granted a waiver from US sanctions. It was recently in the news when some reports suggested Iran had excluded India from a project to develop a rail link between Chabahar port and Zahedan on the border with Afghanistan.The external affairs ministry said last week that technical and financial issues yet to be finalised by Iran were holding up New Delhi’s participation in the railway project. Saeed Rasouli, the deputy minister for roads and head of Iran Railways, invited the Indian envoy for a meeting on July 20 to review cooperation on the Chabahar-Zahedan rail link. Rasouli said during the meeting that “vested interests were behind recent reports that Iran [had] excluded India” from the project.Dharmendra also told Tehran Times that between December 2018 and December 2019, Chabahar port had handled 6,000 tonnes of containers and more than a million tonnes of bulk cargo, including rice, sugar and wheat meant for Iran and Afghanistan.“Within one year, traffic has increased hugely, but it’s a new port, it takes time to develop,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/americans-can-t-tell-us-what-to-do-on-chabahar-india-envoy/story-1wSnyO71OMfESKYbrc5IHM.html
25-07-2020||India||We want House session from Monday, says CM||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday demanded that a special session of the assembly be convened from Monday even as he alleged that governor Kalraj Mishra was not issuing an order to that effect because he was under pressure.“We hoped that the governor would issue an order to call the assembly session yesterday (Thursday) night itself. I waited overnight but still there is no reply from his side. The governor has to give orders. There is no reason for him to stop,” Gehlot said outside Fairmont Hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur where the legislators supporting him are camping.Gehlot said the governor was requested, through a letter on Thursday evening after a cabinet meeting, to call an assembly session to hold discussions on the political situation, review the coronavirus situation and its impact on the state’s economy.Before heading for Raj Bhavan, Gehlot said if the demand for convening a session was not met, MLAs will “not be responsible” if the people gherao the governor’s house. “We have to convince him so that he calls assembly session,” Gehlot said outside Raj Bhavan, again pointing to what called pressure on the governor from “higher-ups”.The MLAs supporting him, who arrived at Raj Bhavan in four buses around 2:30pm, later staged a five-hour sit-in there. They shouted slogans and said they will stay put till the governor issued an order for the session. “Insaaf hamara nara hai (our slogan is justice); Gehlot ji tum sangharsh karo, hum tumhare saath hai (Ashok Gehlot, we are with you in your struggle),” they shouted.The protest was called off after Congress leaders said they got assurances from the governor that he will call a session though he asked the government for clarifications on a few issues.Alleging that there was a clear “conspiracy” by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to topple Gehlot’s government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the governor must convene an assembly session. “The country is ruled by Constitution and law. The governments are made and run by the mandate of the people,” the former Congress chief said in a tweet. “The BJP conspiracy to topple the Rajasthan government is clear. This is an insult to the eight crore people of Rajasthan.”The BJP, however, has repeatedly rejected the Congress’s allegations linking it to the Rajasthan crisis, saying whatever is going on in the state is the result of infighting between Gehlot and former deputy CM Pilot. In the afternoon, after Gehlot met the governor again — their second meeting in 24 hours — he asked the lawmakers backing him to continue with their protest in a peaceful manner. “It has never happened in the history of the country that the governor has not given the approval to call an assembly session. The governor is bound by the decisions of the cabinet,” Gehlot said.Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyas, a Gehlot supporter, said the government has the support of 109 MLAs. “We have the mandate and we won’t allow death of democracy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-house-session-from-monday-says-cm/story-nVCQirkKU7gIOIQVoGZxtK.html
25-07-2020||India||AIIMS administers first dose of Covid-19 vaccine as trial begins||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi administered its first dose of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – Covaxin, as part of its combined phase 1 and 2 trials for the drug, to a 30-year-old healthy man on Friday.Two other of the 12 trial centres for the vaccine, in Patna and Rohtak, have already administered the vaccine in humans.“The vaccine candidate was administered to the first trial participant — a healthy 30-year-old man — around noon on Friday. He was monitored for two hours to check for any adverse reactions. All trial participants will be monitored every day for the first seven days. They will then be followed-up on day 14 and day 28. They will be tracked for up to a year to observe any long-term impacts,” said Dr Puneet Misra, one of the investigators of the trial and a professor of community medicine at AIIMS.The centre has received nearly 3,500 applications for the trials so far, and 100 healthy participants will be enrolled from among them. Participants have to be between the ages of 18 and 55 years, and have no comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease.The centres are conducting simultaneous phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials to study the safety and immunogenicity of different doses and adjuvant combinations of the vaccine developed by the biotechnology company, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology. An adjuvant is a compound that helps increase the effectiveness of a vaccine.“Our priority is safety and hence we need healthy participants. Those who are called in for the trial have to undergo a battery of tests to determine their general health. They are tested for a current infection using RT-PCR test and for past infections using an antibody test. Participants are given the vaccine only if they are free of Covid-19. For now, we are also selecting participants only from Delhi and the National Capital Region for the ease of follow-ups,” said Dr Misra.The vaccine is currently being administered in two doses — 0.3 and 0.5 microgram. In the 0.5 microgram dosage, the vaccine is being given with two different adjuvants. Of the 100 who will be enrolled, 80 will get different dosages and combination of the vaccine, and 20 participants will receive placebos.Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS Delhi had earlier this week said, “Normally, a vaccine takes about 10 years to develop. That is because the different phases of the trial are conducted one after the other, after evaluation of the results. It is a financial risk if everything is done simultaneously as all vaccine candidates do not work and scientists might have to go back to the drawing board. But, in this case, everything is happening simultaneously. Even as the effectiveness of the vaccine is being studied, manufacturing capacity is also being built.”Dr Jugal Kishore from the department of community medicine at Safdarjung said, “We have to look at who gets these vaccines. It should be given to those at a higher risk of developing a severe disease like the old, those with comorbidities or the immunocompromised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-administers-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-as-trial-begins/story-JwvAchiEAwcX61CHzi3dEL.html
25-07-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases now second only to the United States||India’s trajectory of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has now overtaken Brazil’s and stands second only to that of the United States, indicating that India may be beginning to close the gap on the South American country.In the seven-day period between July 16 and July 22, India reported 269,969 new Covid-19 cases against Brazil’s 260,962 —the second and third most daily cases in the world. This is the first time the weekly cases in India have eclipsed those in Brazil. In the seven days before that, India reported 200,159 new infections while Brazil reported 254,713, according to HT’s dashboard and Worldometers.The United States continues to report the highest number of new cases with nearly half a million new cases (478,899) coming in the past week.Also Read: ‘Treat SARI patients as potential Covid-19 cases’: ExpertsTo be sure, Brazil, with 2,231,871 cases of Covid-19 against India’s 1,238,374 (both as of Wednesday night) has nearly a million more cases than India, so India may not be overtaking Brazil in total cases any time soon. The US, meanwhile, has more cases than Brazil and India combined — 4,100,875 as of Wednesday.Together, these three countries continue to account for a large majority of new cases. In the last week, the three worst-hit nations are responsible for more than 1 million (60%) of the 1.6 million new cases reported across the world.Also Read: 4 months of Maharashtra lockdown: Economy needs a boost, say expertsDifference in trajectory America’s journey to becoming the worst-hit country in the world has been on the back on two massive case spikes. The first was centered in the country’s north-east with states such as New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania reporting high cases. This plateaued in about a month with new cases dropping through May and June. Towards the end of June, a bigger second spike was reported in new epicentres in states such California, Texas and Florida, pushing new cases to record highs again.In Brazil, the first case in the country reported on February 25, and cases started rising almost immediately in the country’s north and north-east. By early May, Brazil had more than 100,000 cases; with the number of cases doubling every 10 days. In June itself, the country reported nearly a million new Covid cases. However, cases appear to have hit a plateau in the past two week, averaging around 35,000 new cases every day, against nearly 39,000 in the first week of July.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayUnlike the other two nations, the caseload in India has grown gradually and has not had any abrupt spike. However, this may not entirely be good news because it also means that the country has not seen any plateau. While the new case trend lines for the first two countries are uneven, India’s has been steadily growing while showing no drop in cases so far. With almost all states (except Delhi) reporting record high cases over the past two weeks, this trajectory is not yet exhibiting signs of slowing down.But there are other similarities between the three countries as well — perhaps explaining the extended trajectory of the pandemic in them. The US is the world’s third largest country by geographical area, Brazil fifth, and India seventh. As the infection wanes in one part of the country, it waxes in another. In terms of population, India is the second most populous country in the world, the US third, and Brazil sixth. Expectedly, per capita infection and death numbers are low for all three countries compared to smaller and less populous nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-logging-more-daily-cases-than-brazil-us-ahead/story-xIMNrcWUJdfOE3sgW3WHKP.html
