26-07-2020||India||AG wants streaming of court proceedings||Attorney General KK Venugopal advocated video-streaming of court proceedings across India so that court hearings anywhere in the country are accessible, and “capacity” of lawyers and judges can be ascertained.He said one silver lining of Covid-19 and the lockdown of courts was that it compelled the legal fraternity to adopt e-filing of cases and hearing through video conferencing.“I would suggest that we go one step further and have video streaming as well so that the entire population of lawyers will be able to listen to any case which is going on in any court in this country. We would be able to judge the capacity of judges and lawyers, and the nature of cases which are being handled in courts including lower courts, district courts, high courts and the Supreme Court,” he said.Venugopal was speaking at the launch of a district-level awareness programme in regional languages on e-court services by the Supreme Court e-committee.“I never believed that we could have progressed to this extent. Now I am optimistic that in due course, all courts in the country will be e-courts. I am sure that in the next one year, the whole of this country will be familiar with e-courts. We should congratulate the e-committee for what they have achieved,” he said at the inaugural function held via video conference on July 25.The work of the Supreme Court e-committee has been on an overdrive after the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The e-committee is proposing to introduce radical changes to filing of cases across the country by introduction and operationalisation of e-filing to replace physical filing of cases.After the lockdown imposed on March 25, courts across the country had to adopt video conference and e-filing, albeit as an ad-hoc measure to tide over the shutdown of courts due to pandemic. But e-filing is likely to be made a permanent fixture of our court system in the coming years.The work towards this end as far as the Supreme Court is concerned is at an advanced stage and a new e-filing module is expected to be rolled out soon. The e-committee is also in constant touch with high courts for digitization of records, and a standard operating procedure will be drawn up for high courts and district judiciary across the country for digitization. Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud, who is the chairperson of the e-committee, released a training manual, video tutorials and brochures in regional languages with regard to e-court services on July 25.The training manual, which is a step by step guide for e-filing of cases, was released in 11 regional languages — Assamese, Bengali, Nepali, Urdu, Mizo, Tamil, Hindi, Hindi-UP, Garo, Khasi, Pnar. Brochures, which would assist lawyers to familiarise themselves on e-filing, were released in 14 regional languages.Speaking on the necessity of such a step, justice Chandrachud highlighted that there is a technological divide between metropolitan cities and rural areas in India, and on several occasions, lawyers at the district and taluka level do not have access to information technology (IT).“There is a technological divide in India. Those who work and live in metros have the best facilities at their command in terms of IT. But the backbone of the judicial administration in the country is provided by advocates who work at taluka and district levels. The first interface of citizens with justice and his or her attempt to remedy injustice is when they contact an advocate at the taluka and district level and go to their chambers for remedying their problems”, he pointed out.Therefore, unless the lawyers at taluka and district level are also carried along and made part of the e-courts project, the mission will not succeed, he said.As part of the first stage of the awareness programme, the e-committee trained 25 master trainers on June 20 through video conferencing — one for each high court in the country.In the second stage, the 25 master trainers, in turn, trained 461 master trainers across the country in their respective states and respective regional languages through video conference.In third phase, these 461 master trainers will be conducting the training programme in every district of the country for the advocates. “This project we have conceived is an attempt to spread knowledge of Information and Communication technology initiatives among the members of the bar. Our target is to attain 100% computer literacy among members of Indian bar,” justice Chandrachud added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-wants-streaming-of-court-proceedings/story-zpZgIK3GTOdsxXnqb46JRK.html
26-07-2020||India||After killing of LeT man, no resident of Srinagar is in terrorist ranks: IGP||Srinagar: A day after Lashkar-e-Taiba(LeT) commander Ishfaq Rashid Khan along with another terrorist was killed by security forces in an encounter in Ranbirgarh-Panzinara area of Srinagar, Kashmir Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar on Sunday said that no resident of Srinagar is now among terrorist ranks. “After killing of LeT terrorist Ishfaq Rashid Khan yesterday, no resident of Srinagar district in terrorist ranks now,” Kashmir police’s twitter handle quoted IGP Kumar.However, the statement contradicts with the fact shared by Kumar on June 23 when he said that Hilal Ahmad, a PhD scholar of Bemina Srinagar who had gone missing during a hiking trip to Ganderbal on June 14, has joined Hizbul Mujahideen outfit. He is still unaccounted for.So far, 10 militants have been killed in Srinagar in various encounters - a few of them belonging from the district.The two militants killed on Saturday were trapped after a joint cordon and search operation was launched by JKP, 29 RR and CRPF in the said area.A police spokesman said that during the operation they were given an opportunity to surrender. “However they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, the two were killed,” he said.The bodies of the terrorists were sent to Ganderbal for their last rites. Earlier on July 3, after an encounter on the outskirts of Srinagar, Kumar had said that Srinagar city would never be terrorism-free as terrorists from other districts of the Valley keep on coming here. “Srinagar is a city where terrorists come often. Sometimes, they come for medical treatment, collecting funds or even for meetings. Srinagar can never be free of terrorism.”“Terrorists will keep on coming here. And when we get information about them, we will keep on carrying out encounters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-killing-of-let-man-no-resident-of-srinagar-is-in-terrorist-ranks-igp/story-J6Wr5jJwe3ukfvhBqcrGAO.html
26-07-2020||India||Trio held with arms, narcotics in Kashmir||Security forces on Saturday night recovered a large quantity of narcotics and weapons from two vehicles and arrested three persons in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, officials said.This is the second time in the past one month that the security forces have recovered drugs and ammunition from the same caches. Police spokesman Manoj Kumar said that the seizure was done by a joint party of army and police at a checkpoint in Kupwara. “Ten kilograms of brown sugar, an AK-47 rifle, two pistols, 20 grenades and other ammunition recovered by a joint team of army and Kashmir Police during checking at Sadhna Top Kupwara in north Kashmir,” he said.Three persons travelling in two vehicles were arrested and the vehicles seized. “Some more arrests are expected,” he said.An army spokesman said that it was a ‘huge consignment’ of war-like stores and narcotics, and the arrests were made after getting inputs about smuggling. “An army dog, aided by detectors and scanners, facilitated the finding of hidden packages from the vehicle. The search operation led to apprehension of three suspects and seizure of two vehicles,” the spokesman said.More searches are going on in the area. “Joint search operation is in progress,” he said.On June 27, security forces had arrested two alleged drug and weapon smugglers and recovered a large cache of items in Kupwara district. Police had said that approximately 13.5kg of narcotics, estimated to be worth Rs65 crore, and arms and ammunition, including two pistols, four magazines, 55 pistol rounds, four hand grenades and 10 detonators, had been recovered.Earlier in June, the police said they had busted a narco-terror module in which three LeT militants were arrested. and 21kg heroin, worth Rs100 crore, and Indian amounting to Rs1.34 crore, were seized from their possession.In 2018, 12 kilograms of contraband substance was recovered along with two AK-56 rifles by the Border Security Force (BSF) in Tangdhar and four persons were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trio-held-with-arms-narcotics-in-kashmir/story-jUARocpoLoXlLwcdgsYVEK.html
26-07-2020||India||Prez Kovind donates ₹20L to army hospital||NEW DELHI: On the 21st anniversary of the Kargil War victory, President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday donated Rs 20 lakh to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in Delhi, as a tribute to the soldiers who fought valiantly and sacrificed their lives in the war.The money presented to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral), will be used to purchase equipment to help doctors and paramedics combat the Covid-19 pandemic effectively, a statement from the President’s office said.“The President’s contribution to the Army Hospital has been made possible due to an exercise to economise expenditure in the Rashtrapati Bhavan and thus make more resources available to contain Covid-19. The President had earlier issued directions to reduce expenses by initiating a slew of measures in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. As a sequel to this initiative, he had earlier deferred the proposal to buy a limousine which was to be used for ceremonial occasions,” the statement said.In his role as the supreme commander of the armed forces, the president’s gesture will boost the morale of the front-line Covid warriors of the Army hospital, it said.On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army announced the successful culmination of “Operation Vijay”, declaring victory over Pakistani forces, after the nearly three-month war on the icy heights of Kargil district of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The day is observed as “Kargil Vijay Diwas” to commemorate India’s victory in the war.Prime Minister Narendra Mod also paid homage to the armed forces saying that the valour of the soldiers continues to inspire generations. “On Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember the courage and determination of our armed forces, who steadfastly protected our nation in 1999. Their valour continues to inspire generations,” the PM tweeted.Union defence minister Rajanth Singh visited the National War Memorial in the Capital on the occasion. “I congratulate all Indian citizens on the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas. The sacrifices made by soldiers, which helped us win the Kargil war, will always be a source of inspiration for the armed forces,” Singh said at a ceremony held to pay homage to the soldiers.Union home minister Amit Shah said Kargil Vijay Diwas is a symbol of India’s self-respect, unparalleled bravery and strong leadership.“I bow to the bravehearts, who, with their indomitable courage, drove the enemy from the difficult hills of Kargil and waved the tricolour there again. The country is proud of the heroes of India who are dedicated to protecting the motherland,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-donates-20l-to-army-hospital/story-f7l1p5tpeLk6OCCxVLHYpN.html
26-07-2020||India||Now, a religious theme park to come up in Haridwar; 52 Shakti Peeths identified||Uttarakhand government has identified 10 hectare land in Haridwar to develop religious theme park based on 52 Shakti Peeths, said officials. The religious theme park based on 52 Shakti Peeths will be developed at Kankhal in Haridwar district and is a part of the state government’s ambitious project to develop tourist destinations in each one of the thirteen districts of the state. A 10-hectare land has been earmarked at village Devpur Ahatmal near the ancient shrine of Shri Daksheshwar Mahadev temple in Kankhal area, where according to Hindu tradition, Sati (Parvati) plunged into fire leading to the formation of 52 Shakti Peeths. According to Hindu tradition, after the death of Sati, Lord Shiva carried her body and wandered throughout the subcontinent and Shakti Peeths are places blessed with the presence of shakti (power) due to the falling of body parts of Sati while Lord Shiva wandered. District magistrate Haridwar C Ravi Shankar said soon a detailed project report will be submitted to the state government and process for land clearance, no objection certificate from forest department has been started on a priority basis. “Basic infrastructural facilities, amenities, development of nearby tourist and religious places of importance will also be done under this project. At the chosen site a grand religious theme park featuring all the revered fifty-two Shakti Peeths will be featured which will be one of its kind. It surely will draw pilgrims and tourists from across the country,” said Shankar. District tourism officer Haridwar Seema Nautiyal said that the concept of 52 shrines theme park is unique as pilgrims and tourists will witness all these religious seats of importance at one destination. Lauding the development of the theme park where 52 Shakti Peeths replicas would be featured at one place, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of all the Akhadas, said that this will add another place of religious importance to the already world-famous Haridwar. “Replica structures of all the fifty two shrines spread in India and outside will be a unique concept, which will provide one place for people to know about revered shrines, whose pilgrimage is of utmost religious significance for devotees,” said Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad. “These Shakti Peeths are mentioned in Vedic texts and scriptures so putting them all together at one place will make the theme park almost a shrine itself,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-a-religious-theme-park-to-come-up-in-haridwar-52-shakti-peeths-identified/story-rn9fWp9nTNRXJfcF5XtpUK.html
26-07-2020||India||Gehlot says democracy is in danger, seeks session again||Jaipur/New Delhi: Democracy is in danger and the atmosphere in the country is worrisome, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday, while requesting governor Kalraj Mishra to convene an assembly session.“He [the governor] is himself concerned about the coronavirus, and discussions on it will be held in the assembly. We will also discuss the economic impact of corona in the session,” Gehlot said, a day after his government sent a fresh proposal to Mishra and requested him to convene the House from July 31.The Congress has been demanding a special session in the wake of a power struggle between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. The Gehlot camp feels that a floor test in the House is its best bet to end the political crisis but accuses Mishra of delaying the session due to pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government. Mishra denies the charge and says he will follow constitutional norms to convene a session.“The honourable governor is a veteran politician; he is friendly, mild-mannered. The position he holds is a constitutional one and carries a lot of dignity. I hope that he will grant us the permission soon and we will call the assembly,” Gehlot said on Twitter.On Friday, legislators supporting Gehlot staged a five-hour demonstration at Raj Bhavan. Gehlot himself said if the demand for convening a session was not met, MLAs will “not be responsible” if the people gherao the governor’s house.And on Sunday, the Rajasthan Congress decided it will not hold a protest outside Mishra’s residence in Jaipur even as the high command planned a nationwide demonstration outside Raj Bhavans.“We have submitted a revised cabinet note for holding an assembly session to the governor. We hope he will give his approval...soon,” Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra said, announcing that there will be no such protest in Jaipur.Raj Bhavan officials, who did not want to be named, said the governor was yet to take a final call on convening a session.“There is a view in the party that this battle should be fought politically rather than legally...,” said a Congress functionary who requested anonymity.Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs moved the Rajasthan HC on July 16, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by speaker CP Joshi. Subsequently, the high court on July 24 ordered status quo on the matter, admitted the writ petition by the Pilot camp and deferred its final verdict on the matter.Before that, on July 22, the speaker filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court, challenging a July 21 order of the high court directing speaker to defer disqualification proceedings.The top court will on Monday resume hearing Joshi’s plea related to whether or not courts can interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by an assembly speaker against lawmakers even before a decision has been taken.“Speaker’s lawyers will be making arguments before the Supreme Court on Monday though the possibility of withdrawing the petition has not been ruled out,” said a second Congress functionary.The speaker’s lawyer in Jaipur, Prateek Kasliwal, said the decision regarding withdrawing the SLP will be taken by the legal team in Delhi.Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who has represented the speaker in the HC, said his party wanted a floor test in the Rajasthan assembly and was “begging” for it, but the governor was not convening the House and “delaying” the trust vote allegedly at the behest of the Centre.The fresh proposal sent to the governor did not have any mention of floor test though. A third Congress functionary who did not want to be named explained the rationale.“Since no party has demanded a floor test, there is no need to mention that the House has to be convened for holding it. As already stated by the chief minister, the House will discuss Covid-19 situation and also conduct some important legislative business,” he said.Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken accused the Centre of conspiring to topple his party’s governments in various states. “Small businesses are on the verge of closure. China has taken over our territory. But the Prime Minister, instead of fighting the coronavirus, the economic crisis and China, is conspiring to topple Congress governments,” he told reporters in Jaipur.The BJP, which blames differences in Congress’s for the crisis, was quick to hit back. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said the Congress was “imploding in the face of internal feuds”. “...To save the party, the Congress needs to look within,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-says-democracy-is-in-danger-seeks-session-again/story-7JppUAML1lu3yUMiYKcuMK.html
26-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi invites BJP MP Anil Baluni for tea before vacating bunglow: Report||Ahead of the August 1 deadline for vacating her government bungalow in Delhi’s Lutyens’ zone, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday sent an invitation for tea to BJP leader Anil Baluni, who has been allotted the house, sources said.It is learnt that the invite has been sent to the BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, seeking his convenience and confirmation.When reached out for comments, Baluni did not respond to calls.Priyanka Gandhi is in the process of vacating the 35, Lodhi Estate house, after the Ministry of Urban Development issued her a notice on July 1 asking her to vacate the bunglow before August 1 as she was no longer eligible for it after her security cover was downgraded last year.She is learnt to have zeroed in on a house in Delhi and will be shifting there soon.She has, however, moved some of her belongings to a penthouse in an upscale residential society in Gurgaon’s Sector 42, but will not be living there, sources said.They said the Gurgaon’s house is only being occasionally used by her children and she will be located in central Delhi only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-invites-bjp-mp-anil-baluni-for-tea-before-vacating-bunglow-report/story-t8J8CAiixFXHPgBDLgUtwI.html
26-07-2020||India||Time capsule with Ram Janmabhoomi’s history, facts to be placed below temple site:Trust member||A time capsule, enlisting the history and facts related to the Ram Janmabhoomi, will be placed thousands of feet below the construction site to ensure that there are no disputes in the future, the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal said on Sunday.“The struggle for Ram Janmabhoomi, including the long-drawn case in the Supreme Court, has given a lesson for the current and upcoming generations. A time capsule will be placed about 2,000 feet down in ground at Ram Temple construction site. So that in future anyone who wishes to study about the history of the temple, he’ll get the facts related to Ram Janmabhoomi, so that no new controversy can arise,” Chaupal told ANI here.He also said that the time capsule will be placed inside a Tamra Patra (copper plate) before being placed below the site.Chaupal, who is the lone Dalit member of the Trust, also said that soil from various teerths (pilgrimages) across the country and water from the sacred rivers is being brought to Ayodhya for ‘Abhisheka’ during the ‘bhoomi-pujan’ which is scheduled to be conducted on August 5 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Water from sacred rivers and soil from teerths, where Lord Ram visited, will be used during the ‘abhisheka’ in ‘bhoomi pujan’. Our volunteers have been sending them from across the country to Ayodhya,” he said.Chaupal further slammed Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli for his recent statement over Ayodhya and Lord Ram and said that Oli knew neither about “Indian traditions or that of Nepal and was doing so just because of his greed for power.” PM Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, according to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the president of the temple trust.The construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone (bhoomi poojan) in which chief ministers of many states, ministers from the union cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are also likely to participate.According to sources, the ‘bhoomi poojan’ of the temple is to be celebrated on the lines of the festival of light - Diwali - with all temples and houses across the country to be lit up with diyas and candles.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, held its second meeting last week.In March this year, the ‘Ram Lalla’ idol was shifted to a temporary structure.The SC on November 9 last year had directed the central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-capsule-with-ram-janmbhoomi-s-history-facts-to-be-placed-below-temple-site-trust-member/story-jZFMuewPhQjo4wuh1c50vJ.html
26-07-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, district judge, son die of suspected food poisoning||An additional district and sessions judge (ADJ), posted at the Betul district court in Madhya Pradesh and his 33-year-old son died of suspected food poisoning, police said. ADJ Mahendra Kumar Tripathi, 56, died in a private hospital at Nagpur on Sunday morning and his son Abhiyanraj Tripathi, 33, was declared brought dead at the Nagpur hospital on Saturday night having been referred from a Betul hospital on Saturday evening, police said. The police suspect it to be a case of food poisoning but are looking into another angle to check if the judge and his family members were administered poison by someone in their food under any criminal conspiracy. Superintendent of Police (SP), Betul, Simala Prasad said, “We have initiated a probe in the matter.” Additional SP Shraddha Joshi said, “Tripathi and his two sons- Abhiyanraj and Sonu, 25, had eaten chapattis (bread) for dinner on July 21 while his wife had taken only rice, not chapaatis. On the same day, Tripathi and his sons had some snacks too given by a woman from Rewa, who is known to the family, in the evening. On July 22, Tripathi and his sons complained of uneasiness and diarrhoea. They took some medicines at home but their condition deteriorated on July 23. All three were admitted to a private hospital in Betul from where Tripathi’s younger Sonu, 25, was discharged on July 24.” Joshi, said, “When the condition of the judge and his elder son deteriorated further they were referred to a private hospital in Nagpur on Saturday evening. Abhiyanraj was declared brought dead at the hospital.” The additional SP said, “The doctors, who treated them in Betul, said the deceased might have consumed some poisonous substance through their food. The police have collected the samples of the raw food items including wheat flour and sent it to a laboratory for examination to see if it contained some poisonous substance. The police are waiting for the post mortem reports from Nagpur. We are also trying to contact the woman, who served snacks to them on July 21 evening,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-district-judge-son-die-of-suspected-food-poisoning/story-r1s95U3OAOIyIZqK2IEZjP.html
26-07-2020||India||Rajasthan banks on new testing guidelines, says test more if positivity rate high||In a revamped strategy to fight coronavirus disease outbreak, Rajasthan on Sunday issued guidelines directing testing of more samples in the areas of state with high positivity rate. Additionally, samples will be reviewed in the areas of Rajasthan where positivity rate is low. Breaching the 36,000-mark on Sunday, Rajasthan reported 1,132 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the cumulative tally to 36,430, out of which 9,852 cases are active. There have been 621 deaths in the state so far, the state bulletin released on late Sunday evening stated. The state has tested 1,377,850 samples until Sunday morning. The guidelines mention 12 categories of people for testing, four for random sampling. The detailed guideline also includes the process of when a sample tests positive or negative. “We have issued the guidelines to ensure that we stop the spread of infection by studying the patter of patients and spread. The objective is also to ensure treatment to positive cases,” medical and health department principal secretary Akhil Arora said. The guidelines said samples of the following categories of people should be taken for test: people who have undertaken an international travel in last 14 days and have symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI); contacts of positive cases who have ILI; all health and front line workers engaged in Covid-19 care and have ILI; people who have symptoms of SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection); close contacts of positive cases who are asymptomatic; people with ILI in hot spots and containment zones; all indoor patients with ILI or with co-morbid conditions or belonging to the risk group; people who travelled in from outside and have ILI; health and other workers who are in close contacts of patients; all indoor patients in medical institutions. The guidelines also talk about random sampling of four categories of people. These are: super spreaders such as domestic helps, fruit and vegetable vendors, grocery stores, hair dressers, beauty parlours, saloons and iron men; vulnerable groups (people above 60 years, those with chronic illness, diabetes, high blood pressure, asthma, cancer, heart disease, kidney disease, chronic lung disease) in congested areas; people in areas where large assemblies occur such as mandis, bus stands, airports, public transport, banks and other financial institutions; and corona warriors and health care workers in government and private hospitals with high patient load. “If random sample suggest high positivity rate, the department will focus more on the area,” the principal secretary said. The guidelines said sample of people who are asymptomatic and are contacts of positive cases should be taken between fifth and tenth day of the positive report. Sample of people who travelled into the state and have ILI should be tested after seven days of institutional isolation and before home isolation. The department has directed lab technicians to feed profile of person whose sample is being drawn, into the RT-PCR app. “Upload Aadhaar of the person; if that is not available, upload Aadhaar of head of the family. Also indicate if the sample is new or repeat,” the guidelines said. The guidelines said a person who has been tested should be informed about the results, positive or negative, within 24 hours. “It is responsibility of the hospital, lab or department officials that every person whose sample has been taken is informed about the test result,” the guidelines said. “If a sample tests negative and the person is asymptomatic, advise him precautions. If sample tests negative and the person has mild symptoms, provide him treatment at home. If the sample tests negative and the person has moderate or severe symptoms, send him to SARI ward of non-Covid hospital for treatment,” the guidelines said. For samples testing positive, the guidelines said if they are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, put them in home isolation. If they are from the vulnerable group, a health officer should monitor them, especially their oxygen saturation. The home isolation will be for 14 days and after expiry of this period, the person will sign an undertaking of informing the department if there are symptoms. The department will give hydroxycholoquine (HCQ) as prohylaxis to close contacts and care givers of people in home isolation. If such people don’t have home isolation facility, they will be kept in Covid care centres, the guidelines said. They need to be followed up for seven days if there is no fever for three days in a row. There’s no need for Covid test after the home isolation if the person is asymptomatic. The guidelines said people with moderate symptoms, who test positive, shall be treated in Covid health centres, and those with severe symptoms, in dedicated Covid hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-banks-on-new-testing-guidelines-says-test-more-if-positivity-rate-high/story-pCh0VaQazQkV1b3ZkyE4xK.html
26-07-2020||India||MP cuts budget by 12%, health departments lose Rs 403 crore amid Covid fight||The Madhya Pradesh government has cut the annual budget for the year 2020-21 by 12%, including Rs 403 crore from the allocation to three key departments of public health and family welfare, medical education and Ayush, which, as per the Congress, need more money to deal with Covid 19 pandemic. The budget appropriation for financial year 2020-21 was approved by governor Anandiben Patel through Ordinance promulgated on Saturday, said Jagdish Deora, state’s finance minister. Last year, the budget appropriation was Rs 2,33,605 crore, while this year it has been decreased by Rs 28,000 crore to Rs 2,05,397 crore. The budget of every department has been cut down by 10-12%, according to the allocation made to each department as compared to the last fiscal. During the spread of Covid 19 pandemic, the deduction in budget of public health and family welfare department by Rs 142 crore, medical education department by Rs 249 crore and ayush department by Rs 12 crore raised concern as the state is still ill prepared to deal with the rising numbers of cases, said health experts. “Decrease in health budget is a matter of concern in a state like MP, where stories of a woman delivering on road in Chhatarpur, body being carried on a cot in Sidhi and death without treatment in Guna, are examples of poor health infrastructure. In MP, Covid 19 patients are mostly being treated in private hospitals,” health activist Arvind Mishra said.Also Read: ‘I am fine, salute corona warriors for serving selflessly’: Shivraj Singh ChouhanAnother health expert alleged that the move suggested that the government was relying on the private sector instead of the public sector.“The state government’s dependence on private health services will collapse the whole system of public health. There are so many departments where the budget could be reduced but it is like a sin to reduce the health budget during a pandemic. Like other states, there was a need to allot additional budget in view of the pandemic, but the MP government ignored it as they wanted people to go out of state for health facilities or spend money in private hospitals,” said Amulya Nidhi in a scathing comment. The Congress alleged the reduction will adversely impact Covid management and betrayed the state government’s insensitivity towards common people dying of the disease.“This is for the first time, that the reduced budget has been passed through an Ordinance. It is shameful. Instead of increasing the budget to improve health facilities and infrastructure during this pandemic, the budget was reduced by Rs 403 crore of health related departments,” former public relation minister PC Sharma said.Also Read: Recite Hanuman Chalisa 5 times a day to eradicate Covid-19, says Pragya ThakurFinance department minister Jagdish Deora explained the rationale for deduction and added that health services were government’s priority and won’t be allowed to suffer.“In the first quarter of this financial year, tax collections reduced by 65% due to the lockdown but health services continue to be our priority. The reduced budget will not hinder the health facilities and development projects,” Deora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cuts-budget-by-12-health-departments-lose-rs-403-crore-amid-covid-fight/story-bQYJcTX79IfnH7MSlYLOdL.html
26-07-2020||India||Manipur announces restrictions, penalties to contain Covid-19 outbreak||Manipur has announced stringent measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 disease by enacting the ‘The Manipur Epidemic Diseases (Enforcement of COVID-19 Guidelines) Regulation, 2020.Any person who violates quarantine guidelines and protocol will be fined Rs 1,000 on each occasion, while failure to wear a mask in public places, failure to maintain social distance in public places and consumption of paan, gutka and tobacco in public places will carry a fine of Rs 200 each, according to the notification released on Saturday.On Sunday, the state reported 59 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 2,235. The number of active and recovered cases are 714 and 1521 respectively.The notification also states that spitting in public places carries a penalty of Rs 500 while gathering in excess of permitted number of persons carries a penalty of Rs 10,000. Any other violation of guidelines carries a fine of Rs 1,000.“In case any person fails to pay the penalty on the spot, such person shall be liable for prosecution under Section 188 of IPC and the authorised police officer shall take cognizance of the offence on his own or on receipt of any complaint from the authorised person/authority,” it said.These regulations shall be in force for a period of one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-announces-restrictions-penalties-to-contain-covid-19-outbreak/story-tQEX0LNedpj2NO2Smvu3kO.html
26-07-2020||India||Self-proclaimed Mughal descendant offers gold brick for Ram Temple construction||Prince Yakub Habeebuddin Tucy, a self-proclaimed descendant of the Mughals has offered a gold brick weighing one kilogram to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying it could be used for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, reported ANI.Habeebuddin Tucy was also in news last year when he demanded to be appointed the caretaker of the Babri Masjid that once stood over the Ramjanmabhoomi land in Ayodhya, now handed over by the Supreme Court to the government for construction of a Ram Temple after prolonged court battle over the ownership of the land between Hindu and Muslim parties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to lay the foundation stone for the temple on August 5 at 12.15 pm, considered to be an auspicious occasion for starting the construction of the temple. Tucy said it was a matter of happiness that an issue involving the faith and emotions of over 100 crore Hindus had been resolved in an amicable way. “My hearty congratulations to my Hindu brothers of India and the 1 kg gold brick that I promised is ready. I have asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for time to handover this gold brick to him,” Tucy said in an interview to news agency ANI. Also Read: Ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ can be done via video link: Uddhav ThackerayA century-long dispute over the site was resolved last year following the BJP’s landslide election victory. In November, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the temple trust, saying that Muslim petitioners would be given five acres at an alternative site.Symbolism of Tucy’s offer can be understood in the context of the popular belief that the Mughals had originally razed the temple to build a mosque over it in the ancient city of Ayodhya.The Bhumi Pujan ceremony to be held on August 5 is planned to be celebrated with lighting of earthen lamps and decoration with flowers to recreate the Hindu festival of Diwali which marks the homecoming of Lord Rama after several years in exile. Several top leaders of the Central and state governments are also expected to attend the function in Ayodhya along with the proponents of the movement including LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi.Yogi Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh’s chief minister had yesterday requested that temples in the city be cleaned and decorated before lighting of oil lamps in the evening. He also said the moment had arrived after 500-years of struggle.Also Read: Donations from all faiths to be accepted for Ram temple construction: Trust memberEarlier today, a member of the Ram Temple Trust formed to oversee its construction and management on the instructions of the apex court had said that members of all communities were free to donate for the cause of temple construction.“We will accept donations from whoever has devotion towards and faith in Lord Ram,” Vishwaprasanna Teertha Swamy, head of Udupi-based Pejawar Mutt in Karnataka was quoted as saying by PTI.He was asked if contributions would be accepted from all communities and not just Hindus.The trust had earlier indicated that it will collect the money for temple construction through a nationwide campaign for donation and not ask for government funds.The seer quoted above added that it was suggested in the last meeting of the trust that a sum of Rs ten per head and Rs 100 from each household be collected as part of the effort.“It’s just a suggestion, it’s not like tax. It’s kind of a road-map for people who are desirous of participating in the construction of the Mandir,” the seer told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-proclaimed-mughal-descendant-offers-gold-brick-for-ram-temple-construction/story-LAiA2mU7tfqpS0LoG9v9QN.html
26-07-2020||India||Engineer, 5 others held for looting ATMs with explosives in MP||A gang of six people, including an engineering graduate, which robbed ATMs by blowing them up with explosives was busted in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Sunday.The gang had blown up seven ATMs so far and looted Rs 46 lakh, Inspector General of Police (Sagar Zone) Anil Sharma told reporters here on Sunday.“They would conduct reconnaissance of ATMs to find out how much cash was stored in them. They would open the ATM by exploding a gelatin stick near the cash tray using a motorcycle battery,” the IG said.“One of the arrested persons, Devendra Patel (28), has a civil engineering degree and had also appeared for the UPSC exams. He used to device ways of committing robberies after watching television crime shows. We seized fake currency with face value of Rs 3.50 lakh and equipment from Patel,” Sharma said.He said Rs 25.57 lakh cash, two country-made pistols, eight bullets, detonators, colour printer, three motorcycles, gelatin sticks, mobile phones and laptop have been seized from the gang.The seven robberies the gang committed were in Damoh, Jabalpur, Panna and Katni districts.On July 19, they had looted Rs 22 lakh from an ATM in Panna in this manner.The other five members of the gang were identified as Santosh Patel (27), Nitesh Patel (25), Jairam Patel (32), Rakesh Patel (24) and Surat Lodhi (30).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engineer-5-others-held-for-looting-atms-with-explosives-in-mp/story-psbNxNjZZ68tRUR9ObaWKM.html
26-07-2020||India||RJD chief Lalu Prasad tests negative for Covid-19 in Ranchi||Former Bihar chief minister and RJD chief Lalu Prasad admitted to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has tested negative for Covid-19. The hospital administration confirmed it on Sunday evening.However, one of the three helpers engaged to take care of the RJD leader tested positive and has been quarantined in the RIMS isolation ward. Among the two others, one tested negative and the report of the third helper is still awaited.The swab samples of the fodder scam accused serving jail term was taken on Saturday along with his helpers, as one of the three helpers had developed some symptoms. The attendant has tested coronavirus positive.Lalu Prasad was admitted to RIMS in December 2018 after his conviction in a fodder scam case. His condition was reported to be stable though he has developed stage-3 kidney ailments. Lalu’s lawyer applied for regular bail a few days back.A dedicated Covid-19 ward has been functioning in RIMS for the past four months. Several patients that include water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar, nurses and hospital staff were admitted in the RIMS Covid-19 ward. Most of them, including the minister tested negative after treatment and were released subsequently. However, a few died premature deaths after getting infected with coronavirus.In April, Dr Umesh Prasad who was treating the RJD leader also tested negative. The doctor put himself on 14 days home quarantine as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-tests-negative-for-covid-19-in-ranchi/story-3BrDbBgGD7NXxSwg7rnWmN.html
26-07-2020||India||Outdoor shooting rejuvenates Karan Aanand||After being a homebody for nearly four months, UPite Karan Aanand is all rejuvenated after a 10-day outdoor shooting schedule. The ‘Baby’ and ‘Lupt’ actor shot at a plush resort in the scenic location of Lonavala. After returning to Mumbai on Friday morning he said, “Since March this is for the first time I stepped out for an outdoor shoot. Despite the hectic schedule and fear of getting virus infected, it turned out to be a memorable shoot. I feel all re-energized and relaxed about completing the project in the times of ongoing crisis.” Shooting at such secluded, scenic location in monsoon made the shoot more cherished for him. “Those ten days were the best spent time in my life. At times I felt as if I was living in paradise. Much needed tour it was.” The actor shot for a feature film ‘It’s Over’ which is based on the ongoing situation of lockdown. Karan admits that shooting in such situation was not easy. “The fear of being infected loomed over us, all the time. Due to pandemic our psyche has changed completely. We are living in a constant fear all the time. Thankfully, our film has just two characters me and my co-star (Swapna Pati). Besides, we had a very small crew and just a limited staff at the resort. It was very hectic as the film had only two characters and you are literally in every frame.” The film has been directed by Rajesh Kumar Mohanty. “I came on board just a month back. The makers were into preproduction since a long time. Then we obtained all required permissions, got our medical check-up done and joined the shoot.” He reveals that the film story is set in the backdrop lockdown. “I play a successful director who is spending time at this sprawling house when he gets to meet this struggling actor. Lockdown happens and sequence of events unfolds. It’s a very interesting story set in current times.” Swapna is well-known actor from Odisha and has earlier done Hindi film ‘Antardhwani.’ Karan is all set to shoot for another web film in November and will be back in Lucknow to shoot for another feature film in March 2021. He had earlier shot ‘Lupt’ in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/outdoor-shooting-rejuvenates-karan-aanand/story-bF8bFvfAADJOtO0CWAHXPJ.html
26-07-2020||India||‘If only nepotism could have applied in my case…’||Actor, model and voice-over artiste Aisha Ahmed believes that is always right to start early on. “Starting early in life is something that I decided after my high school boards. I came home from my boarding school after examinations and it was then my step father (filmmaker Faruk Kabir) asked me to take up some acting workshop or a short course,” she said.She went for a month-long theatre workshop. “It was during the process I realised that I was naturally inclined towards acting and by then I figured it out that this what want to do. So, it was then, I started auditioning and simultaneously continued with acting workshops,” she said over the phone.Born and brought in Mumbai, Aisha is daughter of actor Rukhsar Rehman who has worked in movies like ‘Sarkar’, ‘God Tussi Great Ho’, ‘PK’ and more. When asked being daughter of an actor did it help her to make it in Bollywood, she was quick to revert, “If only nepotism could have applied in my case, I would have been the happiest not running from pillar to post, auditioning and asking do I fit! My mother accompanied me for two auditions and then discreetly told me from here you have to find your path,” she said.She then I got to do some advertisements as a newbie. “It did help me to understand that it’s not going to be easy. Then, I become assistant casting director and learnt the technicalities involved in film making. My mother told me the same, I still see her auditioning for films and it did boost my morale that that’s the way life is. I remember I got a big brand ad and had to go to Bangkok but the shoot was coinciding with my board examinations. I was in a fix and it was then my mother said that I have to solely make this decision as it was my life and nobody will share the outcome of it.” The pretty lass shot to fame with her role of Nikhat Rizvi, in web series ‘Adulting’. “I shot for my first feature film ‘3 Storeys’ when I was 19 but it took over a year to release. I was disheartened as it appeared that my struggle was still on and this career choice is not going to be easy. It was then that I got offer for sketches (small videos) for YouTube and then my web journey started. ‘Adulting’ made me a known face and this followed with second season and other projects like ‘Minus One,’ ‘World of MG: Homecoming,’ short films ‘Chhaju Ke Dahi Bhalle,’ ‘Zindagi in Short,’ and more. In lockdown too I shot for several teasers back at home as that’s the way to work as of now,” said Aisha who took a webinar session in Lucknow, recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/if-only-nepotism-could-have-applied-in-my-case/story-TiVAt0FDQeQkRNe95cmaHN.html
26-07-2020||India||OTT enables actors to portray various shades: Darshan||‘Sarabjit,’ ‘Mary Kom’ and ‘NH10’ actor Darshan Kumar feels films are like fast-paced T20 cricket matches while over the top (OTT) series are like a test match that let actors carve their character and portray a variety of shades in one role. “Films are like a T20 match with limited time and people whereas OTT series are like a test match where you start slow but then gear up and bring out the best in you. Similarly, it happens with a character in the digital series. Slowly we develop the character and explore several layers of the character which is an amazing thing about this platform,” he said. Darshan was last seen in ‘The Family Man’. “OTT is a personal entertainment platform where people enjoy viewing anywhere, anytime also the viewers have personal connect with the characters and the story. This is a good phase for all the actors as we have so many mediums to perform. I am enjoying playing different roles especially on OTT as we get a lot of time to discover and relive the characters,” he said over the phone. The actor believes OTT does give space and time to actors to bring out their characters well. “See we all are human beings and we don’t remain same all the time. We get an opportunity in web shows to play and project our roles at a length. Suppose an actor is playing a certain character in a way in any series then maybe in next season another shade of that person can be highlighted so this way we get multiple chances to portray different human emotions. That’s the beauty of these series that you get a chance to show so many shades and characters in just one show.” Sharing more about his work, Darshan said, “Talks are on, I have almost finalised one film and two web-series. But, they are waiting for the right time to start. As it’s a bit early to start shooting again though I am a very positive person and believe all will be well. And, as soon as we get some vaccine we all will be good to go. For a film we shoot with a crew of at least hundred people and so it’s important that we shoot during safer times with minimum risk. So I’m in no hurry and we can easy wait for 2-3 months before we restart.” In his upcoming series ‘Avrodh the Siege Within’ he plays an army officer. “I loved playing such a layered and versatile character in the series. It was very challenging but very gratifying at the same time. There is sense of pride when we get to play roles associated with your country like in this series that is based on Uri attacks.” The Delhite has shot in UP in recent times. His film ‘Mirza Juuliet’ was shot in Varanasi where he plays Mirza. He also shot for a series ‘Ashram’ in Ayodhya. “Earlier this year, I have completed ‘Ashram’ with Prakash (Jha) sir. We have shot for three-four months in Ayodhya and it was just before the coronavirus pandemic started that we had a pack-up in March first-week. Shooting in Ayodhya was a lifetime experience for all of us.” Darshan will also be seen in the next season of ‘Family Man’ starring Manoj Bajpai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ott-enables-actors-to-portray-various-shades-darshan/story-fucQuZdNAUcQG3t963IhLN.html
26-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand man held for abducting prominent trader from Odisha’s Sambalpur district||The Dehradun police on Sunday arrested a 38-year-old man for allegedly masterminding the abduction of a prominent construction trader in Odisha’s Sambalpur district and carrying out the kidnapping along with three others on July 10, police said. The police swung into action after getting an input from the Sambalpur police on Saturday stating that the accused Rajiv Dua, a resident of Dehradun has been hiding in the city after committing the crime. “Following the input, we immediately formed a police team and mobilized our informers to nab him. With the help of electronic surveillance, we got to know about his location in city’s Raipur area. He was finally caught this afternoon from there,” said Arun Mohan Joshi, deputy inspector general, Dehradun. Joshi said that during the interrogation he confessed to the crime and said, “He used to run a cloth business in Dehradun’s Paltan Bazar but after he ran into heavy losses, he shut down the business in 2018 and went to his maternal uncle living in Sambalpur.”There again he started his cloth business and opened a garment shop. But as his business was not running well, he fell under heavy debt. “There in his shop he met two of accomplices who too were under heavy debt. The three of them decided to abduct the construction trader Naresh Agrawal who used to live in the same neighborhood as Dua’s uncle,” Joshi said. According to the plan hatched by Dua, the three along with one other person, abducted Agrawal on July 10 while he was out on work. Joshi said, “After abducting him in Dua’s car, they had planned to call his family for ransom. But, before they could make the ransom call, police got to know about it and started searching for him. Scared, they all then dropped him near his house and fled. Dua then came to Dehradun by car on July 18.”“After his arrest, police have also seized his car and mobile phone used in the crime. A probe is on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-held-for-abducting-prominent-trader-from-odisha-s-sambalpur-district/story-pCpiQj1dWg0ajXLTUvWUJJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Early morning visitor from jungle breaks walls, crushes vehicles in Haridwar colony||An elephant created ruckus in a residential area in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar on Sunday morning leading to panic among the residents of Bilkeshwar Colony, not far from Har-Ki-Pauri, by damaging boundary walls and vehicles parked outside. In the wee hours on Sunday at around 3am, the locals were woken up by the sound of an elephant strolling in the colony lanes uprooting plants, damaging four-wheelers and turning down two-wheelers. The residents tried to shoo away the jumbo by producing loud sounds and flashing torch lights in vain as the wild animal broke the boundary wall of the colony community centre. By the time forest department officials arrived, the elephant had done some damage leaving residents alleging laxity in controlling jumbo intrusions in the residential area. Shikhar Paliwal, local resident, whose car was damaged by the elephant, said in recent times, particularly since lockdown was imposed in late March, movement of wild animals has increased in their area. He noted that the ancient shrine of Bilkeshwar devoted to Lord Shiva, frequented by hundreds of pilgrims daily, is also nearby. Also Read: Uttarakhand CM Rawat asks officials to increase Covid-19 testing“It’s quite unsafe to venture out in the morning and at dusk owing to regular spotting of elephants and other wild animals. We have apprised forest department officials who have assured us of taking appropriate action but a foolproof long-term solution is needed to ensure the colony is safe from the intrusion of wild animals,” said Paliwal, who also runs a pro-Ganga Being Bhagirath Foundation. Haridwar forest division Ranger Dinesh Naudiyal said adequate measures were being taken by the department and regular patrolling was being carried out in areas where elephants are being spotted. Gagan Matta, assistant professor of environmental science in Gurukul Kangri University said the elephant spotted at Bilkeshwar this morning could be a new one since he seemed lost inside the colony and was caught up with dead-ends. “Bilkeshwar colony is surrounded by monsoonal drain and elephants often intrude into this colony, but mostly through outer stretch to reach bypass road and then move into dense forest terrain. But this elephant seems to have lost its path and probably in seeking an exit route, caused damage in the colony,” said Matta. Also Read: Pre-feasibility report for Uttarakhand’s greenfield airport submitted, CM underlines its strategic roleNotably, early in April, an elephant was spotted at Har-Ki-Pauri drinking and splashing water from the Ganga. Police personnel deputed in the area had then shooed away the elephant which had come from nearby Rajaji Tiger Reserve forest terrain. Sighting of elephants at Jagjeetpur, Ajeetpur, Missirpur, Katarpur, Panjanhedi, Jiopata, Shyampur Kangri, Laldhang and nearby residential areas on outskirts of Haridwar forest division and Rajaji Tiger Reserve is also being reported in past few weeks since the monsoon season began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-morning-visitor-from-jungle-breaks-walls-crushes-vehicles-in-hardiwar-colony/story-vOgYKwZDrdAC7RVhXvrRFN.html
26-07-2020||India||‘No Srinagar resident in militant ranks now after killing of LeT commander’: Kashmir IGP||No Srinagar resident now remains in militant ranks after the killing of Lashkar-e-Taiba member Ishfaq Rashid Khan in an encounter on Saturday, Kashmir Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said on Sunday.Khan, a LeT commander and a resident of Sozieth in Srinagar, was among the two militants killed in a gun fight with security forces on Saturday in the Ranbirgarh-Panzinara area of Srinagar. The other militant, according to sources, was Aijaz Bhat, a resident of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.“After killing of LeT terrorist Ishfaq Rashid Khan yesterday, no resident of Srinagar district in terrorist ranks now,” Kashmir police’s Twitter handle quoted IGP Kumar as saying. After #killing of #LeT #terrorist Ishfaq Rashid Khan yesterday, no resident of #Srinagar district in terrorist ranks now: IGP Kashmir @JmuKmrPoliceEarlier this month, the IGP had said that Srinagar could never be militancy-free owing to entry of militants from other districts and before they can set up their base in Srinagar they are killed.“Srinagar is a city where militants come often. Sometimes they come for medical treatment, collecting funds or even for meetings. Srinagar can never be militant free,” he had said on July 3 after an encounter on the outskirts of Srinagar.“The militants will keep on coming here. And when we get information about the militants, we will keep on carrying out encounters,” he said.So far 10 militants have been killed in Srinagar in various encounters - a few of them belonging to Srinagar.The two militants killed on Saturday were trapped after a joint cordon and search operation was launched by JKP, 29 RR and CRPF in the said area.A police spokesman said that during the operation they were given an opportunity to surrender. “However they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, the two were killed,” he said.The dead bodies of the terrorists were sent to Ganderbal for last rites after completing medico-legal formalities including collection of their DNA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-srinagar-resident-in-militant-ranks-now-after-killing-of-let-commander-kashmir-igp/story-ZM58AGfTxjGbpsprDXzwaJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Sikh leader abducted by terrorists, Hindu minorities stranded in Pakistan due to Covid-19 crisis arrive in Delhi||Eleven members of the Sikh and Hindu minorities of Afghanistan, including a community leader who was recently abducted by terrorists, arrived in New Delhi on Sunday after the Indian embassy in Kabul facilitated their travel. In a statement issued on July 18 after the release of Nidan Singh Sachdeva, the Sikh leader who was kidnapped in Paktia province last month, the external affairs ministry said the government had decided to “facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India”. Sachdeva was among the Afghan nationals who reached New Delhi on a Kam Air flight at 2 pm on Sunday. The flight also carried Indian citizens who were stranded in Afghanistan because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Adesh Gupta, a leader of the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and others received the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus at the international airport. Also read: Afghan Sikh abducted from Gurudwara thanks India for bringing him back to ‘motherland’“Travel of some members of the Hindu and Sikh [communities], interested in moving to India, was also facilitated,” the Indian embassy in Kabul said in a tweet. “We appreciate the efforts of the government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in extending necessary support for the safe return of these families,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Indian government had earlier expressed concern at the “targeting and persecution of minority community members [in Afghanistan] by terrorists at the behest of their external supporters”. Concerns among Afghanistan’s dwindling Sikh minority have increased after a terror attack on a Sikh place of worship in Kabul in March that left 25 people dead and others injured. The attack was claimed by the Islamic State, though Indian and Afghan security officials believe the assault was planned and executed by Pakistan-based Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Also read | ‘Be ready for 14-day seclusion’: Indian embassy makes evacuation plan from WuhanSeveral of the Afghan nationals who arrived in India on Sunday had lost their relatives in the attack on the Sikh place of worship. Also in the group was a teenage girl who was rescued from people who allegedly tried to forcibly convert and marry her off. According to reports in the Afghan media, there were some 220,000 Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan in the 1980s. Their numbers dwindled to 15,000 when the Taliban were in power in Kabul. An estimated 1,350 Sikhs and Hindus remain in Afghanistan now, according to the reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-leader-abducted-by-terrorists-hindu-minorities-stranded-in-pakistan-due-to-covid-19-crisis-arrive-in-delhi/story-D3RWJD4X4fTWaLVxfBpCAL.html
26-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: 102 killed, nearly 25 lakh still affected in Assam floods and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Death toll in Assam floods cross 100; nearly 25 lakh still affectedWith five deaths due to drowning reported from across the state during the day, the death toll in Assam due to floods this season crossed the century mark on Sunday and increased to 102.Read more. Kerala smuggling accused funded terror activities, says NIA reportThe multi-agency team probing the Kerala gold smuggling case says one of the accused K T Ramees is the key link in diverting proceeds of smuggling to fund anti-national activities in south India.Read more. Rajasthan Governor reviews security at Raj Bhawan ahead of Congress protest tomorrowRajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Sunday reviewed the security arrangements at his official residence, Raj Bhawan, as well as the Covid-19 health crisis in the state, amid severe political turmoil which has seen Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot locked in a bitter power tussle with his erstwhile deputy and rebel leader Sachin Pilot.Read more. ‘Leadership is recognised in times of crisis’: Priyanka Gandhi’s targets BJP govtCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused the BJP-led government at Centre for making attempts to topple elected governments when the country is faced with coronavirus disease outbreak. In a sharp but veiled dig, Priyanka Gandhi also questioned the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s leadership.Read more. Self-proclaimed Mughal descendant offers gold brick for Ayodhya Ram TemplePrince Yakub Habeebuddin Tucy, a self-proclaimed descendant of the Mughals offered a gold brick of one kilogram to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He offered the gold brick to use it in the construction of the grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya. “This is a happy moment for all of us that the Ram Temple is going to be built in Ayodhya. As promised, I offered a gold brick of one kilogram to be used in the construction of the temple as a gift by the Mughals,” said Yakub Habeebuddin Tucy. Watch here. When a young Yuvraj Singh gave up fast bowling to become a batsmanThe story of a young Yuvraj Singh giving up his roller skates to pursue a career in cricket is well-known, but not many might be aware of the fact that he was a left-arm fast bowler stating off. Yuvraj revealed how until the age of 11, he was a fast bowler, wanting to continue in that role, but a certain incident changed his mind and he started concentrating more towards batting.Read more. Ingenious mask alternatives for the ongoing coronavirus pandemicTo get through any tough stop, we need to think outside the box and use our ingenuity. What tougher situation could there be than the coronavirus pandemic that we are currently facing, in which to exercise our creativity for the good? People all over the world are using ingenious hacks and tricks to keep themselves and their loved ones safe from the pandemic and Hilary Myers and 10-year-old Matthew Valerio lend proof into some hacks amid Covid-19.Read more. From Asus ROG Phone 3 to Realme X3, here are top 5 smartphones you may have missedThe month of July has been a busy month for tech companies. Companies like Asus and Lenovo have launched their next generation gaming phones. In addition to this, Realme has also launched its X50 series smartphones that come with the much-hyped ‘gimbal camera’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-102-killed-nearly-25-lakh-still-affected-in-assam-floods-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Jgk6nZngFunqwYICjkEkbN.html
26-07-2020||India||In a push to ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, India to send 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh||India will hand over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh on Monday, reflecting a renewed focus on the “neighbourhood first” policy to bolster economic ties and connectivity within the region amid the border standoff with China. The handover of the broad gauge diesel locomotives, part of grant assistance from the Indian side, is in line with a commitment by New Delhi during Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s visit last October, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The locomotives will be handed over during a virtual event to be joined by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and railways minister Piyush Goyal and their Bangladeshi counterparts AK Abdul Momen and Mohammed Nurul Islam Sujon, as well as envoys of the two countries and senior officials. The handover will come close on the heels of the first cross-border container train reaching Bangladesh on Sunday with 50 containers of FMCG goods and fabrics. Last week, the two sides marked a notable achievement in maritime connectivity with the first shipment of container cargo from Kolkata to Agartala in the landlocked northeastern region via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port. The connectivity initiatives with Bangladesh coincide with other moves by India to shore up relations with key neighbours amid the standoff with China. In reject weeks, New Delhi has kept a wary eye on stepped up activities by Beijing in regional capitals such as Kathmandu, Male and Colombo. The people cited above believe China was behind Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s recent outreach to his Bangladeshi counterpart. On Saturday, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion is also being considered by New Delhi. The Indian mission in Male, in a statement on Sunday to mark the Maldives’ Independence Day, said India had provided $400 million through an extended currency swap arrangement to tide over a liquidity shortage and will soon “announce another substantial financial assistance package” to help post-Covid-19 economic recovery. The people said India-Bangladesh railway cooperation is a vital element of efforts to promote trade and connectivity. Both sides are working to enhance rail connectivity by developing new projects and restoring old links. Currently, the four operational rail links between the two sides, all of which originate in West Bengal, are Petrapole-Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singhabad-Rohanpur, and Radhikapur–Birol. The first container train that reached Bangladesh on Sunday left the Container Corporation of India Ltd’s (CONCOR) terminal at Majerhat near Kolkata on Friday and crossed over using the Benapole-Petrapole link. This container train will now be a regular service connecting CONCOR terminals in India to stations in Bangladesh such as Benapole, Jessore, Singia, Noapara and Bangabandhu Setu West, Indian officials said. The two sides signed an MoU for the service in April 2017 and a trial run was conducted in April 2018. There are also two passenger trains – Bandhan Express from Kolkata to Khulna and Maitree Express from Kolkata to Dhaka – though services are temporarily suspended due to the pandemic. Seventeen railway projects with a commitment of $2.44 billion were included in assistance extended by India to Bangladesh. India has offered lines of credit for these projects at a rate of interest of 1% a year, with repayment over 20 years with a moratorium for five years. Nine projects have been completed, including supply of wagons and equipment. The Kulaura-Shahbazpur line, being built at a cost of $78 million, is set to be completed by the end of this year, and the Khulna-Mongla line worth $389 million is set for completion by June 2021. A cross-border link of 12 km between Agartala and Akhaura is set to be completed by March 2021 and will enhance freight and passenger connectivity between the rest of India and the northeastern states. Experts believe the attention given to ties with Bangladesh is part of efforts to overcome the impact of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) on bilateral relations. Bangladesh’s leadership was irked by reports that illegal migrants in states such as Assam would be deported to the neighbouring country. Maya Mirchandani, senior fellow at Observer Research Foundation and professor of media studies at Ashoka University, said: “We’ve neglected the neighbourhood for some time. Bangladesh has been upset since CAA was passed, and the perception it has created about ethnic Bengali Muslims in particular.” She added: “In the current context, with Chinese adventurism on India’s borders, it is imperative for Delhi to be less dismissive of neighbours falling into China’s ‘debt trap’ and be more pro-active about repairing ties that have been starved for attention.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-push-to-neighbourhood-first-policy-india-to-send-10-railway-locomotives-to-bangladesh/story-TZ2enN1ZZH2OULNP9yNtLL.html
26-07-2020||India||Trinamool Congress launches video campaign for poll-bound Bengal||With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) intensifying its activities in poll-bound West Bengal, the Trinamool Congress on Sunday launched a new tri-weekly video campaign to highlight the state government’s performance. Called Shoja Banglay Bolchi (straight talk in Bengali) the campaign features a series of short data-based videos complete with graphics and background score. The first video claims that unemployment rate in Bengal during the Covid-19 pandemic is low in comparison with figures in BJP-ruled states. The BJP, however, is not named in the video. The videos will appear on social media every Sunday, Wednesday and Friday, Rajya Sabha member and TMC’s national spokesperson Derek O’Brien, who hosts the campaign, wrote on Twitter. In the 41-second video O’Brien says, “According to the report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, unemployment rate in Bengal in June was 6.5% whereas it was 11% nationally.” Unemployment rate was 9.6% in Uttar Pradesh, 9.2% in Karnataka, 8.2% in Madhya Pradesh and 33% in Haryana, says the MP. The figures also appear on the screen. “I am talking straight. Just think about it. Stay safe. Stay well,” O’Brien says at the end. Bengal BJP leadership called the campaign a useless exercise and said it comes at a time when people can see the Mamata Banerjee government making futile attempts to combat the Covid-19 crisis. “This sort of useless exercise means nothing to people. Around 10 lakh migrant workers returned during the lockdown. O’Brien should first explain why these 10 lakh people left Bengal for work if employment rate is so high here,” said Bengal BJP vice president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “This must be another brainchild of election strategist Prashant Kishor who has been roped in by Banerjee. What can be more shameful for her than the fact that she has to depend on someone who came from Bihar while her party claims that she has the final word in Bengal politics,” said Majumdar. The BJP leader also took a jibe at O’Brien for his Bengali accent. “Since they say that it is straight talk in Bengali the videos should feature someone who can properly pronounce Bengali words,” quipped Majumdar. HT tried to contact O’Brien for his reaction but he did not take calls or reply to a text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-launches-video-campaign-for-poll-bound-bengal/story-tklmx4D3002RrelMsAuB2L.html
26-07-2020||India||927 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in Kerala||Kerala has reported 927 new coronavirus cases and two deaths on Sunday even as the state cabinet is meeting on Monday to discuss new strategies to contain locally-transmitted cases. There is a big spike in locally-transmitted cases, at least 80 per cent now, making contact tracing difficult for harried health officials.With 927 cases total went up to 19,025. Among this, live cases are 9,655 and recovered 9,302. With two more deaths, toll risen to 62. Though nine deaths took place in the state only 2 found place in government records amid allegations that officials are ignoring many deaths citing flimsy reasons. When asked about this, a senior official admitted that some cases were excluded and they will reflect in the next day’s list. Among infected are 16 health workers and 12 police personnel including the central paramilitary guards. State capital Thiruvananthapuram remained worst affected with 175 new cases, triple lockdown is in force in many areas, especially along the coastal belt. At least 1,56, 162 people are under observation in the state, said state health minister’s office. With 29 more areas converted into hotspots total containment spots went up to 495.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/927-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-kerala/story-NQyuUso5bB2RN7dJnh6nWM.html
26-07-2020||India||Government identifies 1,474 exporters’ fraudulent claims worth Rs 2,020 cr||The finance ministry has identified 1,474 ‘risky’ exporters who have fraudulently claimed IGST refund worth Rs 2,020 crore and promised stern action against them. Some of these exporters enjoy a star rating, according to a senior ministry official. The fraudulent claims were caught out during a verification exercise which found exporters’ untraceable, following which their refund claims have been blocked, the official added.Integrated Goods and Services Tax or IGST refund has been suspended in all such cases where an adverse report was generated post verification of the exporter or his suppliers. However, Customs officials have been sensitized to expedite refunds to genuine exporters keeping the Covid-19 challenges in mind, the officer quoted above said.“Out of the 1,474 untraceable exporters, 1,125 exporters are from Delhi alone. Non-existing exporters have also been detected in large numbers at Surat (215), Thane (28), Faridabad (15) and Kolkata (11),” the official said.They were engaged in exports of a wide range of products including ready-made garments, wallpaper, wall coverings, leather apparel, smoking pipes, mobile phones, cigarette holders, footwear, plastics, floor coverings, ball bearings and roller bearings.Seven of these dubious business firms had star exporter ratings, five of them operated from Delhi and one each from Mumbai and Kolkata.Three adverse reports have been received in respect of other three star exporters, two in Mumbai and one in Jaipur. They tried to claim IGST refund amounting to Rs.28.9 crores unsuccessfully.The ministry started a programme for exporters’ risk management in June 2019 following assessment of fraudulent claims taking advantage of the fully automated IGST refund system. Their general modus operandi is to pay IGST at the highest rate of 28% in order to quickly encash the undue ITC claims, the official said.However, the programme uses data analytics based on 360 degree profiling of exporters using multiple data sources (GST, Income Tax, Customs, DGFT, etc.) and is able to weed out fraudulent exporters from genuine ones with a high degree of success, he said.“Some fake/risky exporters are lobbying with some prominent trade associations to allege that genuine exporters are being harassed by being asked for over 1,500 documents each for conducting verification, but this is completely untrue,” he said, adding that the two stage verification doesn’t require more than three to four documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-identifies-1-474-exporters-fraudulent-claims-worth-rs-2-020-cr/story-3Q5njE5etvBUsrYGZhYNWN.html
26-07-2020||India||India’s first-ever export container train arrives at integrated check post in Petrapole||India’s first-ever cargo container train for export to Bangladesh arrived at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) in West Bengal’s Petrapole from Kolkata’s Majerhat Railway Station on Sunday, S S Guleria, the Deputy Inspector General, Border Security Force (BSF) of the South Bengal Frontier said in a statement.According to the statement, the train is the first of its kind to export to Bangladesh passing through a Container Corporation of India (CONCOR) container freight station, Majerhat, Kolkata, and Petrapole in India to Benapole in Bangladesh. The train, with the engine number 16557R A/W, had 50 containers and halted for about 25 minutes on the zero line for train immigration formalities.“The train is equipped with an electronic cargo tracking system (ECTS) and the containers are electronically sealed and tracked by the Transecur company. MGH Group Private Limited is involved in a contract with Container Corporation of India (CONCOR) to run this train,” the statement said.The statement further added, “Earlier, the wagons of the Good Trains could be tampered with for human trafficking as well as smuggling of contraband to Bangladesh through ICPs between India-Bangladesh by smugglers. The running of this container train will put a check on the smuggling activities at the border in the coming time. The electronic seal makes it impossible for smugglers to put illegal baggage in it. This will make it a lot more convenient and efficient for the BSF to checking the train on the zero line.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-ever-export-container-train-arrives-at-integrated-check-post-in-petrapole/story-VIswrHALkgtgGvg3GyVx2K.html
26-07-2020||India||Death toll in Assam floods cross 100; nearly 25 lakh still affected||With five deaths due to drowning reported from across the state during the day, the death toll in Assam due to floods this season crossed the century mark on Sunday and increased to 102. According to a bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), two persons died at Kalgachia in Barpeta, two more at Kachugaon in Kokrajhar and one at Bhuragaon in Morigaon district. Besides deaths due to drowning, 26 more persons have died across the state since May due to landslides caused by heavy rain, as per ASDMA. As on Sunday, nearly 25 lakh people in 2265 villages in 23 of the state’s 33 districts were still affected by floods. Goalpara (4.70 lakh) was the worst affected district followed by Barpeta (3.95 lakh) and Morigaon (3.33 lakh). Nearly 46,000 people uprooted due to floods were taking in 457 relief camps in 16 affected districts. Over 1.12 lakh hectare of crop area is still affected due to inundation, said the ASDMA bulletin. Nearly 85% area of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) spread over 430 sq km is inundated by flood waters at present. This monsoon, 129 wild animals including 14 rhinos (10 drowning, 4 natural causes) have died in and around the park, said a KNPTR bulletin. According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) report, Brahmaputra continued to flow above danger level at Nematighat, Tezpur, Goalpara and Dhubri. Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki and Kushiyara rivers also crossed the red mark at some places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-in-assam-floods-cross-100-nearly-25-lakh-still-affected/story-ZOem8SNsKjVzYUja3KecOJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Attorney General KK Venugopal bats for video streaming of court proceedings||Attorney General KK Venugopal has advocated video streaming of court proceedings across India so that court hearings anywhere in the country is accessible and “capacity” of lawyers and judges can be ascertained.He said that the one silver lining of Covid-19 and the lockdown of the courts was that it had compelled the legal fraternity to adopt e-filing of cases and hearing through video conferencing.“I would suggest that we go one step further and have video streaming as well so that the entire population of lawyers will be able to listen to any case which is going on in any court in this country. We would be able to judge the capacity of judges and lawyers and the nature of cases which are being handled in courts including lower courts, district courts, high courts and the Supreme Court,” he said.Venugopal was speaking at the launch of a district-level awareness programme in regional languages on e-court services by the Supreme Court e-committee.“I never believed that we could have progressed to this extent. Now I am optimistic that in due course, all courts in the country will be e-courts. I am sure that in the next one year, the whole of this country will be familiar with e-courts. We should congratulate the e-committee for what they have achieved,” he said at the inaugural function held via video conference on July 25.The work of the Supreme Court e-committee has been on an overdrive after the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The e-committee is proposing to introduce radical changes to filing of cases across the country by introduction and operationalisation of e-filing to replace physical filing of cases.After the lockdown, courts across the country had to adopt video conference and e-filing, albeit as an ad-hoc measure to tide over the shutdown of courts due to the pandemic. But e-filing is likely to be made a permanent fixture of our court system in the coming years.The work towards this end as far as the Supreme Court is concerned is at an advanced stage and a new e-filing module is expected to be rolled out soon. The e-committee is also in constant touch with high courts for digitization of records and a standard operating procedure will be drawn up for high courts and district judiciary across the country for digitization. Supreme Court judge, Justice DY Chandrachud, who is the chairperson of the e-committee, released a training manual, video tutorials and brochures in regional languages with regard to e-court services on July 25.The training manual, which is a step by step guide for e-filing of cases, was released in 11 regional languages - Assamese, Bengali, Nepali, Urdu, Mizo, Tamil, Hindi, Hindi-UP, Garo, Khasi and Pnar. Brochures, which would assist lawyers to familiarize themselves on e-filing, were released in 14 regional languages.Speaking on the necessity of such a step, Justice Chandrachud highlighted that there is a technological divide between metropolitan cities and rural areas in India and many a time, lawyers at the district and taluka level do not have access to information technology (IT).“There is a technological divide in India. Those who work and live in metros have the best facilities at their command in terms of IT. But the backbone of the judicial administration in the country is provided by advocates who work at taluka and district levels. The first interface of citizens with justice and his or her attempt to remedy injustice is when they contact an advocate at the taluka and district level and go to their chambers for remedying their problems,” he pointed out.Therefore, unless the lawyers at taluka and district level are also carried along and made part of the e-courts project, the mission will not succeed, he said.As part of the first stage of the awareness programme, the e-committee trained 25 master trainers on June 20 through video conferencing - one for each high court in the country.In the second stage, the 25 master trainers, in turn, trained 461master trainers across the country in their respective states and respective regional languages through video conference.In third phase, these 461 master trainers will be conducting the training programme in every district of the country for the advocates. 278 of these 461 master trainers will be covering two districts each so that all 739 districts in the country are covered.“This project we have conceived is an attempt to spread knowledge of Information and Communication technology initiatives among the members of the bar. Our target is to attain 100 percent computer literacy among members of Indian bar,” Justice Chandrachud added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attorney-general-kk-venugopal-bats-for-video-streaming-of-court-proceedings/story-1U9h8xy3z3Af3i4VX6oorM.html
26-07-2020||India||Kerala smuggling accused funded terror activities, says NIA report||The multi-agency team probing the Kerala gold smuggling case says one of the accused K T Ramees is the key link in diverting proceeds of smuggling to fund anti-national activities in south India.In the petition seeking the remand extension of Ramees, who is in the custody of the customs now, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said he seems to be the kingpin and was in constant touch with some fringe elements working against the interest of the country.“He used to insist on the other accused making use of the situation and bringing maximum amount of gold from the middle-east. He wants to weaken financial position of the country. He was also close to many who indulged in unlawful activities and he made frequent trips to abroad,” the NIA said in the custody report.Ramees was arrested by the customs from his house in Malappuram after the NIA detained two other accused Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair from their hideout in Bangaluru on July 10, five days after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.“He made several trips to the UAE and other countries in five years. When asked about this, he said he runs a hotel in Dubai. But later, we found that it was incorrect. We have information that a good portion of the smuggling proceeds was used to fund fringe elements,” said a senior official familiar with the probe on condition of anonymity.Customs officials said Ramees (28) was first booked in 2014 in connection with smuggling 15 kg gold through cargo in Kozhikkode. But, he later got away with fines. In 2016, the forest department had booked him for hunting a deer. But the case was hushed up later. Another case was registered against him for allegedly smuggling six rifles into the country though Kochi airport.“We will also inquire how such a history- sheeter got away and who all helped him,” said the senior official, adding, that Ramees used to fund many political parties and indulged in social activities to dodge any suspicion. The multi-agency team headed by NIA and assisted by customs, DRI, Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax is also investigating the cross-link between hawala and smuggling. The investigators say the latest incident has again exposed the well-oiled network between smuggling syndicates, hawala modules and terror outfits.Meanwhile, the NIA has summoned M Sivasankar, former principal secretary of Kerala chief minister, for questioning in Kochi. Earlier, he was grilled by customs for nine hours and by NIA for four hours. A senior IAS officer, often touted as the blue-eyed boy of the CM, he was removed from the post and later suspended after reports of his alleged association with one of the accused Swapna Suresh surfaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-smuggling-accused-funded-terror-activities-says-nia-report/story-NWvhVl7q0j9YlIDdRJIqLL.html
26-07-2020||India||Rajasthan guv reviews Covid-19 situation, Raj Bhawan security amid political crisis||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Sunday reviewed the security arrangements at his official residence, Raj Bhawan, as well as the Covid-19 health crisis in the state, amid severe political turmoil which has seen Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot locked in a bitter power tussle with his erstwhile deputy and rebel leader Sachin Pilot.The security review at the Raj Bhawan comes barely two days after the Chief Minister accompanied by about 100 Congress legislators protested on the lawns of the Governor’s residence on Friday. They were demanding that the Governor should convene an assembly session by Monday and let them face a floor test in the 200-member assembly.After a lot of political drama, the Congress government in the state has urged him to summon the assembly session on July 31. The party has also called for a nationwide dharna in front of Raj Bhawans on Monday.Chief Secretary Rajiva Swarup and Director General of Police Bhupendra Yadav participated at the meeting at Raj Bhawan and briefed Mishra about the protest being organized by the Congress party on Monday. Adequate security arrangements have been made at the Raj Bhawan, a statement issued by governor’s office said.At the meeting, the statement said, the Governor also expressed concern about the growing number of cases of coronavirus in the state. Mishra said that the number of Covid-19 cases had gone up three-fold since July 1.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said that the government wants to hold a session of the assembly to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state and the political crisis.According to the statement, Mishra directed the government officials that serious efforts should be made to control the growing cases of Covid-19 in the state. “A new strategy will have to be considered to control the pandemic in the state,” the statement said, quoting Mishra.On Saturday, a BJP delegation had submitted a memorandum to the Governor saying that the Congress threatening to surround the Raj Bhawan was a criminal act under Section 124 of the Indian Penal Code.Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara, said, “The Governor should not worry about anything. Congress follows Gandhian principles and protests, if any, would be peaceful.”BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek, however, pointed out that the post of the Governor is a constitutional one and the kind of statements the chief minister made had raised concerns and the review of security arrangements seemed necessary. He said the Rajasthan government since the last 15 days had been locked in a hotel, and a Covid-19 review by the Governor was necessary in public interest. On Friday, the Governor had written to Gehlot expressing concern at Congress legislators staging a protest on the lawns of Raj Bhawan on Friday afternoon. In his letter to the chief minister, the Governor wrote, “Before I could discuss the matter with experts regarding an assembly session, you have openly said that if Raj Bhawan is ‘gheraoed’ then it is not your responsibility.”“If you and your Home Ministry cannot protect the Governor then what about law and order in the state? What agency should be contacted for the Governor’s security? I’ve never heard such a statement from any CM. Is this not the beginning of a wrong trend where MLAs protest at Raj Bhawan?” Mishra questioned in his communication to Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-congress-protest-tomorrow-rajasthan-guv-reviews-security-at-raj-bhawan/story-9Mhe0ppplZVK8x5BvSwoSO.html
26-07-2020||India||Over 30 bank staff test positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu||As many as 38 employees of the main branch of a leading nationalised bank in this city have tested positive for coronavirus, officials from the bank and the local civic body said on Sunday.According to the officials, the customers who visited the bank have also been advised to voluntarily appear for coronavirus tests.Earlier, a senior official of the branch who was suffering from other complications, had succumbed to the contagion.The positive cases came to light after a mass medical screening camp was held at the bank recently, the officials said.The bank is frequented by customers including pensioners and loan applicants.Senior bank officials said the disinfection process had been completed today and indicated the bank might resume operations from Monday.Corporation health officials were in touch with the customers who visited the bank recently.Tamil Nadu, with the highest virus caseloads in the country after Maharashtra, has reported an overall 2,06,737 positive cases of the virus as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-bank-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/story-PDNxXJxZGnDbui1TgicV9H.html
26-07-2020||India||Alibaba or Jack Ma yet to respond to summons by Gurugram court||Alibaba founder and celebrated Chinese entrepreneur Jack Ma is yet to respond to summons asking him and his company to appear before a Gurugram court by July 29 in a case of alleged wrongful termination from employment, filed by former executive of UC Web mobile company, Pushpandra Singh Parmar, according to a news agency.“My client Pushpandra Singh Parmar has filed a civil suit against Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba Group, for wrongful termination. He was working as an Associate Director with Alibaba’s UC Web Mobile Company,” Parmar’s lawyer Atul Ahlawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Parmar, in his petition, is seeking a compensation of Rs 2 crores from the company alleging he was thrown out unceremoniously for objecting to alleged censorship of content and peddling of fake news on the Chinese mobile web platform, Reuters reported.UC Web mobile application was among the 59 applications banned by the Indian government recently over national security considerations. The decision was announced weeks after boundary clashes with China killed 20 Indian soldiers in eastern Ladakh. China has protested against the ban. Parmar claims that he was dismissed for raising similar concerns, according to a report by Reuters. Parmar alleges the company used to censor content seen as unfavourable to China. He also accused UC Browser and UC News of showcasing false news “to cause social and political turmoil”.The civil case was filed in the Gurugram court on July 20 following which, Jack Ma and Alibaba were summoned to appear in court either personally or through a lawyer. However, Parmar’s lawyer Ahlawat said there has been no response from the defendants so far.“Gurugram District Court has issued summons to the defendants, including Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba Group. Summons are returnable for 29th July. Till date, we have not received any response from the defendants,” Atul Ahlawat was quoted as saying by ANI.The judge has also sought written responses from the company and its executives within 30 days, according to the summons cited by Reuters.Parmar says he worked as an associate director at the UC Web office in Gurugram until October 2017 and he has attached clippings of some posts he claims were highlighted on the UC News app, which were false.Two of them were on very sensitive issues including demonetization and India-Pak tensions. While the first one from 2017 claimed that Indian currency of Rs 2,000 denomination will go out of circulation from midnight, the other one posted in 2018 claimed a war had broken out between India and Pakistan, according to the Reuters news report.Neither of the events actually took place.The petition also alleges that UC Web censored content considered unfavourable to China on its platform by filtering search strings such as “India-China border” and “Sino-India war”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alibaba-or-jack-ma-yet-to-respond-to-summons-by-gurugram-court/story-bFFQ2MZXXzTZtZWMTRKGCL.html
26-07-2020||India||High time Congress gets full-time president: Sandeep Dikshit||It is “high time” that the Congress appoints a full-time president by “selection or election”, party leader Sandeep Dikshit said on Sunday, asserting that the Congress Working Committee (CWC) comprising senior leaders should have settled the leadership issue earlier, dealing with it on priority.There is a “sense of drift” and a feeling that “we need to get on with the job” in the party with an interim president at the helm, Dikshit said.In an interview to PTI, the Congress leader said that for him, there was no “particular fixation” with any person, and Rahul Gandhi or anyone else could be appointed by “selection or election”, but the important thing is that the party needs a full-time president.Dikshit’s remarks assume significance as Sonia Gandhi nears completion of one-year as interim Congress president in early August and the party is abuzz with hectic parleys on the way forward. He also hit out at Jyotiraditya Scindia for switching to the BJP and Sachin Pilot for his rebellion in Rajasthan, asserting that the fight was not between the young and the old in the party, but between the “usurpers” and those persevering through hardwork.“Much as I would say that Mrs (Sonia) Gandhi is doing a very able and commendable job (as president), one of the reasons that she left earlier was that she felt that it is time for her to take to the background and for other people to take over. In her case, it was Mr (Rahul) Gandhi,” Dikshit said. “Here’s an interim arrangement. Interim is a very iffy word because you know if you are interim you won’t take long term decisions for the Congress. So, it is high time we get a full time president, whoever it is,” the 55-year-old former MP said. Whether it is through “selection or election” there is no issue, he said.“We should have a full-time president, whether it is Mr. A or Mr. B or Mr. Gandhi that is not an issue at all. Party ideology and collective leadership make a party,” Dikshit said.He said initially it was thought that the CWC, the party’s highest decision making body, will come together and select a president or maybe among themselves elect one, but that has not happened. It is not a bad idea to leave it open to the All India Congress Committee (AICC), where one can also have an election to the working committee, he said.“It (appointment of full-time president) should have happened earlier. I constantly maintain that here is the place where I point towards the inability of our senior leaders (CWC members) to have risen to the challenge, got together and got this thing done,” Dikshit said.“Mr Gandhi very clearly made a statement that I am not coming back, then what were you (senior leaders) busy doing running around and not being able to decide,” he said, adding that they should have got the process done. Noting that the CWC could not agree on one name and so it decided Sonia Gandhi should become interim president, Dikshit also pointed towards Scindia and Pilot for not taking a stand then as CWC members and enable a decision either then or later, whenever the party’s top decision-making body met.“All these people (in the CWC), including the Scindias and Pilots, why couldn’t they have fought for and enabled selection or election of a new president at that time. These people can do a revolt when it comes to personal ambition, but they could not risk their careers when it came to the party,” he said. Asked if Rahul Gandhi should come back as party chief in the prevailing circumstances, Dikshit said whoever comes will do well for the Congress.“If it is Mr Gandhi, I will follow him, if it is someone else, I will follow that person. No particular fixation with any particular person. I am an AICC member, I have one vote, which if needed, will be cast on my conscience,” he asserted.Earlier this year, Dikshit, son of three-time Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit, had voiced his opinion that the leadership issue must be settled and had asserted that the senior leaders must step up.His remarks come amid the crisis being faced by the party in Rajasthan with Pilot openly rebelling against the Ashok Gehlot government which comes close on the heels of Scindia toppling the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh by switching over to the BJP with MLAs supporting him.Talking about the back to back Scindia and Pilot episodes that have rocked the Congress, Dikshit said there is no such thing as the “young vs old” and these were the result of personal ambitions. “Basically it is their calculation, their self assessment and what they think they are. I don’t know about Mr Pilot, because we do not know what he is going to do. I think it is a little premature to say anything,” he said.Dikshit, however, added that both have shown all the weaknesses that political beings can have.Asked if Rahul Gandhi’s stepping down as party chief had heightened insecurities among the younger leaders in the party, he said it heightened the insecurities only of those who wanted to “climb on his tailcoat”. On why Gehlot or Kamal Nath were selected as chief ministers over their younger colleagues, he said that this question should not be asked of Rahul Gandhi or anyone else, but to the party MLAs in the respective Congress legislature parties. “More MLAs are with Kamal Nath than with Scindia. More MLAs are with Gehlot than with Pilot. So it is the MLAs’ decision,” Dikshit asserted. Criticising Scindia, Dikshit said that despite the royal scion losing the Lok Sabha, he was offered the post of state party chief and a nomination to the Rajya Sabha. For someone who claims to be a people’s leader, he should have accepted people’s verdict in the Lok Sabha and had the ability to remain without the trappings of power, fought for the party on the field and won back his seat for the party.“Mrs Gandhi offered him to become PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) chief in November last year. Scindia never came back with a yes. So what did he want, we couldn’t have put him in place of Mr. (Narendra) Modi,” Dikshit quipped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-time-congress-gets-full-time-president-sandeep-dikshit/story-p2aAEhZZWR3yUUdVOU1dKN.html
26-07-2020||India||Delhi govt to form 5-member panel to look into sexual harassment complaints at workplaces||Delhi Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Sunday directed to form a five-member committee to look into complaints of sexual harassment at workplaces in the national capital. Such a committee will include members from the government, NGOs and civil society, a statement from the Delhi government said. The decision was taken after the minister chaired a review meeting on implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The meeting was attended by senior officers of the Department of Women and Child Development. “Gautam directed the Department of Women and Child Development to constitute a five-member committee to overview and monitor the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the composition may include some representatives from government, Non Government Organisation (NGO) sector and civil society,” the statement said.“The minister also instructed that a meeting should be convened through video conferencing with government department heads, in the first phase, in order to have an interface regarding implementation of the Act in their respective departments,” it said.The department was also directed to ensure the issuance of advertisements, in the form of display and text notices, for creating awareness among citizens along with all government and private sector entities on the provisions, facilitations and penalty clauses of the Act.For this, the Department of Women and Child Development has organised several workshops along with media campaigns. It has also issued necessary instructions on regular intervals to all departments of the city government, autonomous bodies and private sector companies for constitution of internal committees, it said.All district magistrates have also been instructed for constitution of local committee as statutory requirement under the Act, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-form-5-member-panel-to-look-into-sexual-harassment-complaints-at-workplaces/story-tg5v0IcGzjXuKKV95JDCtL.html
26-07-2020||India||First evidence of tiger breeding in Assam sanctuary brings cheer||Amidst deaths of wild animals due to floods, photos of a tigress and her two cubs captured on a camera trap inside Assam’s Laokhowa Burhachapori wildlife sanctuary have brought cheer among forest and conservation activists. This is the first evidence of tiger breeding in the protected area, a buffer zone of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR), where the entire rhino population of around 70 was wiped out by poachers in 1983-84 at the peak of the Assam Agitation against foreigners of Bangladeshi origin. “Roar gets louder. First ever camera trap evidence of successful breeding of tigers in Laokhowa Burhachapori wildlife sanctuary, buffer of Kaziranga Tiger Reserve. Result of more than 15 years of hard work and effort. Kudos,” KNPTR’s official Twitter handle posted on Sunday. Located on the south bank of the Brahmaputra and spread over 114 sq km, Laokhowa Burhachapori lies within KNPTR and the Orang National Park and is part of the Kaziranga Orang Riverine Landscape (KORL), a major gateway for straying animals within protected areas of central Assam. “Prior to 2007, Laokhowa Burhachapori was treated as redundant in terms of wildlife conservation when we lost all our rhinos during the Assam Agitation. The area was brought under KNPTR in 2007 and conservation efforts renewed,” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR. The efforts bore fruit and within a few years the presence of four tigers was reported in the area, but there was no photographic evidence. In February 2013, a camera trap captured the photo of a tigress indicating wildlife was thriving again in the sanctuary. “Before we started our conservation efforts, the area was under the grip of encroachers. There used to be around 240 cattle stations inside Laokhowa-Burhachapori. We removed the encroachments and now the area is protected. It’s a good sign that tigers have started using the area as a habitat,” said Sivakumar. He informed that more than 30 camera traps were placed inside the area last year and they have been able to capture photos of four tigers between February and April this year. Sivakumar mentioned that there are now around 145 plus tigers in KORL—125 in Kaziranga and Laokhowa-Burhachapori and 19 in Orang. The data for Biswanath wildlife division, which is also part of KNPTR, is yet to be collected. “The camera trap photo confirms breeding of tigers in Laokhowa Burhachapori for the first time. This is a significant development and will strengthen tiger conservation efforts,” said M Firoz Ahmed, head of tiger research and conservation division at Aaranyak, a Guwahati-based wildlife NGO. “Tigresses don’t move from an area with their cubs till they are around two years old. Breeding by tigers in Laokhowa Burhachapori shows that there is a good prey base in the area and the ecosystem is healthy,” he added. Nearly 85% area of KNPTR spread over 430 sq km is inundated by flood waters at present. This monsoon, 129 wild animals including 14 rhinos (10 drowning, 4 natural causes) have died in and around the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-bit-of-evidence-of-tiger-breeding-in-assam-wildlife-sanctuary-brings-cheer-for-activists/story-NKMsrV9CFFbqfN9zuvOjJO.html
26-07-2020||India||IMA writes to Bihar CM for removal of health secretary||The Bihar branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has sounded a bugle of revolt against health department’s principal secretary Uday Singh Kumawat and has written to chief minister Nitish Kumar for his removal.“The approach of Kumawat is quite indifferent towards doctors, though all the principals and superintendents of medical colleges are rendering invaluable service in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic. The doctors are quite upset with the decisions taken by the officer,” said the letter written by IMA honorary secretary Dr Sunil Kumar to the CM.The IMA has urged the CM to reinstate former principal secretary, department of health, Sanjay Kumar, who had swapped positions with Kumawat on May 21. The copy of the letter has also been sent to health minister Mangal Pandey and chief secretary Dipak Kumar.Maintaining that Sanjay Kumar was sensitive towards doctors, the IMA has also raised a question mark over the behaviour of two district magistrates of Bhojpur and Gopalganj towards the doctors.“In the past also, they took unwarranted action against the doctors and the IMA had registered its protest against it,” the letter read, seeking the transfer of both officials so that the doctors could discharge their duty with high morale.Also read: ‘Don’t hide, get tested’ - Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s appeal after contracting Covid-19On the lines of a government order to earmark 25% beds in Covid-dedicated hospitals for police officers and administrative, the IMA has sought a similar arrangement for the government and private doctors. “The IMA has always worked shoulder-to-shoulder with the government. In the wake of the pandemic, the IMA appeals to all the doctors to work for providing healthcare to all the needy,” it added.In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the Bihar government had in a surprise move removed Sanjay Kumar from the post of principal secretary, department of health on May 21. Though the government cited no official reason behind the move, it was viewed as a result of slow testing and the growing spread of infection.During the Cabinet meeting on Friday, chief minister Nitish Kumar was said to be quite unhappy with the continued spike in Covid-19 positive cases, which has led to relentless attacks from the Opposition. The CM reportedly reprimanded health department principal secretary Uday Singh Kumawat after the health minister said that the officer did not even listen to him.The CM has been consistently asking for an increase in testing - the reason he was upset with Sanjay Kumar and why he is miffed with the new incumbent. “I want RT-PCR tests to be increased to 20,000/day and facilities should be made available at the sub-divisional level so that the patients could be treated there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-writes-to-bihar-cm-for-removal-of-health-secretary/story-Lz184y6xjxRk8iLOVXChtL.html
26-07-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath surveys flood-hit areas in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath conducted an aerial survey of the areas inundated by heavy rainfall in Gorakhpur district on Sunday.He also inspected the preparations for making Lalit Narayan Mishra Railway Hospital and AIIMS-Gorakhpur L-2 hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients. He said the L-2 hospitals should be ready at the earliest, the UP government said in a statement.Officials said one 50-bed ward for coronavirus patients is being set up in AIIMS-Gorakhpur.After inspecting the water level, he asked flood and irrigation department officials to constantly monitor and ensure all dams remain safe. He directed the district administration to ensure adequate deployment of boats in the flood-affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-surveys-flood-hit-areas-in-gorakhpur/story-l06KPsfWAS4eGoYDcol2hM.html
26-07-2020||India||129 animal casualties reported at Kaziranga National Park, Tiger Reserve in Assam floods||A total of 129 animal casualties have been reported at Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in Bokakhat here due to drowning and other reasons, according to the Assam government.“129 animal casualties reported at Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, Bokahat due to drowning and other reasons, so far,” said Government of Assam.The animals which have been rescued include 14 rhinos, five wild buffaloes, eight wild boars, two swamp deer, 95 hog deer, a sambar, three porcupines, and a Python.The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) has said that the death toll has reached 96. Floods have wreaked havoc in Assam’s various districts for the fourth time this year.A total of 2,543 villages is reeling from the effects of the rising waters of the Brahmaputra, among its other tributaries, which have affected 1,22,573.16 hectares of crop.There are 50,136 people residing in 496 relief camps in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/129-animal-casualties-reported-at-kaziranga-national-park-tiger-reserve-in-assam-floods/story-zlHYSHhNELkNn6a1lG9BFN.html
26-07-2020||India||Pak army shells areas along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||Pakistani troops shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Sunday, officials said.This is the sixth day in a row that Pakistan has violated ceasefire, they said “At about 1515 hours today, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in the Balakote sector of Poonch district,” a defence spokesman said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he said. Pakistan had shelled areas in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-army-shells-areas-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-J41LHsyIizFfMLfDOAstVP.html
26-07-2020||India||Record 36,145 cured Covid-19 patients in a day pushes India’s recovery rate to 64%||As many as 36,145 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, the highest recorded in a day, pushing the recovery rate to 63.92 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.31 per cent, the ministry said. The total recoveries has surged to 8,85,576 so far, as India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 13,85,522 on Sunday. More patients are recovering and their total number exceeds active coronavirus infections by 4,17,694. “Recovered cases are 1.89 times the active cases,” the ministry said. Besides, for the first time a record number of more than 4,40,000 tests have been conducted in a single day. Also, the number of tests for detection of the Covid-19 has crossed the 16 million mark in the country. “With 4,42,263 samples being tested in the last 24 hours, the number of Test Per Million (TPM) has further increased to 11,805 and cumulative testing to 1,62,91,331,” the ministry said. “For the first time, the government labs have set a new record of testing 3,62,153 samples. The private labs have also scaled a new high of 79,878 samples tested in a single day,” it said in the statement. The Union government has advised all state and union territory governments to keep up with and effectively implement the strategy of “test, track and treat”. The aggressive testing, along with ramped up hospital infrastructure by combining public and private sector efforts, has enabled early identification and prompt triaging of Covid-19 patients leading to lower fatalities. “As a result, the case fatality rate is progressively falling and currently, it is 2.31 per cent. India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world,” the ministry said. With 48,661 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 13,85,522 on Sunday, while the death toll rose to 32,063 with 705 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-36-145-cured-covid-19-patients-in-a-day-pushes-india-s-recovery-rate-to-64/story-v35GfNixyelOSa8Ir8kBhL.html
26-07-2020||India||With 2,605 new Covid-19 cases and higher tally, Bihar to add more beds in districts||Bihar on Sunday reported 2,605 new Covid-19 patients taking the eastern state’s coronavirus tally closer to the 40,000 mark, the state health department said. With the addition of the fresh cases, the state’s count has now touched 38,919.The state health department also informed that a total of 12,461 samples were tested on Saturday, and 24,520 patients have been cured and discharged till now. The recovery rate of coronavirus in the state stands at 67.52 per cent, which is slightly higher than the national average of 63.54 per cent.Capital city Patna has logged the maximum number of coronavirus cases till date. The AIIMS-Patna and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) are the two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Patna. Among Bihar’s districts hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, Patna district is the worst affected with the highest number of Covid-19 cases, followed by Bhagalpur, Gaya and East Champaran. ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 recovery rate now at 63.54%, case fatality count marks sharp dip A two-member team of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is on a visit to the Muzaffarpur district to find a suitable location for setting up a 500-bed temporary Covid-19 hospital as Bihar reported a large number of coronavirus cases for the third consecutive day today.The hospital, to be built on the lines of another facility set up by the DRDO in Delhi, will be for coronavirus patients in north Bihar, a health department official said.The DRDO team, accompanied by district administration officials, explored four sites in Muzaffarpur on Saturday -- Chakkar Maidan, Muzaffarpur Institute of Technology (MIT), Patahi airport and CRPF camp at Jhapahan, District Magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said. The facility is likely to be operational in about 15 days, he said.Of the 500 beds at the hospital, at least 150 will be equipped with ventilators for critically ill Covid-19 patients.Begusarai, Jehanabad, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Khagaria and Nalanda are some of the districts which have reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar.India reported a spike of 48,661 coronavirus cases and 705 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.A total of 9,46,777 tests have been done so far and the number of tests per million in the national capital stands at 49,830.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-605-new-covid-19-cases-and-higher-tally-bihar-to-add-more-beds-in-districts/story-DnBKr2sHtwrLc5ogJf5WUL.html
26-07-2020||India||Fight prejudice against Covid-19 patients, says Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday expressed anguish over instances of stigmatising of Covid-19 patients and denial of dignified last rites to people who succumb to the virus.He said such incidents were totally uncalled for and urged local communities and the society at large to prevent the recurrence of such happenings.In a Facebook post, Naidu said “the need of the hour is to fight prejudice and nip it in the bud. Otherwise, it can become more toxic than fake news and misinformation”.Urging everybody to treat Covid-19 patients with understanding and empathy, he said “it should be remembered that nobody is totally safe and the invisible virus can infect anybody”.Pointing out that since time immemorial India is known as a land of tolerance and people have been displaying their empathic nature by coming to the assistance of those in distress, the vice president described as “disturbing” media reports of some people, including relatives, of stigmatising and ostracizing those infected with coronavirus, mainly due to fear of contracting the infection.Referring to instances where people opposed providing space for last rites to those who died of the virus, he said it was totally unacceptable and goes against the age-old Indian traditions of being in solidarity with bereaved family members.Observing that a host of factors such as illiteracy, superstitions, fake news and rumours fuel false beliefs among the people, Naidu urged the health authorities and the media to take up special campaigns to promote awareness and educate people on all the facts relating to the coronavirus and its transmission. “The correct message has to be reiterated, reinforced and widely disseminated to ensure that it creates a positive impact and brings about the desired transformation in behaviour,” he said.Expressing optimism that the dire situation caused by the pandemic can be overcome by striving collectively, he said the first and foremost task is to flatten the curve. “Every citizen has to act responsibly by adhering to the norms like frequent hand washing, wearing masks and maintaining social distance,” he emphasised.He also called for expressing gratitude to farmers, the “unsung Corona warriors”, who have been rendering selfless service in ensuring food security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-prejudice-against-covid-19-patients-says-venkaiah-naidu/story-hecovGvKYT25yPw2WBHq4J.html
26-07-2020||India||Assam floods: Union Minister Jitendra Singh speaks to CM, assures help||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday spoke to Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and assured him all help from the Centre to restore and repair infrastructure damaged in floods due to incessant rains in the state.The Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) also said that the North Eastern Council (NEC) will extend whatever help required. The minister has offered the Assam chief minister whatever possible assistance needed from his ministry for the damages caused by incessant rains, floods and landslides, an official statement said. The DoNER Ministry will also coordinate financial and other help from other agencies of the government and from other sources, he said, adding that the well-being and concern of the people of the northeast is top priority of the Modi government. Singh said the central government is constantly monitoring the flood situation in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and other affected states in the northeast.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has personally enquired about the flood situation and is taking regular updates, he said. Singh said as DoNER minister, he is in constant touch with respective chief ministers and state governments.The flood this year in Assam has severely affected around 56 lakh people in 30 districts and the death toll due to it is over 120 as of now, Singh said. There have already been three waves of flood this year. These have caused extensive damage and disruption to normal life, and created a huge burden on the state, which is now facing the twin challenges along with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Union minister said. The floods have affected human lives and the state’s rich wildlife, he said. Rescue and relief measures are in full swing and the state government is doing its best to rescue animals, including those in the Kaziranga wildlife sanctuary, with improved techniques and resources, Singh said. Both the central and state governments are working in tandem to deal with the natural disaster, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-floods-union-minister-jitendra-singh-speaks-to-cm-assures-help/story-1O3qMVrjWrEFGuvYCVHeSL.html
26-07-2020||India||Age is just a number: Meet India’s strong-willed centenarians who beat Covid-19||While health experts and scientists reiterate the elderly population’s vulnerability to Covid-19, incidents of strong-willed centenarian in India beating the deadly contagion has amazed the nation. A 100-year-old woman resident of Huvina Hadagali town in Bellary district, Karnataka is one such person who recently recovered from Covid-19 after testing positive for the virus earlier this month. The elderly lady described the infection nothing more than common cold. Speaking to news agency ANI, Hallamma said, “doctors treated me well. Along with regular food, I was eating an apple a day. The doctors are giving me tablets and injection, and I am healthy now. Covid-19 is like a common cold”.Earlier this month, 100-year-old Arjun Govind Naringrekar beat the contagious disease and was discharged from a hospital in Mumbai. Just hours before Naringrekar was to get discharged from the hospital, the staff surprised him by celebrating his birthday as he turned 100. Also read: ‘Don’t hide, get tested’ - Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s appeal after contracting Covid-19Every time the Kandivali resident was asked about his health by the doctors, the jolly old man would respond saying “all is good” in Marathi. Naringrekar was admitted after he reported low-grade fever and suffered breathlessness along with urinary problems. He developed lung infection but responded well to the treatment and was shortly discharged. 106-year-old Mukhtar Ahmed from central Delhi contracted Covid-19 from his son but successfully beat the disease. Ahmed was getting treated at Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and was discharged in May after getting admitted in mid-April. Ahmed, Naringrekar and Hallamma are some of the country’s exceptions where age defied the threat of Covid-19 infection. Scientists and experts are still trying to learn more about the coronavirus disease and the virus that poses such a severe threat to human health. Multiple studies have linked a patient’s immune response to the severity of Covid-19 symptoms. A study published earlier this year explored how the immune system responds to the virus. Researchers at the Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity studied blood samples tested at four different time points from Covid-19 patients. “We showed that even though Covid-19 is caused by a new virus, in an otherwise healthy person, a robust immune response across different cell types was associated with clinical recovery, similar to what we see in influenza,” Professor Katherine Kedzierska said. Another study published in the scientific journal ‘Nature’ stated that patient’s immune response, rather than the virus itself, to be largely responsible for death in Covid-19 patients.“Numerous studies have suggested that the immune system contributes to the organ damage seen in some severe cases of Covid-19,” the paper read. The study was conducted by experts at the University of Edinburgh, UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-than-common-cold-meet-india-s-strong-willed-centenarians-who-beat-covid-19/story-flNU1f2Ugimxj9Cb6iLHUK.html
26-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: ‘Don’t fear coronavirus, get tested’, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Don’t hide, get tested’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s appeal after contracting Covid-19Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who has contracted Covid-19, said on Sunday there was no need to fear the coronavirus disease as he urged people showing symptoms to get themselves tested. Read moreTo hike Covid-19 testing, PM Modi to launch 3 new labs at Noida, Mumbai and KolkataPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch ‘high throughput Covid-19 testing facilities’ on July 27 via video conferencing , the PMO said in a statement on Sunday. PM Modi will inaugurate the facilities at the ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research based in Noida, the ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health located in Mumbai and in Kolkata’s ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases. Read moreWe want to be YouTube for mobile, says Mitron founder Shivank AgarwalEver since the Indian government banned TikTok in India, there has been a rise in the popularity of the app’s Indian alternatives such as Chingari, Roposo and Trell app. Of these and others, Mitron is the one app that is treading slightly ahead of the curve. Read moreCovid-19 protection: Right safety gear to use in the pandemicThe country is unlocking really fast and with the coming unlock 3.0, more relaxations will be introduced. So Delhiites have resorted to buying essentials to be extra careful. But, with ample options available in terms of safety gear, many are getting confused. Here’s a guide to what you should buy and what should be its features. Read moreSonu Sood changes mind about sending oxen to farmer using his daughters to plough fields: ‘They deserve a tractor, sending one’Actor Sonu Sood has turned hero for yet another family. On Sunday he promised to send a pair of oxen to a farmer and his family but later changed his mind for something even better. Read moreThis 23-year-old humour-laced video from a tennis match can serve as your perfect weekend wisdom“Sometimes in life, things don’t work out… Take a break and try some humour,” this is what a Twitter user wrote while sharing a video of a tennis match from 1997. Though old, chances are the incident which played out on a court 23 years ago will make you chuckle and also may make you want to take a look at life with a little bit more humour. Read moreWould love to see Ganguly carry on as BCCI president till 2023 World Cup: GavaskarFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar has said that he wishes to see Sourav Ganguly continue as the BCCI president until the 2023 World Cup. Ganguly was appointed the president of the BCCI in October last year for a period of nine months but the cooling off period clause in the new BCCI constitution makes in mandatory for board officials to step down after six years in office. Read moreRam Temple Trust responds to Shankaracharya’s remark on foundation laying timingPrime Minister Narenedra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Ayodhya’s Ram temple on August 5. Member of temple Trust, Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, said there is no need of ‘muhurat’ for the event. Das’s comment comes after Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth objected to the timing of the foundation laying. Swaroopanand Saraswati had said that the time chosen to lay foundation stone was inauspicious. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-don-t-fear-coronavirus-get-tested-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fp2yHEBO5drRvbhJAuWciI.html
26-07-2020||India||‘Leadership is recognised in times of crisis’: Priyanka Gandhi’s targets BJP govt||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused the BJP-led government at Centre for making attempts to topple elected governments when the country is faced with coronavirus disease outbreak. In a sharp but veiled dig, Priyanka Gandhi also questioned the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s leadership. “Leadership is recognised in times of crisis. In Corona’s national crisis, the country needs a leadership that works in the public interest. But the BJP government at the Centre has made its intention and its character clear by trying to topple the governments elected by the people. The public will answer,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi on Sunday.Also read: Rajasthan crisis puts governors’ powers in the spotlightGandhi’s tweet comes amid the crisis gripping the Rajasthan government as it stares at the threat of political instability. Congress legislators backing Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot staged a five-hour sit-in on Friday asking governor Kalraj Mishra to call a special assembly session for a floor test. They accused Mishra of acting under pressure and not listening to their demand even as Gehlot expressed confidence of winning the trust vote necessitated by his tussle with his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Congress in Rajasthan has accused the BJP of working against democratic values by conspiring to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government.Earlier today, Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pandey on Sunday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making attempts to “destabilise” Ashok Gehlot led government.“BJP is trying to destabilise our government. Governor ignoring chief minister’s request to call a session of State Assembly shows that the Central government is misusing constitutional institutions and is toying with democratic values,” he said.Also read | BJP trying to destabilise Gehlot govt, Guv ignoring assembly session request: CongressThe Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered that status quo should be maintained on the disqualification notices sent out by state assembly Speaker CP Joshi to the rebel MLAs.The BJP said the language used by the Congress leaders against Governor Mishra was unfortunate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leadership-is-recognized-in-times-of-crisis-priyanka-gandhi-s-targets-bjp-govt/story-lWk6wRqCWODJSTKQE1fYAP.html
26-07-2020||India||Top Odisha cop robbed of gold chain and bangles at gunpoint||A deputy superintendent of police in Odisha was robbed of her gold chain, ear rings and bangles at gun point on Sunday morning.DSP (Vigilance) Tanuja Mohanty was standing in front of her official residence at Unit-3 area of Bhubaneswar this morning when two bike-borne miscreants rode up and asked for some personal details. Before she could reply, they pointed a gun at her and asked her to hand over all the gold jewellery she was wearing.According to the police, since the miscreants attempted to snatch the gold chain from the DSP’s neck, she raised an alarm following which her husband rushed out of the house. “However one of them threatened the DSP’s husband with the same gun. They then escaped from the spot after the incident,” a police official of Kharavela Nagar police station said.A complaint has been lodged at the Kharavela Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-odisha-cop-robbed-of-gold-chain-and-bangles-at-gunpoint/story-7Zg2SHH5MRgtsxTk5VZBiJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Health ministry decides against including Itolizumab in clinical management protocols for Covid-19: Report||The National Task Force on Covid-19 has decided against including Itolizumab drug in clinical management protocols for treating the disease even though the DCGI has approved its “restricted emergency use” in infected patients, official sources said. Considering the unmet medical needs in Covid-19, Itolizumab, an already approved drug of Biocon, used for treating psoriasis - a skin condition - was approved for “restricted emergency use” in the treatment of coronavirus by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently. The permission to market the drug was granted for the treatment of cytokine release syndrome in ‘moderate’ to ‘severe’ Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome patients due to Covid-19. “The issue of including the drug in the clinical protocols was discussed in a meeting held on Friday. A majority of the members of the task force opined that there was not enough evidence currently to get the drug included in the clinical management protocols for Covid-19,” said an official source. A domestic biopharmaceutical company, Biocon, has been manufacturing and marketing Itolizumab, a monoclonal antibody, for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis since 2013, under the brand name ALZUMAb, the Union health ministry had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-decides-against-including-itolizumab-in-clinical-management-protocols-for-covid-19-report/story-NAGIyUGbr2UlI0j4sv87qL.html
26-07-2020||India||Bihar floods affect more than a million, PM Modi promises all assistance for relief||As Bihar grapples with floods that have impacted more than a million residents and led to at least seven deaths so far apart from cutting off several inundated areas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the country’s disaster management agencies have been pressed into rescue and relief operations in flood affected areas in the country. He added that the nation stood with the victims of the disaster unleashed by the deluge.“During this rainy season, there is a large part of the country that is grappling with floods. Many areas of states like Bihar and Assam are having to deal with a series of difficulties due to floods. On the one hand, we have corona and on the other, we have this challenge. In such a scenario, all Governments, NDRF teams, disaster response teams, Self-help groups are working in tandem to provide relief and rescue in all possible ways. The whole country stands by those affected by this disaster,” he said during the 67th edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ .15,000 flood affected people have been put up in shelter homes after flood waters inundated their homes and villages and the state government has ordered for arrangements to house more people in shelter homes as rescue and relief operations continue.According to the state disaster management department, 22 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in the state.The latest flood bulletin released by the government said an additional 10,61,152 people have been affected due to floods in the state apart from the 15,956 people staying in shelter homes.Watch: Bihar floods: Water enters Darbhanga medical college, district police stationTalking about the flood situation, the Prime Minister cautioned people against infectious diseases and stressed on the need for cleanliness.“Last time too, I had said that the risk of diseases arising out of filth increases during this period. Consequently, it leads to overcrowding in hospitals. I urge you to pay special attention to cleanliness around you and keep taking immunity enhancers such as Ayurvedic kadha,” he said.PM Modi added that it was imperative for people to protect themselves from other diseases during the times of corona pandemic. “We will have to take complete care so that we do not have to frequent hospitals,” he said.In Darbhanga district, police officials were forced to work from their vehicles after abandoning Laheria Sarai Sahayak police station, which was flooded in torrential rains.Also Read: IAF choppers pressed to carry out relief, as flood situation in Bihar deterioratesBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has directed the officials to distribute free masks to rescued people and provision for their care as per Coved 19 prevention guidelines. He has also announced distribution of Rs 6,000 to each flood affected person as gratuitous relief.In East Champaran, an NDRF team managed to save lives by rescuing 40 people trapped in a country-made boat on the swollen Gandak river during an evacuation operation in Bhawanipur village.Several rivers such as Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra are flowing above the danger level in the state.Ganga is flowing below the danger mark at all locations including two at Gandhi ghat and Digha ghat in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-floods-affect-more-than-a-million-pm-modi-promises-all-assistance-for-relief/story-9S7uxRi8r2ReLT6mDWms8L.html
26-07-2020||India||No more yellow alert for Mumbai, parts of Maharashtra; IMD predicts more rains for North India||After receiving spells of showers, Maharashtra is predicted to get a respite from rainfall in the coming week. The country’s financial capital, Mumbai, received heavy rainfall this week with the India Meteorological Department issuing a ‘yellow’ alert, indicating heavy rainfall, in isolated areas in Maharashtra, including Thane and Mumbai. In its weather bulletin, the IMD predicted heavy to moderate rainfall at isolated places across Madhya Maharashtra today while no alert of rainfall has been issued for tomorrow and the coming days. For Monday, the weather department has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places across North India, including states like Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan. Heavy downpour is likely to hit Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya.Parts of Jharkhand, Odisha, East Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are likely to receive moderate rainfall tomorrow accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning. Also read: Floods ravage Bihar, Assam; rain causes landslips in SikkimMaharashtra is predicted to be largely rainfall-free on July 28 as well with very heavy to heavy rainfall lashing most parts in North and North-East India. Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, Meghalaya are predicted to witness a heavy spell of rainfall on Tuesday.Heavy rainfall could also occur at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala on July 28. The national capital witnessed a short spell of rainfall on Sunday afternoon and is likely to witness rainfall coupled with thunderstorm and lightning for the coming three days. Light to moderate rainfall was recorded in parts of Uttar Pradesh while parts of Rajasthan witnessed very heavy to heavy downpour today. A ‘yellow’ weather warning for thunderstorm has been issued in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-yellow-alert-for-mumbai-parts-of-maharashtra-imd-predicts-more-rains-for-north-india/story-Ruvtx2HIG0cmiTSNstr07O.html
26-07-2020||India||Barring senior citizens from film sets not discriminatory: Maharashtra govt to HC||The decision to restrain persons above 65 years of age from attending shootings on film and television sets was not to discriminate against them, and was taken in the general interest of such people, the Maharashtra government has told the Bombay High Court.The government, however, also said no data or statistics were taken into consideration while prohibiting those above the age of 65 on sets of film and TV shows. In an affidavit, filed by Prasad Mahajan, under secretary in the state Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, the government said its order prohibiting people above the age of 65 years from going to film and television shooting sets was not with a view to discriminate, but was in the general interest and for the safety of such people.The affidavit was submitted on Saturday in response to a petition filed by one Pramod Pandey challenging the guidelines issued by the state government on May 30, 2020, stating that no cast/crew member above the age of 65 years will be allowed to film and television shooting sets.A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla will take up the petition for final hearing next week.The 70-year-old petitioner said he was doing small roles in films and TV serials for four decades, and that he does not have any other source of livelihood.He further said in his petition that though he is physically fit, he is not allowed to go to studios and participate in shootings.The government in the affidavit said all its orders passed from time to time in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic specifically request senior citizens and children to stay at home and go out only for essential work and health reasons.“The said condition is not to deprive any cast/crew members above the age of 65 years nor can it be termed as discriminatory as interest of the cast and crew has been protected and balance is maintained by permitting them to either work from home or over video conferencing or other video sharing apps,” the affidavit said.“Those persons who are unable to go to the studios can work from home and earn their livelihood as being done by many individuals in private offices. If this too is not possible, then alternative arrangements should be adopted for earning livelihood and survival in this Covid-19 pandemic situation, the government said.The court on Tuesday asked the government if it relied on any data or statistics before passing the order.Replying to it, the affidavit said, No data/reports/ statistics were taken into consideration before issuing the impugned guidelines restraining cast/crew members above the age of 65 years from attending shooting sets or studios.” The affidavit said in order to check the rise in Covid-19 cases, the state government had imposed restrictions on various sectors. Some of these restrictions were relaxed from time to time.Several requests were made to the government to permit shooting of films and television series, it said.“As the economic progress of the country was hampered following the Covid-19 outbreak, the government gave permission to resume the film and television industry by relaxing few restrictions, the affidavit said.The government said the petitioner (Pandey) may be physically fit, but the fact remains that one never knows when a person would get infected by the coronavirus.“The virus could infect any individual who would come in contact with an infected person. A person could be asymptomatic and could spread the infection to others who have low or weak immunity, the affidavit said.It further said even guidelines issued by the central government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic have imposed restrictions on the movement of senior citizens and children.“If the central government relaxes its guidelines pertaining to persons above the age of 65 years then the state government would also adopt the same, the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barring-senior-citizens-from-film-sets-not-discriminatory-maharashtra-govt-to-hc/story-r74MHxnniwLxLJC8nRBcTK.html
26-07-2020||India||11 Afghan Sikhs including one abducted from Gurudwara last month arrive in Delhi||Eleven members of Sikh community from Afghanistan who were granted short-term visas by Indian Embassy in Kabul, including Nidan Singh Sachdeva who was abducted from a gurudwara in Paktia province last month, touched down in New Delhi on Sunday morning.Ministry of External Affairs recently announced that India has decided to facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India.The decision comes four months after an Islamic State-backed attack at a gurdwara in Kabul’s Shor Bazaar killed at least 25 members of the community.India has condemned the “targeting and persecution” of minority community members by terrorists in Afghanistan at the behest of their external supporters remains a matter of grave concern.Leaders of the Afghan Sikh community have appealed to the Indian government to accommodate the Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan and grant them legal entry with long term residency multiple entry visas.Once a community of nearly 250,000 people, the Sikh and Hindu community in Afghanistan has endured years of discrimination and violence from extremists, and the community is now estimated to comprise fewer than 100 families across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-afghan-sikhs-including-one-abducted-from-gurudwara-last-month-arrive-in-delhi/story-v123SOsephonp8SVCf33pN.html
26-07-2020||India||Char Dham soil and Ganga water to be sent to Ayodhya for Ram Temple Bhumi Pujan||Holi soil from Uttarakhand’s Char Dham shrines and water from Ganga will be sent this week to Ayodhya for the Bhumi Pujan ceremony of Ram temple scheduled for August 5. The soil and water will be sent by representatives of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP). State VHP leaders said that due to Covid-19, the members will not be visiting Ayodhya but they will use postal services to send the soil and Ganga water. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 during the Bhumi Pujan ceremony at 12.15 pm at Ram Janmabhoomi. Also Read: Ram Temple Trust asks devotees to stay home on August 5, light diyasManoj Verma, VHP’s organising secretary for Western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand zone said, “Uttarakhand is known as Devbhoomi and it is considered a holy land for ages. Soil from the shrines here will be used for the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Ram Temple. We will send soil from all the four shrines, Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri along with water from there.” He added that soil from certain peeths (shrines) in Dehradun and Haridwar will also be sent by the saint community along with water from Ganga from Har-ki-Pauri in Haridwar before August 3. Also Read: Donations from all faiths to be accepted for Ram temple constructionVerma added that the members of VHP are taking the help of postal services this year as they have been asked by senior members of the organisation to not gather at Ayodhya in person, following norms of social distancing. One spiritual leader associated with the head of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has said the bhumi pujan will take place in ‘Abhijit Muhurta’, which is the most auspicious time to lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir. Around 200 VIPs including chief ministers of different states, union ministers and RSS head Mohan Bhagwat are likely to participate in the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-soil-and-ganga-water-to-be-sent-to-ayodhya-for-ram-temple-bhumi-pujan/story-nbP3hyYt5ZmJkapurdYUNM.html
26-07-2020||India||Sikkim extends coronavirus lockdown till August 1||The Sikkim government has extended the statewide lockdown till August 1 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to a notification. A complete, six-day lockdown, imposed by the hilly state, was scheduled to end on Sunday. “After careful consideration of the situation, it has been decided to extend the period of lockdown in the entire state of Sikkim till 6 am of August 1, 2020,” a notification issued by Chief Secretary S C Gupta said. The state reported its first Covid-19 death on Sunday after a 74-year-old man succumbed to the disease at a state-run hospital here, the official said. Sikkim has 357 active cases of Covid-19, while the total cases stand at 499, a senior health official said. As many as 142 people have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-august-1/story-HR8iEmAWJ3TgMaEBYO5FQO.html
26-07-2020||India||To hike Covid-19 testing, PM Modi to launch 3 new labs at Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch ‘high throughput Covid-19 testing facilities’ on July 27 via video conferencing , the PMO said in a statement on Sunday. PM Modi will inaugurate the facilities at the ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research based in Noida, the ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health located in Mumbai and in Kolkata’s ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases.These facilities will increase testing capacity in the country and help in strengthening the health infrastructure by early detection and treatment of Covid-19 patients. In the long run, these facilities will help in curbing the spread of the pandemic, the statement said.The Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Science and Technology, along with the three Chief Ministers of Maharashtra— Uddhav Thackeray, West Bengal—Mamata Banerjee and Uttar Pradesh—Yogi Adityanath will attend the virtual launch.ALSO READ | India tests 4.2 L samples for Covid-19 in 24 hrs, testing capacity at all-time highThe Prime Minister on Sunday reiterated the importance of wearing masks and social distancing and urged the country to fight the battle against coronavirus with “full awareness and vigilance”. The Prime Minister was addressing the nation through his radio programme called Mann ki Baat. He also referred to the country’s increased testing and the national recovery rate which has been steadily rising and is currently at 63.54%.A day earlier, India on Saturday tested a record number of 4, 20,000 samples in a single day, to detect the coronavirus infection among the population. This is the first time that the country has carried out tests on such a large number of samples in 24 hours since Friday morning, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 data revealed. With 4,20,898 samples tested in the last 24 hours, the Tests Per Million (TPM) has increased to 11,485 and the total testing capacity has climbed to 1,58,49,068.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally over 13.85 lakh, recovery rate nears 64%“These three high-throughput testing facilities have been set up strategically at ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research, Noida; ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai; and ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Kolkata, and will be able to test over 10,000 samples in a day,” it statement read.The new facilities will also reduce turn-around-time and exposure of lab personnel to infectious clinical materials. The laboratories will also be equipped to test for diseases other than Covid-19 as well and after the pandemic has subsided, will be able to test for Hepatitis-B and C, HIV, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Cytomegalovirus, Chlamydia, Neisseria and Dengue.India reported a spike of 48,661 coronavirus cases and 705 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-hike-covid-19-testing-pm-modi-to-launch-3-new-labs-at-noida-mumbai-and-kolkata/story-7LVezZzBdBUkSfIBGbVTNO.html
26-07-2020||India||‘Get tested’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s appeal after contracting Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who has contracted Covid-19, said on Sunday there was no need to fear the coronavirus disease as he urged people showing symptoms to get themselves tested.Chouhan, who had tweeted on Saturday that he had tested positive for the coronavirus disease, said if someone detects the symptoms, they should not hide.“There is no need to be scared of corona. As soon as you show symptoms, immediately get yourself tested and start treatment without hiding them. It is possible to win against corona then,” Chouhan said in a video message in Hindi.The chief minister, who has been admitted to the Chirayu Hospital in the state capital of Bhopal for treatment, said he was doing fine as he praised frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19.“My dear people of the state, I am fine. The team of corona warriors is very dedicated. I salute all the corona warriors in the state who are risking their lives to save others,” he said.The 61-year-old Chouhan said people must use the major weapons against the viral disease to ensure they do not contract Covid-19.“The main weapons to fight against corona are mask and the distance of two yards. We must use these weapons and no one will contract corona,” he added.The chief minister also posted his messages on Twitter, saying he was praying that everyone is careful and stays safe and healthy.Chouhan also posted a photograph watching Narendra Modi’s monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, on television from his hospital bed as he retweeted messages from the Prime Minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-hide-get-tested-shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-appeal-after-contracting-covid-19/story-Xt4NbdwIpCXW89DIjUMu5I.html
26-07-2020||India||Godman, three others arrested for murdering duo in Kalyan||Khadakpada police in Kalyan, Maharashtra arrested four persons including a godman who murdered a 50-year-old man and his 76-year-old mother by beating them to death. The four had assaulted the duo to free them from evil spirits on the recommendation of the self-proclaimed godman.According to Khadakpada police, the deceased were identified as Pandharinath Tare and his mother Chandubai Tare. The accused are identified as Pandhrinath’s 17-year-old son, his nephew Vinayak Tare, 22; niece Kavita Tare, 27 and godman Surendra Patil, 32. All hail from Atali village of Kalyan which comes under Khadakpada police station jurisdiction.Pandhrinath knew godman Surendra Patil through his friend. He decided to visit the godman after observing changes in his niece’s behaviour.Also read: Do it if you can - Uddhav Thackeray dares opposition to topple his govtKhadakpada police station senior police inspector, Ashok Pawar said, “ Deceased Pandharinath and his wife used to take their niece Kavita to Surendra’s house once a week. He used to say chant mantras to make her normal. But when all his mantras didn’t work on Friday evening Surendra came to visit the deceased’s house to find the reason behind her behaviour. The godman said that she could recover only if he kills the evil spirit who possessed the two deceased. He said he would chant some Mantras while others would beat them up.”The officer further added, “ The three youngsters brought sticks and Surendra with his mantra started beating up them simultaneously, throwing turmeric on them. They started beating up the duo around 4.30 pm which carried on till 8.45 pm when the duo went unconscious. All of them thought that the duo was free from the evil spirit. But after two hours when they didn’t wake up, Pandharinath’s wife called her another nephew Devendra Bhoir, 34, for help, who then took them to a nearby hospital where they were declared dead.”Bhoir learned about the incident and informed the police. Khadakpada police arrested the accused under sections 302, 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with The Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013. Police officials are awaiting the postmortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godman-three-others-arrested-for-murdering-duo-in-kalyan/story-v7sEl0h1Yj66ISkY5CpnOJ.html
26-07-2020||India||FATF review of India’s anti-money laundering and terror financing regime pushed to 2021 due to Covid-19||The much-awaited Financial Action Task Force (FATF) mutual evaluation of India’s anti-money laundering regime and legal measures framed to check financial crimes, scheduled for this year, has been postponed till early next year in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. They said the on-site review to be conducted by experts of the global body was scheduled to begin in September-October but the FATF secretariat in Paris has conveyed to India that the review is being tentatively pushed to January-February next year. The FATF is a global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog that sets international standards to prevent illegal activities in the economic and financial channels of a country and its inter-connected linkages across the world. It conducts “peer reviews of each member on an ongoing basis to assess levels of implementation of the FATF recommendations and provides an in-depth description and analysis of each country’s system for preventing criminal abuse of the financial system.” The review of India’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime was scheduled for this year as part of a regular review cycle after 10 years. The last such review was done in June 2010, a senior officer in an anti-money laundering agency said. The FATF, post this review, had said in 2013 that “India had made significant progress in addressing deficiencies identified in its mutual evaluation report and (the FATF) decided that the country should be removed from the regular follow-up process.” India has set up a joint working group comprising 22 central investigation, intelligence gathering and regulatory agencies to make presentations and brief the FATF experts, drawn from various countries, this time. Some of the prominent agencies in this grouping supervised by the Department of Revenue under the finance ministry include the CBI, ED, Income Tax Department, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), Customs, market regulator SEBI, banking regulator RBI and insurance regulator IRDAI. The Union government had also deputed Rahul Navin, a 1993-batch Indian Revenue Service officer of the Income Tax Department, to work as an officer on special duty (OSD) with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to take these processes forward. Navin has authored a book, ‘Information Exchange and Tax Transparency: Tackling Global Tax Evasion and Avoidance’, and served in the international taxation wing of the tax department and worked closely with the OECD, another reputed global economic body. The ED is the nodal agency to undertake investigations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the country. A senior Union finance ministry official said all preparations to brief the FATF reviewing group were nearing completion when the Covid-19 outbreak happened. “We have been informed by the FATF that it has postponed the mutual evaluation of many jurisdictions scheduled this year including that of India due to the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. It is expected that the new dates will be for early next year,” the officer told PTI. The FATF too made a public declaration in this context. “The gravity of the Covid-19 situation globally and the consequent Covid-19 related measures that countries have adopted, such as confinement and travel restrictions, are making it impossible for assessed jurisdictions and assessors alike to conduct on-site visits and in-person meetings. This situation has significantly impacted countries’ ability to actively participate in mutual evaluation and related follow-up processes.” “The FATF Plenary has therefore agreed to temporarily postpone all remaining FATF mutual evaluations and follow-up deadlines,” the FATF said. It said India’s possible on-site period is “tbc (to be considered)”. During the visit of FATF evaluators, the finance ministry officer said, India has prepared to present multiple dossiers of the action undertaken by it under the anti-money laundering law, criminal tax evasion probes and for strengthening the CFT (combating financing of terrorism) regime by the financial intelligence unit (FIU) and other agencies. The enactment of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act in 2018, the anti-black money Act of 2015, amendments brought in the PMLA over the years, curbing tax evasion under indirect taxes by bringing in the GST (goods and services tax), new protocols to better regulate suspect transactions in banks and financial intermediaries and the 2016 demonetisation of two large currencies are part of the Indian presentation, another officer in a probe agency said. The high number of domestic and international attachment of assets under the PMLA and charge sheets filed by various probe agencies under criminal sections of the law against financial crimes and terror funding are also part of India’s presentation to the FATF review team, he said. The new compliance regime brought in by the FIU for banks and other financial institutions to report suspect cash and counterfeit transactions will also be part of the presentation, he said. The review takes about a year to finish and if all timelines are adhered to, the FATF will discuss the Indian legal system against financial crimes at its Plenary meeting in February, 2022 and subsequently issue a statement and recommendations about the country, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatf-review-of-india-s-anti-money-laundering-and-terror-financing-regime-pushed-to-2021-due-to-covid-19/story-HN26ZeE7UlSCCOmCSRmz9J.html
26-07-2020||India||President donates Rs 20 lakh to Army hospital to buy equipment to combat Covid-19||As a tribute to soldiers who fought in the Kargil war, President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday donated Rs 20 lakh to the Army hospital here to buy equipment that will help doctors and paramedics combat Covid-19 effectively.The contribution from the president will be used to procure units of PAPR (powered air purifying respirator), which are state-of-the-art equipment to enable medical professionals breathe during surgeries and protect them from infection, an official communique said.This will serve the larger cause of patients’ care and protection to those warriors who are fighting an invisible enemy, it said.“As a tribute to soldiers who fought valiantly and made supreme sacrifice in the Kargil war, the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, today presented a cheque of Rs 20 lakh to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral), Delhi, to buy equipment that will help doctors and paramedics to combat the Covid-19 pandemic effectively,” the statement said. Sunday was the 21st anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war. The day is observed as ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’.The president’s contribution to the Army hospital has been made possible due to an exercise to economise expenditure at the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the communique said.The president had earlier issued directions to reduce expenses by initiating a slew of measures. “As a sequel to this initiative, he had earlier deferred the proposal to buy a limousine which was to be used for ceremonial occasions,” the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.In his role as the supreme commander of the armed forces, the president’s gesture will boost the morale of the frontline Covid warriors of the Army hospital, it said.“It will go a long way in providing a safe, conducive environment to them so that they can perform to the best of their ability. It is also hoped that the gesture will inspire other people and organisations to economise expenditure and utilise the savings to aid and support our Covid warriors,” the statement said. The Army Hospital (Research and Referral) is the apex medical care centre for the armed forces of India.Officiating commandant Major General Sarat Chandra Dash was also a participant in “OP VIJAY” for which he was awarded the Yudh Seva Medal, it said. On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army had announced the successful culmination of “Operation Vijay”, declaring victory over Pakistan after the nearly three-month-long battles in the icy heights of Kargil. The country lost more than 500 soldiers in the war.“In the prevailing situation, its doctors, nurses and paramedical staff are tirelessly working round the clock and providing the highest quality of medical care at great risk to their own lives,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-donates-rs-20-lakh-to-army-hospital-to-buy-equipment-to-combat-covid-19/story-h2gqg7WW62Tv2YatjpiWPK.html
26-07-2020||India||40 kg IED planted by Maoists recovered in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district||A powerful 40 kg improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Maoists was recovered in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Sunday, police said.The explosive, packed in a big plastic container, was unearthed by a joint team of various security forces on Basaguda-Tarrem road, Bijapur Superintendent of Police Kamlochan Kashyap said.Personnel belonging to CRPF’s 168th battalion, 204th battalion of CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action- an elite unit of CRPF) and the district force were involved in the operation, he said.While carrying out the de-mining exercise on the route, security personnel spotted the IED planted beneath the road near a bridge between Sarkeguda and Pegdapalli villages, averting a major mishap, he said.As per preliminary information, maoists are going to observe the martyrs’ week from July 28 to August 3 and had planted the IED to target security forces during that time, the official said.Security forces often carry out patrolling on the Basguda-Tarrem route where road construction work is underway, he said.Meanwhile, security has been stepped up in the maoist- hit districts of the state, particularly in seven districts of Bastar division - Dantewada, Bijapur, Bastar, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Sukma and Kanker in view of the ‘martyrs’ week’, which the rebels observe in the memory of their slain leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-kg-ied-planted-by-maoists-recovered-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-district/story-tCl9jm5vci0qJdlyqcShoO.html
26-07-2020||India||Surrendered Maoists to reconstruct schools demolished by them in Chhattisgarh||Around a dozen schools which were once demolished by Maoists between 2007-09 will now be constructed by the ones who surrendered and are living a normal life in the villages of Dantewada district of Bastar division in Chhattisgarh. These schools come under Bhairmagarh, Malangir and Katekalyan Area Committees of the Communist Party India (Maoist) which fall under Dantewada district.The construction of a demolished school in village Bhansi Massapa, around 20 kilometres from the district headquarters, started a week ago with the help of local villagers and Maoists who have surrendered.“The villagers, who were earlier Maoists, demolished the school in our village on the instructions of senior Maoists in 2012 after Salwa Judum but now we want to educate our kids hence we will construct it again. Our children also want to go for higher education and get jobs,” said Sarpanch of Bhansi Massapa village, Ajay Telam.Other schools that are to be constructed fall under Potali, Burgum, Nahri, Kutrem and Aalnaar village panchayats.“These schools are in core Maoist areas of the district. The construction of one such school has started in Bhansi. As and when a sizeable number of Maoists surrender in these villages and in turn takes responsibility to help in the construction of the schools, the villages will be chosen and sanctions for school building will be taken,” said Superintendent of Police ( SP) Dantewada, Abhishek Pallava.The SP further said that commencement of construction without taking security angle in mind may lead to mindless killing of villagers by Maoists.The activists working in Dantewada claimed it is a long demand of villagers to re-open the schools which were demolished by Maoists after Salwa Judum.“The villagers are eager to re-construct schools which were demolished but it should not be done by deploying police force in the village. They are very aware of the education of their kids. Secondly, the administration is also dilly-dallying the construction work of schools. In Potali village, the construction project has been sanctioned for the last four months but nothing has been done till now,” said Soni Sori, a tribal leader of Dantewada.Dantewada administration and police claimed that the school construction is going on in a process, keeping villagers’ security in mind. “Most of these schools were demolished around 2007-2009 during and post Salwa Judum campaign. Since schools were the only government structure in the villages during those times, security forces used to stay in schools and many camps were also opened in there during those days. As induction of paramilitary forces was at a great pace in Bastar due to prevailing security situation, schools were chosen as camp site. Maoists thus started targeting schools so that security forces do not get a foothold in their area,” said a senior revenue officer working in the area. The officer further said that the Maoists started instigating villagers against the police, forcing them to destroy schools. “Maoists also wanted to get the schools shut so that they could instil their ideology in children by putting them in Maoists’ schools. Since most of the teachers in schools that time were not residents of Bastar, they too fled to district headquarters fearing being targeted by Maoists and thus empty schools were an easy target. These schools were demolished or vandalized by lower-rung Maoists cadres mostly from the same village where a school is located under instruction from senior Maoist cadres,” said the officer.Now, for the construction of schools, the district administration is forming self-help groups (SHG) of these surrendered Maoists, which will help in the construction process.“The SHG will work as they are the local youths from the village who have joined Maoism in the past and thus know all the Maoists visiting the area. They are the people who yield influence in the village and villagers listen to them. Once they start helping in the construction of the school, the fear factor will decrease and since most of the low-rung cadres who surrender are between 20-30 years of age, they are young and energetic. They are village decision swingers and thus channelize other youths too in the mainstream. When a sizeable section of lower-rung cadres surrender, rest are bound to fall in line. Direct mentoring of these youth by district administration is bound to produce results,” said an intelligence officer posted in the region.“The SHGs of surrendered Maoists is a novel innovation and I am hopeful it would be a huge success. Those who had destroyed are now constructing the same schools and this would help these youth come out of the guilt that they had incurred so many crimes in the past,” said the SP Pallava.Pallava further said that it would also lead to true reintegration and rehabilitation of surrendered Maoists in the society. The realization of the importance of education among villagers is a welcome change and the police administration will render all help required to these youths.“Soft policing too can go a long way to solving complex the Naxal problem which has simmered for decades in Bastar,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrendered-maoists-to-reconstruct-schools-demolished-by-them-in-chhattisgarh/story-X1B7gYSo0OstlXYpVet26O.html
26-07-2020||India||‘Wicked harbours animosity towards one and all’: PM Modi slams Pak||Paying tribute to the soldiers who sacrificed their lives during the Kargil war, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said wars are not only fought on the borders but within the country on multiple fronts. He said every countryman has to decide his/her role in it.“We too should determine our roles, bearing in mind the soldiers fighting on the borders under the harshest conditions,” he said in his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, which coincided with the 21st anniversary of the Kargil Diwas.Addressing the 67th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat, the PM also slammed Pakistan for stabbing India in the back by planning the Kargil war, which he said was carried out to divert attention from the internal problems in the neighbouring country. He said the attack was carried out at a time when India was trying to have good relations with Pakistan.Quoting a Sanskrit adage the PM said, “…to the wicked, enmity with all and for no reason comes naturally. People with such a disposition keep thinking of harming even their well-wishers… that is why when India extended a hand of friendship, Pakistan tried to respond by stabbing in the back.”Underlining the need to keep up the morale of the soldiers and their families, the PM said sometimes comments are made on social media that tend to lower the morale of the soldiers and are detrimental to the country.Also read: In PM’s Mann ki Baat address, tribute to Kargil bravehearts, Covid warriors“Whatever we speak or do during the times of war has an effect on the morale of the soldiers and their families, we should never forget this and therefore our behaviour and conduct should boost the morale and honour our soldiers,” the PM said.Also read: Tired of wearing masks, think of corona warriors - PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatOn the 21st anniversary of the Kargil victory, the PM referred to what former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee has said from the ramparts of the Red Fort after the Kargil war. “He reminded the countrymen about Mahatma Gandhi’s talisman that was if anyone ever has any dilemma about what to do and what not to do then he should think of the poorest and the helpless person in India and think whether his act will benefit that person or not. Taking a cue from this thought of a Gandhi ji, Atal ji had said the Kargil war has given us another mantra - that before taking any important decision we should think whether the action will honour that soldiers who sacrificed his life in those treacherous mountains,” the PM said.He urged the youth to share stories of the valour of the soldiers which will serve as an inspiration to others. Likening the ongoing fight against the corona pandemic to a war, he said in the last few months the way the entire country faced the challenges together has dispelled several apprehensions. “Today the recovery rate in our country is better than others, the fatality rate is also much lesser than most countries. It is tragic to lose even one person but India has been able to save the lives of lakhs of people,” he said and added that people should not let their guard down but remain extra vigilant and exercise caution.He said while fighting the pandemic, there is also the need to intensify efforts in scaling up business, jobs, and studies to take them to new heights. “During the corona times, our rural areas have shown the way to the entire nation. Good efforts of villages are continuously coming to fore,” he said.The PM also urged the youth to take a pledge to free the nation from the ongoing pandemic this Independence day and resolve to make India self-reliant. He asked the youth to learn and teach something new and resolve to earnestly carry out their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wicked-harbours-animosity-towards-one-and-all-pm-modi-slams-pak-in-mann-ki-baat-address/story-dieh5sZr3Ol75WZqo5cyHI.html
26-07-2020||India||Kargil War is symbol of armed forces’ valour, bravery and sacrifice: JP Nadda||JP Nadda, the Bharatiya Janata Party president, said on Sunday soldiers of Indian armed forces not only secured the country’s borders but also defeated the malicious intent of Pakistan during the Kargil War in 1999.The senior leader said the high-altitude conflict is a symbol of the valour, bravery and sacrifice of the armed forces’ personnel while addressing a programme on Kargil Vijay Divas.“It becomes my prime responsibility to reiterate on such forums time and again that Pakistan was in a very advantageous position, was on height and had taken strategic positions. Our soldiers attained victory on the basis on their valour and strategy,” he said.“This was the toughest battle on the highest mountains… and you must also remember that the forces fought in a temperature of minus 10 degrees Celsius. The future generations will remember how the soldiers ensured the security of our border, of our country and our security with their lives,” he added.Nadda said as the armed forces were fighting the battle on India’s border, the political leadership was fighting it on the international arena as he pointed that the then Pakistani prime minister Nawaz Sharif had urged Bill Clinton, the US president, to intervene.“Atal ji received many messages, signals and several rounds of talks were held. But Atal ji had clearly said that India will not declare a ceasefire till the time we defeat Pakistan and secure our borders,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said, has continued that policy of zero tolerance against intrusions till date. He spends every Diwali with the soldiers and officers of the forces posted on the borders of the country.“This sends a message that the Prime Minister is standing with the army. The Prime Minister himself went to Ladakh, stayed there the entire day, held meetings, boosted the morale of our soldiers and met injured personnel,” he added.Before addressing the Kargil Vijay Diwas programme, Nadda had tweeted his tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives in the conflict with Pakistan.“The battle of Kargil symbolises the valour of the heroic sons of Mother Bharati. I offer my heartfelt admiration for the indomitable courage, valour and dedication of Indian soldiers,” he had tweeted earlier.“The entire nation will always be grateful to all the warriors of Mother Bharati who waved the banner of their valour while protecting the sovereignty of the nation,” he said.This year India is observing the 21st anniversary of the successful ‘Operation Vijay’.India launched Operation Vijay to clear the posts in the high-altitude Kargil sector, which was occupied by the Pakistani soldiers and infiltrators on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC).The armies of the nuclear-armed nations fought the war between May and July in Kargil district of Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere along the LoC. Indian forces took nearly three months to recapture the posts.India lost 527 soldiers in the short but sharp conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-war-is-symbol-of-armed-forces-valour-bravery-and-sacrifice-jp-nadda/story-rzsAZYrCCjS7AcxrkUbj5L.html
26-07-2020||India||Donations from all faiths to be accepted for Ram temple construction: Trust member||Donations for building the Ram temple at Ayodhya would be accepted from all communities, and not from Hindus only, a member of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust mandated by the central government to oversee its construction said on Sunday. Vishwaprasanna Teertha Swami, head of Udupi-based Pejawar Mutt in Karnataka, who attended a recent virtual meeting of the trust, said it was suggested a sum of Rs ten per head be collected and Rs 100 from household as part of the resource mobilisation efforts. “It’s just a suggestion, it’s not like tax. It’s kind of a road-map for people who are desirous of participating in the construction of the Mandir,” the seer told PTI. “We will accept donations from whoever has devotion towards and faith in Lord Ram,” he said when asked if contributions would be accepted from all communities and not limited to Hindus only. Whoever has devotion and respect towards and faith in Lord Ram... there is nothing like they should be from this community... or they should not be from this community...thats left for them, the Pejawar Swamiji said. He also said Rs ten per head and Rs 100 per household is a suggested contribution, adding, the trust would accept any amount it could be Re one or Rs one crore. The trust proposed to raise additional financial requirements from corporate social responsibility funds of companies, he added. According to him, the temple construction, the ground- breaking ceremony for which is slated for next week, would cost an estimated Rs 300 crore, and another sum of around Rs 1,000 crore would be required for development of surrounding areas for temple-related activities. An extensive month-long funds mobilisation campaign would be held from around November 25, the pontiff added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donations-from-all-faiths-to-be-accepted-for-ram-temple-construction-trust-member/story-Tf44lc0YzI1TcdUTnIlcKP.html
26-07-2020||India||74-year-old man becomes Sikkim’s first Covid-19 fatality||A 74-year-old man from Sikkim’s Rongli village died of Covid-19 at the STNM Hospital on Sunday morning, marking the first death in the Himalayan state since the pandemic began. Sikkim registered its first case on May 23 but no fatalities from the infection were reported until Sunday.Pempa Tshering Bhutia, director general cum secretary of the state health and family welfare department said, “the man was admitted on Saturday and he tested positive (for the coronavirus disease).” Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “74 -year-old male was suffering from hypertension and diabetes and had loose motions,” said a statement issued by the state health department. There were reports that another man also died at the hospital but his Covid-19 test report is awaited. The government has clamped complete lockdown in the state till July 27 amid concerns over rising cases. The lockdown is likely to be extended, officials said. The decision to impose blanket lockdown was announced citing a sudden spike in cases, especially among army and paramilitary personnel deployed in Sikkim. Several areas have been declared as containment zones. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The northeastern state was the only Covid-free state till the nationwide lockdown ended. There were 499 cases till Saturday morning and the number of cured patients stood at 142. The government has started rapid antigen tests at Rangpo town along the Sikkim- Bengal border. Covid-19 positive non-residents have been barred from entering the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/74-year-old-man-becomes-sikkim-s-first-covid-19-victim/story-jfr1VX85301VUdLPs3ryzK.html
26-07-2020||India||Man in MP’s Khargone beaten, tied to pole for allegedly stealing grain||Police has taken into custody a youth who was beaten up and tied to a pole for allegedly stealing grain from the food grain market in Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone district.A video of the man being tied up to the pole has been shared widely on the Internet.“After being informed that a person was caught stealing in the grain market we rushed to the spot. The man has been brought to the police station for questioning,” said Traffic Inspector (TI) Khargone Jagdish Goyal.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-mp-s-khargone-beaten-tied-to-pole-for-allegedly-stealing-grain/story-pQ9DiqhjP5Z0lKJvU9GqsN.html
26-07-2020||India||Country forever grateful to soldiers who laid down their lives in Kargil war: President Kovind||The country is forever grateful to soldiers who laid down their lives during the Kargil war to defend ‘Bharat Mata’, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday.Taking to Twitter to pay tributes to the slain soldiers on the 21st anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in the war, he said ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’ is a symbol of fearless determination and exceptional valour of our armed forces.On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army had announced the successful culmination of “Operation Vijay”, declaring victory after the nearly three-month-long battles in the icy heights of Kargil.“Kargil Vijay Diwas is symbol of fearless determination and exceptional valour of our armed forces. I salute the soldiers who fought the enemy and laid down their life to defend Bharat Mata. The nation is forever grateful to them and their families,” said Kovind, who is also the supreme commander of the armed forces.The country lost more than 500 soldiers in the Kargil war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-forever-grateful-to-soldiers-who-laid-down-their-lives-in-kargil-war-president-kovind/story-jRZgM7gPz3QJc5MjH7RvPJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Gehlot resends proposal for assembly session to governor, no mention of floor test||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has requested Governor Kalraj Mishra to start a session of the state assembly to discuss bills, including one on the coronavirus pandemic, without mentioning a floor test, reports said on Sunday.Gehlot asked him to start a session of the state assembly from July 31, according to news agency ANI.Rajasthan is facing a political crisis due to a rebellion by Sachin Pilot and a section of Congress legislators supporting the former deputy chief minister. The Gehlot camp, which is confident of its numbers and feels a floor test may be its best bet to end the political crisis, has said the governor is delaying convening a session due to pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government.Mishra has denied the charge, saying he will follow constitutional norms to convene the House.The governor had turned down the earlier proposal sent by the Congress government and said that it did not mention a date or a reason.Congress functionaries aware of the developments said on Saturday that the Rajasthan government has addressed Mishra’s queries on the urgent need for holding a special session of the assembly.Legislators supporting chief minister Gehlot had on Friday staged a five-hour demonstration at Raj Bhavan to push for their demand for a special sitting.Gehlot had told MLAs at a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting on Saturday that he was ready to knock at the doors of the President’s House and protest outside the Prime Minister’s residence in the national capital to defeat the BJP’s “conspiracy” to topple his government, according to the Congress functionaries who did not want to be named.The BJP has denied the Congress’ allegations and said that an internal feud has triggered the current crisis. On his part, Pilot had said he has no plans of joining the BJP.Gehlot has the support of 101 members, excluding Speaker CP Joshi. Pilot has the backing of 18 Congress MLAs and three Independents, taking his tally to 22. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, one Congress MLA said to be close to Pilot, is indisposed.If Pilot’s tally is added to that of the opposition alliance, it takes their number up to 97.A three-member swing from the Gehlot camp to the Pilot camp or to the BJP could lead to the government falling in the event of a floor test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-resends-proposal-for-assembly-session-to-governor-no-mention-of-floor-test/story-ZWojZo4esE44MFBzBQGtLO.html
26-07-2020||India||In PM Modi’s Mann ki Baat address, a tribute to Kargil bravehearts, Corona warriors: Top quotes||Prime Minister’s latest edition of his monthly radio address, Mann ki Baat, was dedicated to remembering the indelible sacrifice made by the Indian Army soldiers who lost their lives fighting the Kargil War. The prime minister dedicated his Sunday’s address to Kargil Vijay Diwas as the nation marked the 21st anniversary of the victory in the Kargil War on Sunday. He also lauded the selfless fight of ‘corona warriors’ against the Covid-19 pandemic. The prime minister reiterated the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic and applauded the efforts of groups in various states including Bihar, Jharkhand and northeast to promote local products amid the pandemic.He said this year’s Independence Day will be celebrated amid the pandemic and urged the youth to resolve to make India Atmanirbhar (self-reliant). The prime minister also expressed solidarity with those affected by floods across India. Also read: Tired of wearing masks, think of corona warriors - PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatHere are PM Modi’s top quotes from the 67th edition of Mann Ki Baat• Today is Kargil Vijay Diwas. 21 years ago, on this day our Army won the Kargil war. India can never forget circumstances under which the war was fought. Pakistan undertook this misadventure with sinister plans to capture India’s land and to divert its ongoing internal conflicts.• You can imagine, the enemy was perched high on the mountains while our forces were fighting them. But the high morale and true of our forces won against mountains.• Today, the Covid-19 recovery rate in our country is better compared to other countries; the mortality rate in the context of corona in our country is much less as well, compared to most countries, of course, the loss of even one life is saddening, but India has also succeeded in saving the lives of millions of her people. • At many places, Covid-19 is spreading fast. We need to be extra vigilant. We have to bear in mind that corona is as fatal today as it was in the beginning - that’s why we have to be cautious.• Wearing a face mask, using a ‘gamchcha’ or a light towel to cover, two-yard distancing, frequently washing hands, avoiding spitting anywhere, taking full care of hygiene and sanitation- these are our weapons to protect us from corona.• There are times when masks cause inconvenience, one feels like removing them from the face- especially during a conversation. When a mask is required the most, we tend to remove it. At such times, I urge you that whenever you feel your mask is bothersome and you want to remove it, spare a thought for those doctors, those nurses; think of our corona warriors.• You will find them wearing masks for hours together, diligently working to save our lives- sometimes wearing masks for a span of eight to ten hours. Doesn’t that discomfort them? Just think about them... you too will feel that as citizens, we should not be negligent at all; nor let others be so.• I urge the youth, the people of my country to take a pledge of freedom from the pandemic this Independence Day. Take a resolve for a self-reliant India, a resolve to learn and teach something new and a resolve to earnestly carry out our duties.• The festival of Raksha Bandhan is approaching. I have seen that many people and organisations are running initiatives to celebrate the festival in a different manner. Many are linking it to ‘Vocal for Local’ which is a step in the right direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-address-a-tribute-to-kargil-bravehearts-corona-warriors-top-quotes/story-Pzw8lm7uQdImaTPyHhVRyI.html
26-07-2020||India||First part of Phase-1 of Covaxin human trial completed, results encouraging: Principal investigator||The first part of phase-1 of Covaxin human trial completed on Saturday at Post-Graduate Institute (PGI) of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, said Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the vaccine trial team.Speaking to ANI, Dr Verma said that six people were administered the vaccine on Saturday under the second part of phase-1.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “First part of phase-1 of vaccine trial (Covaxin) has been completed. 50 people across India were administered the vaccine and the results were encouraging. Six people were administered vaccine on Saturday under second part of phase-1,” she said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Human trials of Covaxin, India’s first vaccine candidate against coronavirus, began at PGI Rohtak on July 17. Three volunteers were administered Covaxin on that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-part-of-phase-1-of-covaxin-human-trial-completed-results-encouraging-principal-investigator/story-lKaqvIGBW8hjczvIdYJDiP.html
26-07-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi’s 67th Mann Ki Baat address to nation: Highlights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation in the 67th episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. Apart from remembering the brave soldiers of the country on Kargil Vijay Diwas, the Prime Minister renewed his pitch for taking precautionary measures to fight the Covid-19 battle, which is he said continues to be lethal and thereby, stressed on the need to remain vigilant. PM Modi also expressed solidarity with the states affected by floods and heavy rainfall. The Prime Minister shared inspirational stories of people who are facilitating the check on Covid-19 outbreak and called for increased self-reliance. Here are the highlights PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat address: *Prime Narendra Modi thanked the Indian armed forced for the courage and strength they showed during the Kargil war 21 years ago. He also highlighted how people have been talking on social media about the courage of the Indian forces. “Twenty one years ago on this day, our army won the Kargil War. India was then trying to have cordial relations with Pakistan but is said that it is in the nature of the wicked to have enmity with everyone for no reason,” said PM Modi.*PM Modi hailed India’s declining Covid-19 fatality rate and the increased recovery rate. He, however, highlighted that the Covid-19 battle continues to be as lethal as it was in the beginning, thus, emphasising on the need to use masks and practise social distancing. *Modi shared some inspirational stories from Jammu and Kashmir. “During Covid-19, Balbir Kaur, sarpanch of Trewa in Jammu, built a 30-bed quarantine bed in her panchayat. Jaituna Begum of Chountliwar in Ganderbal resolved helped created employment opportunities,” he said.*PM Modi reminded the nation of the need to continue to wear masks and said “ if you get tired of wearing masks, think of corona warriors.” “They keep wearing masks continuously for hours and are working to save everyone’s lives. They keep wearing the mask for eight to ten hours. Aren’t they troubled?” he asked.*Need to remain vigilant, says PM Modi“India’s Covid-19 recovery rate is better than others. Our fatality rate is much less than most other countries. We are able to save the lives of lakhs of people but threat of coronavirus is not over yet. It is spreading at a rapid pace which is why we need to remain vigilant,” PM Modi said.*The Prime Minister also interacted with students whose results recently came and they passed with flying colours. Modi spoke to the children about their inspirations and future plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-67th-mann-ki-baat-address-to-nation-highlights/story-bXhnWiU1WElwNLFp0mpWRJ.html
26-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China’s PLA begins well-publicised live-fire drills near South China Sea and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China begins live-fire drills with ‘powerful’ ammo near South China SeaChina’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has begun a well-publicised live-fire drill with “powerful ammunition” in the southern Guangdong province’s Leizhou Peninsula, considered to be the doorstep of the South China Sea (SCS), official media reported. Read moreTired of wearing masks, think of corona warriors: PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to remain vigilant and renewed his pitch for precautionary measures in the war against the coronavirus pandemic as he reminded them of those fighting on the frontline. Read moreKargil Vijay Diwas: Day to mark India’s victory in 1999 conflict against PakistanIndia is observing Kargil Vijay Diwas on Sunday to commemorate its victory over Pakistan in the high-altitude conflict in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kargil district and along the Line of Control (LoC) and pay tributes to soldiers who lost their lives more than two decades ago. Read more‘I am fine, salute corona warriors for serving selflessly’: Shivraj Singh ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who has contracted Covid-19, took to Twitter on Sunday saying he is doing well. Chouhan lauded healthcare professionals who are serving coronavirus patients and fighting selflessly against Covid-19 by risking their lives. Read moreFires set, windows shattered in Virginia in solidarity with protestors of PortlandA city dump truck was set on fire as protesters faced off with police in Virginia’s capital during a demonstration in support of protesters on the other side of the country in Portland, Oregon. Virginia State Police and Richmond police worked to clear the crowd of a several hundred demonstrators late Saturday. Read more‘A big fan of Dada’: Kumar Sangakkara believes Ganguly is a ‘very suitable candidate’ for ICC PresidentSourav Ganguly has built his reputation for not just being a great cricketer but also an able leader. He was the captain of Team India in the early 2000s and is credited with transforming the fortunes of the side with his fearless leadership. Read moreSona Mohapatra says Ram Sampath was targeted by ‘illiterate self-important’ gang, took 2 years to recover post RaeesSoon after music maestro AR Rahman talked about a gang working against him, singer Sona Mohapatra has revealed that her singer husband Ram Sampath was also targeted by the same. Sona was reacting to a news article about AR Rahman’s revelation. Read moreInstagram bug shows ‘camera on’ for iOS 14 devices even when users weren’t taking photosIn an instance of the iOS 14 beta mode warning people about unexpected app behaviour, some Instagram users reported that they have been seeing the green ‘camera on’ indicator while they were just scrolling through their feed. Read morePM Modi interacts with students who cleared board exams in Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with students who have performed well in the board examinations this year. PM Modi was addressing the nation through the radio programme Mann Ki Baat. The address is telecast on the last Sunday of every month. Read moreBack on the road: A case for post-pandemic travel as lockdown easesA trip sounds scary to most right now. Others are itching to dart out of the house, even if just for a weekend getaway nearby. For those who do take off, a new layer of safety precautions awaits. Read moreKid’s makeshift board and skillful playing wows Twitter. WatchTrust Twitter to always present you with such videos which show amazing creativity of people. Case in point is this post by Lieutenant General Gyan Bhushan which has now left Twitter amazed. “Real innovative…” he wrote and shared a video. Read moreWatch| Covid: First part of phase-1 Covaxin human trial completed at PGI Rohtak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-s-pla-begins-well-publicised-live-fire-drills-near-south-china-sea-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BGiLegCL6D4uwpiXcn6lFP.html
26-07-2020||India||Goa’s hero doctor, govt spar over time off during Covid-19; court seeks amicable solution||The Bombay high court bench in Goa has asked the state government and Dr Edwin Gomes, who pioneered the state’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, to amicably settle the issue the issue of his pending leaves.The court made the remark while hearing a petition filed by the wife of Dr Gomes where she claimed that he was not being granted leave nor being relieved from duties.Dr Gomes, who helped set up the state’s dedicated Covid-19 facility at the ESI Hospital in Margao in South Goa and headed the hospital for close to three months, was granted three weeks’ time off but urged to resume after the time elapsed.“[The parties agree that] it will be in public interest if the Secretary, Health and Dr Edwin Gomes have a meeting by video conference to discuss certain issues relating to Covid-19 situation including the issues raised. We also feel that these matters can be best sorted out at the earliest, so that the focus is not shifted and continues to be on combating the unfortunate situation we all are in, on account of the pandemic,” the bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar said.“We trust that both Dr Gomes as well as the health cecretary will approach this matter from this perspective and refrain from treating this matter as some adversarial litigation. Taking into consideration the yeoman services rendered by Dr Gomes during this difficult period and the valuable experience he has gained, we are sure that his suggestions will be most valuable to the state administration, which is also engaged very actively in combating this unfortunate situation,” the court said.Dr Gomes returned home on July 4 after completing 98 days of uninterrupted duty. He was given a hero’s welcome by the locals near his home on the outskirts of Panaji. Dr.Edwin Gomes went #home after 96 days. He received a warm welcome by the members of the Society where he lives #CoronaWarriors #GoaFightsCovid19 pic.twitter.com/eXsYSzTr8aA few days later, he tested positive for the novel coronavirus forcing the state to grant him more time off. However, having subsequently recovered, the state has been urging him to rejoin the duty.His wife, in the petition before the court, claimed that the health minister made a statement that Dr Edwin will be kept for Covid-19 duties until the pandemic is over as he is doing a good job.“We will appreciate it if the meeting between Dr Gomes and the health secretary is held at the earliest and in any case, within a period of one week from today. We are sure that the initiative for this meeting will be taken by the health secretary and necessary intimation will be given to Dr Gomes and further, all assistance will also be rendered to Dr Gomes to attend this meeting through video conferencing,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-hero-doctor-govt-spar-over-time-off-during-covid-19-court-seeks-amicable-solution/story-vtlwdhRt4FaheHFktmDatK.html
26-07-2020||India||‘Example for those who fear for life’: 101-yr-old recovers from Covid-19 in Tirupati||A 101-year-old woman resident of Tirupati has recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged from State Covid-19 hospital Sri Padmavati women’s hospital, Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), Tirupati.Dr Ram, medical superintendent at the hospital, said that Mangamma was discharged from the hospital on July 25 after being cured. “Mangamma, who is 101 years old, had tested positive for coronavirus a few days back. She was admitted to SVIMS Sri Padmavati State COVID hospital isolation ward. The doctors, nurses, paramedical and sanitation staff at the hospital gave her the best medicare and she was cured,” he said. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Mangamma stands as an example for those who fear for life due to corona. At the age of 101 years, Mangamma stood brave and confident, and cooperated for the treatment and has now been discharged in a healthy state,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Mangamma’s family members have expressed gratitude towards SVIMS director Dr B Vengamma and the medical and other staff at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/example-for-those-who-fear-for-life-101-year-old-tirupati-woman-recovers-from-covid-19/story-3ZJ2sP4yJPCtPJtUXmT0JO.html
26-07-2020||India||Tired of wearing masks, think of corona warriors: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to remain vigilant and renewed his pitch for precautionary measures in the war against the coronavirus pandemic as he reminded them of those fighting on the frontline.Addressing the 67th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi hailed the declining Covid-19 fatality rate and increasing recovery rate and at the same time emphasised that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to be lethal.“We have been able to save the lives of lakhs of people but the threat of coronavirus is not over yet. It is spreading fast in many areas and we need to remain vigilant,” he said.PM Modi said people have to continue wearing masks, keep a distance of two yards, wash hands continuously, not spit anywhere and take full care of cleanliness as these are the weapons that can protect us against the coronavirus disease.Also read: PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat address to Kargil Vijay Diwas, shares Covid-19 inspirational storiesHe said people sometimes have trouble with the mask, feel like removing them and start talking to others.“At such a time, I would urge you that whenever you feel troubled because of the mask and feel like removing it, then, for a moment, remember those doctors, nurses and corona warriors,” he said.“They keep wearing masks continuously for hours and are working to save everyone’s lives. They keep wearing the mask for eight to ten hours. Aren’t they troubled?” he asked.India reported 48,661 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 705 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 1,385,522, Union health minister data showed on Sunday.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally over 13.85 lakh, recovery rate nears 64%The Prime Minister also paid his tributes to the soldiers who lost their lives during the Kargil conflict 21 years ago as the country observed Kargil Vijay Diwas. Kargil Vijay Diwas is observed every year to mark the day the Indian Army recaptured all the posts in Kargil occupied by Pakistan in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tired-of-wearing-masks-think-of-corona-warriors-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-XZAunnZqmXPpZk7dtcaIxJ.html
26-07-2020||India||‘High morale of our forces won against mountains in Kargil War’: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday recalled Indian Army’s victory in the Kargil War in 1999, and criticised Pakistan saying it undertook the misadventure with sinister plans to capture India’s land.“Today is Kargil Vijay Diwas. 21 years ago, on this day our Army won the Kargil war. India can never forget circumstances under which the war was fought. Pakistan undertook this misadventure with sinister plans to capture India’s land and to divert its ongoing internal conflicts,” PM Modi said on Mann ki Baat.“India was then trying to have cordial relations with Pakistan but as it is said it is the nature of wicked to have enmity with everyone for no reason. People of such nature think evil even of those who do good to them. That is why in response to India’s friendly endeavours Pakistan tried to backstab. But the world witnessed the valour and strength of India’s brave forces,” he added.“You can imagine, the enemy was perched high on the mountains while our forces were fighting them. But the high morale and true grit of our forces won against mountains,” said the prime minister.Earlier, PM Modi had tweeted on India’s victory in Kargil and said that “we remember the courage and determination of our armed forces”.On July 26, 1999, the Indian armed forces had defeated Pakistan in a conflict in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kargil district. Since then, the day is celebrated as ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’ to rekindle the pride and valour of the soldiers who took part in Operation Vijay.The conflict began in May 1999 after Indian forces detected infiltrations by Pakistani troops and terrorists into Indian territory. The Pakistani side had a strategic advantage during the start of the conflict as they had positioned themselves in key locations and could fire at advancing Indian troops.After identifying the points of incursions, the Indian Army had launched Operation Vijay to take on the Pakistanis. The Indian Air Force too joined the conflict with their MiG-21, MiG-27 and Mirage-2000 fighters firing rockets and missiles at “fortified enemy positions” from their side of Line of Control or LoC.The victory came after nearly three-month-long battle in the icy heights of Kargil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-morale-of-our-forces-won-against-mountains-in-kargil-war-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-zzFbRygsERtm9HLlNboqFJ.html
26-07-2020||India||MVA govt’s steering wheel is in my hands, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has dared the opposition to topple his government and said though it is a “three-wheeler” government, he is firmly in control of its steering wheel.Thackeray, who is also president of the Shiv Sena, said his alliance partners - NCP and Congress - are “positive” and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is benefitting from their experience.He also took an aim at the Centre’s ambitious Mumbai- Ahmedabad bullet train project, saying he would rather prefer such a high speed link between the state capital and Nagpur.“The future of my government is not in the hands of the opposition. The steering is in my hands. A three-wheeler (auto-rickshaw) is a vehicle of poor people. The other two are sitting behind,” Thackeray said in the second and last part of his interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ on Sunday, ahead of his 60th birthday on Monday.“Why wait for September-October as is being speculated. Topple the government right now since you get pleasure in toppling. Some people derive pleasure in constructive work while some are happy in destruction. If you feel happy in destruction, go ahead,” he said.“You say the MVA government is formed against the democratic principles but when you topple it, is it democracy?” the chief minister asked.Notably, his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis earlier compared the ruling MVA, comprising the Shiv Sena and its ideological opponents Congress and NCP, with a three-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, and raised doubts over its stability.To a question, Thackeray said he hadn’t switched sides, but only entered into an alliance.“I did this because the purpose with which I had joined hands earlier turned out to be hollow,” he said.Asserting that the party ideology is important, he said, “Show me one leader who has reached the top position in the party which he has defected to. It is all use and throw policy.” Targeting the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, he said, “A three-wheeler is a vehicle of poor people. If I have to choose between a bullet train and an auto-rickshaw,I will chose the auto-rickshaw. If people don’t want a bullet train, then it will not happen,” he said.“If my government is a three-wheeler, it is moving in a proper direction, why should you have stomachache?” he said in a veiled attack at the opposition BJP.Thackeray said when he attended the NDA meeting last time, “there were 30 to 35 wheels like a railway train”.The chief minister said he would scrap projects which people feel are unwanted.He said MoUs worth Rs 16,000 crore signed recently are in initial stages and more investments are on the anvil.“If the state requires a bullet train, I would demand a bullet train to connect Mumbai and Nagpur. I would like a bullet train which connects my state capital and the second capital. The feeling of neglect among people of Vidarbha would be wiped out. Just like the Mumbai Nagpur Samruddhi corridor, I would be happy with a bullet train,” he said.He also said the Congress’s grievance of being neglected in the three-party alliance government was resolved after his meeting with the state Congress leaders.“I have good coordination with (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar. I make a phone call to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi some times,” he said. Thackeray asserted that the tripartite MVA government was functioning well. “I admit that in the last few months, face-to-face meetings haven’t happened. One more minister is coronavirus positive now after Jitendra Awhad, Ashok Chavan and Dhananjay Munde. All ministers are in touch with each other over phone or through video conferencing,” he said.Thackeray admitted the state’s economy is not in good shape, but noted the entire world is facing such a crisis.He said Prime MinisterNarendra Modi has asked all chief ministers not to announce any waivers or subsidies as populist measures due to which the economy would be further burdened.In an apparent reference to his criticism over not moving out during the COVID-19 pandemic, Thackeray said discussions and deliberations as well as signing of MoUs were being done by him sitting at home.Asked about the participation of Chinese firms in investing in the state, he said more than the presence of Chinese firms in the recent MoUs, what is important is whether Chinese investments should remain in the country or not.“During a video conference meeting with the prime minister, I had requested him to frame a national policy on doing business with China,” he said.Thackeray also said his government had kept the MoUs with Chinese firms on hold.“There should be a policy on whether Chinese companies should be allowed to do business in the country. If tomorrow, the situation improves and the Chinese prime minister is welcomed in India, why should we miss the business opportunities now?” he asked.The chief minister also rejected criticism that bureaucracy has an upper hand in his government.“The government is the decision-maker and bureaucracy implements the decisions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-govt-s-steering-wheel-is-in-my-hands-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-taskXfW7ruHkvDxCT1Xi2H.html
26-07-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asks people to ‘protect democracy’, launches digital campaign||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday appealed citizens to raise their voice to “protect democracy” and launched the party’s campaign #SpeakUpForDemocracy.Taking to Twitter, the Congress leader posted a video with the caption “Let’s unite in #SpeakUpForDemocracy and raise our voice to protect democracy” (translated from Hindi).The video posted by the Congress leader has a voiceover in which the Congress party accuses the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) of “ripping up constitution”, “demolishing democracy” and “murdering democracy in Rajasthan”.“Today, When the entire nation is fighting against coronavirus, the BJP is ripping up the constitution and demolishing our democracy. In 2018, people of Rajasthan elected the Congress government. Today, BJP is conspiring to topple democratically elected Congress government after doing the same in Madhya Pradesh, BJP is now trying to “murder democracy” in Rajasthan,” it said.“We demand BJP to stop toppling democratically elected governments. We demand to immediately convene an assembly session within our constitutional rights. Join #SpeakUpForDemocracy to raise your voice and protect democracy,” it added.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had on Friday accused the BJP of a conspiracy to bring down its government in Rajasthan.Rajasthan plunged into a political crisis after differences between Sachin Pilot and Ashok Gehlot came out in the open. Pilot was removed as the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan and as the state unit chief of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-asks-people-to-protect-democracy-launches-digital-campaign/story-9aaJR5S3cEqPe42RgKW7CK.html
26-07-2020||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas: Day to mark India’s victory in 1999 conflict against Pakistan||India is observing Kargil Vijay Diwas on Sunday to commemorate its victory over Pakistan in the high-altitude conflict in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kargil district and along the Line of Control (LoC) and pay tributes to soldiers who lost their lives more than two decades ago.India launched Operation Vijay to clear the posts in the Kargil sector, which was occupied by the Pakistani soldiers and infiltrators on the Indian side of the LoC.The armies of the nuclear-armed nations fought the war between May and July in 1999.Also read: PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat address to Kargil Vijay Diwas, shares Covid-19 inspirational storiesThe Indian Army, with the help of the Indian Air Force (IAF), wrested back the glaciated heights of Kargil, in the Ladakh sector, from the Pakistan army.The Kargil War, which lasted a little over two months and ended on July 26, 1999, led to 527 deaths on India’s side.Here are some facts about the Kargil War:* India and Pakistan fought the Kargil War between May and July of 1999 in Kargil district under the temperature of minus 10 degree Celsius.* The conflict began after Indian forces detected infiltrations by Pakistani troops and terrorists into Indian territory. The Pakistani side had a strategic advantage during the start of the conflict as they positioned themselves in key locations and could fire at advancing Indian troops.* The Indian Army was able to ascertain the points of incursion based on information from local shepherds and launched Operation Vijay.* IAF’s launched its air operations under Operation Safed Sagar in support of the army on May 26. Indian MiG-21, MiG-27 and Mirage-2000 fighters fired rockets and missiles throughout the Kargil War at the “fortified enemy positions” from their side of LoC.* IAF had planned to bomb targets in Pakistan during the Kargil War. But the then National Democratic Alliance or NDA government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee instructed the then IAF chief air chief marshal AY Tipnis that his fighter jets must not cross LoC under any circumstances.* IAF also wanted to cross the LoC slightly during the Kargil War but this request was also rejected by the government.* Pakistan shot down two Indian fighter jets while another crashed during the operation.* The Indian Navy also launched Operation Talwar to blockade Pakistani ports, especially the one in Karachi, during the Kargil War to stop the supply of oil and fuel.* The Indian Navy’s western and eastern fleets patrolled the Arabian Sea and threatened to cut Pakistan’s trade routes.* Pakistan asked the US to intervene but then American president Bill Clinton declined its request, saying Islamabad must withdraw its troops from LoC.* Indian armed forces attacked the rest of the outposts as Pakistani troops withdrew and captured the last of them by July 26.* The official death toll on the Indian side was 527 and that on the Pakistani side was between 357 and 453.* Pakistan had initially denied it had any role in the conflict and said that India was facing off with “Kashmiri freedom fighters.” It, however, awarded its soldiers medals for the conflict later.* After the Kargil War, India increased its defence spending in the budget.* The complete overhaul of India’s intelligence set-up and the creation of a younger and fitter army are among the most significant changes made by the government on the basis of recommendations of the Kargil Review Committee (KRC). * The creation of the post of a Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) was also among them. General Bipin Rawat took over as the first CDS on January 1 this year and will serve a full three-year term till December 2022.* The creation of the Defence Intelligence Agency in 2002 and the technical intelligence gathering agency, National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) in 2004, were some of the report’s key outcomes.* The timespan for promotions was slashed up to the rank of commanding officers (COs) or colonels and their equivalent in the air force and navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-day-to-mark-india-s-victory-in-1999-conflict-against-pakistan/story-x2cUNDgKxoQPxrzKEmoK4J.html
26-07-2020||India||PM Modi dedicates Mann Ki Baat address to Kargil Vijay Diwas, shares Covid-19 inspirational stories||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday dedicated his Mann Ki Baat address to Kargil Vijay Diwas and shared inspirational stories from across the country in battling the spread of the coronavirus disease.Starting his address by recalling the Kargil conflict, PM Modi said that India’s victory is very important and praiseworthy because our soldiers beat the odds and emerged victorious. He said that the enemy was perched on high grounds and still, Indian soldiers were able to beat Pakistani soldiers. “Pakistan undertook this misadventure with sinister plans to capture India’s land and to divert attention from its internal conflicts,” said the Prime Minister.“Twenty one years ago on this day, our army won the Kargil War. India was then trying to have cordial relations with Pakistan but is said that it is in the nature of the wicked to have enmity with everyone for no reason,” said PM Modi.Also read: Kargil Vijay Diwas: Defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah pay tributes to brave soldiersHe then paid tribute to Kargil martyrs and urged the countrymen to read and share the stories of their bravery. He also talked about Mahatma Gandhi’s talisman and asked people to do and say things keeping in mind welfare of soldiers on borders.The Prime Minister then turned his attention to efforts being carried out across the country to check the spread of Covid-19. He shared some inspirational stories from Jammu and Kashmir.“During Covid-19, Balbir Kaur, sarpanch of Trewa in Jammu, built a 30-bed quarantine bed in her panchayat. Jaituna Begum of Chountliwar in Ganderbal resolved helped created employment opportunities,” said PM Modi.The Prime Minister then highlighted India’s track record in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. “Today, Covid-19 recovery rate in our country is better than others. Our fatality rate is much less than most other countries. We able to save the lives of lakhs of people,but threat of Coronavirus is not over yet. It is spreading fast many areas, we need to remain vigilant,” said PM Modi.In his last Mann Ki Baat address on June 28, the Prime Minister had urged people to work together to make India self-reliant and technologically advanced.“We are in the time of unlock. But, we have to be even more careful. India is unlocking, be it in sectors like coal, space, agriculture and more and it is now the time to work together to make India self-reliant and technologically advanced,” the Prime Minister had said.Also read| Kargil Vijay Diwas: Day to mark India’s victory in 1999 conflict against Pakistan“During this unlock period, one will have to focus deeply on two points- defeating corona and strengthening the economy and bolstering it,” he had further said.He had also spoken about the border standoff with China and praised the Indian Army soldiers who were killed in the Galway Valley clash with Chinese troops on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dedicates-mann-ki-baat-address-to-kargil-vijay-diwas-shares-covid-19-inspirational-stories/story-j7rsy6iDJSpapn6tgO5I9K.html
26-07-2020||India||‘I am fine, salute corona warriors for serving selflessly’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who has contracted Covid-19, took to Twitter on Sunday saying he is doing well. Chouhan lauded healthcare professionals who are serving coronavirus patients and fighting selflessly against Covid-19 by risking their lives. “Friends, I’m fine, the dedication of #CoronaWarriors is commendable. I salute all the Corona warriors of the state serving the #COVID19 victims by risking their lives selflessly,” CM Chouhan tweeted. In a series of tweets, Chouhan urged people not to be afraid of Covid-19. “We should fight it with full confidence,” he said, emphasising the importance of social distancing and other preventive measures like washing hands and wearing masks.  #COVID19 से डरने की बजाय पूरे आत्मविश्वास के साथ हमें इसका मुकाबला करना चाहिए। दो गज की दूरी रखना, हाथ धोते रहना और मास्क लगाना कोरोना से बचने के लिए सबसे बड़े अस्त्र हैं। मेरी सभी प्रदेशवासियों से अपील है, अपने लिए और अपनों के लिए इन अस्त्रों का उपयोग ज़रूर करें ।“If you have contracted the infected, there is no need to fear, if you show symptoms, do not hide them, report immediately so that the treatment can be started on time. Timely treatment will make you healthy,” his tweet read. Chouhan tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Saturday and made the announcement in a series of tweets. “My dear people of the state, I had symptoms of Covid-19 and after the test my report has come back positive. I appeal to all my colleagues that whoever came in contact with me, must get their corona test done. And my close contacts should quarantine themselves,” Chouhan said in a tweet.“If Covid-19 is treated on time, a person is completely cured. I have been reviewing the status of corona infection every evening since March 25. I will try to review corona situation through video conferencing as much as possible now,” the chief minister added.Later, Chouhan tweeted out saying that he will get admitted to the Chirayu Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 institute.One of Chouhan’s ministerial colleagues tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week. The minister, along with Chouhan and other BJP state unit officials visited Lucknow on July 21 to attend the funeral of MP governor Lalji Tandon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-fine-salute-corona-warriors-for-serving-selflessly-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-lWQQykFVggkix5Ge1TRsfP.html
26-07-2020||India||Rajya Sabha polls: Cong issues notices to 2 Manipur MLAs for cross-voting||The Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee has issued show-cause notices to two of its MLAs for allegedly cross-voting in favour of the BJP candidate in the recently-concluded election to the state’s lone Rajya Sabha seat.The notices were served to Wangkhei MLA Okram Henry Singh and Sagolband MLA Rajkumar Imo Singh on Friday.“You have deliberately breached and acted against the decision of the Indian National Congress (INC) by indulging in cross-voting in favour of the BJP candidate in the recent Rajya Sabha election held on June 19 and this has not only violated the decision of our party to support our candidate but is also detrimental in maintaining the party principle,” the notices read.BJP candidate Leisemba Sanajaoba won the Rajya Sabha election, defeating Congress nominee T Mangi Babu.Sanajaoba, the titular king of Manipur, had received 28 votes, while Babu had secured 24.The Congress alleged that Okram had participated in the felicitation of the BJP candidate, who won the election, organised at Chief Minister N Biren Singh’s bungalow.The legislator from Wangkhei is the nephew of former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, who is also the leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP).Rajkumar was accused of accompanying the chief minister to New Delhi on a chartered flight on June 30 without the permission of the party.The two MLAs could not be reached for comments.The Manipur unit of the Congress has sought an explanation from the duo within two weeks for their “anti-party” activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-polls-cong-issues-notices-to-2-manipur-mlas-for-cross-voting/story-hIDpvWMVe1iEv6vLanIp8H.html
26-07-2020||India||Take pledge to free India from Covid-19 this Independence Day, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||In his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Independence Day had to be celebrated in a different way this year. “Pledge to free the nation from Covid-19 this Independence Day,” PM Modi said.PM had invited people to share “inspiring anecdotes” of collective efforts which brought about positive changes in other’s lives.On July 11, he tweeted, “I am sure you would be aware of inspiring anecdotes of how collective efforts have brought about positive changes. You would surely know of initiatives that have transformed many lives. Please share them for this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 26th!”“Do tune in tomorrow, 26th July, at 11 AM. #MannKiBaat,” tweeted PM Modi on Saturday.Watch: PM Modi addresses Mann Ki Baat This was the 77th episode of the programme, and the last one before India’s Independence Day on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-mann-ki-baat/story-fgz1f6eVr3P3TJlAF9jfxM.html
26-07-2020||India||On Kargil Vijay Diwas, PM Modi says valour of India armed forces continues to inspire generations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid his tribute to the soldiers of the Indian armed forces who died during the Kargil War more than two decades ago when India defeated Pakistan to recapture all posts occupied by the neighbouring country.The country is observing the 21st anniversary of the successful ‘Operation Vijay’ this year, which marks the victory of the Indian armed forces over Pakistan in the mountains of Kargil in Jammu and Kashmir on July 26, 1999.“On Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember the courage and determination of our armed forces, who steadfastly protected our nation in 1999. Their valour continues to inspire generations,” PM Modi tweeted.“Will speak more about this during today’s #MannKiBaat, which begins shortly,” he added with hashtag CourageInKargil.India launched Operation Vijay to clear the posts in the high-altitude Kargil sector, which was occupied by the Pakistani soldiers and infiltrators on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC). On Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember the courage and determination of our armed forces, who steadfastly protected our nation in 1999. Their valour continues to inspire generations. Will speak more about this during today’s #MannKiBaat, which begins shortly. #CourageInKargilThe armies of the nuclear-armed nations fought the war between May and July in Kargil district of Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere along the LoC. It took about three months for the Indian forces to recapture the posts and led to 527 deaths on India’s side.Last year, PM Modi had posted a 1-minute-24-second video along with his tweets with scenes from the Kargil War Memorial in Dras town in Jammu and Kashmir in the foothills of the Tololing Hill, photographs of soldiers, who fought the war with the Tricolour, and his speeches to mark the day.Modi also posted four photographs of his meeting with the Indian Army soldiers, one of them in a hospital, in Kargil along with the tweet.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah were among several leaders who also paid their tributes to fallen soldiers on Kargil Vijay Diwas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-kargil-vijay-diwas-pm-modi-says-valour-of-india-armed-forces-continues-to-inspire-generations/story-rdRaaOGXkIKy5q85vxbmiJ.html
26-07-2020||India||BJP trying to destabilise Gehlot govt, Guv ignoring assembly session request: Cong||Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pandey on Sunday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making attempts to “destabilise” Ashok Gehlot led government.“BJP is trying to destabilise our government. Governor ignoring chief minister’s request to call a session of State Assembly shows that the Central government is misusing constitutional institutions and is toying with democratic values,” he said.Also read: Civil society organisations in Rajasthan demand assembly session for political stabilityRajasthan plunged into a political crisis after differences between former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Gehlot came out in the open.Pilot was removed as the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan and as the state unit chief of the party on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-trying-to-destabilise-gehlot-govt-guv-ignoring-assembly-session-request-cong/story-3rGUSxQ9INiiRsHXpinHAI.html
26-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 13.85 lakh, recovery rate nears 64%||India reported more than 48,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 700 deaths in the last 24 hours, Union health minister data showed on Sunday, five days before Unlock 2.0 ends.Unlock 2.0, in which the government had eased some restrictions after the 68-day hard lockdown, will end on July 31. It was the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the infection.The Centre is unlikely to allow the reopening of schools in the next phase of easing of restrictions that are expected next week, according to top officials involved in the discussions.The officials added that Metro rail services were unlikely to start soon while gyms and swimming pools might remain out of bounds. Large congregations may also continue to remain prohibited.Also read| Unlock 3: Metro trains, schools likely to not reopenAccording to the health ministry’s Covid-19 tracker, the country reported 48,661 cases and 705 deaths between Saturday and Sunday, taking its tally to 1,385,522.The number of recoveries rose to 885,576 as 36,145 people were cured of the viral disease in the last 24 hours, according to health ministry’s data. The gap between the number of active cases at 467,882 and those of recovered people further widened to 417,694. Also read| ‘Much lesser number of people now falling ill’: Arvind Kejriwal on Covid-19 situation in DelhiThe recovery rate now stands at 63.91%.The government said on Saturday about 420,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in India in a day, nearly double the daily testing capacity of 220,000 at the beginning of July.According to the Union health ministry’s data, as many as 16 million tests have been conducted in India until now.The increased testing has taken India’s tests per million to 11,485, according to the data. This is much lower compared to the United States with 158,981 tests per million and just about half of Brazil’s 23,094. The US and Brazil are the two worst-hit countries by the pandemic.The Centre has advised the states and Union territories to keep up the “test, track and treat” strategy. “Aggressive testing may lead to a higher number of daily positive cases initially but would eventually achieve a decline as has been demonstrated after Union Government’s targeted efforts in the NCT [National Capital Territory] of Delhi,” it said in a press release.The number of infections neared the 16 million mark and the death toll stood at 643,821 across the world, according to coronavirus tracker of Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-13-85-lakh-recovery-rate-nears-64/story-BG2timHJTrFN4qi2EJg0YI.html
26-07-2020||India||India conducts over 4.4 lakh Covid-19 tests in single day||For the first time, a total of 4,42,031 samples were tested in the country in a single day, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The government labs set a new record of testing 3,62,153 samples while private labs also scaled a new high by testing 79,878 samples in a single day.“In the last 24 hours, 4,42,031 samples were tested. For the first time, government labs set a new record of testing 3,62,153 samples. Private labs also scaled a new high of 79,878 samples tested in a single day,” said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The Central government has advised all States to keep up with the strategy of aggressive testing, tracking, and treatment which may initially lead to a high number of daily positive cases but would eventually achieve a decline. On Saturday, the Health Ministry had said a strong factor contributing to an increasing number of tests is the persistent increase in the number of labs from merely one in January 2020 to 1,301 today, including 902 government labs and 399 private ones. Till Saturday, India’s had reported 13,36,861 Covid-19 cases, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-over-4-4-lakh-covid-19-tests-in-single-day/story-Zimfp0gDujpRAHtJfErPtM.html
26-07-2020||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas: Defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah pay tributes to brave soldiers||Union minister Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah on Sunday saluted the unwavering courage, patriotism and valour of Indian soldiers on the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, observed every year to mark India’s triumph over Pakistan in 1999.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah took to Twitter to pay their tributes to the brave soldiers of the Indian armed forces.“Kargil Vijay Diwas is a symbol of India’s self-respect, valour and steadfast leadership. I bow to the soldiers who with their indomitable courage drove the enemy from the inaccessible hills of Kargil and waved the tricolour there again. The country is proud of the heroes of India, who are dedicated to protecting the motherland,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.Singh tweeted that Kargil Vijay Diwas is “indeed the celebration of India’s proud tradition of outstanding Military service, exemplary valour and sacrifice.”“The unwavering courage and patriotism of our Armed Forces have ensured that India is safe and secure,” the defence minister posted.“I am also grateful to those who despite becoming disabled in battle, continue to serve the country in their own ways and have set examples worthy of emulation by the Nation,” he said. “On the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay, I would like to salute the brave soldiers of the Indian Armed Forces who fought the enemy under the most challenging conditions that the world had witnessed in the recent history,” he said.Indian armed forces had defeated Pakistan on July 26, 1999, and the day is marked as Kargil Vijay Diwas to rekindle the pride and valour of the soldiers who took part in Operation Vijay.India launched Operation Vijay to clear the posts in the high-altitude Kargil sector, which was occupied by the Pakistani soldiers and infiltrators on the Indian side of the Line of Control.The armies of the nuclear-armed nations fought the war between May and July in Kargil district of Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere along the LoC. It took about three months for the Indian forces to recapture the posts. India lost 527 soldiers in the short but sharp conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-home-minister-amit-shah-pay-tributes-to-brave-soldiers/story-HxPPvUEBwIMHPBj01icavM.html
26-07-2020||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas symbol of India’s self-respect, valour and steadfast leadership: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday saluted the valour and grit of the Indian soldiers on the occasion of 21st anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas.Shah took to Twitter and said that Kargil Vijay Diwas is a symbol of India’s proud, valour and steadfast leadership.“Kargil Vijay Diwas is a symbol of India’s proud, valour and steadfast leadership. I bow to the soldiers who, with their indomitable courage, drove the enemy from the inaccessible hills of Kargil and waved the tricolor there again. The country is proud of the heroes of India, who are dedicated to protecting the motherland,” Shah tweeted (translated from Hindi)The country is celebrating the anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas.The Indian armed forces had defeated Pakistan on July 26, 1999. Since then, the day is celebrated as Kargil Vijay Diwas to rekindle the pride and valour of the soldiers who took part in Operation Vijay.The day marks the victory of Indian soldiers in recapturing the mountain heights that were occupied by the Pakistani Army on July 26, 1999, known as the Kargil War.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-symbol-of-india-s-proud-valour-and-steadfast-leadership-tweets-amit-shah/story-DMUrFsg4gBefbXPJ9Fg3jJ.html
26-07-2020||India||‘Aadhaar card ID, results within 24 hours’ among new guidelines for Covid-19 testing Rajasthan||Rajasthan Health Department has issued fresh guidelines for Covid-19 testing in the state.As per the new guidelines, it is now mandatory to submit Aadhaar Card number in the RT-PCR App for the person being tested for coronavirus.If the person undergoing testing does not have an Aadhaar card (like small children), then one has to submit the Aadhar Card number of older family members.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to new guidelines, it is mandatory for testing labs to provide the Covid-19 testing results within 24 hours.The state has the capacity to test more than 40,000 Covid-19 samples in a day, it said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage As per the Union health and family welfare ministry, there are a total of 34,178 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan including 9,029 active cases, 24,547 cured/discharged/migrated and 602 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-card-id-results-within-24-hours-among-new-guidelines-for-covid-19-testing-rajasthan/story-btUBVqf5ZGbSkyyBhomEFM.html
26-07-2020||India||10 members of gang, which stole Rs 1.5 crore from businessman’s house in Madhya Pradesh, arrested||A gang of robbers, which robbed a businessman’s house and decamped with valuable items and cash worth Rs 1.5 crore in Rajgarh district, was busted by the Madhya Pradesh Police on Friday.The 10-member gang, which includes seven people from Nepal, was apprehended from Delhi’s Uttam Nagar, said Upendra Jain, additional director general (ADG) of Police, Bhopal range. They were found involved in many robberies in National Capital Region (NCR). Police also recovered fake Aadhaar cards from their possessions. “They confessed to have committed many robberies and we are trying to get the details. One of the robberies was in a house in Patel Nagar in New Delhi last year in January,” said Jain. “The gang’s modus operandi was one of the female members used to get a maid’s job in the target’s house and gather all the information regarding cash and valuables. Later, the other gang members based on the information used to commit the robbery,” said Jain. Superintendent of Police, Rajgarh, Pradeep Sharma said, “The same modus operandi was followed by them to rob the house of businessman Ram Goyal, a resident of Pachor area of Rajgarh district. One of the gang member Anushka Bhukel, 28, a resident of Janakpur, Nepal, got a job at the house of Goyal’s daughter Kushangi in Uttam Nagar area in New Delhi as care taker of the Kushangi’s newborn baby through an agency Asian Maid Service last month. Anushka showed fake IDs to Kushangi to deceive her about her credentials and also shared a mobile number, which was taken from the fake identity card. When Kushangi came to her father’s place in Pachore, Rajgarh from New Delhi on July 11, Anushka also come with her.“In just two days, Anushka got all the details of the house and informed the other gang members Tej Rokya and Bharat Thapa, residents of Nepal and presently staying in Lal Kuan area in New Delhi. On July 14 at around 8 pm, Anushka served khichdi to Ram Goyal his wife Sushma Goyal, his daughter Kushangi and six-month-old granddaughter by mixing a drug in it. All the members of the family, including the toddler, fainted after having that khichdi. Anushka with the help of Tej and Bharat robbed valuable items and cash worth Rs 1.53 crore and fled in an Ola cab, which was brought to Rajgarh by Tej and Bharat from New Delhi on rent. On the morning of July 15, a servant Devi Sigh reached Goyal’s home and found the family members fainted. Devi Singh informed neighbours and the police,” said Sharma. Sharma said, “After robbery, three police teams were formed. One left for New Delhi to probe the matter, one to Nepal and a cyber expert team in Rajgarh. We first tracked down Pawan Thapa who booked the taxi. Later on the basis of information given by him, a team led by sub-inspector Ramkumar Raghuvanshi installed a tea shop in Uttam Nagar area to know the details of the accused on July 15. They got success in a week and arrested all the accused when they were planning to leave to Nepal.” Thapa and other gang members Samrat Dhami, who booked a taxi for the accused; Kamal Singh Thakur, who provided drug to Anushka; Mohammad Hussain and Vikrant Kulkarni from Uttam Nagar New Delhi, who used to purchase jewellery from the accused; Asian Maid agency owner Bilal Hussain, who was a part of the gang; and Sarita Sharma from Nepal, who introduced Anushka to Bilal, were arrested by police. The seven accused belong to Nepal belong to underprivileged families and come to India a few years ago in search of job. Later, they formed a robbery gang All the accused were produced before the court and sent on police remand of three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-members-of-gang-which-stole-rs-1-5-crore-from-businessman-s-house-in-madhya-pradesh-arrested/story-hUwge2xHOGG2yWxvgCx8pL.html
26-07-2020||India||Civil society organisations in Rajasthan demand assembly session for political stability||More than 86 organisations, their 200 representatives and prominent individuals wrote to Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday to express concern over the ongoing political crisis in the state.Rajasthan is in the middle of a political crisis after the rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and a section of legislators backing him. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s camp is confident of its numbers and feels a floor test may be its best bet to end the crisis. It has said the governor is delaying convening a session due to pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government. Mishra has denied the charge and said he will follow constitutional norms to convene the House.“In order to give the people of the state political stability, the decision of the cabinet to call the state assembly session should be respected and the state assembly session should be convened urgently,” they wrote. Also read: Rajasthan crisis puts governors’ powers in the spotlightThe letter also dwelled into legal arguments provided by several constitutional experts, who had a consensus that according to the Article 174 of the Constitution and the three Supreme Court judgments—1994 Bommai (Karnataka State), 2016 Rebiya (Arunachal State) and 2020 Shivraj Singh (Madhya Pradesh)—only floor test in Vidhan Sabha is the permissible way of establishing the majority of any party. “According to article 174 if the Assembly has to be convened the Governor ‘shall’ act on the ‘aid and advise’ of the Council of Ministers headed by the CM,” the letter said. It added that the only exception to this process, where the cabinet has exclusive rights to call a session of the assembly at the timing of its choosing, is if the governor believes based on an objective evaluation that the party in power has lost its majority--the only way in which its majority can be tested is on the floor of the house--and therefore, the governor can use his discretion to call the assembly under such circumstances. Also read: Top court to take up Rajasthan speaker’s plea tomorrow“Under all other circumstances, the Governor is bound by the advice of the cabinet where he can neither deny nor delay their suggestion of calling a session of the Assembly,” the letter signed by Kavita Srivastava and Nikhil Dey on behalf of all the 200 signatories of the 86 organisations said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-society-organisations-in-rajasthan-demand-assembly-session-for-political-stability/story-f3aoU4fQum1wuH36Mm6rRL.html
26-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajasthan Congress crisis puts governor’s powers in the spotlight and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan crisis puts governors’ powers in the spotlightA governor’s powers and role in the state legislature’s affairs are back in focus amid the political crisis in Rajasthan. Congress legislators backing Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot staged a five-hour sit-in on Friday asking governor Kalraj Mishra to call a special assembly session for a floor test. Read moreExplainer: What is mahajobs portal and how it is helping during Covid-19The Mahajobs portal launched by the Maharashtra government has seen lakhs of registrations in the last few weeks. In fact, reports claim that around 2.5 lakh people have registered on the portal. The government officials, however, have told state media outlets that there are issues with the submissions made by the people and they need to apply again. Read moreUnlock 3: Metro trains, schools likely to not reopenBarring a last-minute change of mind, the Narendra Modi government is unlikely to allow the reopening of schools in the next phase of easing of restrictions that is expected next week, according to top officials involved in the discussions related to this. Read moreProtesters clash with cops amid anger over surge of federal agents in major citiesPolice in Seattle used flashbang grenades and pepper spray Saturday against protesters who set fire to construction trailers outside a youth jail, amid a wave of public anger over President Donald Trump’s planned “surge” of federal agents into major cities. Read more‘Couldn’t believe Mahi bhai said something like that to me’: Stuart Binny reveals what MS Dhoni told him on Test debutAll-rounder Stuart Binny has revealed what MS Dhoni told him on his Test debut for India. After making his India debut in January of 2014, Binny received his Test cap from Dhoni during the first Test of India’s tour of England and the all-rounder scored a match-saving 78 in the first Test at Trent Bridge, Nottingham. Read moreThe Kissing Booth 2 movie review: Stretched, overstuffed, but still quite funLara Jean may have been able to resist the charms of a second hot boy in her life but Elle Evans may not be made of such stern stuff. The Kissing Booth 2 presents a similar dilemma to its nerdy American high schooler lead, as earlier this year’s To All The Boys: PS I Love You—falling for another unearthly cute guy when you already have an unearthly cute guy in your arms. Read moreMicrosoft’s long-awaited dual-screen device may finally launchMicrosoft’s long-awaited dual-screen device ‘Surface Duo’ may finally see the light of day. Microsoft has not yet revealed the official launch date, but the phone-tablet hybrid has made an appearance on the US FCC certification website. Surface Duo has also shown up on the Bluetooth SIG website. Read moreTwo paintings and a love storyMost workplaces are inherently dull and utilitarian. Working from home translates mostly into a search for the grayest and most staid spaces to serve as backgrounds for video meetings. Rarely does a workplace take you back in time and reveal hidden connections. Read more‘Relax’: Anand Mahindra’s weekend advice sparks motivational Twitter threadAnand Mahindra is known for sharing some of the most interesting, and often inspiring, posts on his Twitter handle. The business tycoon uses his tweets to keep his Twitter followers engaged and a recent post of his involving a weekend advice is no different. Read moreWatch| Sushant Rajput death: Why Kangana Ranaut hasn’t given statement to police yet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajasthan-congress-crisis-puts-governer-s-powers-in-the-spotlight-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fNmnwThczBftyqrwzMNRGO.html
26-07-2020||India||Recite Hanuman Chalisa 5 times a day to eradicate Covid-19, says Pragya Thakur||BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur on Saturday appealed people to recite the Hanuman Chalisa five times a day till August 5, which she believes will rid the world of the coronavirus pandemic.`Bhoomi pujan’ or the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya is to take place on August 5.“Let us all of us together make a spiritual effort to wish people good health and end the coronavirus epidemic.Watch | ‘Recite Hanuman Chalisa to eradicate coronavirus’: BJP MP Pragya Thakur Recite ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ five times a day at your home from July 25 to August 5,” the Bhopal MP tweeted.“Conclude this ritual by lighting lamps on August 5 and offering ‘aarti’ to Lord Ram at home,” she added.She also shared a video on Twitter, in which she said the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is making efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus by imposing lockdown in Bhopal till August 4.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Though the lockdown will be over on August 4, this ritual (recitation of the Hanuman Chalisa, a hymn in praise of Lord Hanuman) will end on August 5, when ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple in Ayodhya will be performed. We will celebrate that day like Diwali,” she added.“When people... Hindus from across the country recite the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ in one voice, it will definitely work and we will be free from coronavirus...This is your prayer to Lord Ram,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recite-hanuman-chalisa-5-times-a-day-to-eradicate-covid-19-says-pragya-thakur/story-zyrLxKdgq3NGFqPJ9rDQMP.html
26-07-2020||India||PM’s Mann Ki Baat address to feature ‘inspiring anecdotes’ from people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly address to the nation through radio programme Mann Ki Baat will take place on Sunday. The address is telecast on the last Sunday of every month.This will be the 67th episode of the programme. Do tune in tomorrow, 26th July, at 11 AM. #MannKiBaat. pic.twitter.com/Px52Xrm2bYLike on earlier occasions, PM Modi had asked people for suggestions and “inspiring anecdotes” for this month’s programme.“I am sure you would be aware of inspiring anecdotes of how collective efforts have brought about positive changes. You would surely know of initiatives that have transformed many lives. Please share them for this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 26th!” PM Modi had tweeted on July 11.In his last Mann Ki Baat address on June 28, the Prime Minister had urged people to work together to make India self-reliant and technologically advanced.“We are in the time of unlock. But, we have to be even more careful. India is unlocking, be it in sectors like coal, space, agriculture and more and it is now the time to work together to make India self-reliant and technologically advanced,” the Prime Minister had said.“During this unlock period, one will have to focus deeply on two points- defeating corona and strengthening the economy and bolstering it,” he had further said.He had also spoken about the border standoff with China and praised the Indian Army soldiers who were killed in the Galway Valley clash with Chinese troops on June 15.PM Modi had asked children to interview their grandparents and elders in their house to utilise leisure time during the Covid-19 lockdown.“You would have seen journalists conducting interviews on TV, you also do a similar kind of interview and record it on the mobile,” he said while giving the kids suggestions on what will be the questions they would be asking them their elders or grandparents. The Prime Minister asked the children to ask their elders about their lifestyle when they will their age, what sports they played, sometimes if they went to the theatre or went to the cinema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-address-today-will-feature-inspiring-anecdotes-from-people/story-b9CEhG4lHxgkzTkqfayItJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s 50 SIM cards, other missing links call for CBI probe: Lawyer||A Delhi-based lawyer has called for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput citing several lapses on part of the police as he pressed for the need to restore people’s confidence in the judicial system.Ishkaran Singh Bhandari, who is leading “a people’s movement” for justice, said Sushant Singh Rajput’s death should be treated as one of “mysterious death” until facts are ascertained by CBI.The 34-year-year-old actor was found dead in his Mumbai flat in June this year. Police have said he died by suicide.Watch: ‘Sushant changed 50 SIM cards’, other missing links cited for CBI probe Several people, including Rajput’s close friend Rhea Chakraborty, have called for a CBI inquiry into his death. Actor Shekhar Suman and Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy were also among those who have called for a CBI investigation.However, Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh has ruled out requests for a CBI probe in the case. Deshmukh has said that Mumbai Police ate capable of handling the case. Bhandari said the word “suicide came in within minutes of his death and that became a defining narrative on the entire media.”“The normal thing is to call it a mysterious death, investigate it and after you investigate it you may come to a conclusion that it’s a tragedy, it’s abetment to suicide, or it’s a foul murder,” he said.“But how do you come to that conclusion in a few minutes? So that means you have a predetermined conclusion. That was something which started me off. After that the questions kept on piling up, the deeper I went into it,” he added.The lawyer cited “lapses” on part of the police and other aspects that Rajput allegedly changed 50 SIM cards on his phone. He said he has written to the Mumbai Police, which is investigating the actor’s death, regarding these aspects.“In the first letter, I said that there is source-based, not even source-based, name-based information that Sushant Singh Rajput changed his SIM cards 50 times. I wrote to them asking whether they had ceased all those SIM cards, the electronic evidence of all of them as well as the electronic evidence of people incidental and connected to him. That’s basic,” he said.“That’s an extraordinarily high number and that is why I wrote that this evidence must be sealed. If Mumbai Police investigate it, hopefully, they would have already done it. If they have not done it, then that is raising more and more questions,” he said.He said he also asked them whether they had sealed the flat and conducted forensic search citing “reports in reliable mainstream media” that they did so after a day of Rajput’s death. “That is very surprising and a very glaring lapse of a procedure because we all know evidence can get contaminated. In fact, they say even the family pets should not be there in the room after there is an occurrence because even a pet can contaminate a scene, leave alone humans. So, why was that basic thing not done and I wrote a letter to them saying at the end of the day justice is about public confidence. Law and order is also about public confidence,” he said.Bhandari pointed out that nobody has come forward to say that the police followed procedures.“Those statements are not coming and the judgements of the highest courts of this country, which is the Supreme Court, says that public confidence is an integral part of justice delivery system and also where influential people are involved,” he said.Police have said they have recorded the statements of dozens of people, including his family, friends, co-stars and close aides, in the investigations ordered by the Maharashtra government into the actor’s death on June 14. He also said the police took days to record statements of “prominent people” in connection with the case. “So, anybody being questioned is by definition an influential person, is by definition a person with means and sources, is by definition a person close to all administrations. So, it has to go out of the local police to avoid any conflicts of interest and it has to a central agency,” he pointed out.The lawyer pointed to “the old maxim of law that justice not only is done, but it should also be seen to be done”.“So, this has to go to CBI. In this case, there are lapses also. I am saying even without lapses, this was a case which should have gone to CBI.”“The Maharashtra government as a best practice will give it to a central agency. In case they do not, one may need to go to the court and because people demand satisfaction in this case and they must have the satisfaction that justice and transparent justice is being done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-50-sim-cards-other-missing-links-call-for-cbi-probe-lawyer/story-P8VT2ezgXLj5XKOYpozjJJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray flags off 25 ambulances donated by Shiv Sena||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray flagged off 25 ambulances donated by his party Shiv Sena yesterday.Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra, has reported 1,090 Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths on Saturday. As many as 617 people have been discharged after being recovered from the disease, said the Municipal Corporation Greater Mumbai.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The Covid-19 tally in the city has now climbed to 1,07,981 including 78,877 patients recovered/discharged and 6,033 deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra has reported 3,57,117 Covid-19 cases including, 1,44,018 active cases, 1,99,967 recoveries and 13,132 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-flags-off-25-ambulances-donated-by-shiv-sena/story-REWxoQfLpjINT3ZYj9JnbK.html
26-07-2020||India||Explainer: What is mahajobs portal and how it is helping during Covid-19||The Mahajobs portal launched by the Maharashtra government has seen lakhs of registrations in the last few weeks. In fact, reports claim that around 2.5 lakh people have registered on the portal. The government officials, however, have told state media outlets that there are issues with the submissions made by the people and they need to apply again.Here are the key things to know about the portal launched by the Maharashtra government:• The Mahajobs Portal was launched by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in July 6, aiming at making local manpower and employment opportunities available to companies and workers respectively.• The portal will help in the recruitment of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled employees.• Those who will register at the job portal are required to submit domicile certificate, which has been made mandatory by the state government.• It is a joint venture between the Department of Industries, Department of Labour and Skill Development-Entrepreneurship of the government of Maharashtra to connect job seekers with entrepreneurs.• According to the description available on the portal, it has been created to meet the manpower needs of the companies which have been facing the challenge of skill gap due to mass migration triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.• It seeks to create a permanent system of skilled manpower for industries in Maharashtra to get suitable local workers.• Earlier this month, the Maharashtra government had said that the state is facing a huge challenge of skill gap due to the migration of the workers. Maharashtra’s Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Minister Nawab Malik had said that the state government looks forward to employing locally available skilled workforce with industry on an urgent basis.• The state government is also orienting the industrial training institutes (ITIs) towards emergent sectors such as solar energy, drones and electric vehicles for long-term intervention.• Maharashtra is also working on the Maharashtra Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (MAPS)) on the lines of the National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) and programmes that can impart special ‘agri-based skill training centres’ for enabling the rural and tribal youth to reinvent and earn through the traditional skilling interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explainer-what-is-mahajobs-portal-and-how-it-is-helping-during-covid-19/story-tG2yPA1LvVx6qpXGYIMG1M.html
26-07-2020||India||China tried to jab India with a new claim on Bhutan. Why it has boomeranged||President Xi Jinping’s strategy to expand its territorial dispute with Bhutan to needle India appears to have brought the tiny kingdom nestled in the Himalayas closer to New Delhi. Thimphu, which had last found itself caught in the crossfire between India and China during the 2017 Doklam standoff appeared to have had second thoughts about its proximity to India vis-a-vis China, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.There was lately, an emerging view in Bhutan, wedged geographically between India and China, that the kingdom should perhaps balance its ties with its two neighbours so that Thimphu isn’t squeezed between the giants again. “It was never spelt out in black and white but this view was gaining ground over the last two-three years,” people in New Delhi and Thimphu said.But there has been a change in Thimpu’s approach over the last one month after Beijing stunned Bhutan at the June meeting of the US-based multinational fund, Global Environment Facility, when Thimphu was seeking funds for the Sakteng wildlife sanctuary. The Chinese representative objected, claiming that there was a dispute between China and Bhutan over part of the sanctuary spread across 650 sq km. Also Watch | Trump’s minister warns world against China, calls India ties ‘all-important’ The Chinese move to make new territorial claims in Bhutan has convinced Thimpu that it should not hang to any hopes that its northern neighbour, 250 times bigger, would be fair. That if it cedes any ground to appease Beijing, it would only end up fueling its territorial ambitions, the people mentioned above said.Thimphu formally protested the China claim, issuing a demarche to the Chinese mission in Delhi. Bhutan and Beijing use their missions in Delhi to communicate. It also issued a rare statement earlier this month, underlining that disputes relating to the undemarcated border would be discussed at the next round of border talks.Bhutan and China have held 24 rounds of talks since 1984 to settle their border issue, the last in 2016. Beijing has been pressuring Bhutan to accept a package deal for nearly 20 years that would let it take over Bhutanese territory of Doklam, Sinchulung, Dramana, and Shakhatoe spread across 269 sq km in the western sector. In exchange, China would give up its claim over Bhutan’s Pasamlung and Jakarlung valleys in the north.China’s claim over the nature preserve spread across 650 sq km in eastern Bhutan’s Trashigang district almost doubles the area of the disputed territories between the two countries from the existing 764 sq km.Bhutan is yet to decide on an Indian proposal to build a road through the sanctuary that would sharply reduce the 450 km long distance between Guwahati and Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh by one-third. New Delhi is expected to take up the proposal with Thimphu as part of India’s hard push to border infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-tried-to-jab-india-with-a-new-claim-on-bhutan-why-it-has-boomeranged/story-rqplyG6gdbN7eOs3X1FInM.html
26-07-2020||India||Scattered light to moderate rains likely over Karnataka||Scattered light to moderate rains are likely to occur over state capital Bengaluru and other regions in Karnataka for the next two days, the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said on Saturday.KSNDMC has predicted scattered to widespread light to moderate rains likely over Chikkaballapura, Kolar, Ramanagara, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural and Bengaluru Urban districts of South Interior Karnataka (SIK). Isolated light to moderate rains is likely over remaining parts of SIK region.“Whereas in North Interior Karnataka region, scattered to fairly widespread light to moderate rains likely and isolated places heavy rains likely over Chikkamagalur district and light to moderate rains likely over Shivamogga, Kalburgi districts among others,” said KSNDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scattered-light-to-moderate-rains-likely-over-karnataka/story-d2Aj88DVF5exXsc4KON5mN.html
26-07-2020||India||‘Significant numbers’ of ISIS terrorists in Kerala, Karnataka, claims UN report||A UN report on terrorism has warned that there are “significant numbers” of ISIS terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka, noting that the al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent terror group, which reportedly has between 150 and 200 militants from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar, is planning attacks in the region. The 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning ISIS, al-Qaida and associated individuals and entities said that the al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) operates under the Taliban umbrella from Nimruz, Helmand and Kandahar provinces of Afghanistan. “The group reportedly has between 150 and 200 members from Bangladesh, India, Myanmar and Pakistan. The current leader of AQIS is Osama Mahmood…, who succeeded the late Asim Umar… AQIS is reportedly planning retaliation operations in the region to avenge the death of its former leader,” it said.Also read: 6,500 Pakistan terrorists present in Afghanistan, most belong to TTP, says UN report According to the report, “One member state reported that the ISIL Indian affiliate (Hind Wilayah), which was announced on May 10, 2019, has between 180 and 200 members”.It said that there are “significant numbers of ISIL operatives in Kerala and Karnataka states.” In May last year, the Islamic State (also known as ISIS, ISIL or Daesh) terror group claimed to have established a new “province” in India, the first of its kind announcement that came after clashes between militants and security forces in Kashmir. The dreaded terror outfit, through its Amaq News Agency, had said that the Arabic name of the new branch is “Wilayah of Hind” (India Province). A senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer had rejected the claim. Previously, ISIS attacks in Kashmir were linked to its so-called Khorasan Province branch, which was set up in 2015 to cover “Afghanistan, Pakistan and nearby lands”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-numbers-of-isis-terrorists-in-kerala-karnataka-claims-un-report/story-JGHuHmJ1WxQKfY9gCiaRBP.html
26-07-2020||India||BJP MLA promises house to boy whose egg cart was overturned by civic body workers||Ramesh Mendola, a BJP MLA from Indore-2 constituency has assured to provide a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to the child, whose egg handcart was allegedly overturned by Municipal Corporation workers here.The incident occurred on July 22 when Municipal Corporation workers came to seize the egg cart and warned of issuing a Rs 100 challan to 13-year-old child, Paras, for putting his cart on the road. The cart was allegedly overturned by the Municipal Corporation workers.During the incident, four cartons of eggs broke which was worth Rs 7,000 to 8,000. The incident left the teen in tears. A passerby recorded the entire incident and it became viral.Many people came to the boy’s aid by giving him thousands of rupees in cash. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh has promised to bear the expenses of the teenager and his brother’s education while sending him Rs 10,000 as financial assistance.“I got a call from Congress leader Digvijaya Singh who promised us of better education and sent me Rs 10,000 through our known person Chandrashekhar Raikwar,” Paras told ANI.Raikwar confirmed on the phone that BJP MLA Ramesh Mendola also gave the boy a bicycle, four pairs of clothes and Rs 2,500 along with the assurance of providing a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Also, Indore Press Club president Arvind Tiwari and others helped him by providing monetary assistance.“BJP MLA Mahendra Hardia has also asked for the bank account information to help him,” Raikwar said.Vikas Rao, who made the video of the incident, told ANI, “On July 22, at 5:45 pm, I saw this child was looking disturbed. Before I shot the video, the egg cart was overturned from the pavement on the road.”“The behaviour of the Municipal Corporation workers was very bad towards the boy. So, I uploaded the video on social media to help the child,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-promises-house-to-boy-whose-egg-cart-was-overturned-by-civic-body-workers/story-zcs3ezfnJMyJuIw5CGMb8K.html
26-07-2020||India||Groundwork needed to build trust in vaccine||This week marked several milestones in the global effort to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with several groups pushing ahead to have a vaccine ready for use by early 2021.A man on Friday received the first dose of the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research. The vaccine, called Covaxin, produced no immediate side effects in 24 hours after vaccination, and the volunteer who was vaccinated will be under observation for another week at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, which is one of the 12 sites in the country where the vaccine is being tested.Also Read: COVAX Facility aims to deliver two billion doses by the end of 2021The results of two randomised trials published earlier this week in The Lancet have raised hope for a vaccine against Covid-19 by early 2021. Early results show AstraZeneca Oxford vaccine, which will be produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune and called Covishield, is safe and provokes both humoral and cellular immune responses. A recombinant adenovirus type-5-vectored vaccine from China also generated an immune response without side effects. Similar results were posted for the Moderna vaccine, which is being developed in the US in collaboration with the National Institutes of Health.“There are different waves of vaccines coming, you’ve got Moderna, China and AstraZeneca, which is one of our five partnerships coming at the end of this year, so we’ll see which vaccines are the most safe and efficacious. Till then, people will be exposed and slowly build herd immunity, but that will happen only after 50-60% people get infected, which is a long way away. We can’t count on herd immunity to protect before a vaccine, which will come sooner,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII.Also Read: Human trials for Covid-19 vaccines by Bharat Biotech, Zydus underway in 6 citiesHe cautioned that producing enough doses for the whole world won’t happen overnight. “Scaling up to cater to the whole population will take four to five years in terms of the global population,” said Poonawalla.Scientists warn that the hype around efforts is also feeding fears about vaccine safety, which is already being exploited by anti-vaxxers who are playing on the distrust of national governments and profiteering by pharmaceutical companies.Also Read: Cipla launching Covid-19 treatment drug Ciplenza in August at Rs 68 per tabletIn an editorial in journal The Lancet, which published results of the Oxford and China vaccine trials this week, editor-in-chief Richard Horton noted, “Opinion polls suggest that in some countries, such as the USA, as little as half the eligible population would be willing to receive a vaccine against Sars-CoV-2. The arguments cover familiar ground—ranging from claims that the pharmaceutical industry is trying to profit from the pandemic to the notion that the virus poses little danger to human health. The context of urgency is also strengthening the anti-vaccination movement. President Trump has called the US vaccine programme Operation Warp Speed. This designation has led some anti-vaccine activists to claim that corners are being cut in safety testing.”People in India have traditionally accepted mass vaccination programmes, which helped the country eradicate small pox in April 1977, two and a half years before its global eradication in December 1979. But over the past two decades, vaccine scepticism is growing.Also Read: The twin tales of vanishing antibodies, robust T-cells | OpinionPolio eradication wasn’t as easy, with the wild polio virus sustaining in several pockets because people refused to get their children vaccinated because of fake news and malicious rumours of side effects, such as autism and impotence.Campaigns to give children the Measles-Rubella (MR) vaccine against measles, and adolescent girls the HPV vaccine against cervical cancer ran into roadblocks, which makes it important to begin the groundwork to build the public’s trust in the vaccine.That is possible only by bringing people on board by increasing transparency in both information sharing, and discussing concerns. Governments and health agencies must allay fears about safety, availability and profiteering and assure the public that vaccination of those at risk, including front-line workers and older people, will be prioritised.Also Read: Serum Institute plans to manufacture one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine over next year Public health campaigns should be planned keeping in mind learnings from polio and MR vaccination drives, where disinformation preceded vaccines across states, which primed communities to refuse even before health workers got a chance to explain its benefits.“A Covid-19 vaccination strategy demands a whole-of-society response—incorporating business, trade unions, faith communities, charities, media, entertainment, and sports. A vaccine to protect the public against SARS-CoV-2 is the most important and immediate technical challenge humanity has ever faced—at a moment when public trust in science and government is alarmingly brittle,” said Horton, in his editorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/groundwork-needed-to-build-trust-in-vaccine/story-loTdSUP0RecsdWMXA0TtII.html
26-07-2020||India||14-yr-old is Goa’s youngest Covid-19 victim; positive cases rise to 4,686||Goa recorded six deaths due to Covid-19 in 24 hours including that of a 14-year-old girl who contracted the coronavirus disease while battling an existing lung infection, taking the toll in the state to 34 on Saturday. Expressing anguish over the rising number of fatalities, the opposition parties blamed the Pramod Sawant government for failure to rein in the virus outbreak.The 14-year-old is the youngest person in the state till date to succumb to Covid-19, after the 29-year-old who died five days ago.The deaths reported on Saturday also included two patients in their fifties, a 65-year-old and two people in their eighties, according to the official bulletin released by the state government.With 146 new cases reported on Saturday, Goa has recorded 4,686 cases of the novel coronavirus so far of which 3,047 have been declared as cured.“With death toll rising & a 14 year old losing life, Will @BJP4Goa @GovtofGoa @goacm still go ahead suspending all rules & pass budget & conduct business without discussion during 1 day Assembly Session? Is #CovidPandemic & peoples suffering last priority for Government?”, leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted, referring to the one -day monsoon session of the Goa Legislative Assembly that has been scheduled for Monday.Another opposition leader, Vijai Sardesai of the Goa Forward Party, too, hit out at the state government for the death toll. “It’s 6 deaths as of the moment, which includes a 14 year old & even 2 people of around 50 years of age! The comorbidity excuse also is not tenable! And the Govt looks all at sea!” he tweeted.Goa has also seen the positivity rate increase over the last few weeks which now stands a little above 4% but is expected to increase further with the testing capacity failing to keep pace with the rising demand for tests. The number of positive cases has remained steady over the last week or so, hovering a little below 200 positive cases per day, but nearly 7,000 swabs are pending for testing as labs are overwhelmed.However, an official said that more samples are being taken for surveillance purposes and the authorities are closely watching the (Covid-19) figures.“We are taking all measures that we are seeing that our labs are operating 24x7. Everybody is alert and aware and we are closely watching the figures,” health secretary Nila Mohanan said.“With the number of cases on the rise and new containment zones coming into place, we are taking more samples for surveillance purposes and then we also have Aarogya Setu data which is now routinely being used… people have started getting SMS and phone calls from the past one week onwards that recommends that they come forward for testing. So we are encouraging those people to come forward and give their samples,” Mohanan added when asked to explain the increased pendency in testing and the positivity rate.Despite being a small state, Goa’s numbers are more than double that of Himachal Pradesh and comparable to that of Uttarakhand and Chattisgarsh, states much larger but arguably more rural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-yr-old-is-goa-s-youngest-covid-19-victim-positive-cases-rise-to-4-686/story-3Z1KH9ednrhrUDrhHU3eXJ.html
26-07-2020||India||St. Stephen’s College to penalise hostellers Rs 100 per day for not vacating rooms||The Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College will be charging a penalty of Rs 100 per day from hostellers who will not vacate their rooms till August 7, a move that has upset many students. Students are unhappy with the latest notice and said it is “unfair” to them especially at this time when they are stuck in their home towns. According to college principal John Varghese, the students have been sent repeated reminders since the beginning of July and the college has to “fumigate” and “sanitise” the rooms for the students who will be coming after the new session begins. “Considering the ongoing pandemic, and the many requests submitted by the resident junior members, students who are unable to vacate their rooms will be allowed to retain their rooms with a modest room rent charge of Rs 100 per day starting from August 7, 2020,” a notice posted on the college website said. “Resident Junior members are also hereby notified that, if and when the government gives the permission to reopen the residence facilities, all belongings and luggage will be moved a week prior to the date of residence reopening to facilitate necessary cleaning and renovations. In such occasion, the college will not be responsible for loss or damages,” the notice added. Prior to this, another notice was issued to the students on June 23 asking them to vacate their rooms. A hosteller, who is currently in West Bengal, said the college is being “unfair” and is charging almost double the amount of what they would usually pay for the room. He left Delhi for his home town two days prior to March 9, when the mid-semester break started. The mid-semester break was till March 15 but before that the Delhi University announced that it would be closed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “Subsequently, the lockdown was announced and we were unable to come back to Delhi. Even in the current situation, it is not safe to travel. Students are stuck in northeast and far off places and won’t be able to come back in time to collect their belongings. We usually pay Rs 1,400 as the room rent but going by the current rate, we will end up paying Rs 3,000 for a month,” the student said on the condition of anonymity.He said that students have been provided the option to authorise their local guardians to collect their belongings but that is also not possible since the keys of the rooms are with the hostellers. Another hosteller, who is stuck in Kashmir, cited the issue of unsafe travel during the pandemic and said that he has written to the dean (residence) but their has been no solution to the issue. “There are some students who live nearby Delhi and could travel by car and collect their belongings. But my local guardian lives in a containment zone and won’t be able to travel in such a situation. It is unfair during this time,” he said. The college principal said that a section of students is circulating “misinformation”. “By the time the lockdown happened, a lot of the students had gone for the mid-semester break. Since the lockdown happened, they didn’t come back. Nobody is talking about the fact that the college is not charging them from the period from the time they were not here till August 7. They have not been charged a single paise for the period they were not here,” Varghese told PTI. He said there were a few students who were there till June 30 and they would be charged only for the time they were here which means they won’t be charged for July. “We have admissions and we have to get ready for the fresh set of students and in our hostels, applications are made every year. So we have to get ready the rooms, carry out repairs, fumigation, sanitisation and then get rooms for the fresh set of students, who will come, but we don’t know when,” he added. “Unless the things are removed, we cannot carry out either repairs or sanitisation,” he said, adding that the dean (residence) has been telling all of them to remove their belongings and in case they are unable to come, they can authorise a friend or a relative in Delhi to come and remove their stuff. Many of the students have done that, the college principal said. From July onwards, regular notices and information have been going to the students and they have been given a deadline till August 7. “Now the lockdown has been opened up and there is no restriction on travel. What is preventing them? That will be true (about restrictions in certain places) but they are in direct communication with dean’s office and they have been asked to authorise someone here. I don’t think a big number of students have their belongings still kept here,” the college principal said. Varghese said that what they are being asked to pay is not a “rent” but a “penalty”. “You deposit a luggage in an airport or railway station’s cloak room and you are charged by the hour. But we have to be fair and we have to prepare for the students who are coming,” he said. In the current scenario, the process of sanitisation and cleaning is going to be a longer process, Varghese said. He added that there are “certain procedures” that can be followed if the students have taken the keys with them and they are aware about the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/st-stephen-s-college-to-penalise-hostellers-rs-100-per-day-for-not-vacating-rooms/story-VDHDOs47v7v99e325atTaN.html
26-07-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu-Kashmir’s Poonch||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday by resorting to mortar shelling and firing at forward posts along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said.  The Pakistani troops fired from small arms and shelled mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector this evening, they said.The officials said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly.  This was the fifth day that the Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire along the LoC. The Pakistani troops had shelled areas along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-kashmir-s-poonch/story-3UXHuziJ0YYFOXMZ8HesxI.html
26-07-2020||India||India, China likely to hold fifth round of Corps Commander-level talks next week||India and China are set to hold a fresh round of high-level military talks next week to work out modalities for withdrawal of Chinese troops from Pangong Tso area in eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Saturday.So far, senior military commanders of the two armies have held four rounds of talks on disengagement of troops from the friction points in eastern Ladakh with an aim to restore peace and tranquillity in the region.The sources said the ongoing engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic levels have resulted in complete disengagement of troops at patrolling point 14, 15 and 17 A in eastern Ladakh.“A meeting between senior military commanders of the two armies is expected in the coming week to further work out modalities of Pangong Tso lake area,” said a source.People familiar with the developments said Chinese military has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from Finger 5 to Finger 8 in Pangong Tso area as demanded by India.On Friday, the two sides held another round of diplomatic talks on the border issue. After the talks, the Ministry of External Affairs said both sides agreed that an early and complete disengagement of the troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols was essential for overall development of bilateral relations.The people familiar with the developments said India conveyed a firm message to the Chinese side that it has to implement the disengagement process as agreed to during the four rounds of Corps Commander-level talks between the two militaries.National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a nearly two-hour-long telephonic conversation on July 5 to bring down tension in the region. Both sides commenced the disengagement process from July 6 following talks between Doval and Wang who are Special Representatives for the boundary question.After the fourth round of Corps Commander-level talks, the Army said both sides are committed to “complete disengagement” of troops, adding the process is “intricate” and it requires “constant verification”.During a visit to eastern Ladakh last week, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said progress has been made in the ongoing talks with China to find a solution to the border standoff but he cannot guarantee to what extent it would be resolved.The tension in eastern Ladakh escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. After the last round of military talks, government sources said the Indian side conveyed a “very clear” message to the Chinese army that status quo ante must be restored in eastern Ladakh and it will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity. Government sources said India is keeping a hawk eye vigil on all areas along the LAC in Ladakh and will maintain a high-level of alertness to deal with any eventualities. PTI MPB GSN ZMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-likely-to-hold-fifth-round-of-corps-commander-level-talks-next-week/story-ZJxl7fO7CMGS2mAoh7tJbN.html
26-07-2020||India||244 fresh Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand closer to 6,000-mark||Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 244 fresh positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, taking the state’s cumulative tally closer to the 6,000-mark. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, 244 fresh cases included 72 from Dehradun district. The other districts that also reported the cases include Almora, Bageshwar, Champawat, Haridwar, Nainital, Pauri, Pithoragarh, Tehri, US Nagar and Uttarkashi. As of Saturday, Uttarakhand has recorded a total of 5,961 cases. Of the 244 cases, 25 cases were of healthcare workers from Almora (2) and Dehradun (23), 67 cases were found to be close contacts of earlier detected positive patients and travel history was not available for 121 cases, according to the medical bulletin. Fifteen SSB personnel who had a travel history from Jammu & Kashmir tested positive in Pithoragarh. The state also reported death of one 70-year-old female Covid-19 positive patient due to type-1 respiratory failure in Government Doon Medical College.A total of 63 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with nine patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Fifty-four Covid-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum 30 from Dehradun district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 20.81 days, while the infection rate is 4.58 per cent. The state has so far tested over 1.39 lakh samples of which results of over 6300 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 189 containment zones in four districts including maximum 158 in Haridwar, followed by 17 in US Nagar, 11 in Dehradun in 3 in Uttarkashi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/244-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-uttarakhand-closer-to-6-000-mark/story-XemQKTKrRbGEElIwDCHhXN.html
26-07-2020||India||Disengagement is complex, our aim is status quo ante: Army||Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi on Saturday said that disengagement between Indian and Chinese soldiers deployed in forward positions at flashpoints along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two countries was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution -- indicating that the situation along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh hasn’t returned to normal. Joshi told news channels that the army would continue all efforts to restore status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) along the LAC. India matched a build-up by the Chinese in the area, starting early May, and matters came to a head on June 15 when Indian and Chinese soldiers clashed , leaving 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese ones dead. India and China have lately failed to make a breakthrough in reducing border tensions despite intense negotiations at the military and diplomatic levels, and the disengagement process at some points has virtually stopped, according to people aware of the developments. HT reported last week, citing people familiar with the matter, that the two armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas. Joshi’s comments came a day after the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs reviewed the situation in the border areas and the disengagement process in the western sector of the LAC.At the meeting, the two sides agreed that another meeting of corps commanders “may be held soon so as to work out further steps to ensure expeditiously complete disengagement and de-escalation” along the LAC, the ministry of external affairs said in a statement on Friday.The meeting is expected to be held next week but no dates have been finalised yet. Joshi said disengagement was initiated after four rounds of talks between senior Indian and Chinese military commanders, and it was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” He said de-escalation of the border conflict would begin after achieving complete disengagement.The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas.During a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh indicated that the negotiations to resolve military tensions along the LAC were complex. He said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added that he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved.” On Wednesday, Singh asked the Indian Air Force to stay prepared for any eventuality.The disengagement process has barely made progress after the last round of meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-is-complex-our-aim-is-status-quo-ante-army/story-HNDoGa05WiNXC9cFPJ0k6O.html
26-07-2020||India||We’ll protest at PM’s house, warns Gehlot||The Rajasthan government has addressed governor Kalraj Mishra’s queries on the urgent need for holding a special session of the assembly and requested him to convene the House on July 31, Congress functionaries aware of the developments said on Saturday, a day after legislators supporting chief minister Ashok Gehlot staged a five-hour demonstration at Raj Bhavan to push for their demand for a special sitting. Raising the pitch in the midst of a political crisis, Gehlot told MLAs at a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting that he was ready to knock at the doors of the President’s House and protest outside the Prime Minister’s residence in the national capital to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s “conspiracy” to topple his government, according to the Congress functionaries who did not want to named. A letter by the Congress sent to Mishra stressed that the governor had to go by the aid and advice of the council of ministers on convening, proroguing or dissolving the House and that he cannot dictate procedures of the House, which was in the domain of the speaker, said the people aware of the developments. Mishra was yet to take a final call on convening the session till late Saturday night. Officials in his office, who did not want to be named, said a “considered” view was being taken on the fresh proposal and a decision will be announced at an “appropriate” time. “The fresh proposal has been prepared with keeping legalities and provisions in mind, and approved by the cabinet before it was sent to Raj Bhavan,” a minister in the Gehlot government said, a day after Mishra sought to know the emergency for summoning the session and its agenda. Facing protests by legislators backing Gehlot, Mishra, who was in the BJP before becoming the governor, also asked why the chief minister was pushing for a floor test even though no one had put forth such a demand and how the government was planning to protect the MLAs in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak. “We have proposed calling the session from July 31, giving sufficient time for MLAs to reach and attend the assembly. The governor is also informed of the important bills and business to be tabled in house,” the minister quoted above said. He added that the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, notified in May for strict enforcement of Covid-19 restrictions, also needed to be tabled in the House. Rajasthan is facing a political crisis due to a rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and a section of legislators backing him. The Gehlot camp, which is confident of its numbers and feels a floor test may be its best bet to end the political crisis, says the governor is delaying convening a session due to pressure from the BJP-led central government. Mishra denies the charge and says he will follow constitutional norms to convene the House. “He had queries. We have replied to them,” a second minister. The proposal has been submitted after consultation with the speaker, he said. The draft proposal was prepared at a cabinet meeting that began at 10pm on Friday night and stretched to 1am, Congress functionaries said. It was finalised at another cabinet meeting later on Saturday. According to the law laid down by the Supreme Court, the governor notifies the holding of a session on the recommendation of the council of ministers. Former Chief Justice of India P Sathasivam said normally, as per the Constitution, the advice of the council of ministers is binding on the governor, but when there is a dispute about issues such as the number of lawmakers supporting a chief minister, then it is a special case. “The governor can exercise his discretion. He can then summon MLAs to Raj Bhavan [governor’s house], make inquiries, and have discussions with various MLA groups, etc. So the general rule that the governor is bound by aid and advice of the council of ministers might not be relevant in the Rajasthan matter,” said Sathasivam, who has also served as Kerala governor. Earlier in the day, a CLP meeting was held at a luxury hotel on the Jaipur-Delhi highway, where MLAs backing Gehlot have been camping since July 13. “We will not let the BJP conspiracy to succeed. If required, we will go to the Rashtrapati Bhavan and stage dharna; if necessary, we will protest outside the PM’s house,” a senior Congress leader quoted CM Gehlot as saying. “This fight is to save democracy.” Congress general secretary Avinash Pande said the high command made efforts so that members can freely talk about issues if they had complaints. “...but unfortunately, they became puppet in the hands of BJP and I don’t think that there return is possible from there,” he said, apparently referring to the Pilot camp. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala praised the “unity and collectiveness” shown by the MLAs at Friday’s demonstration. “...in the future, it will be remembered how 102 people together defeated those who were trying to crush the Constitution,” he said. The BJP denies the Congress’s claim that it is behind the Rajasthan turmoil and says the crisis was triggered by an internal feud in the Congress. Pilot, for his part, says he has no plans of joining the BJP. Gehlot has the support of 101 members (though this does not include speaker CP Joshi). Pilot has 18 other Congress MLAs and three independents in his camp, taking his tally to 22. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 seats. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, one Congress MLA said to be close to Pilot, is indisposed. If Pilot’s tally is added to that of the opposition alliance, it takes their number up to 97. A three-member swing from the Gehlot camp to the Pilot camp or to the BJP could lead to the government falling in the event of a floor test. Meanwhile, a delegation of 15 BJP leaders, including state party president Satish Poonia and MLAs from Jaipur City, met the governor in the evening and expressed displeasure at chief minister Gehlot’s Friday remarks that the people of the state could gherao Raj Bhavan if the Mishra did not convene a session.“The pressure on the governor to get a decision in their favour is a derogatory attempt to threaten constitutional institutions,” they said in a memorandum that was shared with the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-ll-protest-at-pm-s-house-warns-gehlot/story-f4jJGTdDQx6y4TDhZbbO7I.html
26-07-2020||India||MP CM Chouhan tests positive for Covid, hospitalised||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tested positive for coronavirus, he disclosed in a series of tweets on Saturday while appealing to people who came in contact with him recently to get tested and isolate themselves. “My dear people of the state, I had symptoms of Covid-19 and after the test my report has come back positive. I appeal to whoever came in contact with me to get their Covid tests done. My close contacts should quarantine themselves,” Chouhan said in a tweet in Hindi. A few hours later he tweeted, “Doctors have advised me to get myself admitted to a hospital. I am going to the Covid-19 dedicated Chirayu Hospital for admission. A coronavirus patient should not insist he will stay in home quarantine and not go to the hospital. We should follow the instructions of the doctors. If Covid-19 is treated on time, a person is completely cured.” Chouhan and some colleagues visited Lucknow in a government plane on July 21 to attend the funeral of MP governor Lalji Tandon who died in Uttar Pradesh.“Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has appealed to the people of the state to be cautious. Even the slightest callousness may invite coronavirus. Everyone must take precautions, be safe and follow the guidelines,” said an official communiqué later from the state government. The CM said in one of his tweets, “I have been reviewing the status of corona infection every evening since March 25. I will try to review the corona situation through video-conferencing as much as possible.” However, he added that review meetings will now be conducted by home minister Narottam Mishra, urban development and administration minister Bhupendra Singh, education minister Vishvas Sarang and health minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary in his absence. As questions did the rounds on social media about Chouhan choosing to get treatment at a private hospital and not a government facility, the official communiqué said patients suffering from other diseases were also treated at AIIMS and Hamidia Hospital, Bhopal; hence, the CM was admitted to Chirayu Medical College so that the common man did not face any difficulty. Ministerial colleagues of Chouhan, other ruling party leaders and Opposition leaders wished him a speedy recovery. Addressing the CM, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted, “I pray to God for your speedy recovery from the disease. I wish you good health soon so that you can serve the people of the state.” The opposition Congress took a dig at the CM. State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “Shivraj ji, I am pained to know about your being infected with corona. I pray to God for your speedy recovery but it is a matter of regret that when we were serious over corona you dubbed corona as ‘darona’ [don’t fear], drama and a weapon to save (the then Congress) government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-chouhan-tests-positive-for-covid-hospitalised/story-9ITiHcfBwvM1pPh5Vy2Y6M.html
26-07-2020||India||COVAX Facility aims to deliver 2 bn doses by end of 2021: Dr Poonam K Singh||Several experimental vaccines for Covid-19 are in final-stage clinical trials and early results from two of them have established safety levels and immune response. With vaccines expected to be ready by early 2021, the World Health Organization (WHO) recently launched the COVAX Facility as a mechanism to guarantee rapid, fair, and equitable access to countries to a broad portfolio of vaccines and manufacturers to a demand-secure market. Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO Regional Director for South-East Asia, spoke to Sanchita Sharma about the facility and how it aims to deliver two billion doses by 2021-end to prioritised population groups. Edited excerpts:When is the earliest the world can expect a Covid-19 vaccine to be ready?There are promising results from the clinical trials for some vaccine candidates, which is very encouraging. However, we need to wait for the completion of the trials and their outcomes to be in a better position to understand by when the vaccines will be ready. It is important the potential vaccines meet the recommended mandatory standards of efficacy and safety before they are used for mass vaccination.WHO is working globally with partners to accelerate research and development of a safe and effective vaccine and ensure equitable access for the billions of people who will need it. But even with an accelerated process, the development and production of a vaccine will take time. We must continue to accelerate vaccine research while doing more with the tools we have.How will WHO ensure equitable access to vaccines, especially in low- and middle-income countries?WHO is committed to and will continue to advocate countries to ensure that as medicines and vaccines are developed, they are shared equitably with all countries and people. In April 2020, a global collaboration of governments, global health organisations, civil society groups, businesses, and philanthropies came together to form the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator, or the ACT-Accelerator. The idea is to form a plan for an equitable response to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are four pillars under the ACT-Accelerator, of which vaccines are one.COVAX Facility has been established recently under the vaccine pillar of the ACT-Accelerator to manage the large, diverse portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines that are under development to ensure a global sharing of risks, associated with the development of Covid-19 vaccines and equitable access based on a fair allocation of the available vaccines. The facility is a mechanism designed to guarantee rapid, fair, and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines worldwide. By connecting a pool of demand to a pool of supply, it will allow countries access to a broad portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines and provide manufacturers access to a demand-secure market.All countries have been invited to participate, and those that will are expected to receive access to vaccines procured by the facility at the negotiated price. The facility aims to deliver two billion doses by the end of 2021 to prioritised population groups in all participating countries.Also Read: Groundwork needed to build trust in vaccineWhat will be India’s role in vaccine development?India is among the largest vaccine manufacturers and is rightly called the world’s pharmacy. It is also home to many research institutes and experts. Undoubtedly, they would play an important role in making the Covid-19 vaccines available globally.WHO convened a meeting of vaccine manufacturers from South-East Asia Region on April 29 to get a landscape of the development and manufacture of potential Covid-19 vaccines. Twelve vaccine manufacturers from India, Indonesia, and Thailand participated in the meeting and shared their collaborations with vaccine developers, platforms likely to be used by them to develop the vaccines, potential timelines, and capacities for vaccine production.Also Read: Unlock 3: Metro trains, schools likely to not reopenOnce available, how should vaccines be deployed?WHO is working with member states, partners, and stakeholders to develop an allocation framework, which is expected to help countries prioritise populations at risk so that the available vaccines are provided to these priority populations first and then expanded to other populations in all countries. The aim is to ensure an equitable and fair allocation of the available vaccines across all countries. This addresses the issue of who would have priority in accessing the vaccine first, such as health care workers, essential workers, and other vulnerable populations, and how groups could be progressively prioritised as more doses become available.Also Read: India ramps up testing infra, 420,000 tested in single dayWhat does early data show on the quality of protection? Are people likely to need a booster dose?There are 23 vaccines in clinical trials. We expect more to follow as there are at least 160 candidate vaccines. We are engaging with vaccine developers and others to ensure that we have standard endpoints and data collection mechanisms to regularly monitor both the efficacy and safety of the candidates. These trials, once completed, will help to understand better the extent and duration of protection.Different vaccines are being developed using different technologies and platforms and are likely to have different efficacies, product profiles, and characteristics. This robust vaccine pipeline gives us hope, even if there many unpredictable factors that will determine their success.Should everyone be vaccinated, including children?Equitable distribution of a safe and efficacious vaccine is one of WHO’s priorities. We will continue to advocate with member countries and work with them, providing guidelines and updated information on the population at risk and those who should be vaccinated on a priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covax-facility-aims-to-deliver-two-billion-doses-by-the-end-of-2021-dr-poonam-khetrapal-singh/story-92YrG5wkUx1T9dZeJAYuZN.html
26-07-2020||India||Unlock 3: Metro trains, schools likely to not reopen||Barring a last-minute change of mind, the Narendra Modi government is unlikely to allow the reopening of schools in the next phase of easing of restrictions that is expected next week, according to top officials involved in the discussions related to this. The officials, who asked not to be named added that metro rail services too may not start soon while gymnasium and swimming pools might also remain out of bounds, as part of the measures to check the further spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. After a 68 day hard lockdown ended on may 31, the government has announced two phases it termed Unlock 1.0 and Unlock 2.0, in June and July respectively. Each phase has allowed more activities across domains -- in an effort to revive economic activity, and return to a semblance of normalcy. Also Read: ‘What if people die?’: CM Uddhav Thackeray warns against lifting lockdownTo be sure, most activities have been allowed only outside so-called containment zones where there are still clusters of infections. And states have been allowed the freedom to impose restrictions again if they feel the need to. India continues to see the number of Covid-19 cases rise. It added 48,458 cases on Saturday to take its total case tally to 1,383,959. The HRD ministry on Monday began consultation with states and other stakeholders on reopening of schools which have been closed since March due to the pandemic. In the meeting chaired by the Secretary, School Education, Anita Karwal, state education secretaries also deliberated upon health and safety of students, hygiene measures in schools and issues regarding online and digital education. Also Read: Dharavi takes battle against Covid-19 ahead, comes forward to donate plasmaUnion HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said in June that suggestions would be sought from parents on schools repoening, which would be examined and sent to the health ministry and ministry of home affairs. After an extensive consultation, the HRD ministry has conveyed to the Centre’s Covid-19 sitaution managers that many parents don’t favour reopening of schools at this stage. “HRD ministry told us that many parents have even requested that schools be opened only after the vaccine is developed,” said one of the officials cited above. India will start the trial of the Oxford-Astra Zeneca vaccine next month and top official are hopeful that if the trials are successful, the vaccine can be rolled out by December. Also Read: Kejriwal, Jain inaugurate 450-bed Covid centre in Burari govt hospital“We need to be very careful about schools because children’s health is of paramount importance,” said a second official. HT also learns that while there is a recognition that metro services will help the situation return to normal, it still comes with attendant risks, especially in cities such as Delhi, Kolkata and Bangalore. Suburban train services have been operational in Mumbai since June 15, although they are meant only for workers providing essential services. Also Read: CM Yogi Adityanath wants a lakh Covid tests daily in Uttar Pradesh by MondayLarge congregation, which have been banned from the beginning of the lockdown, may continue to be prohibited. The government has already decided to celebrate Independence Day with such restrictions in place and even the At Home at Rashtrapati Bhawan on the afternoon of Independence Day is being scaled down significantly. On Friday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba told nine states at a special review meeting that two to three-day lockdowns alone are not enough to slow the spread of the disease -- some states have started imposing such lockdowns -- and pointed out while some states have demonstrated “the situation can be turned around” others have “showed how it can deteriorate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-trains-schools-likely-to-remain-shut-in-next-phase-too/story-xiLUQNvVhwdr02tn3DLKxK.html
26-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis puts governors’ powers in the spotlight||A governor’s powers and role in the state legislature’s affairs are back in focus amid the political crisis in Rajasthan. Congress legislators backing Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot staged a five-hour sit-in on Friday asking governor Kalraj Mishra to call a special assembly session for a floor test. They accused Mishra of acting under pressure and not listening to their demand even as Gehlot expressed confidence of winning the trust vote necessitated by his tussle with his former deputy Sachin Pilot.Is Mishra bound by the advice of the chief minister-led council of ministers when it comes to convening the assembly session and to what extent can the governor exercise his discretion? Also Read: BJP files complaint against Congress in Rajasthan, says protest violated Epidemic ActFormer Chief Justice of India P Sathasivam said normally, as per the Constitution, the advice is binding — but, he added, when there is a dispute about issues such as the number of lawmakers supporting a chief minister, then it is a special case. “The governor can summon MLAs to Raj Bhavan [governor’s house], make inquiries, and have discussions with MLA groups, etc. The general rule that the governor is bound by aid and advice of the council of ministers might not be relevant here,” said Sathasivam, who has also served as Kerala governor.What does the Constitution say? The Constitution’s Articles 163 and 174 are relevant in the context of the governor’s powers to convene the state assembly. Article 163 says there shall be a CM-led council of ministers to aid and advise the governor except when he is required, under the Constitution, to exercise functions in his/her discretion. When can a governor exercise discretion disregarding the advice of the council of ministers? Can he do the same when convening assembly? The answer to this lies in certain Supreme Court judgments and Article 174, which says the governor “shall from time to time summon the House of the state...as he thinks fit but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for first sitting in the next session”.Also Read: Rajasthan political drama is back in the Supreme Court, hearing on MondayArticle 174 originates from Article 153 of the draft Constitution. The third clause of Article 153 said the governor’s power to summon the House should be exercised with discretion. When the article came up for discussion in the Constituent assembly, certain members including B R Ambedkar opposed the clause. Ambedkar sought its deletion stating it was inconsistent with the scheme of a constitutional governor. His resolution won and the clause was deleted. Draft Article 153 eventually became Article 174. Thus, the intention of the Constitution makers was not to vest the governor with the discretion when it comes to convening assembly.There are judgements that reaffirm this. The 2016 Supreme Court judgment in the Nabam Rebia v Deputy Speaker reaffirmed this interpretation of Article 174 when a five-judge Constitution bench held that the governor’s power to summon, prorogue and dissolve the House should be on the advice of the council of ministers. In this case, Arunachal Pradesh governor Jyoti Prasad Rajkhowa had summoned the assembly on January 14, 2016. However, at least 20 rebel Congress MLAs joined hands with the BJP and met Rajkhowa expressing their displeasure with speaker Nabam Rebia. Also Read: ‘You be the judge’: Chidambaram digs out SC ruling after Rajasthan court orderRajkhowa rescheduled the session to December 16, 2015, after meeting the rebel Congress and BJP MLAs. This was done without the aid and advice of the council of ministers. Rebia moved the Supreme Court against Rajkhowa’s actions. The court held the omission of sub-article (3) of draft Article 153 was a matter of significance for determining the intent underlying Article 174. The inference that can be drawn is the Constitution’s framers altered their original intent, and decided not to vest discretion with the governor in the matter of summoning and dissolving the House, it court said. “We are satisfied in concluding that the Governor can summon, prorogue and dissolve the House, only on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister as the head. And not at his own.” Rajkhowa’s order of rescheduling the session was held to be in violation of Article 174 and quashed. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan said if the council of ministers has the confidence of the House, there is no question that the governor is bound by its advice in convening the legislature. The Nabam Rebia judgment, however, also held that if the governor has reasons to believe the council of ministers has lost the confidence of the House, he can ask the chief minister to prove the majority.Also Read: Rajasthan Congress stages demonstrations, protest rallies against ‘autocratic’ BJPIn ordinary circumstances, during the period when the council of ministers enjoys the confidence of the majority of the House, the power vested with the governor under Article 174 to summon or dissolve the House must be exercised in consonance with its aid and advice. “But where the Government in power on the holding of such floor test is seen to have lost the confidence of the majority, it would be open to the Governor to exercise the powers vested with him under Article 174 at his own, and without any aid and advice,” the court said in the Nabam Rebia case.But even there, the governor’s power is only to call for a floor test to determine the majority -- which would suit Gehlot and his supporters just fine because their urgency in calling for an assembly session is to get a floor test conducted immediately. Going by these, Mishra can insist on constitutional provisions and established protocol be followed, and also insist on adequate safeguards given the pandemic, but eventually, according to the law, he has to summon the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-crisis-puts-governors-powers-in-the-spotlight/story-bBCTpwzT008KlgZ7W8slsK.html
26-07-2020||India||Franco Mulakkal moves top court seeking discharge in rape case||Former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal moved the Supreme Court earlier this week seeking discharge in a case in which he stands accused of raping a nun two weeks after the Kerala high court quashed a similar plea. Mulakkal is accused of raping a nun, who was a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation, on at least 13 occasions between 2014 and 2016 when he visited Kerala.Mulakkal, whose plea was quashed by a trial court in March, claimed that he was falsely implicated after he initiated disciplinary proceedings against the nun on account of alleged financial misdealings. The high court dismissed the plea on July 7 observing that the antecedents of victim do not make out any case to doubt the prosecution story.“Rape is the most revolting, cruel and hated crime to a woman… Thus when the records indicate that prima facie materials are available to show that the Sister was subjected to sexual assault including rape from the hands of the superior authority who is the Bishop of the Diocese, it is not possible to infer that this Bishop was falsely implicated by the Mother Superior of the Home functioning under him, on mere enmity as contended by him,”it said. The survivor lodged a complaint in June 2018, and in September, a group of nuns held a sit-in demanding Mulakkal’s arrest. A chargesheet was filed against him in April 2019. “Due to the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the petitioner (Mulakkal) against the sister, she has maliciously and falsely implicated him...,” Mulakkal had told the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/franco-mulakkal-moves-top-court-seeking-discharge-in-rape-case/story-fzO3MRcyaLzxYQsr7xB5MJ.html
26-07-2020||India||Top court to take up Rajasthan speaker’s plea tomorrow||The Supreme Court will on Monday resume hearing Rajasthan speaker CP Joshi’s plea related to whether or not courts can interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by an assembly speaker against lawmakers even before a decision has been taken.A justice Arun Mishra-led three-judge bench last heard the matter on July 23 when it said the issue will require a prolonged hearing since the “question involved is of the very democracy itself”. Joshi moved the apex court on July 22 challenging the Rajasthan high court’s July 21 order that directed him to defer proceedings on disqualification notices issued to 19 rebel Congress lawmakers, including former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.The high court was scheduled to pronounce its verdict on the challenge to Joshi’s notices of July 14 when the speaker moved the top court. It ordered a status quo on the matter on July 24. The ruling meant Joshi cannot decide on disqualifying the rebels.Joshi, through his counsel Kapil Sibal, submitted before the Supreme Court on July 23 that courts cannot interfere with the disqualification proceedings until the speaker makes a decision. It is settled by the judgment of this court in the Kihoto Hollohan case of 1992, Sibal argued. In the case, a five-judge Constitution bench held judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the speaker/chairman. No interference would be permissible at an interlocutory stage, the Kihoto Hollohan judgment said.Joshi, therefore, sought a stay on the proceedings before the high court. “We are trying to find out whether the procedure adopted [by speaker] is correct or not. Can the voice of dissent be shut down like this in a democracy?” Justice Mishra said. The SC declined to stay high court proceedings. Consequently, Joshi’s plea before the Supreme Court seeking a stay on high court proceedings was rendered infructuous since it passed an order on July 24. Admitting Pilot’s plea, the high court asked Joshi to defer action on the notices served until it decides the case. The Supreme Court will hear the larger issue concerning whether courts can interfere with a speaker’s exercise of disqualification powers. “We will hear only on the question of jurisdiction of court to interfere with the speaker’s proceedings. We will not go into whether speaker acted mala fide or bona fide. We cannot go into that,” justice Mishra remarked during the July 23 hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-to-take-up-raj-speaker-s-plea-tomorrow/story-Bq5nCtbRaVUj2dZKnHCqeN.html
26-07-2020||India||Floods ravage Bihar, Assam; rain causes landslips in Sikkim||Floods caused due to heavy rainfall continue to wreak havoc in districts of Assam and Bihar while incessant rainfall in remote villages of North Sikkim has caused landslides cutting them off from other parts of the state.Floods have ravaged 27 out of 33 districts, affected more than 2.6 million people and displaced a population of 47,772, which has taken shelter in 564 relief camps across the state, according to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority ’s daily flood report released on Saturday.In Raha area of Nagaon district of Assam, several schools, water supply project and other government buildings have been submerged in the floodwaters, officials said. Meanwhile, the Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers on Saturday carried out relief operations in three of Bihar’s worst affected districts—Darbhanga, Gopalganj and East Champaran. Besides the three major districts like Gopalganj, East Champaran and Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, West Champaran and Khagaria are also facing the devastation due to floods of various scales, officials said.The Bihar Disaster Management Department Authority (BDMDA) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit on Saturday said that around 10 lakh people have been affected due to the floods in the state and the Darbhanga district is the worst affected. He added that there has been a slight reduction in the water levels across the state and around one lakh people have been evacuated.Deputy chief minister Sushil Modi said that each flood-affected person would be given Rs 6,000 each as relief from the government. “Compensation for loss of standing crops would be announced after the assessment. Farmers would be provided seeds for alternative crops to offset the losses,” said Modi.Over half a dozen monuments, heritage sites and ancient temples, located in flood affected districts in northern part of the state, have been inundated by flood water. The Ashokan pillar at Lauria in West Champaran, the Buddhist stupa at Kesaria in East Champaran and the remains of the fortification of ancient ruler Raja Bali at Balirajgarh in Madhubani district have been inundated, officials said. HS Naik, superintending archaeologist of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Patna circle, said the ASI has taken the matter seriously. “Soon after the flood water recedes from Champaran and Kesaria stupa site, we will send our engineer to assess the damage and also to draft the strategies to keep the monuments and sites safe,” he said. Meteorologist Ravindra Kumar said, “Bihar is likely to receive heavy rains after July 26. Widespread rain with greater intensity is likely to hit entire Bihar on July 27 and 28. A yellow category warning for heavy to very heavy rain coupled with thunderstorm and lightning has been issued for North Bihar and several parts of south-western districts.”Separately, an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter on Saturday airlifted essential commodities for the people of two remote villages in North Sikkim, which are cut off from other parts of the state due to landslides, an official release said.The MI-17 helicopter carried out three sorties and dropped essential supplies comprising 100 bags of rice weighing 50 quintals each, 550 litres of cooking oil, 1.5 quintals of salt, 100 packets of candles and matches and medicines among others for the people of Sakyong and Pentong villages of North Sikkim, the release said.The two villages are cut-off from the nearest town Dzongu since July 10 last as multiple landslides had washed off roads and bridges connecting these villages due to incessant rainfall.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-ravage-bihar-assam-rain-causes-landslips-in-sikkim/story-NqPE3oFPOwYlsVJqXpq3TI.html
26-07-2020||India||2 LeT terrorists killed in gunfight near Srinagar||Two terrorists affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba were killed in an encounter on the outskirts of Srinagar on Saturday, officials said. Police officials said that a joint cordon and search operation was launched following information about the presence of militants in village Ranbirgarh in Panzinara area of Srinagar. ‘’During the search operation, as the presence of terrorists got ascertained, they were given opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, two terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter,’’ the spokesman said.“One of the two terrorists eliminated was Ishfaq Rashid of Sozeith, Srinagar – a top LeT commander who was active since 2018 and wanted in many cases of violence. The other killed terrorist, Ajaz Bhat was in the LeT cadre from Pulwama district.’’Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of encounter, the spokersperson said. “All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe their complicity in other terror crimes. There was no injury to civilians or loss of property during the said encounter.’’Bodies of the deceased militants have been sent to Ganderbal for last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-let-terrorists-killed-in-gunfight-near-srinagar/story-LrWbnFFzl1O6CCsJFh4NFO.html
26-07-2020||India||Kashmiri student held under UAPA||The Jammu & Kashmir police have arrested a 26-year-old post-graduate Kashmir University (KU) student in a 2018 case filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), two officers said on Saturday.It was not immediately clear why was UAPA slapped on Aqib Ahmad Malik even as his family said they suspect the case related to a protest he had held on the campus in 2018 against poor food quality served in hostels.Malik, who had been home in the Shopian district since the university’s closure because of the Covid-19 pandemic, was summoned on Friday to Srinagar’s Nigeen police station near the university and arrested immediately.“We have arrested him in a 2018 case under UAPA,” said station house officer Gowhar Ahmad. He refused to provide more details of the case.Officials aware of the matter said Malik has been booked under UAPA’s section 13, which deals with “a person who advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any unlawful activity”.Police superintendent Sudhanshu Verma said they arrested Malik after collecting evidence in the case. “Without evidence, we could not have arrested him. Besides due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it [arrest] took some time. That is why he was arrested now,” said Verma. He did not also provide further details.Malik’s family cited the protest and added they suspect he has been arrested because of it. “He was home for three months and was called to reach the police station where he was arrested. He had protested against the bad quality of food in 2018,” said Faizan Mushtaq, Maik’s brother. “He had raised a voice against corruption in the varsity and that is why things went bad against him.”Nisar Ahmad Mir, the Kashmir University registrar, said they have nothing to do with the case. “The university has been closed because of Covid-19 and no classes are going on. He is our student and has appeared in a recent exam. It is a 2018 case in Nigeen police station and we have not filed any case against him. Issues in hostels are a part of the University life,” said Mir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-student-held-under-uapa/story-n7my20d4xgjLteHskd8v9N.html
26-07-2020||India||Ayodhya will be lit up to mark construction of temple: UP CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the ceremony to mark the start of construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 has come after a wait of 500 years and will be celebrated on the lines of Deepawali. He said temples and houses across the country will be lit up with diyas (earthen lamps) and candles to mark the occasion — much like Deepawali which, in some parts of the country, is celebrated to mark Lord Ram’s return home to Ayodhya after a 14-year exile.Adityanath, who was in Ayodhya to review preparations for the ceremony, said the Hindu community has been waiting for a long time for the event on August 5 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to lay the temple’s foundation stone.He added that 11,000 diyas will be lit at Ram Ki Paidi on the banks of the Saryu river in Ayodhya. “The Prime Minister will visit Ayodhya. We will make Ayodhya the pride of India and the world. Cleanliness should be the first condition,” news agency ANI quoted Adityanath as saying. “We all will be coming together for an auspicious event. There will be deepotsava (festival of lights) in all houses and temples on the nights of August 4 and 5. Deepawali is associated with Ayodhya and it cannot even be imagined without Ayodhya.”The Supreme Court paved the way for the temple’s construction last year when it ordered that a temple be built on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya. Adityanath met members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, which is overseeing the preparations for the ceremony. He visited Ram Janmabhoomi and paid obeisance to its presiding deity, Ram Lalla, at a makeshift temple.Champat Rai, the trust’s general secretary, briefed Adityanath about the preparations for the ceremony and the carved stone slabs being prepared for the temple. Carving of pillars and stones for the temple has been going on for years and the work is likely to gather pace in the run-up to August 5. The pre-construction activity for the temple began on May 11. Around 200 people are likely to be invited to the event. The CM requested the saints to attend the ceremony only after they get invites from the trust and urged them against bringing any additional persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-will-be-lit-up-to-mark-construction-of-temple-yogi/story-3nWP3v436YrUku4OaSUR9H.html
26-07-2020||India||New foreign students can’t enter US for online courses||Newly enrolled international students, including from India, will be denied entry into the US for starting their studies if their courses will be taught fully online in the fall semester, the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement said.The move, announced late on Friday, came days after the US on July 14 withdrew a rule that required international students, including hundreds of thousands of Indians, to leave the country if their institutes held classes entirely online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has prompted social distancing measures and severely affected international travel.“Non-immigrant students in new or initial status after March 9 will not be able to enter the US to enrol in a US school as a non-immigrant student for the fall term to pursue a full course of study that is 100 percent online,” said the ICE statement. It directed universities against issuing Form 1-20s, required to apply for student visas, to newly enrolled students if their classes were to be online only.March 9, the cut-off date, is when ICE issued guidelines allowing foreign students to continue to stay in the country and pursue their classes online, wholly, as required by the universities. It made an exception in view of the Covid-19 pandemic to a rule under which foreigners are not issued student visas for online-only classes.Ishmeet Bagga, co-director at Mindscan education, which offers overseas education consultancy and career counseling, said: “A lot of undergraduate students do not mind the online programme since they have a four-year course. So even if they end up taking six months of online lessons, they know that they can study in the US for the next three-and-a-half years. Postgraduate students, on the other hand, are rethinking their decision.”Sangram Mukherjee, a Mumbai resident who planned to begin his postgraduate degree in the US this year and secured a scholarship, said he was selected in two universities. “However, only one of them offered a three-fourth reduction in tuition fee for online classes and that was a factor in choosing the university...while it has given the choice to students to opt for online or offline classes, I have chosen to defer my admissions till January due to the uncertainty arising out of the Covid-19 situation.”A 26-year-old anthropology doctoral candidate enrolled at the City University of New York said the decision was disappointing, but not worrying. “The courses will be held online for all students...,” the doctoral candidate said. “But it’s disappointing since I was excited to move to New York.” “Moreover, if I had fallen sick in the US, health care would have cost a significant amount. We are hoping the situation normalises by January and then we can join our universities,” said a Production Masters students who still is deciding between a university in California and New York. The number of foreign students impacted by the new order could not be immediately ascertained. There were nearly 270,000 new foreign students enrolled in graduate, undergraduate and non-degree courses for the academic session starting 2019 fall, according to Open Doors, a standard resource on international students. The US admits an estimated one million international students annually and they generate around $41 billion worth of economic activity and support 450,000 jobs, according to the American Council on Education, which represents US colleges and universities. Incomes generated from foreign students are critical to the financial health of many US colleges. According to the Student and Exchange Visitor Programme, 194,556 Indian students were enrolled at various academic institutions in the US in January. India is the second-largest source of foreign students .Universities are being extra vigilant as the US is facing a second surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities. Harvard University, for instance, has declared its fall classes will be all online.Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology filed a lawsuit challenging the earlier plan announced on July 6 that sought to strip foreign students of their visas if they did not attend at least some classes in person. Over 200 universities later backed the lawsuit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-foreign-students-can-t-enter-us-for-online-courses/story-F6uwTxB2R7lAkfrmytutrO.html
26-07-2020||India||Railways closes ‘Dak Messengers’ in bid to cut costs||The Indian Railways has issued an order to end the practice of using ‘Dak Messengers’ or personal messengers for sending any official communication and move towards video conferencing only in a bid to save cost.The order issued on Friday states the railway board, zones and PSUs will only communicate via video conferencing adding that practice of using Dak Messengers should be stopped immediately.“As a measure to reduce cost and improve savings on establishment related expenditure, the Board has desired that all discussions amongst officials of Railways PSU /Railway Board should invariably be held over video conferencing accordingly booking of personal messenger/Dak messenger should be stopped immediately. Compliance of the above should be ensured, as it would lead significant savings in allowances, stationery, Fax etc.,” the order dated July 24 to the zones stated. The railway ministry has said the move is aimed at cutting the national carrier’s costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cost-cutting-measure-railways-stops-british-era-practice-of-using-dak-messengers/story-F5OlxY9XaUkmjmOfMzq1CI.html
26-07-2020||India||Covid impact: 20% people in Odisha and 45% in UP see a grim financial future, says study||At least 20 percent of Odisha households do not envisage any change in their financial situation in the near future while 45 percent in Uttar Pradesh expect the situation to deteriorate even further. As many as 53 percent of the households in Odisha feel that restoration of jobs and incomes would take up to six months while 33 percent in UP feel the same. While 81 percent of the households in Odisha were concerned about the well-being of their neighbours during the lockdown, it was 41 percent in Uttar Pradesh.These are the initial findings of a telephonic survey conducted by New Delhi-based policy thinktank, National Council of Applied Economic Research, in collaboration with the Nossal Institute for Public Health at the University of Melbourne on the “Impact of Coronavirus on Households in Odisha and Uttar Pradesh” last month. The survey among 2,068 households across four districts of Odisha and UP was done by NCAER to gain insights into the impact of the pandemic on incomes, jobs, migration, availability of essential items, and existing health conditions in these two states. The four districts of Uttar Pradesh and Odisha (Bargarh and Dhenkanal in Odisha and Chandauli and Firozabad in UP) were chosen earlier as part of a larger NCAER-Nossal study on “Health Seeking Behaviour in Four Indian States” where respiratory illnesses are high.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe telephonic survey, done between June 9 and 18 soon after the national lockdown was lifted, found that 95 percent of the households in these two states supported the lockdown imposed by the government and 92 percent expressed confidence in the government’s ability to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. The proportion of households reposing faith in the Government was higher in Odisha (97 percent) as compared to UP (88 percent).Principal investigator of the survey, PK Ghosh said a comparison was made of the occupation structure with respect to the major source of income for the households surveyed between the two periods, i.e., before the lockdown and during the lockdown. “No major variations in occupation structure were observed between Odisha and UP before the lockdown. However, during the lockdown, UP witnessed a severe impact for households relying on casual labour or non-agricultural self-employment as their main source of income, whereas in Odisha, the impact was felt primarily by households whose members were engaged in casual labour. About 30 percent and 27 percent of the households in UP and Odisha, respectively, had no income during the lockdown,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The survey found that the pandemic caused many households to shift occupations for sustaining their livelihoods. About 40 percent of the households in these two states witnessed a disruption in incomes earned from their main occupations. While 11 percent of the households had to change their occupations, 29 percent of the households lost all income sources during the lockdown. The highest degree of shift in occupations (18.1 percent) and also loss of incomes (46.5 percent) occurred among casual labourers.The survey revealed that a large majority of households- 77 percent in UP and 81 percent in Odisha - reported some reduction in income. In UP, a higher proportion of urban households (88 percent) reported income reduction than rural households (73 percent), but there was no significant difference in income loss between urban and rural households in Odisha. Again, households engaged in casual work (over 90 percent) and those self-employed in non-agricultural work (80 percent) suffered the maximum loss in incomes, with Odisha recording higher figures than UP. In both States, salaried and agricultural workers were relatively less affected by the pandemic. Farmers reported loss in incomes, probably because of the reduced demand for farm goods from bulk consumers like hotels and restaurants that had shut down.To cope with the loss of income, 59.3 percent of the households in Odisha had to fall back on savings or sale of assets while it was 52 percent in UP. In UP, as many as 65 percent households also resorted to borrowing money to meet expenses. After the lockdown was lifted 75 percent of the households in Odisha, that had completely lost all income during the lockdown, returned to work while it was 46 percent in UP.The possibility of again finding a livelihood was reported higher in Odisha than UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-impact-36-people-in-odisha-and-45-in-up-see-a-grim-financial-future-says-study/story-lBe9mBeAEH0gaFVoqjX6gK.html
