27-07-2020||India||5 sites ready in India for final phase of human trials of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine: Govt||Five sites across the country are ready for the third and final phase of human trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Department of Biotechnology (DBT) Secretary Renu Swarup said on Monday.This is an essential step because it is necessary to have data within the country before the vaccine is administered to Indians, Swarup told PTI.The Serum Institute of India, the largest vaccine maker in the world, has been chosen by Oxford and its partner AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine once it is ready. Trials results for the first two phases were published earlier this month. According to Swaroop, the DBT is part of any Covid-19 vaccine effort in India “… whether it is funding, whether it is facilitating the regulatory clearances or whether it is giving them access to different networks which exist within the country”.“The DBT is now setting up Phase 3 clinical sites. We have already started working on them and five sites are now ready to be available for Phase 3 trials,” Swarup told PTI in a telephonic interview.The Pune-based SII has also sought permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the potential vaccine. It had said earlier it will start manufacturing the vaccine even before the final nod so it is ready with sizable volumes once the vaccine gets all permissions.“DBT is closely working with every manufacturer and Phase 3 trial of Serum (institute) is important because if the vaccine has to be successful and it has to be given to the Indian population we need to have the data within the country. “For that a Phase 3 trial has been proposed. Five sites are ready. Within some more weeks, they should be ready for manufacturers to take them up for clinical trial studies,” the DBT secretary said. On July 20, scientists announced that the coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University appears safe and induces a strong immune response within the body after the first phase of “promising” human trials against the deadly disease that has infected over 1.45 crore people across the world and claimed more than six lakh lives. Doses of the vaccine were given to 1,077 healthy adults aged between 18 and 55 in five UK hospitals in April and May as part of the Phase 1 clinical trial and results, published in The Lancet medical journal. The results show they induced strong antibody and T-cell immune responses for up to 56 days after they were given. T-cells are crucial for maintaining protection against the virus for years. The findings are seen as promising, but experts feel it is too soon to know if this is enough to offer protection as larger trials get underway. Scientists behind the trials found the response could be even greater after a second dose.In Phase 1 of human trials, a vaccine is given to a small number of people to test safety. It is also given to check if it stimulates the immune system.In the second phase, it is administered to hundreds of people split into groups such as children and the elderly to see if the vaccine acts differently in them. The two phases focus on safety and immunogenicity in humans.In the third phase, the vaccine is administered to thousands of people. In India, two indigenous vaccines – one by Zydus Cadila and the other by Bharat Biotech – have reached the stage of phase one of human trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-sites-ready-in-india-for-final-phase-of-human-trials-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine/story-2C2p5NyqUtUiAxBZChJezO.html
27-07-2020||India||Is female nudity obscenity? Plea asks Supreme Court to decide||A plea in the Supreme Court has sought examination on whether female nudity would per se constitute obscenity necessitating invocation of penal provisions by authorities under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Information Technology Act (IT Act)The petition, an anticipatory bail plea, has been filed by Fathima AS, an activist from Kerala, who is apprehending arrest for offences under POCSO Act and IT Act after she uploaded a video on social media of her two minor children painting her naked body.“The petitioner, while being semi-nude, has allowed her body to be used a canvas for her children to paint on and there can probably be nobody, except a pervert, who would be aroused to sexual desire by seeing the nature of the work,” the petition drawn by advocate Renjith Marar said.A case was registered against Fathima after she uploaded the video on social media in June which later went to stir furore for offences of child pornography under POCSO Act for publishing such content which is an offence under the IT Act.The Kerala high court had rejected her anticipatory bail plea on July 24.“The petitioner feels that, she should teach sex education to her children. For that purpose, she asks her children to paint on her naked body and then uploading the same in social media. I am not in a position to agree with the petitioner that she should teach sex education to her children in this manner”, the high court had said in its order.Fathima contended that female nudity per se will not constitute obscenity and children painting on their mother’s body cannot be construed as child abuse.Moreover, the message accompanying the uploaded edited video makes it clear that she intended to normalize the female form for her children and not allow distorted ideas of sexualisation to pervade their mind, Fathima submitted.She also cited two Supreme Court judgments in this regard to make a case for her argument. First was the 2014 judgment in Aveek Sarkar v. State of West Bengal in which the top court held that a photo taken by a father of his semi-nude daughter and nude son-in-law who were black and white respectively was intended to convey an anti-apartheid message and cannot be dubbed obscene.The second judgment referred to was the famous case of Bobby Art International v. Om Pal famously known as the Bandit queen case. In this case, the movie which depicted the life of bandit turned politician late Phoolan Devi, had nude scenes. The court, however, held that nudity in the movie was not intended to arouse base desires but should be considered in the context of the story and the situation in the movie.“Goddesses in Kerala are frequently depicted in idols and murals with bare breasts. When one prays at the temple, the feeling is not of sexual arousal but one of divinity. The body painting of men is part of pulikali (a folk dance in which men dance with their bodies painted with tigers and leopard prints). It cannot suddenly become obscene when the same is done on a woman”, the plea claimed. Fathima had earlier attracted controversy when she attempted to enter Sabarimala temple in 2018 after the Supreme Court had struck down a law prohibiting entry of women in the hill top shrine in Kerala. She had to abandon her journey in the wake of massive protests by a violent mob of around 200 persons who had blocked her path after she reached the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-female-nudity-obscenity-plea-asks-supreme-court-to-decide/story-oL8eYVY8rtSMzm5QyfGsZL.html
27-07-2020||India||Dissent mars BJP’s first anniversary of returning to power in Karnataka||Even as the B S Yediyruappa led Bharatiya Janata Party government kick-started celebrations of its first anniversary of returning to power by releasing a booklet on its achievements, dissidence broke out among party legislators after the government released a list of names to head 24 different state-owned boards and corporations.Earlier in the day the government held an event at the majestic banquet hall of Vidhana Soudha in which Yediyurappa said, “The achievements in the first year despite the various constraints including financial and the virus pandemic has been stupendous. I promise that in the rest of the term we will provide a stable government and aim for even greater progress of the state.” The CM said amongst other measures that the government had implemented were land reforms and new industrial policy to boost growth in the state.The government also released a list of names of 24 legislators to head various state run corporations and boards. Several of the legislators nominated to head the various boards and corporations had been threatening to turn dissidents as they had not got a ‘share of power’ while defectors from Congress and the Janata Dal (S) had been made ministers.Thirthalli MLA, Araga Jnanendra was made the Chairman of Karnataka Housing Board, Hollalkere MLA M Chandrappa that of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Raju Gowda of Surapur named as Karnataka state urban water supply and drainage board, Sagar MLA, H Halappa was to head Mysore Sales International Ltd apart from 20 other party legislators being given other nominations.However, within hours of the announcement, some of the legislators expressed unhappiness at the ‘minor’ and ‘non-lucrative’ boards and corporations they were given to head. Chitradurga MLA G H Thippa Reddy speaking to HT said “I have been a six term MLA and was a ministerial aspirant. Being made Chairman of merely the Backward Classes Development Corporation for a person like me who has been such a senior legislator is an insult. I don’t want to accept it and I am happier serving people as a mere legislator.”Analysts also pointed out that in the case of Lalaji Mendon the legislator from Kaup who was named as the Chairman of the backward classes commission was ineligible as he did not meet the criteria required to hold the post.Preetham Gowda the BJP MLA from Hassan who is seen as a rising star in the party was nominated as the Chairman of Forest, Housing and Resorts organization. But he didn’t seem keen.“Let them give the position to somebody more senior. I am not looking for any post,” he told reporters.Several other legislators too expressed unhappiness at being given ‘inconsequential boards and corporations’ despite their ‘seniority’ and ‘services rendered to the party.’Within hours of nominations, the state government withdrew four appointments. These include that of G H Thippa Reddy the Chitradurga MLA as the Chairman of Devraja Urs backward Classes Development Corporation, Paranna Eshwarappa Munavalli of Gangavati as head of Karnataka State Finance Corporation, Basvaraj Dhadesugur the Kanakgiri legislator who had been appointed as Chairman of Karnataka Social Welfare Board and Lalaji Menden of Kaup who was nominated to head the Backward Classes Commission.When asked about the unhappiness expressed by several of those nominated to head the boards and corporations, Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan said “It is natural to have ambition. If there are issues the Chief Minister will sort them out.”However both opposition parties, Congress and JDS attacked the ruling BJP for focusing on the government’s first anniversary celebrations, instead of responding to the Covid-19 pandemic and the economic distress. Former CM and JDS leader Kumaraswamy said “Due to coronavirus people are struggling to make ends meet but the government is more interested in celebrations and saving their chairs. BJP seems to believe that rewarding its legislators is more important now rather than addressing the problems faced by the common man.”KPCC President D K Shivakumar and Leader of Opposition Siddaramiah also hit out at the government. “Their achievement is zero. The only achievement done is massive corruption in the purchase of equipment to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. It is like celebrations at a funeral,” Shivakumar added.Political analyst Prof Harish Ramaswamy said “The move to appoint legislators as Chairman of various boards and corporations is to ensure dissidence doesn’t explode as loyalists have been unhappy at defectors from other parties being made ministers. The absence of central leaders in the celebrations including the likes of organization secretary B L Santosh who hails from the state is an indication that not everything is alright for Yediyurappa’s leadership as the party high command looks to eventually replace him. With some of the legislators rejecting the boards and corporations offered to them, all eyes will be on the ministerial expansion and reshuffle which is expected soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-mars-bjp-s-first-anniversary-of-returning-to-power-in-karnataka/story-NnNewGSc4EwFN5dDlJXq9H.html
27-07-2020||India||With biggest single-day spike of 258 Covid-19 cases, Goa’s tally past 5,000-mark||Goa recorded its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections on Monday with 258 new cases as the state government claimed that the situation is ‘being well-handled’ during a half-day assembly session. The recorded positive cases took the state’s tally beyond the 5,000 mark - to 5,119 - while the death toll stands at 36. Speaking in the legislative assembly, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that “Goa couldn’t be insulated” when Covid-19 was spreading across the country since it was dependent on supplies from outside the state. However, he said that the situation was being well-handled. “We are sorry for the 35 deaths which have taken place. (The number increased to 36 later in the day). We have 4,686 positive cases recorded out of which 3,047 have recovered. So our recovery rate is as high as 65 per cent and Goa’s mortality rate is 0.75 percent which is lower than the national average,” Rane said.Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, too, pitched in saying that his government has not fallen short in the fight against the disease. He claimed that it was only those with comorbid conditions, or those who reach hospital late who have developed severe symptoms or have passed away. “We have had a one day old newborn baby who was found Covid positive being healed and allowed to go home. 90-year-olds, too, have recovered and gone home. But if a person waits at home with five days continuous fever and doesn’t get himself tested, then we cannot help him,” Sawant said adding that all people who behaved ‘responsibly’ and received treatment on time had no reason to be afraid of the virus. “I once again repeat, there is nothing to fear,” Sawant added.The state now has 1,673 active cases, as 3,410 people have been discharged and 36 have succumbed to the infection, news agency PTI reported quoting a state official. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-biggest-single-day-spike-of-258-covid-19-cases-goa-s-tally-past-5-000-mark/story-aGtQNTuMafNB40CplBLylL.html
27-07-2020||India||This 28-year-old Uttarakhand rapper fights casteism through his music||A 28-year-old youth hailing from Uttarakhand has garnered significant attention on social media with his rap song on casteism named ‘Jaat Kya Hai’ (What is caste), a soundtrack on ill practices which practice prejudice based on caste system in the society, was released two days ago. The song has garnered more than 17,000 views on YouTube. Rahul Negi, who goes by his stage name Madara, has been singing rap songs on various social issues like child labour, education and several campus-based issues such as those from national capital’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. Rahul’s past tracks have been widely appreciated across the board for touching issues which are not a common choice for artists from the same genre. In his recent track on casteism produced in collaboration with music production house Seven & Seven, he has received appreciation from Bollywood personalities like Swara Bhaskar and politicians like Jignesh Mewani among several others. Speaking about the track Jaat Kya Hai, Rahul says, “I chose to sing on casteism issue because I had seen it happening in my family and close surroundings while growing up in Uttarakhand. Later when I shifted to Delhi, I saw prevalence of casteism there as well, owing to which I grew frustrated. It helped because I always write my songs when I get frustrated with any issue.” Rahul said, “During childhood in Uttarakhand, my family members were indulged in this evil practice. They would point out towards the Dalits and say not so good things about them. As an inquisitive person from childhood, I used to ask them the reason behind it on which they told me that they do bad things. But after growing up I realised that it’s us who do bad things and they are the ones who clean them. Despite that, they face all the discrimination.” Rahul, who gained popularity with his latest track named ‘Tukde Tukde Gang’ based on JNU episode, claims that it is when he saw casteism in his close circle in an urban space like Delhi, he decided to make a song about it and began researching the subject. “I read books by Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Arundhuti Roy and others on the subject before penning down the song. As I keep myself updated on various current affairs and incidents happened in country, I mentioned many gruesome incidents of castiesm in my song including one in which an 8-month-old pregnant Dalit sanitary worker was beaten to death by an upper-caste family just because she touched their dustbin,” he said. Rahul says it took him a month to write the song and produce the final track which in his words is a ‘dark track with connotations of real incidents and pictures of incidents of atrocities against Dalit in the song’s video.’ Some of his lyrics in the songs include questions like, “Kyun Aaj Bhi Ek Jaat Mandir ki Thekedaar, Kyun Aaj Bhi Ek Jaat Karti Gutter Saaf,” and “Aaj Bhi Eklavya ke Angoothe Kat te Roz Hain.” “My music producer Nischay Sharma and I both hail from upper-caste but we produced this track because we have witnessed casteism happening in our close surroundings which is just sick and frustrating. After the track was released, we got a lot of appreciation from public and different personalities through call and on social media platforms,” Rahul says. On making more similar songs in the future, he said that his next song will be based on depression and will release in August.“It would be followed by 2-3 more songs which would be on some so-called social media influencers who use expletives and abuses in their videos under the garb of nationalism,” says Rahul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-28-year-old-uttarakhand-rapper-fights-casteism-through-his-music/story-sPPHgNaK9UmzOYYEIWdjCK.html
27-07-2020||India||China collecting DNA samples of millions, experts suspect developing tool for genetic surveillance||Chinese authorities have been collecting DNA samples from across the country to develop a massive genetic database, in a bid to create a new tool for their emerging high-tech surveillance state.In an opinion piece in the New York Times, Emile Dirks, a PhD student in Political Science at the University of Toronto, and James Leibold, an expert on ethnic issues in modern China, say dissent is a crime in China and police operations are a key part of the state’s apparatus of repression.They estimated that the authorities’ goal is to gather the DNA samples of 35 million to 70 million Chinese males.“Matched against official family records, surveillance footage or witness statements in police reports, these samples will become a powerful tool for the Chinese authorities to track down a man or boy -- or, failing that, a relative of his -- for whatever reason they deem fit,” they wrote.The Chinese government has denied the existence of any such program. The authors said that they have continued to uncover online scattered evidence revealing the program’s enormous scale, including government reports and official procurement orders for DNA kits and testing services.In a report published by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute last month, the authors said they had exposed the extent of the Chinese government’s program of genetic surveillance. “It no longer is limited to Xinjiang, Tibet and other areas mostly populated by ethnic minorities the government represses,” they wrote.DNA is being harvested across the country: in the southwestern provinces of Yunnan and Guizhou; in central-southern Hunan; in Shandong and Jiangsu, in the east; and up north, in the autonomous region of Inner Mongolia.“We have continued to find photographic evidence that the police are collecting blood from children, pinpricking their fingers at school -- a clear violation of China’s responsibilities under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child,” they say.“And we have found fresh proof, including official documents, showing that DNA samples are also being gathered in major urban centers,” they add. The authors say that an officials report dated June 16 which is available on a website of the government of Sichuan province explains the creation of a DNA database by the Public Security Bureau of the city of Chengdu, the province’s capital, and seeks expert opinion on the creation of a “male ancestry investigation system.” The document explained how 17 public security offices have collected DNA samples from nearly 600,000 male residents across the city -- that’s about 7 percent of Chengdu’s male population (assuming that roughly half of the city’s total population of about 16.6 million is male).The Chengdu procurement report states that building a massive genetic database about local residents will help the police “maintain public order and stability as well as meet the needs of daily casework.” This is of no comfort.“In China, securing the public order essentially means maintaining the uncontested rule of the Communist Party. Dissent is a crime, and police operations are a key part of the state’s apparatus of repression,” the authors say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-collecting-dna-samples-of-millions-experts-suspect-developing-tool-for-genetic-surveillance/story-CYuXuwEEQ6MsgkvEKn4PgK.html
27-07-2020||India||Filmmaker in Hyderabad captures travails of Covid-19 warriors, contracts virus||Despite the stigma that has led to Covid-19 patients being ostracized even by their kin, Dulam Satyanarayana, an award-winning documentary filmmaker from Telangana, chose to sit and chat with them and capture their experiences on his camera. But it came with a cost with the 35-year old documentary filmmaker from Hyderabad, himself contracting the dreaded virus. He conquered the disease and is back in the business of documenting the success stories of Covid-19 patients. In the first week of June, Satyanarayana embarked on making a series of documentary films on frontline warriors of Covid-19 – starting with doctors, paramedical staff and other healthcare workers looking after patients at isolation centres and quarantine hospitals, police, sanitation workers of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and ambulance services. As part of his mission, he chose Gandhi Hospital at Secunderabad, a 100 per cent designated centre for Covid-19. “Thanks to the cooperation from the state medical and health department, I along with five of my team members, ventured into the hospital to document the travails of doctors, the frontline warriors to tackle the disease,” Satyanarayana said. He and his team members were fully equipped with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and their cameras and other equipment were completely sanitised. “We have captured every moment of the doctors and their supporting staff, how they toil all through the day to provide the best medical care to the patients and how they infuse a lot of courage and confidence into the patients to overcome the mental trauma,” he said. Satyanarayana and his team also documented the stories of several Covid-19 patients and their experiences in the hospital. “My objective was to present a positive side of the Covid-19 story – how people can fight the virus with grit and determination and of course, with self-discipline,” he said. A week after completing his documentary film on Covid-19 warriors, Satyanarayana himself started developing symptoms of the viral disease. “I was a bit worried initially, but mustered courage. As suspected, I tested positive on June 22 and so did a couple of my team members. Since I was alone at my home in Hyderabad, I went into home quarantine for three weeks, duly following the treatment suggested by the doctors,” he said. By July 15, Satyanarayana conquered the virus and tested negative. “After taking rest for a few more days, I was back in action with my camera,” he said. Hailing from Mancherial district of Telangana, Satyanarayana ventured into documentary film making when he was barely 23. “I lost my father at the age of 5 and my mother brought me up by running a tea stall in Mancherial. I was dreaming of becoming an engineer from IIT, but ended up as a documentary film maker,” he said. He produced the most-acclaimed short films such as Moushini, which depicts the plight of a village that lacked electricity in Sunderbans in West Bengal until 2001 when it became the first village to use solar power; and Dreadful Fate, which exposed the agony of fluoride-affected people in Nalgonda district. He won a trophy of the best tourism film for producing Welcome Telangana, at IXth ART&TUR International Tourism Film Festival held in Portugal in 2016. He had received the prestigious United States Department of State’s CCIP Fellowship to study motion picture directing at Scottsdale School of Film and Theatre, Arizona. The short film Satyanarayana had made on Hyderabad during lockdown – capturing the silent streets and stunning visuals of the picturesque locations of the city – received rave reviews in the media. Satyanarayana has been a delegate and panelist of various international conferences and film festivals held in the USA, Canada, Pakistan, Iran and India. His projects included the culture and traditions of Telangana such as Bonam, Bathukamma, I am Satyabama and Balakka – Dancing with tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmaker-in-hyderabad-captures-travails-of-covid-19-warriors-contracts-virus/story-9tKFoHpLo83k4gDyZCh48H.html
27-07-2020||India||Odisha man dies after ambulance driver refuses to take him to hospital over Covid-19 fears||A 42-year-old man in Berhampur town in Odisha’s Covid hotspot district of Ganjam died at his home on Monday after an ambulance driver refused to take him to hospital suspecting that he was a coronavirus patient.Manoj Praharaj’s family members had called 108 emergency response services for an ambulance to take him to hospital. However, as soon after the ambulance reached the home of Praharaj who was also a diabetic and suffered from high blood pressure, the driver refused to take him to hospital suspecting him to be suffering from Covid-19.“I kept pleading with the ambulance driver to take my father to hospital as he was suffering from fever for the past couple of days. The ambulance driver instead asked us to call an ambulance (104) meant for coronavirus patients,” said Manas Praharaj, son of the deceased.After the ambulance left, the family members of Praharaj arranged an auto-rickshaw to take him to the hospital. But he died on the veranda of the house.A video of the minor son pleading helplessly with the ambulance driver to rush his father to hospital went viral on social media.Following the incident, Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said both 104 and 108 ambulances will henceforth carry all Covid suspects to hospitals.In a similar incident, a 55-year-old man in Berhampur town died early this month when the driver of an ambulance refused to carry him to hospital suspecting him to be infected with Covid-19. On July 12, Shiva Prasad in Sriram Nagar area of Berhampur complained of uneasiness after which his family called for an ambulance.While the ambulance refused to come to his house, none of the neighbours came to help either. He later died.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha mounted to 26,892 with 1,503 new cases even as the sample positivity rate rose to 16.11, its highest so far. The number of deaths rose to 147 with seven more casualties.In Bhubaneswar, 17 blind people including 15 from the Odisha Association for the Blind have tested positive for Covid. According to officials, the 15 blind people came in contact with the caretaker of a professor working in the blind association who earlier tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-dies-after-ambulance-driver-refuses-to-take-him-to-hospital-over-covid-19-fears/story-jO1dJkosV2OKlSAz6CdJyM.html
27-07-2020||India||Israeli team in India for research on rapid tests for Covid-19||A team of top Israeli defence scientists and health experts that has been working with Indian counterparts to develop rapid tests for Covid-19 capable of providing results in under a minute arrived in New Delhi on Monday for conducting tests that could lead to the approval of the technology. The team, led by Israeli ambassador Ron Malka, reached the national capital in a special flight from Tel Aviv that also carried cutting-edge equipment contributed by Israel’s foreign ministry and private companies. The cargo included dozens of ventilators whose export is barred by Israel, and are being provided to India through “an exceptional approval”, Israeli officials said. The Israeli team has been working with Indian scientists led by K Vijayraghavan, principal scientific advisor to the prime minister, and experts from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop the rapid tests, which Israeli officials have said are expected to provide results in 30 seconds. Also read: India, Israel to deepen military cooperation amid border rowThe delegation will complete a series of tests and carry out the final stages of research in India to determine the effectiveness of advanced technologies for the rapid diagnosis of Covid-19, a statement from the Israeli foreign ministry said. “The unique cooperation between Israel and India will enable the delegation to collect tens of thousands of samples in only ten days, and to analyse them using computer systems based on artificial intelligence,” the statement said. “This massive sampling will shorten processes and advance the approval of effective technology. It should be noted that all the necessary Israeli and Indian approvals were acquired in preparation for this joint activity,” it added. The team includes 20 experts in different fields from the Directorate of Defense Research and Development, Israel Defense Forces, the health ministry and industries which partnered in the development of diagnostic solutions. Israeli foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi spoke with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Sunday and updated him on the flight and equipment on board. The two ministers discussed further cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus. Also read | ‘Indian govt helped a lot’: Israel praises India for evacuationsIsraeli officials earlier described the cooperation with India on diagnostic solutions as “unprecedented”. The merger of Israeli technology with Indian production capabilities will allow the swift resumption of normal life alongside the coronavirus, they said. The Israeli technologies can also be mass produced at a lower cost in India and be jointly exported to third countries, they added. Since the outbreak of the global pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu have spoken on phone three times and discussed cooperation in combating the Coronavirus through scientific collaboration between the two sides. Gilad Cohen, deputy director general for Asia in the Israeli foreign ministry, said the two countries had “successfully transformed this unprecedented global pandemic into an opportunity to assist one another and further enhance their relations”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israeli-team-in-india-for-research-on-rapid-tests-for-covid-19/story-svl0phpNrZf6DJNXBYmkfO.html
27-07-2020||India||22 of Assam’s 33 districts still affected by floods, major rivers continue to be in spate||The flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim on Monday with 22 of the state’s 33 districts still affected. According to a bulletin by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 22.33 lakh people in 2,026 villages of the affected districts are still suffering due to floods. With over 4.62 lakh affected people, Goalpara continued to be the worst hit district in the state followed by Barpeta (3.81 lakh), Morigaon (3 lakh), Dhubri (2.55 lakh) and South Salmara (2.49 lakh). Over 45,000 people displaced by flood waters are taking shelter in 259 relief camps in 17 affected districts - over 20,000 of them are from Goalpara alone, said the ASDMA bulletin. One person drowned on Monday at Bokakhat in Golaghat district taking the death toll in floods this season to 103. Since May, 26 people have also died due to landslides in the state. According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, most rivers in the state continued to be in spate on Monday. The Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger mark at Nematighat, Tezpur, Goalpara and Dhubri. Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili and Beki rivers were also flowing above the red mark at several places. The flood situation in Kaziranga National Park improved slightly on Monday. According to park authorities, 80% area of the park spread over 430 sq km is now inundated - a drop from 90% recorded a few days ago. Of the 223 forest camps inside the park, 62 have been inundated and two have been vacated. This season, 132 park animals including 14 rhinos have died while 162 other including 2 rhinos, 4 tigers, 24 pythons and 4 king cobras have been rescued by forest personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-of-assam-s-33-districts-still-affected-by-floods-major-rivers-continue-to-be-in-spate/story-fa83QlMZHh3BIg8CnSCbnL.html
27-07-2020||India||NIA grills Kerala CM’s former secretary for 9 hours in gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Kerala gold smuggling case questioned Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar for nine hours on Monday before letting him go with a direction to appear before it again on Tuesday.This is the third time that round that Sivasankar has been questioned. The Customs department was the first to question him before the NIA did once.A senior IAS officer, who was very close to the CM, he was suspended from service after his alleged association with Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case came to light.After Monday’s questioning in Kochi, Sivasankar’s counsel S Rajeev said an intense media trail was on and many reports emerging these days were far from truth. He said Sivasankar was cooperating fully with the probe team and had nothing to hide. The once powerful principal secretary became embroiled in the controversy after the seizure of 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Later the case was handed over to the NIA.After the seizure, there were reports that the CM’s office allegedly pressurized the Customs to release the consignment. Sivasankar reportedly told investigators that though he knew some of the accused he was not aware of their smuggling background. There are also reports that he was instrumental in appointing Swapna Suresh as the business development manager with the Kerala Information Technology Infrastructure Limited||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-grills-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-for-9-hours-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-3opRkC8RMR4sg6i1vFjS3J.html
27-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh crosses one-lakh mark in Covid-19 positive cases||The total number of positive cases for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh crossed one lakh mark and the death figure mounted to 1090 on Monday, signalling an alarming situation in the state. The state reported as many as 6051 positive cases for Covid-19, taking the cumulative number of positive cases to 1,02,349 on Monday. It stands in the fourth position in the country, next only to Maharashtra which has 3,75,799 cases, Tamil Nadu (2,13,723 cases) and Delhi (1,30,606 cases). In terms of cumulative number of cases, East Godavari district tops the list with 14,696 cases, followed by 12,234 cases in Kurnool, 10,747 in Guntur, 10247 in Anantapur and 8820 in West Godavari. ALSO WATCH | ‘In 6 weeks, cases doubled’: WHO chief says Covid pandemic acceleratingAs many as 49 deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, taking the overall death toll to 1090. While nine persons died of Covid-19 in West Godavari, eight died in Visakhapatnam, seven each in Chittoor and East Godavari, five in Krishna, four in Vizianagaram, three in Anantapur, two each in Kurnool and Srikakulam and one each in Prakasam and Kadapa. In terms of death, the state is in the seventh position in the country with Maharashtra recording highest number of 13,656 deaths, followed by Delhi (3,827), Tamil Nadu (3,494), Gujarat (2,322), Karnataka (1,880), Uttar Pradesh (1,426). On the other hand, the neighbouring Telangana recorded 1,473 positive cases for Covid-19 on Monday, including 506 cases in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits alone, taking the cumulative tally of cases to 55,532. The official bulletin from the state medical and health department claimed that the recovery rate in the state is very high – out of 55,532 cases, 42,106 patients have recovered from the disease. There are only 12,955 active positive cases in the state, the bulletin said. Similarly, the state reported eight fresh casualties due to Covid-19, taking the overall toll to 471. “The death rate in the state is very low – 0.85 per cent, as against the national average of 2.3 per cent,” the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-crosses-one-lakh-mark-in-covid-19-positive-cases/story-ZZoKC9nDhPOc0eGpTBDinL.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Does not listen’: Top officer moved out after minister complains to Bihar CM||A top bureaucrat in the Bihar health ministry was moved out amid reports of growing differences between him and the state health minister even as the Covid-19 situation in the state is getting grimmer. Principal secretary (health) Uday Singh Kumawat has been replaced by Pratyaya Amrit, who is also the principal secretary of Energy and disaster management department. Kumawat is the second principal secretary to be removed from the health department in the last two months. Earlier on May 21, Sanjay Kumar was removed from the post and transferred to the tourism department. The number of positive cases reached 41111 on Monday in the state. A notification about Amrit’s posting to the health department was issued by the general administration department late Monday evening. Kumawat’s removal had become imminent after health minister Mangal Pandey lodged a complaint with chief minister Nitish Kumar in the presence of all other ministers after the cabinet meeting on Saturday. Pandey openly took on Kumawat and said, “The officer doesn’t listen to me and only does what he wants to.” The Bihar CM reprimanded Kumawat and said: “Every day at least 20,000 RT-PCR tests should be done else I will take action. If you cannot handle the department, please leave it. If Delhi can conduct 38,000 tests every day than why can’t Bihar?” CM Kumar, facing flak for his handling of the Covid situation, went on to say that he had never faced a situation like this in the past 14 years of his government. “I will soon review the health department working and will not spare the people who are indulging in wrong practices,” he said. Kumawat has been facing criticism ever since he joined the department. There were complaints against him that he would not pick calls from officials of the health department and not even meet anyone in his chamber. Other changesThe state government also effected some reshuffling in the administrative set up of some departments. Additional chief secretary, labour resources department, Sudhir Kumar has been made the chief advisor of the Bihar State Planning Board while Uday Singh Kumawat has been made the advisor in the Board. Mihir Kumar Singh, who was waiting for posting after his return from central deputation, has been made the principal secretary of the labour resources department, while development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh has been additional charge of director general Bihar Public Administration and Rural Development Institute. In addition to this, S Siddharth, principal secretary (industry) has been given the additional charge of industry department while Sanjeev Hans, secretary water resources department has been made the secretary-cum-CMD, Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-not-listen-top-officer-moved-out-after-minister-complains-to-bihar-cm/story-fYiO15EcRvoSsVj2oEWpiL.html
27-07-2020||India||Maharashtra adds almost 8K new cases of Covid-19, tally goes past 3.8 lakh||Maharashtra registered 7,924 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday taking its tally to 3,83,723, the state health department said.Out of the new cases, 1,021 were from Mumbai.The death toll mounted to 13,883 with 227 casualties during the day.Thirty-nine of the casualties were in Mumbai where the death toll climbed to 6,132.A total of 8,706 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number ofThe total number of recovered cases in the state went up to 2,21,944 after 8,706 people were discharged on Monday.ALSO WATCH | ‘In 6 weeks, cases doubled’: WHO chief says Covid pandemic acceleratingThe number of active cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra now stands at 1,47,592.A total of 19,25,399 people have been tested so far for the virus in the stateChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray during an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan at the virtual launch of the ICMR’s Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata, sought support from the Centre for setting up an infectious disease hospital and research facility near Mumbai.“We are trying to live with the coronavirus crisis. But this is not the last outbreak of a virus. There have been indications of possible virus outbreak in the world in the last 10 years, but we all remained self-centred. It is the time to make some preparations for similar future challenges,” Thackeray said.He also sought extension of the ongoing supply of PPE kits and N-95 masks to the state from the Centre beyond September to deal with the rising cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-almost-8k-new-cases-of-covid-19-tally-goes-past-3-8-lakh/story-txSABl19CULncqaeH0umPL.html
27-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala CM rules out total lockdown, state adds 702 new cases of Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala CM rules out total lockdown as state adds 702 new cases of Covid-19The Kerala government has decided not to enforce a complete lock down in the state but will instead strengthen containment measures in affected areas to check mounting locally-transmitted cases of Covid-19, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday.Read more. US warplane flew less than 100 km from Shanghai, says China think tankA US anti-submarine warplane came within 100 km from Shanghai in eastern China on Sunday, a Chinese think tank focused on the South China Sea has said in the backdrop of the tit-for-tat closure of consulates and escalating tension between the two countries.Read more. Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to release funds to help state fight Covid-19West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to release Rs 53,000 crore, which the Centre owes to the state for various social security schemes and other funds amounting to thousands of crores to help the state’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Read more. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das highlights 5 positive shifts in economyReserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday said five dynamic shifts have the potential to shape the future of the country’s economy -- fortunes shifting in favour of the farm sector, changing energy mix in favour of renewable, leveraging information and communication technology (ICT) and start-ups, strengthening supply and value chains, and focusing on infrastructure as a growth multiplier.Read more. IndiGo announces ‘deeper’ pay cuts of up to 35 per cent for senior employeesIndiGo on Monday said it is implementing “deeper” pay cuts of up to 35 per cent for its senior employees in order to reduce its cash outflow amid the coronavirus pandemic.Read more. ‘In 6 weeks, cases doubled’: WHO chief says Covid pandemic acceleratingThe Director General of the World Health Organisation commented on the situation regarding the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a press conference, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that July 30 would mark 6 months since the international health body declared Covid to be a global health emergency. He reminded everyone that although this was the sixth time that a global emergency had been declared by WHO, Covid was ‘easily the most severe’.Watch here.‘He can have a Virender Sehwag-like impact’: Why Pathan believes Rohit Sharma can be as effective as former India opener in TestsIrfan Pathan, the former all-rounder, is confident of Rohit Sharma having a similar kind of impact for India in Tests as his former teammate Virender Sehwag. Rohit, who started his Test career in 2013 as a middle-order batsman, was elevated to the role of opener last year against South Africa and so far, has stellar numbers batting at the top. Read more. Man’s tweet prompts sales for cook’s new food business, impresses netizens including chef Vikas KhannaNot too long ago, Ratan Tata shared a motivational message for entrepreneurs and start-ups trying to survive and thrive during the Covid-19 crises. Here is a novel entrepreneur who is illustrating what that advice looks like in action by starting her very own food business, with a little help from a particular well-wisher.Read more. Explained: This is WhatsApp’s biggest feature of the yearWhatsApp has added a host of new and critical features to its platform this year. First came the dark mode. Then, WhatsApp, responding to a sudden surge in video calling functionality owing to the Covid-19 lockdown, increased its group calling limit from eight participants to eight participants. And more recently, the company introduced animated stickers feature and QR Codes on its platform.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-cm-rules-out-total-lockdown-state-adds-702-new-cases-of-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IRz2dlbJRb9tVfcXhr6VgL.html
27-07-2020||India||AIIMS doctors remove 20-cm knife from man’s liver after rare surgery||After a rare and challenging three-hour surgery, doctors at the AIIMS here successfully removed a 20-cm-long kitchen knife from a man’s liver who had bizarrely swallowed it in a fit of psychosis.The doctors said they were perplexed as to how the 28-year-old gulped down the saw-edged knife without any damage being caused to his wind-pipe, lungs, heart and other vital organs. “The knife could have easily perforated the esophagus and gone in to the trachea, heart or big vessels, on its journey from mouth to liver via duodenum,” said Dr Nihar Ranjan Dash, professor of Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant at AIIMS. He said, “We have searched the literature, but such a big sharp knife ingestion has not been reported. We are searching for more literature.” He said there are reports of small needles and fish bones going into liver after perforating duodenum. The man, a daily wage worker from Palwal in Haryana, has a history of psychosis and had a habit of smoking cannabis. “He was not an addict but took cannabis quite often,” said the doctor. The man told the doctors that one-and-a-half-months ago, during the coronavirus lockdown when “he was in his kitchen, he felt like eating the knife. He tried to chew it and finally gulped it down with water”.He had no problems for a month. But subsequently, he developed issues like difficulty in eating, weight loss, fever, abdominal pain which soon became unbearable, the doctors said.He was taken to local hospitals and was referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi.“An ultrasound and an X-ray of the abdomen revealed blade of a kitchen knife stuck in the liver. Anticipating the challenges involved in removing the object, doctors there referred the patient to the Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant department at AIIMS,” Dr Dash said.The patient came to the emergency of the AIIMS on July 12. A COVID-19 test was done to rule out coronavirus infection. The reports came out negative. While the patient was admitted in the emergency, an ultrasound, CT scan and other investigations were carried out to know the exact position of the knife, its relation to the vital organs and the complications it had caused, the doctors said. “On CT scan, we found the blade of the knife was entirely inside the liver and the handle inside the duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine.“The knife actually had perforated the duodenum and had gone into the liver. It had led to bleeding, infection, abscess formation in the liver and sepsis. His hemoglobin level was very low. A sepsis had set in, there was loss of weight and water had accumulated in his right chest,” Dr Dash elaborated.“An immediate surgery was not possible,” he said, adding removing the knife through endoscopy was ruled out as it was very risky and could have caused injuries to the organs.Doctors decided to first control the sepsis and gave him blood transfusion. He was put on high antibiotics and was under critical care. The doctors said under X-ray guidance, a tube was put inside the liver to drain the pus that sucked around 100 ml pus everyday for four to five days.Another tube was inserted to take out the water from the chest, Dr Dash explained.He said the man was given nutrition intravenously as he was not in a condition to take food orally. He was also being provided psychiatric counselling all throughout. After seven days, though his condition improved to a certain extent, the sepsis could not be controlled entirely.“It was then that we decided to take him for surgery. Challenges during the surgery were the possibility of heavy bleeding, injuring the liver, controlling bleeding after removing the knife and to do it as quickly as possible with minimum complications. “When a patient is septic and anemic, giving anesthesia for a longer period and conducting longer procedures could turn fatal,” Dr Dash said.In a challenging surgery lasting three hours, the knife was removed by opening the intestine on July 19, Dash said. A team of doctors from the department of Anaesthesia, Critical Care, Radiology and Gastroenterology besides the Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant were also involved in the surgery and the knife was pulled out under ultrasound guidance.“The patient was in the ICU for seven days. He is out of danger now and out of ICU care,” Dr Dash said.“We had put a food pipe during the surgery in his abdomen and through that tube he is being given food. Very soon we will start giving him food orally. He is conscious and able to walk around. He is being given psychiatric counselling,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-doctors-remove-20-cm-knife-from-man-s-liver-after-rare-surgery/story-0pmNUVxzqnwPjBFC4gGuRJ.html
27-07-2020||India||ED files money laundering case against Sanjay Bhandari||The Enforcement Directorate has registered a money laundering case against fugitive arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari in a Rs 6,744-crore deal by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), officials said on Monday. The ED case is based on a CBI First Information Report (FIR) registered earlier this month naming Bhandari, Samsung Engineering Co Ltd, UK-based company FosterWheeler Energy Ltd and unknown officials of the ONGC. It was alleged by CBI that Rs 22 crore ($5 million approx) bribe was paid to Sanjay Bhandari’s company Santech International FZC out of which 1.9 million pounds (around Rs 18 cr) was used to purchase a property - 12 Ellerton House, Brynston Square (London). The CBI FIR claimed that the deal for this property was stipulated to be completed on or before end of August 2009, just after Rs 22 crore ($5 million approx.) were transferred on June 13, 2009 in the Dubai account of Bhandari’s company Santech International FZC by Samsung Engineering Co Ltd (SECL).The ED has repeatedly claimed in the courts that this property belongs to Robert Vadra, a charge denied by him. Vadra is not named as an accused in the latest CBI or ED cases.The ED has powers to attach properties of accused persons under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-money-laundering-case-against-sanjay-bhandari/story-l1oLoYfchTlCoKIUKSXIEP.html
27-07-2020||India||IAF’s first 5 Rafales take off from France, to reach Ambala on July 29||Amid border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Air Force’s first five Rafale warplanes on Monday took off from Mérignac in France and will reach their home base in Ambala on July 29 after a one-day stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, the IAF said in a statement. The two-leg flight will involve the Rafales covering a distance of nearly 7,000 km. The five fighters landed safely at Al Dhafra after a seven-hour flight from France on Monday evening. The new fighters will significantly enhance the IAF’s offensive capabilities, senior IAF officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to plug gaps in the IAF’s capabilities. The delivery of 36 fighters will be completed by the end of next year.Also read: IAF may deploy Rafale fighters in Ladakh sector amid border rowFrance handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year. Air and ground crews of the IAF have been in France for almost three years for the management of the Rafale programme. The French air force refuelled the Indian fighters --- three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft --- using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra. Aerial refuelling support will be provided by the IAF’s Russian Ilyushin-78 refuellers for the second leg of the journey from Al Dhafra to Ambala. The jets are being flown by pilots who have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft, the IAF said. The Rafales will be a part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the ‘Golden Arrows.’ The aircrew bringing the Rafales to India is headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the No.17 squadron. It’s a magnificent achievement to get a fighter of this class decades after the IAF inducted the Mirage-2000s from France in the mid-1980s, said Air Chief Marshal Fali H Major (retd), a former IAF chief. Also read | Arrival of Rafale jets will send a clear message to India’s ‘adversaries’: Officials“The Rafales bring tremendous capabilities to the table. We should now wait and watch how the fighter evolves in the Indian environment. I am sure it will meet each and every qualitative requirement of the IAF,” Major added. India has taken a significant step in “strengthening its air power and defence preparedness” with the first five Rafale fighter jets, built by French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation, flying out from the Merignac airbase in Bordeaux, the Indian embassy in France said in a statement.“This also marks a new milestone in the strong and growing India-France defence cooperation,” it said. India’s Ambassador to France Jawed Ashraf was in Merignac to see off the aircrews bringing the Rafales to the country. He said that the “long-awaited and much-needed” two squadrons of Rafale jets would add “great strength” to the IAF and the country’s defence capabilities. The IAF could deploy its new Rafale fighters in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation and disengagement has turned out to be a challenging process. “In accordance with the contract, IAF pilots and supporting personnel have been provided full training on the aircraft and weapon systems by Dassault. Further batches of IAF personnel will continue the training over the next nine months,” the embassy statement said. “I am strongly impressed by the amazing efficiency and determination of the IAF and Indian Ministry of Defense, despite this unprecedented world health crisis, to master rapidly all aspects of the Rafale for Indian sovereignty and contributing to the protection and security of Indian people,” said Dassault Aviation chairman Eric Trappier. The IAF’s air and ground crews have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft, including its highly-advanced weapons systems and are fully operational. Efforts will now focus on swift operationalisation of the aircraft. Acting on a special request by the IAF, France has accelerated the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India --- five jets are coming instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch. According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected by April-May 2022. However, all deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-s-first-5-rafales-take-off-from-france-to-reach-ambala-on-july-29/story-UF6SX5pPwf1jVBpg8KrS2I.html
27-07-2020||India||Kerala CM rules out total lockdown as state adds 702 new cases of Covid-19||The Kerala government has decided not to enforce a complete lock down in the state but will instead strengthen containment measures in affected areas to check mounting locally-transmitted cases of Covid-19, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday.He said a special cabinet meeting took the decision following the request of an all-party meeting that a complete lock down at this juncture will add to the suffering of the people. “Going by the present trend, cases are likely to peak by next month,” Vijayan said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.He asked people not to lower their guard at this critical juncture. In the state capital which has been the worst-affected, the lockdown will continue for another week.With 702 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the state’s tally has gone up to 19,727. Out of this, there are 9,613 active cases while 10,054 people have recovered. With two more casualties on Monday, the death toll has risen to 64. There have been complaints that many deaths failed to find a place in the government list of Covid-19 casualties but Vijayan denied it saying the state was following guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The CM said 1,55,147 people are under observation in the state. Of these, 1, 45,750 are in their homes or institutional quarantine and 9,397 are in hospitals. He said despite strict vigil many people often flout norms endangering life of others also. He was referring to the wedding in Kasaragode on July 17 in which 47 people were infected including the bride and the groom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-rules-out-total-lockdown-as-state-adds-702-new-cases-of-covid-19/story-H47yzn18vR0zWYIPjfqP2I.html
27-07-2020||India||Union govt paid Rs 1.65 lakh crore GST compensation to states in FY20: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman||The Union government released Rs 1,65,302 crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states in the previous financial year ended March 31, even as compensation cess collection fell by over 42% that year, a finance ministry statement said on Monday. “The Central government has recently released GST compensation of Rs 13,806 crore to states for March. Taking this amount into account, entire compensation up to 2019-20 has been released to states,” it said. The amount of cess collected in the financial year 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore, it added. The GST regime was launched on July 1, 2017, that introduced a uniform indirect tax structure across the country by merging various state and local-level levies. At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime, the GST law assured state governments a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years and the Centre committed to meet any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco commodities. The finance ministry said the Union government utilised the balance cess amount of previous fiscal years to compensate states for their revenue losses in 2019-20, besides transferring some money from the Consolidated Fund of India. “To release the compensation for 2019-20, the balance cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19 was also utilised. In addition, the Centre had transferred Rs. 33,412 crore from Consolidated Fund of India to the Compensation Fund as a part of an exercise to apportion the balance of IGST [integrated GST] pertaining to 2017-18. Inter-state supply of goods or services attracts IGST,” it said. Inadequate collection of compensation cess has been a major issue. The cess collection is expected to drop even further in the current financial year (2020-21) because the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic saw a 68-day nationwide lockdown from March 25 to May 31. The matter was discussed in the last GST Council meeting on June 12, but it was deferred by a month. After the council’s meeting, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that on the request of members of the council, it would meet in July to discuss only “one-agenda item” that was paying compensation to states for their shortfall in GST revenue. “Compensation, which has to be given to states, and, if at all, it results in some kind of borrowing, how and who is going to pay for it,” she had said. Sitharaman is the chairperson of the apex federal body on indirect tax and finance ministers of states are its members. Usually, the council’s decisions are unanimous. Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of the financial technology platform ClearTax, said, “The compensation cess was designed to cover any losses that the states may incur due to the implementation of GST. Cess payments to states have been overdue for some time and are being gradually released to states. The state governments are struggling with a dip in revenue collections. “This release will come in handy for states and reduce their borrowing especially during this time of crisis due to the pandemic. More revenue collections for the past quarter are taking place in July, as the filing of GST returns has picked up. However, there may still be a shortfall and the Centre will have to look at its own fiscal situation closely in the coming months,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-govt-paid-rs-1-65-lakh-crore-gst-compensation-to-states-in-fy20-fin-min/story-oD6NVwyXUjxQvJNselvzJO.html
27-07-2020||India||Kerala reports 702 new Covid-19 cases, tally inches towards 20,000-mark||At least 43 health workers were among the 702 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday in Kerala while 745 others recovered, as the state’s total infection tally touched 19,727. The death toll climbed to 63 with two more fatalities reported today from Kozhikode and Kottayam districts.As many as 9,611 people are presently under treatment, 10,054 patients have recovered and over 1.55 lakh people are under observation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. Of the positive cases, 483 were infected through contact while the source of infection of 35 people are not yet known. Seventy five people had come from abroad and 91 from other states. The district wise breakup of cases: Thiruvananthapuram 161, Malappuram 86, Idukki 70, Kozhikode 68, Kottayam 59, Palakkad 41, Thirissur 40, Kannur and Kasaragod 38 each, Alappuzha 30, Kollam 22, Pathnamthittaand Wayanad 17 each and Ernakulam15. In the last 24 hours, over 18,417 samples have been sent for testing, the Chief Minister said.As many as 1,55,147 people are under observation, 9,397 in hospitals, including 1,237 admitted today So far, 3,54,480 samples have been sent for testing and results of 3,842 samples are awaited. There are 496 hot spots in the state, as of Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-702-new-covid-19-cases-tally-inches-towards-20-000-mark/story-i8U1Ardt1IsePS59EkNwwI.html
27-07-2020||India||IndiGo announces ‘deeper’ pay cuts of up to 35 per cent for senior employees||IndiGo on Monday said it is implementing “deeper” pay cuts of up to 35 per cent for its senior employees in order to reduce its cash outflow amid the coronavirus pandemic. From May onwards, IndiGo had implemented pay cuts of up to 25 per cent for its senior employees. The “deeper” pay cuts came after the airline’s announcement on July 20 that it would lay off 10 per cent of its workforce due to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. In an e-mail on Monday, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta told employees, “I will increase my personal pay cut percentage to 35 per cent. I am asking all senior vice presidents and above to take a 30 per cent pay cut, all pilots will see their pay cut percentages increased to 28 per cent, all vice presidents will take a 25 per cent pay cut and associate vice presidents will take a 15 per cent pay cut.” These increased pay cuts will come into effect from September 1, he added.Also read | ‘It may take 18-24 months to recover from crisis’: IndiGo CEO The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave-without-pay and lay-offs in order to conserve cash. Before Monday’s announcement, IndiGo CEO Dutta took a 25 per cent cut in salaries. For senior vice presidents the pay cut was 20 per cent, for vice presidents it was 15 per cent and for associate vice presidents it was 10 per cent. In May, IndiGo had also cut the salaries of Band D employees and cabin crew members by 10 per cent, and of Band C employees by 5 per cent. Salaries of employees in Band B and Band A were not touched. Majority of the employees of the airline are in Band B and Band A. Dutta’s Monday announcement does not affect the cuts instituted in the salaries of Band D employees, Band C employees and cabin crew members in May. Moreover, no cuts were announced on Monday for Band B and Band A employees.Also read: IndiGo lays off 10% of their total employees, says impossible to keep flying without making ‘sacrifices’ IndiGo in May had also implemented a compulsory leave without pay (LWP) scheme for its employees for up to five days per month. In August it was increased to 10.5 days per month. Dutta said on Monday, “We are not making any changes for August LWP and from September each department will decide on the LWP for each month based on workloads and staffing levels.” “You can expect a direct communication from your department head on LWP each month. It is my earnest hope that the environment is conducive enough for us to add capacity back quickly and reduce LWP to zero,” he added. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, the airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights. Occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-announces-deeper-pay-cuts-of-up-to-35-per-cent-for-senior-employees/story-Yd7nKQNixLieq59yj1hIcK.html
27-07-2020||India||Farmer gifted tractor by Sonu Sood contested Andhra Assembly polls in 2009||A farmer from Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district who was gifted with a tractor by Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on Sunday had unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections in 2009 on behalf of a political party and has been a beneficiary of the government’s welfare schemes, enquiries by district officials revealed on Monday. Veerathallu Nageshwar Rao of Mahalrajulapalli village of K V Palli block came under the limelight, when Sonu Sood sent a tractor to his residence on Sunday evening after a video of Rao’s two teenage daughters – Vennela and Chandana, tilling the land by pulling the plough went viral on social media. Officials of the K V Palli block who visited the village on Monday morning came to know that Rao was a human rights activist and had contested the assembly elections on behalf of Lok Satta Party in 2009. His family had received benefits from the government under various schemes. “Last year, Rao had availed of financial assistance to the extent of Rs 13,500 under YSR Rythu Bharosa-PK Kisan scheme for groundnut cultivation. This year, too, he was given Rs 7,500 under the scheme in the first installment. “His younger daughter, a 10th standard student, got a benefit of Rs 15,000 under Jagananna Amma Vodi scheme, while his elder daughter has applied for financial assistance under Jagananna Thodu scheme,” an official from the chief minister’s office quoting the report of the K V Palli block officials said. The official said Rao had also received a bag of Di-Ammonium Phosphate (DAP) fertiliser from Rythu Bharosa Kendra and used it for groundnut seed for cultivation. “Actually, he should sow the crop through seed drill machine, but since it came late, the two daughters along with parents started sowing,” the official said quoting the enquiry report. While the house where they have been staying in the village was sanctioned under Indiramma Housing Scheme, the parents have been receiving old-age pension. “The family also received financial aid of Rs 1,000 from the government during the pandemic,” the official said. Nageshwara Rao, a tea stall owner at Madanapalle town, told reporters that he had come to the village to take up farming in the two-acres of land because of the lockdown. He said he could not afford to hire oxen or tractor to till the land as he had no money. “My two daughters volunteered to help me in tilling the land because it was the right time for sowing. My two nephews also helped them. It was not done for fun or get publicity,” Rao said. He admitted that he had contested the elections from Madanapalle. “Actually, I was just a dummy candidate. I was working for a local doctor who was supposed to contest as the Lok Satta candidate. When he realised that he was not going to get many votes, he forced me to contest. I got a little over 1,000 votes,” Rao said, adding that he had no connections whatsoever with any political party. He also acknowledged receiving benefits from the government. “We have suffered badly because of the Covid-19 situation. But we did not beg anybody for assistance. We never expected that the video our daughters tilling the land would become viral and Sonu Sood sir would help us by sending a tractor,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-gifted-tractor-bysonu-sood-contested-andhra-assembly-polls-in-2009/story-jQelfaAVk7ikHXYN5M282M.html
27-07-2020||India||I have taken humiliation in my stride: Daya||Having faced rejections often, actor Daya Shankar Pandey learnt to work more on his skills and performances. “I know that I don’t have a personality to impress someone at first sight. God has made us like this. The bitter truth is that I won’t look like a hero even with any make-up. We need to accept that reality! But what I can do is concentrate more on my acting skill and make it stand out,” says the ‘Lagaan’ and ‘Rajneeti’ actor. The actor recalls, “I have faced many rejections due to it, but I did not lose heart and worked more on my craft. I have taken my humiliation as a tonic. And, I guess it happens with every actor in some way or the other at some point of time. I try to play my role and character so well that I stand out amongst the lot. And, we are lucky that now audience too give equal recognition to character artistes.” Daya was born and brought up in Mumbai but is a UPite to the core. “My village is Jaganpur Mishran in Bhadohi district. Even my wife is from Dhaukalganj in Varanasi. Every year I spend 3-4 months in my village. We live here but follow our roots, eat regional food and speak Awadhi at home. I am deeply connected to UP and it gives me energy!” He has even shot a film ‘Dharam’ in Varanasi and a few months back OTT series ‘Raktanchal’. Giving an insight into this journey, he says, “It all probably started with imitating actors after watching films on Doordarshan. So, in school and colleges I started acting in theatre. To make a career in film industry, I joined as assistant to cameraman Gyan Sahai and started doing small roles too. My noticeable role came with ‘Gulaam’.” His role Goli of ‘Lagaan’ was his turning point. “My work started getting recognition and then films like ‘Ganganjal’, ‘Swades’, ‘Rajneeti’ and ‘Chakravyuh’ came my way. I joined ‘Tarak Mehta Ka Ulta Chasma’ as creative consultant and my role of Inspector Chalu Pandey became very popular.” Daya’s lead role in TV serial ‘Mahima Shanidev Ki’ took his popularity to another level. “I did it for four years and it did lot of good to my spirituality and personality. I will say Shanidev himself chose me and I feel lucky and blessed that I did the role. Now, its re-run on TV is again benefitting me a lot.” Before lockdown he was shooting for ‘Hanseen Dilruba’ which stars Tapsee Pannu and Vikrant Massey. “Just 8-10 days of work is left to complete the shoot. I will be next shooting for Satyamev Jayatev-2, probably in August-September,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-have-taken-humiliation-in-my-stride-daya/story-hD1D2onfKsXucEmARTJziP.html
27-07-2020||India||Assam gas well fire likely to be doused this week, technical glitches delayed ops: OIL||The fire at an Oil India Limited’s (OIL) natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district – that began to blaze two months ago - is likely to be plugged this week, a company spokesperson said on Monday.The natural gas well located at Baghjan in Tinsukia district witnessed a blow out - an uncontrolled release of gas or oil - during a work over operation to locate a new gas reservoir on May 27. On June 9, the well caught fire killing two firefighters and displaced thousands of residents from nearby areas. Since then, the fire continues to blaze with OIL authorities unable to plug it.Initially, OIL had said it would take a month to complete the task. Later the deadline was extended to July 7. But floods, which affected work for several days, and technical issues are adding to the delay while thousands of affected residents continue to reside in relief camps. “While all other logistical requirements have been completed, two jobs i.e. capping the well and killing it, remain. To cap the well, we need to install the blow out preventer (BOP) on top of the wellhead,” said Tridiv Hazarika, OIL spokesperson. The wellhead has a mechanical device called spool which is a fitting placed on BOP stack. It was while removing one such damaged spool on July 22 three foreign experts engaged by OIL sustained burn injuries. After the incident OIL had stated that work on plugging the well would be over within the next 2-3 days. “But while inspecting the second spool which was not damaged it was found that some studs, similar to nuts and bolts, were damaged. Without preparing the spool, removing the damaged studs and installing new studs, the BOP, which weighs around 3 tons, can’t be installed,” said Hazarika. Experts at the site spent considerable time in removing the damaged studs and new studs had to be fabricated at OIL’s Duliajan workshop.On Monday, an OIL statement informed that new studs have been transferred to the site to replace the damaged and deformed ones. “It is a precise operation and it needs to be done correctly as the spool will carry the weight of the BOP. If there is even the slightest fault, it will lead to severe problems. Hence, these tasks were done with extreme caution and they delayed our operation further,” said Hazarika. Once the BOP is installed, the process of killing the well would start. It would be done by injecting a ‘kill fluid’, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from the well back to the reservoir. “The length of the well is 3.5 km. So it could take around 36-40 hours to fill the well with sludge and kill the well. Once the BOP is in place within the next two days, the killing operation would begin and the entire exercise should be over by July 30,” he said. Since the Baghjan well is located close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, there were fears of environmental damage to the area due to the blow out and fire. Several studies by different agencies are underway to measure the extent of damage. Last month, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered formation of an expert committee to probe the blow out and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife and environment because of it. EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-fire-likely-to-be-doused-this-week-technical-glitches-delayed-ops-oil/story-Y7o0XXfU7Y4HGg95LSr1GI.html
27-07-2020||India||MoS Home salutes CRPF’s valour against Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Hot Springs in 1959||Almost one and a half month after 20 Indian soldiers including a Colonel were killed while Chinese army too suffered significant casualties in a violent clash at Galwan valley in Ladakh, union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said that China faced similar consequences in 1959 as well during a clash with Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans in Hot Springs.Recalling the incident of October 21, 1959 in which a patrol party of CRPF was attacked by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops killing 10 Indian troops and taking seven as prisoners, Rai said the paramilitary force had shown great valour and caused “big damage” to the Chinese then also despite the fact that they were outnumbered. The day is also celebrated as police memorial day.Rai was speaking at the 82nd raising day of CRPF. Home minister Amit Shah was supposed to attend the event but he could not make it owing to some other meeting.“The CRPF has a rich history of valour and sacrifice...and on October 21, 1959, it showed that in Hot Springs in Ladakh when the Chinese attacked,” Rai said.“What a coincidence. Whenever China attacks, its strength is huge and ours is less...but China has always suffered the consequences,” he said. He added that 10 CRPF personnel sacrificed their lives in Hot Springs, and the Chinese army had to suffer a “big damage.”Rai, however, didn’t elaborate on the damage to PLA.Praising CRPF, he added that the force has defended the country at Sardar Post in Gujarat as well when a small team repulsed an attack by a 3,000-strong army contingent of Pakistan in 1965.“Pakistan would shake with fear whenever it would recall this incident,” Rai said.The minister praised the force for ensuring the security of the country as he said without security there can be no peace, no development and no unity.Rai added that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home Amit Shah terrorism and Naxalism were being wiped out in the country.In the last six months, 150 terrorists have been killed in Kashmir, he said.Rai said terrorists should know they will have to either change their ideology or will be wiped out by joint security forces like the CRPF, the army and the Jammu and Kashmir police.He also recalled the 2019 Pulwama attack on a CRPF convoy in which 40 personnel were killed, and said the Prime Minister then had declared this sacrifice of the troops will not go in vain.“The force went into Pakistan and killed the terrorists and Pakistan just kept watching. India did what it wanted to do,” the minister said in a reference to IAF’s air strikes in Balakot after the Pulwama attack.During the course of his speech, the minister made an apparent error while referring to the history of the CRPF.He said the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel gave the flag or colours to the force on this day (July 27) in recognition of the good work done by it in aligning all the princely states with India post independence.However, an official pointed out that the CRPF was given the President’s colours by Sardar Patel on March 19, 1950.The importance of July 27 is due to the raising of CRPF’s first battalion on this day in 1939 in the Neemuch town of Madhya Pradesh.In 1939, the force was raised as the Crown Representatives Police under the British and was re-named CRPF in 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-home-salutes-crpf-s-valour-against-chinese-troops-in-ladakh-s-hot-springs-in-1959/story-tFCReyUEyMvqAGlUdiKAaJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh extends lockdown in major cities till Aug 6, cites rise in cases||The Chhattisgarh government on Monday extended the ongoing lockdown period in major cities till August 6 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting headed by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.The affected cities are Raipur, Durg, Bilaspur, Rajnanadgaon and others.Agriculture minister Ravindra Choubey, briefing the media after the cabinet meeting, said that since there is a rise in cases in cities like Raipur, Durg and Bilaspur, the decision has been taken to extend the weeklong lockdown enforced last week till August 6.“The government has given instructions to the district collectors to ensure strict compliance to the lockdown rules in areas where the infection rate is high and all steps should be taken to contain the spread of virus,” Chaubey said.The cabinet also took stock of Covid beds for patients in the cities where most of the cases are concentrated, he said.Chhattisgarh, where the infection has spread in all the 28 districts, has reported 7,623 Covid-19 cases till Sunday night. Out of them, 2,626 were active cases and 4,944 patients were discharged while 43 others have died of the infection.As per the health department data, the state has recorded over 5,000 cases in the last one month. With a total of 2,187 cases so far, Raipur district tops the tally in the state.Earlier, the lockdown was also imposed in several coronavirus-hit urban areas of various districts, including Bilaspur, Korba, Ambikapur, Durg and Rajnandgaon last week for different periods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-extends-lockdown-in-major-cities-till-aug-6-cites-rise-in-cases/story-h3N4FwOBs8zYDyEmfj4U3N.html
27-07-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to release funds to help state fight Covid-19||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to release Rs 53,000 crore, which the Centre owes to the state for various social security schemes and other funds amounting to thousands of crores to help the state’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. She said that the Centre is yet to release the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation worth Rs 4,135 crore for April and May and urged the Modi government to withdraw all conditions imposed on the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003, in a bid to give full advantage to the states to utilise the funds. “The state had requested the Centre to release Rs 35,000 crore after cyclone Amphan had hit Bengal. You had surveyed the areas with your team. But, only Rs 1,000 crore has been released to date,” she reminded the PM. The CM made this remark while attending a virtual programme in which the PM launched high throughput Covid-19 testing facilities at the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) national institutes in Mumbai, Kolkata, and Noida in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Union health minister, CMs of UP, and Maharashtra; Harshvardhan, Yogi Adityanath and Uddhav Thackeray, respectively, also attended the virtual programme. The CM said that even though the state is being asked to utilise the money from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to fight the Covid-19 crisis, it could not be done as those funds have to be kept aside to tide over natural calamities such as cyclones and floods, which Bengal is prone to. This is not the first time that the Banerjee has requested the Centre to release its pending dues of Rs 53,000 crore. She also requested the PM that states are allowed to take independent decisions on the issue of holding of final-year university examinations because of the threat posed by the pandemic. She also lodged a complaint against Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, but stopped short of naming him. “Some people are using their constitutional positions to harass the state government every day,” she added as a comment in passing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-urges-pm-to-release-funds-to-help-state-fight-covid-19/story-slgWaLyYJoVclmwo1ituUP.html
27-07-2020||India||‘A great fall’: VHP on CM Thackeray’s video link offer for Ram temple event||The Vishva Hindu Parishad on Monday slammed Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for suggesting that the bhumi poojan or the ground breaking ceremony for the Ram temple construction in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya could have been performed through video conferencing. Alok Kumar, the international working president of the VHP, said Thackeray’s statement is a “sign of the great fall of a once great Hindutva party.”In an interview to party publication Saamana, the Maharashtra CM had questioned the decision to organise a ground breaking ceremony on August 5, which is scheduled to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also by a host of RSS and BJP leaders. All chief ministers have also been extended an invitation to be part of the ceremony.“Bhoomi Poojan is an essential and sacred ritual before starting any construction work, we worship Mother Earth, seek Her permission to dig and construct structures and obtain Her blessings for the mission. Obviously, this cannot be done by e-conference. The country is going through its normal activities with all precautions relating to Covid-19. The Supreme Court permitted the symbolic taking out of Sri Jagannath Rath yatra. Rituals of Shri Amarnath yatra have also been performed though the yatra is not permitted this year,” Kumar said.An affiliate of the RSS, the VHP was at the forefront of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.Commenting on the concerns about maintaining the necessary protocols during the ongoing Corona pandemic, Kumar said the VHP has always made it clear that the bhumi poojan will be done by restricting participation to 200 people and complying with all health and security advisories. “In this situation, the concerns about the public health expressed by Shri Thackeray are only pretensions,” he said.Earlier NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had also criticised the decision to hold a public ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of the temple amid the pandemic.In March, Thackeray had visited Ayodhya to mark the completion of 100 days of his government and had also announced a contribution of Rs One crore for the construction of a grand temple. He had also said that while his party has parted ways with the BJP, it remains committed to Hindutva and that the BJP and Hindutva are separate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-great-fall-vhp-on-cm-thackeray-s-video-link-offer-for-ram-temple-event/story-xBKAUpyWqBNVjA8ld76fwJ.html
27-07-2020||India||VHP to transport soil, water from holy places in Bengal for Ram temple event||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has collected soil from famous temples and places of pilgrimage spread across West Bengal as well as water from several rivers for the bhoomi pujan to be performed at the site of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone. Though the Trinamool Congress government has clamped biweekly lockdown across the state and full or partial lockdown is in force in parts of several districts in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, VHP workers have been travelling across the state to collect the holy soil and water. “We maintained social distancing norms during the exercise. Because of the pandemic only one man from Bengal will travel to Ayodhya with the soil and river water,” said Sourish Mukherjee, head of the VHP’s media cell in Bengal. VHP workers have collected soil from a large number of sites such as the Madan Mohan temple at Cooch Behar district in north Bengal, the temple of Kapil Muni at Sagar Island in the Bay of Bengal, Dakshineswar temple near Kolkata where Ramkrishna Paramhans was a priest and Kalighat temple located near chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s residence. Similarly, water has been collected from the confluence of Saraswati, Kunti and Hooghly rivers at Triveni in Hooghly district, the Hooghly river near the Iskcon temple at Mayapur and several other places. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust on Saturday issued an appeal to all saints across the country to perform puja in their respective temples and Maths from 11.30 am to 12.30 pm on August 5. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, requested people to watch the live telecast of Bhoomi Pujan on television and light earthen lamps at home in the evening.A similar call was issued by the VHP to saints and seers associated with the front. It said the Bhoomi Poojan day must be celebrated keeping in mind the guidelines issued by state administrations to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.“We will follow the same rules in Bengal. People have been asked to stay at home and watch the ceremony on television. They will sing devotional songs and offer prayers at home,” said Mukherjee. Nabendu Kumar Bandopadhyay, a state leader of the Hindu Jagran Manch, said, “Our organisation too will celebrate the day through prayers at homes and temples. There will be no public gathering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-to-take-soil-water-from-holy-places-in-bengal-for-ram-temple-event/story-BJczhdl7w8GVsa9dCSiFwJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Three former Congress law ministers write to Rajasthan Governor asking him to convene assembly session||Three Congress leaders, who have served as Union law ministers in the past, wrote to Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday, asking him to convene an assembly session as per the advice of the state cabinet which, they claimed, would be the correct course of action as per the legal principles laid down by the Supreme Court (SC). Salman Khurshid, Ashwani Kumar, and Kapil Sibal, who are also senior advocates at the SC, said that the apex court judgments in Shamsher Singh v. Union of India (1974) and Nabam Rebia v. Deputy Speaker (2016) limits the powers of Governor, who is obliged to defer to the wisdom of an elected government. “Any deviation from the established constitutional position would be an avoidable negation of your oath of office and create a constitutional crisis,” they said. In the Shamsher Singh case, a seven-judge SC bench had held that a Governor has to exercise his powers as per the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers except in spheres, where he is required by the Constitution to exercise discretion. In the Nabam Rebia case, a five-judge SC bench had specifically dealt with the question of whether the Governor could use his discretion to summon or dissolve the state assembly. In that case, the then Arunachal Pradesh Governor Jyoti Prasad Rajkhowa had initially summoned the assembly session on January 14, 2016. But, he later advanced the session to December 16, 2015, and also laid down the agenda for the House proceedings. The Supreme Court held that the Governor can summon or dissolve the House, only on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers and he cannot do so at his own discretion. “Having served as Union ministers for law and justice at different periods and as students of constitutional law, we are of the clear view that the established legal position obliges a Governor to call an assembly session in accordance with the advice of the state cabinet,” the Congress leaders stated in their letter to Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-former-congress-law-ministers-write-to-rajasthan-governor-asking-him-to-convene-assembly-session/story-c9kutzJ8UqJVkFGKD7fIhJ.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Won’t contest J-K elections till full statehood is restored’: Omar Abdullah||Upset over downgrading of Jammu and Kashmir to the status of a Union Territory following abrogation of Article 370, former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday said he will not contest assembly elections till full statehood is restored. However, Omar, a former union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, made it clear he would continue to work for his party National Conference(NC) and people of Jammu and Kashmir. “I have been leader of the assembly of the state. In its time the most empowered assembly. I cannot and will not be a member of what is now one of the most disempowered assemblies in the country. It’s as simple as that,” Omar, 50, told PTI. “It is not a threat or blackmail, it’s not a display of me sulking. It’s just a simple acknowledgement that I won’t fight an election to lead the Union Territory assembly which is such a disempowered assembly.” Strongly critical of the dilution of Article 370 of the Constitution, Omar said many reasons had been given to justify abrogation of the provision that granted special status, and claimed that none of those stand any scrutiny. Omar, who is the vice president of the NC, was critical of what had been done to Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 last year, and said his party would oppose it in the Supreme Court. “We believe in democracy and peaceful opposition.” The abrogation of Article 370 was supposed to end terrorism but the government had been telling Supreme Court that violence in Jammu and Kashmir was increasing, he said. Similarly, arguments touted such as lack of development and investment due to Article 370 belie facts, he added. Asked whether his decision not to contest the assembly polls has been discussed with the leadership of his party, Omar replied, “it’s my view and it’s my decision. No one can be forced to fight an election against their will”. On the delimitation exercise being carried out by the administration of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar said, “NC is and will continue to explore all legal options to deal with the developments and decisions post August 5 last year.” The elections are likely to be held only after the delimitation exercise is completed in the union territory, which came into existence on October 31 last year. The erstwhile state was split into two union territories--Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-contest-j-k-elections-till-full-statehood-is-restored-omar-abdullah/story-6mhcIPyNQcYwBIgCzf55BP.html
27-07-2020||India||Covid-19: France to provide India 120 ventilators, 50,000 test kits||France on Monday announced it will provide India 120 ventilators and 50,000 test kits to counter the Covid-19 pandemic, the move coinciding with the first five of 36 Rafale combat jets ordered by New Delhi flying out from a French airbase for the country. A team of French personnel who are experts in inter-hospital transfers by military means is also being sent to India. France acquired expertise in this field as it organised numerous transfers between hospitals. A French Air Force aircraft will fly in the equipment and personnel on Tuesday. The Airbus A330 MRTT aircraft is equipped with a “Morpheus” kit that enables the transport of critically ill patients. The donation of the medical equipment and provision of technical expertise is in line with a recent announcement by President Emmanuel Macron, the French embassy said in a statement. Also read | Coronavirus: France to grant special aid for most vulnerable in India, says MacronThe medical assistance package includes 50 Osiris-3 ventilators, which are portable and easy to use, and 70 Yuwell 830 ventilators with “bilevel positive airway pressure” (BiPAP mode), which are non-invasive hospital ventilators for mild Covid-19 patients. The Osiris ventilators are useful for emergency transport, intra-hospital transfer and recovery, and have different modes, including non-invasive ventilation. The Yuwell 830 ventilators use BiPAP to supply oxygen to lungs without intubation. France will also donate 50,000 high-quality serological IgG/IgM test kits and 50,000 nose and throat swabs and modes of medical transport. “As longstanding strategic partners, France and India are working together closely on the international response to the Covid-19 pandemic as well as providing reciprocal assistance according to the needs of the two countries,” the statement said. In a letter dated July 24, Macron thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for India’s support to France with medical supplies earlier this year. Macron wrote: “When France was going through a critical phase of this public health crisis earlier this spring, India was by our side. It played a very important role with regard to medicines. I wish to thank you once again for having authorised the export of medicines essential for the treatment of critically ill patients. This gesture reflected the exceptional nature of the partnership between our two countries.” Also read: In Covid-19 crisis, France to aid India’s most vulnerable with 200 million eurosHe added, “India, in turn, is going through a difficult phase of the crisis. In these painful times for your nation, I desired France to stand fully by your side. To this end, I directed that we be able to respond to the needs identified by your administration by extending aid that is exceptional in its scope and modalities. “I believe that it is during tough times that historic ties are forged and strengthened between nations.” The announcement of the medical assistance coincided with the five Rafale jets leaving a French airbase for the 7,000-km journey to India with air-to-air refuelling and a stop en route in the United Arab Emirates. They are scheduled to reach India on July 29. France has completed the delivery of 10 jets on schedule, and five will stay back for a training mission. The delivery of all 36 jets will be completed by the end of 2021. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain will hand over the medical equipment to RK Jain, secretary general of the Indian Red Cross Society, on Tuesday. France had earlier extended financial support of 200 million euros to India through the French Development Agency (AFD) to boost social welfare systems and protect vulnerable people. The credit financing agreement was signed on June 22, with the programme designed by the World Bank already being rolled out. French companies have contributed more than six million euros (Rs 48 crore) to India’s national relief funds as part of their Covid-19 crisis response. Several companies have also supplied essential medical equipment and others are providing help to vulnerable sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-france-to-provide-india-120-ventilators-50-000-test-kits/story-wNbqE0416EIcSHpIJThKcP.html
27-07-2020||India||India better off in Covid-19 fight due to right decisions at right time: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narenda Modi said Monday that India is in a much better situation in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic because of the right decisions at the right time.“The right decisions at right time means Indian is better off than other countries, Our death rate is less than may leading countries and our recoveries is more than many countries,” Modi said at the launch of the ICMR’s ‘high-throughput’ coronavirus testing facilities in Mumbai, Kolkata and Noida. “There are more than 11,000 covid facilities centres, more than 11 lakh isolation beds. More than 5 laks tests are being carried out daily … the mission is to save every Indian,” he said in his address after a virtual inauguration of the labs.Watch | ‘India in much better position in Covid fight due to right decisions’: PM Modi Also Read: Human trials for Covid-19 vaccines by Bharat Biotech, Zydus underway in 6 citiesThe Prime Minister said Mumbai, Kolkata and Noida are economic power houses that draw thousands of young Indians in search of jobs.“The high-tech labs launched will add more strength to the three centres….10,000 more tests will now be possible daily,” he said.Modi said the new labs will also help fight against other diseases.“These labs will not be limited to Covid-19 tests only. “In future they will be used to test for dengue, HIV, hepatitis, etc” he said..The Prime Minister also said it was remarkable the way India rose to the challenge to prepare the human resources to fight the pandemic.“Another major challenge was to prepare the human resources in the country for the fight against coronavirus.In the short time that our paramedics, ANM, anganwadi and other health and civil workers have been trained, it is also unprecedented,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-a-much-better-situation-because-of-right-decisions-taken-at-right-time-pm-modi-at-launch-of-covid-19-testing-labs/story-6CnYUZwiIDzHq325RVHe8H.html
27-07-2020||India||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das highlights 5 positive shifts in economy||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday said five dynamic shifts have the potential to shape the future of the country’s economy -- fortunes shifting in favour of the farm sector, changing energy mix in favour of renewable, leveraging information and communication technology (ICT) and start-ups, strengthening supply and value chains, and focusing on infrastructure as a growth multiplier. “They [the five factors] may escape our attention in this all-consuming engrossment with the [coronavirus disease, or Covid-19] pandemic, but they could be nursing the potential to repair, to rebuild and renew our tryst with developmental aspirations. These dynamic shifts have been taking place incipiently for some time,” he said at an event, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and held via video-conference.ALSO WATCH | ‘Big push to Infrastructure projects can re-ignite the economy’: RBI governorCommenting on the infrastructure as a growth driver, he said the infrastructure gap still remains large and there is a need for diversifying financing options. “On financing options for infrastructure, we are recovering from the consequences of excessive exposure of banks to infrastructure projects. Non-performing assets (NPAs) relating to infrastructure lending by banks has remained at elevated levels,” he said. Also read | ‘Covid-19 biggest test of robustness, resilience of our economic system’: RBI Governor“Promotion of the corporate bond market, securitisation to enhance market-based solutions to the problem of stressed assets, and appropriate pricing and collection of user charges should continue to receive priority in policy attention,” he added. He proposed a big push to certain targeted mega infrastructure projects that can reignite the economy. “This could begin in the form of a north-south and east-west expressway together with high-speed rail corridors, both of which would generate large forward and backward linkages for several other sectors of the economy and regions around the rail/road networks,” he said. On agricultural transformation, Das suggested a change in agriculture policy focus from minimum support price (MSP). “Hitherto, the main instrument has been minimum support prices, but the experience has been that price incentives have been costly, inefficient, and even distortive,” he said. He hoped that an efficient domestic supply chain will facilitate “domestic free trade” in agriculture that is triggered by three key policy changes -- the amendment of the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), 1955; the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020. Also read | ‘Financial landscape has deteriorated but light shines through,’ says RBI Governor: 10 pointsWith this enabling legislative framework, the focus must turn to crop diversification, food processing, agricultural exports, and public and private capital formation in the farm sector, he said. A similar opportunity space exists in the energy sector, especially renewable, he said adding that India has emerged a power surplus country, exporting electricity to neighbouring countries. Das said the shift to greener energy would reduce the coal import bill, create employment opportunities, ensure a sustained inflow of new investments, and promote ecologically sustainable growth. He, however, said that reforming retail distribution of electricity while reducing commercial, technical and transmission losses remained a key challenge. According to Das, ICT, and start-ups are one of the key growth drivers. “The ICT revolution has placed India on the global map as a competent, reliable, and low-cost supplier of knowledge-based solutions,” he said. He said Covid-19 has impacted the outlook for start-ups, particularly the availability of funding due to an all-pervasive atmosphere of risk aversion. Besides, globally, regulatory uncertainty relating to work permits and immigration policies could also amplify challenges. The sector has to also deal with concerns relating to data privacy and data security, he added. “Promoting young firms and start-ups will be critical for greater employment generation and higher productivity-led economic growth in India ... Innovation and the ability to nurture ideas into actualisation would be the key challenge. In this context, private enterprise and investment have a game-changing role,” he said. He said this is the time to strengthen the domestic and global supply chain. “Investment in sectors with strong forward and backward linkages in the supply chain can generate higher production, income, and employment. Consequently, identification of such sectors becomes critical for strategic policy interventions,” he said. Global shifts in value chains in response to Covid-19 and other developments would create opportunities for India, he said. “Besides focusing on diversifying sources of imports, it may also be necessary to focus on greater strategic trade integration, including in the form of early completion of bilateral free trade agreements with the US (United States), the EU (European Union), and the UK (United Kingdom),” he added. DK Srivastava, the chief policy advisor at consultancy firm EY India, said the RBI Governor has invited India’s corporate sector to invest heavily in these five sectors that define an ongoing economic shift in the economy. “First, in agriculture, the government’s new regulatory initiatives including the creation of a genuine pan-India market in agricultural products, will make returns to investment in agriculture more remunerative. Second, in the case of renewables, there is clear scope for taking advantage of progressive cost reductions and substituting imports of solar panels from China by creating domestic capacity. Third, in the case of information and communication technology, the government’s initiatives for curbing Chinese technologies and applications open up competitive space for Indian initiatives. Fourth, global supply chains are bound to be realigned in favour of the country and the private sector should invest extensively and take advantage of the space that is being opened up,” he said. According to Srivastava, in the case of infrastructure, the private sector already has a specific role in financing the Rs 100-lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). “The current and next years are critical for the NIP since the proposed schedule provides for peaking of infrastructure investment in these years, particularly in the construction sector. Financing of infrastructure investment in the current and subsequent years will be key to the recovery of India’s growth and pushing it towards its potential,” he said. “The RBI Governor acknowledges the role of both the public and private sectors for infrastructure financing. In the first case, greater flexibility in setting the fiscal deficit limits for the central and state governments may be needed and in the second case, innovative market solutions may be called for,” he added. Srivastava proposed another round of fiscal stimulus. “To finance public investment in infrastructure, the government may consider another round of fiscal stimulus focused mainly on increasing its capital expenditure on infrastructure,” he said. The state governments may also be persuaded to borrow up to the enhanced limit of 5% of their respective gross state domestic product (GSDP). “The prerequisite conditions for availing of this increased limit may also be relaxed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-highlights-5-positive-shifts-in-economy/story-g5HxxlJxsYn6U3u44aZS5O.html
27-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Plea against Rajasthan BSP lawmakers merger with Cong dismissed by HC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan HC dismisses BJP MLA’s petition against merger of BSP lawmakers with CongressAmid the political battle in Rajasthan, the High Court on Monday dismissed Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) MLA Madan Dilawar’s petition against merger of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs with the ruling Congress party. Read MoreRajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra summons assembly session, denies he was delaying itRajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday afternoon acceded to the state cabinet’s request to call for an assembly session. The move came swiftly after chief minister Ashok Gehlot told reporters that he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi informing him about the Governor’s “behaviour”. Read MoreAmid discontent in Air India over pay cuts, pilots’ body seeks meet with ministerThe Indian Commercial Pilot’s Association has sought a meeting with Union civil aviation minister Haredeep Singh to brief him on the “ground reality” of pay cuts in Air India. Read MoreAishwarya Rai, Aaradhya discharged from hospital as they test negative for Covid-19Abhishek Bachchan has tweeted that his wife, Aishwarya Rai, and daughter Aaradhya have tested negative for the coronavirus, and have been discharged from hospital. He remains under observation with father Amitabh Bachchan. Read More IPL 2020: Emirates Cricket Board confirms receiving letter of intent from BCCI to host IPL in UAEThe Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) on Monday confirmed that it has received the official Letter of Intent from the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to host the postponed 2020 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) in the United Arab Emirates. Read MorePUBG, ByteDance’s Resso come under govt radar as India bans 47 China-linked appsRecent reports state that the Indian government has banned 47 clone apps of the 59 Chinese apps that were banned last month. However, it looks like many more are under watch now. A report adds that as many as 275 more apps are in the government’s radar. These too might be banned in India. Read MoreJapanese fashion designer Kansai Yamamoto dies aged 76Japanese fashion designer Kansai Yamamoto, renowned for his flamboyant creations and work on costumes for singer David Bowie - especially Ziggy Stardust - has died of leukaemia, his company announced earlier today. He was 76-years-old. Read MoreAstronaut shares pic of Hurricane Hanna from space, leaves netizens amazedAfter giving netizens a glimpse of a thunderstorm from space, astronaut Bob Behnken has again piqued the attention of netizens - this time with a picture of Hurricane Hanna. The photo shared by Behnken captures the massive hurricane from space and chances are it will leave you awe-struck. Read More‘Governor should have no other master except the constitution’: ChidambaramCongress leader P Chidambaram lashed out at the Rajasthan Governor for not giving his assent to the state government’s demand to convene the assembly. Chidambaram said that Governors appointed by the BJP since 2014 have repeatedly violated the letter and spirit of the constitution. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-plea-against-rajasthan-bsp-lawmakers-merger-with-cong-dismissed-by-hc-and-all-the-latest-news/story-765TlzyL1EvA4IvRiAqqHO.html
27-07-2020||India||IMD launches first weather app for general public||Now people can keep abreast of weather updates with Mausam, a mobile app that provides all current weather forecasts through the week and even radar-based forecasts updated every 10 minutes. This is the first app launched by the 145-year-old India Meteorological Department (IMD) that is meant for everyone. It already has another app, Meghdoot, meant only for farmers and those involved in agriculture. The ministry of earth sciences launched the app on Monday on the occasion of its foundation day. The app, which can be downloaded on Playstore and Appstore, is dedicated to the public and designed to provide weather information and forecasts in a lucid manner without technical jargon, the ministry said in a statement. Also read: Showers over past 4 days lower Delhi’s rain deficit to 16%Mausam offers fives services – current temperature, humidity, wind speed and wind direction for 200 cities and the information is updated eight times a day. There is information on sunrise, sunset, moonrise and moonset, three hourly warnings of local weather phenomena and their intensity issued for about 800 stations, and forecast of weather conditions for 450 cities for the past 24 hours and seven day. There are also alerts issued twice a day for all districts for the next five days in colour code (red, orange and yellow) to warn users of any intense weather phenomena, and station-wise radar forecasts updated every 10 minutes. The app was designed and developed jointly by ICRISAT’s Digital Agriculture and Youth team, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune, and IMD. “Meghdoot was meant only for farmers. This is for everyone. The now-cast feature of this app will tell you if there will be rain, thunder or any other severe weather in your area based on data from the nearest meteorological station. Otherwise, there will be city-based information and forecasts and even radar products,” said M Rajeevan, secretary in the ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-launches-first-weather-app-for-general-public/story-Gk7f80plbLgqMczqB24lEJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Amid discontent in Air India over pay cuts, pilots’ body seeks meet with minister||The Indian Commercial Pilot’s Association has sought a meeting with Union civil aviation minister Haredeep Singh to brief him on the “ground reality” of pay cuts in Air India.The association wrote to Puri saying “officials briefing you have grossly misinformed you about the current state of affairs at Air India. Pay cut isn’t across board.We request you for urgent meeting so we may brief you on ground reality,” according to ANILast week, senior pilots in Air India had expressed discontent over the differences in pay cuts announced by the national carrier for pilots and senior management. They claimed that the salaries of top AI officials have been reduced by a smaller percentage compared to their pay cuts.In a letter to the civil aviation minister last week, Air India’s executive pilots committee had also said that the pay cuts and compulsory leave without pay scheme could have potentially disastrous psychological impact and lead to “desperate and extreme acts”.Air India had defended its decision saying wages would later be reviewed in accordance with the airline’s improved financial condition.The national carrier has also started the process of identification for redundant or surplus employees in the company to be sent on compulsory leave without pay for a period from six months up to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-discontent-in-air-india-over-pay-cuts-pilots-body-seeks-meet-with-minister/story-ItFem6QJ74IJQwOyvXhovK.html
27-07-2020||India||Goa passes budget in hurried session; opposition walks out, meets Governor||The Goa legislative assembly on Monday hurriedly passed the budget for the current financial year amid sloganeering and a subsequent walkout by the members of the opposition, who accused the Pramod Sawant-led government of trying to cover up for its mishandling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The monsoon session, which was curtailed to a single day in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, took a stormy turn no sooner the adjournment motion moved by the Opposition legislators was rejected by Speaker Rajesh Patnekar as “not being in order”, prompting the lawmakers to storm the well of the House amid sloganeering. They stopped after they were escorted out of the House by marshals.Later, the opposition legislators met Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik to impress upon him the “murder of democracy” under the Sawant government’s watch. “Today, the Goa government has murdered democracy by rejecting a discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic and passing the state budget for 2020-21 without proper discussion in the legislative assembly. The government displayed its insensitive approach towards the health and well-being of the people of Goa by rejecting the adjournment motion moved by the opposition MLAs (members of the legislative assembly) demanding a discussion on the pandemic. The government has passed a record business in the shortest time, including 86 demands, 11 bills and passing of the Goa Appropriation Bill and supplementary demands for grants in 2020-21, without any discussion,” stated a letter by Digambar Kamat, leader of opposition in Goa assembly, to Governor Malik and signed by other opposition lawmakers. However, the government has defended its stance on the one-day assembly session and also the handling of the pandemic. “The opposition should come with constructive suggestions. It is easy to criticise. But the Covid-19 outbreak didn’t occur in a planned manner. It has taken everybody by surprise. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) put out by the state government is in the interest of the public. The state’s record is one of the best in the country as far as conducting tests per million population is concerned. The situation was different, when lockdown restrictions were in place because we had got time to put a mechanism in place,” stated state health minister Vishwajit Rane in the assembly. “We regret the state has reported 35 deaths to date. Our positivity, recovery, and the mortality rate is 8.11%, 65%, and 0.7%, respectively, all of which are much better than the national average,” he added. Earlier, opposition lawmakers had called the one-day assembly session “a farce”. “In a democracy, a discussion has to take place. Today, he (Rane) makes a statement that everything is fine. There is no transparency when it comes to Covid-19 and it is the only issue that should be discussed in the House. If we can’t do this then why have the House? Why do we need the House? Dissolve it,” said Vijai Sardesai, the leader of Goa Forward Party, a regional outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-passes-budget-in-hurried-session-opposition-walks-out-meets-governor/story-mWkLkCe3OHVLRc6H5Cll5N.html
27-07-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: MSME relief plan being readied, says Maharashtra industries minister||The Maharashtra government is chalking out a plan to help the MSME sector which has been hit by the economic downturn due to the coronavirus outbreak, state industries minister Subhash Desai said here on Monday.The needs of the sector are being studied and the state government plan will definitely help the MSME sector, he told PTI.“Companies are facing the burden of paying salaries during the lockdown when production is almost nil. They have demanded that fixed electricity charges be waived. The scheme being drafted will be as per their needs,” Desai said.He said the state government was working to ensure firms operating outside the jurisdiction of MIDC get subsidy benefits on various purchases which are currently unavailable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-msme-relief-plan-being-readied-says-maharashtra-industries-minister/story-V3FXkOvnRCL1pnulJy2NmN.html
27-07-2020||India||Centre bans 47 apps which were clones, variants of Chinese apps banned in June||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) has banned 47 apps, which were variants and cloned copies of the 59 apps banned earlier in June.These banned clones include Tiktok Lite, Helo Lite, SHAREit Lite, BIGO LIVE Lite and VFY Lite.The order regarding ban on these apps came on Friday, July 24. The 59 apps, most of which were Chinese, had been banned by the Centre in June in view of the information available that they are engaged in activities which are “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity and defence” of the country.Almost all the apps banned had some preferential Chinese interest and the majority have parent Chinese companies.The ban came amid border tensions with China in Eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-bans-47-apps-which-were-clones-variants-of-chinese-apps-banned-in-june/story-gTALhwTZh1pboY6HAmat5J.html
27-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Mumbai Police records Mahesh Bhatt’s statement||Mumbai Police recorded filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt’s statement on Monday in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide on June 14. Last week, Bhatt was summoned by Mumbai Police following which he reached Santacruz police station at around 11:30 am on Monday.According to Bandra police officials, he was called at Santacruz police station, where he was questioned for around two and a half hours. WATCH | Sushant Singh Rajput death: Filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt records his statement At around 2pm, Bhatt left the police station. Also read | Sushant Singh Rajput’s 50 SIM cards, other missing links call for CBI probe: LawyerOn Sunday, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had said that Bhatt would be called and questioned by Mumbai Police regarding Rajput’s death. Prior to Bhatt, police had called filmmaker and chairman of Yash Raj Films (YRF) Aditya Chopra at Versova police station to record his statement. Police have recorded statements of 45 people to date. So far, the statements have been recorded of Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, domestic help Keshav Bachner, manager Deepesh Sawant, creative manager Siddharth Ramnathmurti Pithani, sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, father KK Singh, small screen actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, business manager Shruti Modi, public relations (PR) manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, film critic Rajeev Masand, employees of YRF, among others. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister shares their chat from June 10, reveals story of his birthOn June 14, Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Bandra following which state government had ordered a probe to ascertain the cause of his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-mumbai-police-records-mahesh-bhatt-s-statement/story-O2G7L7qdzdDIz7yYEhOfAI.html
27-07-2020||India||Ajit Pawar’s birthday wish for Uddhav Thackeray comes with a veiled message||Hours after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that he is in firm control of the “steering wheel” of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), a coalition government comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, his deputy Ajit Pawar of the NCP sent him wishes for his 60th birthday on Twitter with a picture of the two leaders with Pawar on the driver’s seat. At the stroke of midnight on Sunday, Pawar tweeted the picture of him at the wheel of a golf cart and CM Thackeray in the passenger’s seat. Pawar, who was among the first to wish CM Thackeray, caused a flutter in Maharashtra’s political circles with the naughty picture. “Best wishes to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena party president and MVA leader, Uddhav Thackerayji. Wish you a healthy & long life!.” Pawar tweeted. Also read: Amid talks of rift, Uddhav Thackeray meets Ajit PawarThackeray, in an interview to the Rajya Sabha member and Saamana executive editor Sanjay Raut, published on Sunday had said, “The future of my government is not in the hands of the opposition ... It is a strong government and I am at the steering wheel with two other partners. A three-wheeler (rickshaw) is a vehicle of poor people.” Political observers say the silent power struggle could continue between the two top leaders in the government. Observers said that this is a display of the silent tussle between the two leaders. Surendra Jondhale, a political analyst called it “political indecency” on Pawar’s part. “There is some amount of restlessness to show who is more decisive and assertive, as the two leaders have different styles of functioning. It is unfortunate that (Ajit) Pawar chose to put out such a picture. There should be some kind of political decency. One should not take it lightly, as it is impolite and indecent,” he said. Also read: Ministers unhappy with ‘interference’ of NCP’s Ajit PawarEarlier in July, Thackeray made sure he got back five Sena corporators, who had defected to the NCP in the presence of Pawar, back into his party fold. His deputy had presided over the entry of Sena corporators into the NCP, which did not go down well with Thackeray, as he made his displeasure known to Pawar. “There must be some friction due to that [episode] too, but (Ajit) Pawar should not forget that Thackeray has direct access to Sharad Pawar. He (Ajit Pawar) has never hidden his vaulting political ambition, but this is not the opportune moment to bare such thoughts amid the pandemic,” Jondhale added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-pawar-s-birthday-wish-for-uddhav-thackeray-comes-with-a-veiled-message/story-aWp29qtdqv8mCGPT3TMbPL.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Once successful, Covid-19 vaccine doses will be distributed by govt’: Serum Institute||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday said that the distribution of Covid-19 vaccine vials in India will be through a government network rather than private entities. The firm, known to be the largest vaccine manufacturer by volume across the world, said everyone will get the dose. The clarification came a day after CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted saying the company would “keep more than enough” doses of the Covid-19 vaccine for the Parsis, the community he belongs to. “It was just a casual and friendly conversation between two Parsi’s. Once the vaccine is made, everyone will be getting it. It is very early to talk about this,” the SII said in a written statement. SII has been chosen by the Oxford and its partner AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine once it gets ready. On the distribution part, SII said people will not have to purchase it in the market since the government will be distributing it. “On distribution - once the vaccine trials are done and successful, it will be procured and distributed by the government so that people don’t have to buy it directly,” said the Pune-based firm. Also read: India’s coronavirus epidemic is now the world’s fastest growingEarlier on Sunday, Poonawalla was responding to a tweet from entrepreneur Ronnie Screwvala in which the latter had proposed to have a “special quota” for Parsis, albeit on a “lighter note”. “Yes, @RonnieScrewvala, we will keep more than enough for the community. Our production capacity of just one day will be enough to cover every Parsi on the planet... given the size of our community!,” Poonawalla tweeted. In his tweet, Srewvala had said, “On a lighter note, Since Parsi’s are to be an extinct race (Though average age of Parsi’s show otherwise) there is a lobby that as the vaccine does come in there will be a special quota under saving from extinction race..& why not if a Parsi is at the forefront of it.” On SII’s plan to start clinical trials in India for the vaccine for which it has partnered with AstraZeneca, the firm said, “On trials - we are hoping to start the Phase 3 clinical trials in August post regulatory approvals.” SII has already made an application seeking permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting phase II/III human clinical trials in India. The company plans to conduct trials in Pune and Mumbai which have seen high prevalence of Covid-19 infections that will help SII test the efficacy of the vaccine. The SII in an earlier statement had said that by end of August, between 4,000 to 5,000 people in Pune and Mumbai will be injected with the vaccine as part of trials that are scheduled to last over two months. The steps by SII on seeking application from the DCGA came after Oxford University reported satisfactory progress from the vaccines test results last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-successful-covid-19-vaccine-doses-will-be-distributed-by-govt-serum-institute/story-ZnSewvSEYV9igvUWHDsTEK.html
27-07-2020||India||Shillong goes under 72-hour lockdown amid rise in Covid-19 cases||A 72-hour lockdown started in Meghalaya’s state capital Shillong from Monday amid rising cases of novel coronavirus in the state, officials said.Around 30 localities, mostly in the worst-hit East Khasi Hills district, have already been declared containment zones, they said.The lockdown in Shillong agglomeration -- localities within the Shillong municipality and scheduled areas -- was announced after 56 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last two days.Of these, 37 are armed forces personnel, including 23 troopers of the BSF, Health Services Director Aman War said.Meghalaya has 543 active Covid-19 cases, while 173 people have recovered from the disease. Five coronavirus deaths have been reported in the state so far.The East Khasi Hills district alone has 441 active cases, officials said.“The lockdown reimposed in the entire Shillong city agglomeration will continue till Wednesday midnight,” the district’s Deputy Commissioner Matsiewdor W Nongbri said.During this period, health workers will be working extra time to track all primary and secondary contacts of positive patients, and conduct random tests to break the chain of infection, she said.Meanwhile, two police stations in East Jaintia Hills district have been closed after a few Covid-19 cases were detected there.“Both the police stations have been disinfected and personnel placed under quarantine,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shillong-goes-under-72-hour-lockdown-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-RBtgMIlfUTlUFvCpGpDFpM.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan HC dismisses BJP MLA’s petition against merger of BSP lawmakers with Congress||Amid the political battle in Rajasthan, the High Court on Monday dismissed Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) MLA Madan Dilawar’s petition against merger of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs with the ruling Congress party.Dilawar had filed a petition in the high court earlier this month for quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress and challenging the “inaction” of the Assembly Speaker in not deciding on his plea seeking disqualification of the BSP legislators for their merger with the Congress.In a statement on Sunday, the BJP lawmaker said no action was taken on his petition to the Speaker on March 16 for disqualification of the BSP MLAs. He said he had reminded the Speaker for a quick decision on July 17.Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha who won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets applied for merger as a group with the Congress on September 16 last year. Two days later, the Speaker passed an order declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as part of the Congress.There was more twist in the ongoing political drama in Rajasthan on Sunday with the BSP issuing a whip to the six MLAs to vote against the ruling party in the state in case of a trust motion in the Assembly.The merger had boosted the Ashok Gehlot-led government taking the Congress’ tally to 107 members in a House of 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-dismisses-bjp-mla-s-petition-against-merger-of-bsp-lawmakers-with-congress/story-dlSt5G93ZXWlRsYIocHgnJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Governor summons House session, puts in 3 conditions||After repeated requests, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday agreed to summon a session of the state assembly provided the government gives a 21-day notice.The condition is part of three suggestions the Governor has made while returning Ashok Gehlot Cabinet’s recommendation that he should call a session of the Vidhan Sabha.In the notification issued today, the Governor denied that he was delaying the summoning of the House session even though the Congress and the CM have accused him of being “under pressure from the top”.This was the second time that Governor Mishra had returned a cabinet proposal on convening the assembly, amid the power tussle in Rajasthan.The state government, the Governor said, should undertake to broadcast live the proceedings of a floor test, if it takes place.CM Gehlot, who has been pressing for an assembly session, wants to prove his majority to end the political impasse created after the rebellion by Sachin Pilot, who has since been sacked as the deputy CM and head of the state unit.It should also ensure precautions during the proposed Vidhan Sabha sitting against the spread of coronavirus, the Governor’s note said. Citing the coronavirus situation, the Governor had earlier said it would be difficult to call all the members of legislative assembly (MLAs) at a short notice.Governor Mishra, according to news agency ANI, had asked whether CM Ashok Gehlot wants a trust vote in the state assembly.“Do you want to move Motion of Confidence? It is not mentioned in the proposal but you have been speaking about it in the media,” the governor was quoted as saying by ANI.The Governor had earlier questioned the need for calling the session when the government already had the majority and the disqualification matter was pending in the Supreme Court. In another development, assembly Speaker CP Joshi withdrew his petition from the top court challenging a July 21 order of the high court directing him to defer disqualification proceedings against former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress legislators backing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-kalraj-mishra-calls-for-state-assembly-session-denies-he-was-delaying-it/story-YFL3zk5K7MWKbJyxvCLImM.html
27-07-2020||India||Three persons get buried in debris due to landslide in Pithoragarh, rescue operations on||Three persons, including two women, were buried under muck and debris due to landslides caused by heavy rains in two separate incidents in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, officials said. In one of the incidents, two persons got buried under muck that entered their house at Dhamigaon village in Dharchula on Sunday night following heavy rains. In another incident, a woman was buried under debris due to a landslide in Gothi village in Munsiyari sub-division on Monday morning, officials said. Vijay Jogdande, district magistrate (DM), Pithoragarh, said, “The district control room received the information about the Dhamigaon incident on Monday morning from a villager after which rescue teams were sent to the spot.” “The deceased persons have been identified as Bishna Devi (55) and Jawahar Singh (30). Search and rescue operation is on to find their bodies,” said Jogdande. In another incident, the woman, who is yet to be identified, was buried under debris that fell from uphill due to a landslide. “She had gone out to collect cow dung, when suddenly the debris fell and buried her. Efforts are on to search her body,” said Girija Shankar Joshi, district information officer, Pithoragarh. Pithoragarh is the worst-affected district in the hill state due to heavy rains. At least 12 people died in the district in a cloudburst recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-three-persons-get-buried-in-debris-due-to-landslide-in-pithoragarh-rescue-operations-on/story-IPsxa20KGfO0EB9lsZpCIL.html
27-07-2020||India||Missing Covid-19 patient found dead 24 hours after ‘walking’ out of UP hospital||A 55-year-old patient of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), who went missing from a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj on Saturday, was found dead in bushes around 500 metres away on Sunday evening. A CCTV footage, which has now gone viral, shows a man resembling the patient walking out of the Covid-19 ward of the SRN Hospital at around 4.30pm on Saturday. Officials said his body was spotted by employees of a nursery, near a police officer’s house, who then informed the police. The man’s family has alleged he was not given proper treatment at the SRN Hospital. The administration, however, has denied their claims. Also read: India’s coronavirus epidemic is now the world’s fastest growingDinesh Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city), said the man from Rajapur area was admitted to the hospital on Friday and went missing on Saturday night. A missing person’s complaint was lodged on his family’s complaint and a massive search was launched but he could not be found. The family said they reached the hospital when his phone was switched off since Saturday night. The staff told them he had fled the hospital despite efforts to stop him. The man’s daughter claimed her father had informed her of the poor condition at the ward while speaking to her over the phone. The family released an audio clip late on Sunday as they claimed the man had called them up on Saturday morning, hours before he “escaped” from the hospital. He reportedly said his complaints at the hospital had gone unheard. “My mouth was dry all night. I felt suffocated probably because of the ventilator. I tried to tell a few people here to help but no one listened,” the man is heard saying in the clip while talking with his family members. Also read: Eat less to reduce Covid-19 death risk, UK tells peopleA CCTV footage also shows a group of men walking out of the same gate from which the man came out. The hospital administration has claimed the men work with the hospital and were trying to pursue the patient. “This patient had fever and breathing problems. His condition was improving. However, he walked out all of a sudden. The doctors and staff tried to stop him but he left before anyone could stop him. We immediately informed the police,” Dr SP Singh, the principal of MLN Medical College to which SRN Hospital is associated with, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-covid-19-patient-found-dead-24-hours-after-walking-out-of-up-hospital/story-m07ngU9dqsJJ8YZUxthUbN.html
27-07-2020||India||After government refusal, UP Bar Council to extend financial help to lawyers in need||As the stalemate between Uttar Pradesh Bar Council and the state government continues over providing financial help to lawyers in distress amid Covid-19 pandemic, the council has decided to help lawyers from its own resources. Staggered opening of courts after the nationwide lockdown of over two months affected lawyers across the state. The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh, therefore, decided to help state’s 171,000 lawyers who hold a certificate of practice (COP).For the purpose, it has earmarked Rs 10 crore, which may increase, from its own resources. These lawyers, across 75 districts and including those at Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow bench, will get financial help through lawyers’ associations of their respective districts. Also read: India’s coronavirus epidemic is now the world’s fastest growingThe council will hand over the fund to lawyers’ associations in all 75 districts. These associations will transfer the money directly to the bank accounts of the lawyers in distress.As per the council, the fund will be allotted to every district according to the number of lawyers having the certificate of practice. For example, the Bar Council has allotted Rs 85 lakh for Lucknow which will be distributed equally among lawyers i need identified from 14,593 advocates who have certificates of practice.These lawyers don’t fit the criteriaIncome tax payee Wife/ husband/ children in government job Those who own a four-wheeler Those who own two acre agriculture land Those who own a house in district headquarters Government advocates If in Lucknow, the number of lawyers in need is less (according to the criteria set by the Bar Council), per lawyer distribution of fund will increase. This identification work will be done by local lawyers’ associations.“Before August 15, we will execute the plan and the money will be transferred to the bank accounts of lawyers,” said Janki Sharan Pandey, chairman, Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh. “Lawyers’ associations will provide all details to the Bar Council within a week of transferring the money into bank accounts of the lawyers,” added Pandey. The council has given the responsibility to 25 members to work with lawyers’ associations in 75 districts to identify the lawyers in need.“Each member of the Bar Council has been allotted three district according to their choice. Here, they will coordinate with the lawyers’ associations to identify needy lawyers from among the holders of certificate of practice,” said Pandey.“They will prepare a list of lawyers who fulfil the criteria set by the Bar Council,” he added.Lawyers with certificate of practice Prayagraj- 19,207 (maximum in state) Lucknow- 14,593 (second highest in state) Kasganj – 413 (lowest in state) State govt didn’t extend help The UP Bar Council is also critical of the state government for not providing any financial help to lawyers amid the pandemic. “A PIL petition was filed in the Allahabad High Court seeking a directive to the state government for providing financial help to lawyers in distress,” said Pandey.“Later, the high court took suo moto cognizance of the issue. Despite the high court’s order, the state government has not extended any financial assistance to lawyers,” he added. Awadh Bar Association helpedThe Awadh Bar Association of Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court has provided financial help of Rs 3,000 each to 1,000 lawyers and Rs 1,000 each to 200 advocate clerks of the high court. “We have provided financial assistance to lawyers of the high court from our own resources. Lawyers have also contributed,” said senior lawyer HGD Parihar, president, Awadh Bar Association. “I know this is not enough. We are planning to extend more help,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-government-refusal-up-bar-council-to-extend-financial-help-to-lawyers-in-need/story-BPIEqqq0bRIfQayj0pB2hJ.html
27-07-2020||India||UP leads in setting up compressed bio gas plants, followed by Maharashtra and Haryana||Uttar Pradesh leads states in setting up plants to produce compressed bio-gas (CBG) as part of efforts to reduce India’s dependence on imported energy and to check pollution from stubble burning that chokes the National Capital Region every winter. The state is followed by Maharashtra and Haryana, according to the petroleum ministry. Of the 515 letters of intent (LoI) issued to entrepreneurs for setting up CBG plants across the country, 126 projects are located in Uttar Pradesh, 75 in Maharashtra, 59 in Haryana, 35 in Andhra Pradesh, 24 in Punjab and seven in Delhi, the official data showed. Gujarat received the nod for setting up 32 plants, Karnataka 25, Madhya Pradesh 24, Chhattisgarh 22, Tamil Nadu 16, West Bengal 13, Bihar 11, Odisha, Uttarakhand and Telangana nine each, Jharkhand seven, Rajasthan five, and Goa, Jammu and Kashmir and Assam two each. The estimated cost of the 515 CBG plants is Rs 18,000 crore. A spokesperson of the petroleum ministry said, “The SATAT (Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation) scheme is expected to have 5,000 plants across the country by 2023 that can produce 15 million metric tonnes of CBG and proportionately reduce our dependence on energy imports.” Biomass sources such as agricultural residue, cattle dung, sugarcane press mud, municipal solid waste and waste from sewage treatment plants is used to produce bio-gas through the process of anaerobic decomposition. Bio-gas is purified to remove hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and water vapour to produce and compress CBG, which has methane content of more than 90%, he said. “CBG has calorific value and other properties similar to compressed natural gas (CNG), and it can be used as green renewable automotive fuel. It can replace CNG in automotive, industrial and commercial areas,” the spokesperson added. The move will reduce pollution due to stubble burning. “Bio-mass surplus in India is about 150 million tonnes. From late September through October each year, farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, burn an estimated 35 million tonnes of crop waste as a low-cost straw-disposal practice. CBG plants can curb this practice by giving an additional income option to farmers,” he said. India imports nearly 83% of the crude oil its processes. About 50% of its natural gas requirement is also imported. The government has set a target to reduce this import dependence by 10% in the next two years. This is the first time an alternative to natural gas is being sold by oil marketing companies. Commercial sales of CBG from seven retail outlets of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) have already started. Two outlets are in Maharashtra – Pune and Kohlapur – and five are located in Tamil Nadu, including two in Salem and one each in Namakkal, Rasipuram and Puduchatram. While inaugurating one such plant at Namakkal last month, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the government has been promoting bio-fuels, including CBG, to increase the green energy mix, reduce import dependence, create employment, especially in semi-urban and rural areas, and reduce pollution. “Usage of CBG shall assist in achieving climate change goals of India as per the Paris Agreement 2015,” he said, adding the project is in alignment with flagship schemes such as Swachh Bharat, Atmnirbhar Bharat and Make in India. The business is lucrative for entrepreneurs as state-run oil majors such as IOC and GAIL India take off-take guarantee to such plants. Besides, the government is considering according it a priority sector lending tag for easy and cheaper finance. The government gives subsidy for setting up new CBG projects, which could be availed up to 2020-21, the spokesperson said. According to Pradhan, the government is in the process of including bio-manure in the Fertilizer Control Order 1985 to make the project more lucrative. Bio-manure is a key by-product of CBG plants. The move will make it easier for such plants to market bio-manure and provide an opportunity for organic farming. According to the oil ministry, 5,000 CBG plants are expected to produce 50 million metric tonnes of bio-manure. The spokesperson said Western countries such as Germany, Italy, the UK, France and Switzerland too are promoting bio-gas. The number of bio-gas plants in Germany has doubled to nearly 9,000 plants from 4,136 plants in 2010. The total bio-gas production capacity of the plants is 8.98 billion cubic metres (BCM), which is equivalent to 6.6 million metric tonnes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-leads-in-setting-up-compressed-bio-gas-plants-followed-by-maharashtra-and-haryana/story-k9ykwFZn7iBFKuM5BehwJM.html
27-07-2020||India||Infrastructure push can ‘reignite’ economic growth: RBI Governor||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday made a strong case for stepping up investments in the infrastructure sector to restart the economy reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.In his address to India Inc at a CII event, Das said both private and public sectors have to play an important role in developing infrastructure that requires huge investments.The infrastructure space, he said, could act as a force multiplier for the economy, adding that a big push to certain targeted mega projects can “reignite” the economic growth. Stating that recent agriculture reforms have opened up new opportunities, the RBI Governor said the sector is emerging as a bright spot and “fortune is shifting in favour of the farm sector in the economy”.He noted that 1 per cent increase in global value chain participation can boost per capita income level of a country by more than 1 per cent.The central bank governor further said that it may be necessary to focus on greater strategic trade integration, including in the form of early completion of free trade agreements with the US, EU and the UK.With regard to forex rate, Das said the RBI has no fixed target for the rupee but will monitor undue volatility.The RBI Governor assured the industry that the central bank will not hesitate to take steps as and when required amid challenges and will remain extremely vigilant.He said that various liquidity measures taken by the central bank have revived the corporate bond market. Corporate bond issuance has touched Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter, much higher than the same period a year ago, Das said.The RBI Governor said he has advised banks to undertake a stress test and raise capital proactively to meet challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infrastructure-push-can-reignite-economic-growth-rbi-governor/story-YXYRnQjI7OWYoThRLl6CuM.html
27-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot phones PM Modi to complain about Governor, drafts memo for President||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, already facing rebellion from his former deputy Sachin Pilot, spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi informing him about Governor Kalraj Mishra’s “behaviour” - the delay in convening an assembly session despite repeated requests and a sit-in on the Governor’s lawns. The CM said he will also petition President Ram Nath Kovind and inform him about the situation in the state. “I spoke with the Prime Minister yesterday and told him about the behaviour of the Governor. I spoke with him regarding the letter I had written to him seven days back,” said Gehlot, adding that the Governor has sent them a six page ‘prem patr (Love letter)”.The Governor this morning sought clarifications from the state government as he returned the proposal by CM Gehlot for the convening of the assembly session from July 31. Citing the coronavirus situation, the Governor said it would be difficult to call all the members of legislative assembly (MLAs) at a short notice.Gehlot, who has been pressing for an assembly session to prove his majority on the floor of the House, has alleged that the Governor is under “pressure from the top”. The Governor denied the Congress’ charge, saying he will follow constitutional norms to convene the House.“As per established conventions of the Constitution, principles of parliamentary democracy, the relevant articles of the Constitution and authoritative pronouncements of the Supreme Court, the Governor is duty bound to act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers in the matter of convening the state assembly,” three former law ministers from Congress party wrote to the Governor.The Congress leaders drew upon the Supreme Court judgments in the Shamsher Singh case in 1974 and the more recently Nabam Rebia in 2016 on the role of the Governor. In the Nabam Rebia case, the top court held that a Governor cannot employ his “discretion” and should strictly abide by the “aid and advice of the of the cabinet” to summon the house. Last week, Gehlot had written to PM Modi regarding the attempts to destabilise the elected Congress government in the state and alleged poaching of Congress MLAs by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Gehlot had also named Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in his letter to the PM.Earlier, Gehlot had said he was ready to go to the Rashtrapati Bhawan, the President’s official residence at Delhi, and even the Prime Minister’s house to defeat the “BJP conspiracy”, exhorting his MLAs to stand firm like a rock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spoke-to-pm-about-rajasthan-governor-s-behaviour-will-petition-president-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-7WcxipvYI8Gr5KjGxhhsdP.html
27-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Maoists open fire on CAF camp , one jawan killed||A constable of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF), who was deployed as a security guard at a CAF camp, was killed by two outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI) (Maoist) rebels in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district on Monday. Police said that Maoists fired two rounds of bullets at the jawan and the CAF camp that falls under the jurisdiction of Chhote Dongar police station in the district and decamped inside the adjoining dense jungle. Chhattisgarh Police has launched a combing operation of the jungle after the attack on the CAF camp. Constable Jitendra Bakde, who belonged to 22 Battalion of CAF, lost his life in the attack, the police said. “Preliminary information has revealed that two Maoists attacked the CAF camp. They have escaped to the jungle after the incident,” said Sunderaj P, inspector-general (I-G) of police, Bastar. Chhattisgarh Police data showed that 26 security personnel and 20 Maoists were killed between January and June 30, including in the left-wing extremism (LWE)-hit Bastar division and also in districts under the newly-formed MMC (Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh) division. In 2018 and 2019, 35 and 12 security personnel, respectively, were killed in Chhattisgarh following encounters with the Naxals. Security has been stepped up in the Maoist-hit districts of the state, particularly in the seven districts of the Bastar division such as Dantewada, Bijapur, Bastar, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Sukma, and Kanker because of the martyrs’ week that the rebels observe in the memory of their slain leaders between July 28 and August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-maoists-open-fire-on-caf-camp-one-jawan-killed/story-cJOOeAhjAZWjEX5iM6fFOO.html
27-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt starts discussions on relaxations to be introduced from August||Days ahead of the end of the Covid-19 lockdown in Maharashtra on July 31, the state government has started brainstorming about relaxations to be introduced from the first week of August. The state government, however, is treading cautiously and may not ease curbs as liberally as other states or the Centre. Though Covid-19 cases in the state have risen by more than 9,000 cases a day over the past week, the Maharashtra government has resolved to gradually open up activities after the sixth phase of lockdown ends on July 31. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an interview to Saamana, said the lockdown won’t be abruptly lifted as he doesn’t want a second wave of infections in Maharashtra, as has happened in some countries. The state plans a gradual rollout of relaxations. “The discussion on opening up activities has begun. The decision will be taken in the next few days and the notification will be issued by July 31,” said Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. According to officials, inter-district and inter-state transport services won’t be allowed at this stage as Covid-19 cases are rapidly rising in rural areas of Maharashtra. A state government official said on condition of anonymity: “At the beginning of July, we were thinking of allowing more transport facilities and additional workforce in offices. But the spike in cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and cities like Pune and other districts derailed this plan. “There are demands for allowing gymnasiums and malls to reopen, but this is unlikely to be allowed immediately. Few more commercial and industrial activities that will not lead to too much crowding will be allowed.” Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The official added the strategy for allowing activities will be fine tuned after meetings with the Centre and by following its plans for relaxations. He said Maharashtra is taking into account upcoming festivals such as Bakri Eid (August 1) and the 11-day Ganeshotsav (beginning from August 22) while rolling out relaxations. Under the state’s “Mission Begin Again”, which was rolled out in June, Maharashtra allowed fitness activities in open spaces, while offices were permitted to function with 10% of their workforce. Shops were allowed to open on alternate days and salons were allowed to operate with strict protocols. It also allowed hotels, but not restaurants, to open from July 8. Maharashtra recorded 201,038 infections (or 53.50% of the state’s total tally) in July alone, taking the total to 375,799. The death toll touched 13,656 on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-govt-starts-discussions-on-relaxations-to-be-introduced-from-august/story-kVAVKguiSu3PRvXbqg9xDJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan to pay for life-saving Covid-19 injection, plasma therapy for all critical patients: Gehlot||Rajasthan will provide the life-saving injection, Tocilizumab, and plasma therapy to every critical patient of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said.Gehlot said on Sunday since the injection worth about Rs 40,000 is out of reach of the poor, the health department must ensure its availability for any needy patient. The state government will immediately sanction adequate funds, he added.The chief minister announced the decision during the review meeting on the status of coronavirus pandemic in the state. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here He said plasma therapy and Tocilizumab injection can save the life of a serious Covid-19 patient, which has been successfully used in Jaipur’s SMS Hospital. The chief minister directed officers to ensure availability of plasma therapy and life-saving injections as per the requirement in all medical colleges and district hospitals of the state along with SMS Hospital.Gehlot said that in areas where the number of infected has increased, specialist doctors should be sent to help local doctors for better treatment of the patients. Covid-19 patients admitted for examination or treatment in private hospitals should be regularly and intensively monitored by the district medical and health officers, he said.The chief minister also directed officials to encourage plasma therapy in the treatment of patients and to organise a plasma donation camp across the state. He said those who have recovered from the viral disease should be encouraged to donate plasma as per the health protocol by campaigning on the lines of blood donation camps.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He asked health authorities to make arrangement for the availability of plasma needed for the therapy in medical banks. For this, awareness campaigns and donation camps should be set up, he said.Officials said plasma therapy has been started in Jaipur as well as Jodhpur and Kota.Gehlot said at the meeting that random sampling should be done to test the status of community infection.Expert doctors participating in the meeting through video conference said the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is 1.72, which is lower than the national average.Officials also said that there are about 17,000 people in the state who are in institutional quarantine and being monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-pay-for-life-saving-covid-19-injection-plasma-therapy-for-all-critical-patients-gehlot/story-1PK9wx1cLjszeqp74sgycM.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Delhi Covid-19 model is being discussed in India and abroad’: Kejriwal||The Covid-19 situation in the national capital is improving with the Delhi model being discussed and lauded across India and abroad, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday during a press briefing. The chief minister said that the recovery rate in Delhi is 88 percent at present and only 9 percent of the people are ill now while 2-3 percent patients have succumbed to death. “There is a decline in the number of deaths,” Kejriwal added. He said that the national capital didn’t require a second phase of the lockdown, which is a matter of satisfaction. The chief minister also informed about a job portal that is being started by the government which can be used by people to get employment. He described the platform as “Rozgar Bazar”.“The govt is starting a portal - http://jobs.delhi.gov.in and those who are looking to recruit people for jobs can go to the website and update their requirement. Job seekers can also go there and update their qualification, experience and requirement. It’ll be a ‘Rozgar Bazar’,” the Delhi CM said.  Also read: India’s coronavirus epidemic is now the world’s fastest growingThere was no need to impose second lockdown in Delhi. This is a matter of satisfaction: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal https://t.co/nPgrWfa0zrTalking about the Covid-19 infrastructure across various hospitals in the national capital, the chief minister said, “as of now, there’s an arrangement of 15,500 beds at hospitals in Delhi. Only 2,800 Covid-19 patients remain at these hospitals while 12,500 beds are vacant”.Delhi govt is starting a portal - https://t.co/uSkUiSVRTf Those who are looking to recruit people for jobs can go to the website & update their requirement. Job seekers can also go there and update their qualification, experience & requirement. It'll be a 'Rozgar Bazar': Delhi CM pic.twitter.com/iGkL66gXit“In June, we were at the second position in the country as far as states with the highest cases were concerned. Today we’re on the tenth spot,” he said. Delhi has reported a total of 130,606 Covid-19 cases till date, of which 114,875 have recovered or have been discharged from the hospitals. The coronavirus death toll in the national capital stands at 3,827 while the number of active cases continues to drop and is reported to be at 11,904 at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-model-is-being-discussed-in-india-and-abroad-kejriwal/story-VnUEiDHiS7gA2lazITO0OP.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Point got lost in translation,’ Priyanka tells Omar after he reacts to her tweet on Rajasthan crisis||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on Monday agreed with former Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) chief minister Omar Abdullah, who had commented on her earlier remark that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was toppling democratically-elected governments, when the country is facing the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageClarifying her remarks, Priyanka Gandhi said that the point she was trying to make seemed to have been “lost in translation”. “You’re absolutely right @omarabdullah. What I actually said was that leadership becomes evident during a crisis, and while the pandemic is on, the nation needs a leadership that works in the interest of its people,” she tweeted. “However, the BJP government has been busy trying to topple democratically-elected governments, revealing its true mindset and character. It seems my point got lost in translation,” she added. On Sunday, Abdullah took to Twitter to counter her remarks and tagged a news report headlined – ‘BJP Trying To Topple Governments Amid Pandemic’. “I don’t get the “during pandemic” argument. As though somehow toppling an elected government would be less reprehensible if we weren’t battling a health crisis. IMHO (In my humble opinion) it’s wrong regardless of Covid-19,” he tweeted. Participating in the party’s #SpeakUpForDemocracy online campaign on Sunday, Priyanka Gandhi had said, “Leadership is recognised in times of crisis. During coronavirus pandemic, the country needs a leadership that works in the public interest. But the BJP-led Central government has made its intention clear by trying to topple the governments elected by the people. The public will answer.” The nationwide online campaign was launched by the Congress in protest against the alleged attempts by the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan. Congress leaders and workers are also holding demonstrations in front of Raj Bhawans across the country, except for Jaipur, to protest against Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra’s alleged “delaying tactics” in convening the assembly session to enable CM Gehlot to prove his government’s majority on the floor of the House after his former deputy Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators rebelled against the party over two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/point-got-lost-in-translation-priyanka-tells-omar-after-he-reacts-to-her-tweet-on-rajasthan-crisis/story-OSyA2RvPi71RYML2fkBJOK.html
27-07-2020||India||5 Rafale jets fly out of France on 7,000 km trip to India, to be refueled mid-air||The first batch of five Rafale jets took off from France on Monday and will be arriving in India on Wednesday, when the much-awaited fighter jets will officially be inducted and join the Indian Air Force fleet at the Ambala air base in Haryana.The Rafale aircraft will cover a distance of nearly 7000 kms from France to India with air-to-air refuelling and a single stop en route in UAE. The Indian Air Force pilots and supporting personnel have been provided full training on aircraft and weapon systems by Dassault. The Indian embassy in France said the event marked a “new milestone” in strong and growing India-France defence cooperation. The embassy also released a short video titled “Beauty and the Beast”, showcasing Rafale jets ready for take off.  "Beauty and the Beast"- #Rafale Fighter Aircraft. Ready to take off @MEAIndia @JawedAshraf5 @gouvernementFR @Dassault_OnAir @rajnathsingh @DefenceMinIndia @DDNewslive @ANI @DrSJaishankar @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/TTAi6DHun7Indian ambassador Jawed Ashraf was there to see off the Rafale aircraft. He also met the Indian pilots and congratulated them on becoming the first ones to fly the world’s most advanced and potent fighter aircraft and wished them success. Also Watch | Five Rafale jets take off for India, induction likely on Wednesday“These five Rafale jets are extremely swift, versatile and very deadly aircraft, they’re both beauty and beast. I would like to thank Dassault for delivering aircraft on time and French Government and French Air Force for all the support,” said ambassador Ashraf. Bon Voyage: Indian Ambassador to #France interacts with the Indian pilots of the Rafale. Congratulates and wishes them a safe flight to India with a single hop. #ResurgentIndia #NewIndia #Rafale@IAF_MCC @MeaIndia @rajnathsingh @Dassault_OnAir @DefenceMinIndia @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/jk3IWD9tYUIndia ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the IAF’s combat capabilities.Acting on a special request by the IAF, France has accelerated the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India --- five jets are coming instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch.France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year.The delivery of all 36 aircraft will be completed by the end of 2021, said the Indian mission in France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-lot-of-rafale-fighter-jets-for-india-flies-out-of-france/story-fCd383YCDy8xEgP8dQZoFP.html
27-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Don’t care if speaking truth about China costs my political career, says Rahul Gandhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Will not lie about Chinese intrusions even if my political career goes to hell: Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi has said those claiming Chinese forces haven’t occupied Indian territory in Ladakh are “not nationalistic and patriotic”, and he will continue to speak the truth about Beijing’s transgressions even if his “whole political career goes to hell”. Read moreOver 1,500 Covid-19 beds available in 4 govt hospitals in Delhi: CentreThe Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday there are more than 1,500 beds available for patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in four government hospitals in Delhi amid a decline in the number of infections in the national capital in the last one month. Read moreMayawati’s BSP springs a surprise, heads to Rajasthan court to reclaim her 6 MLAs from CongressMayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party on Sunday evening dived headlong into the Ashok Gehlot versus Sachin Pilot playing out in Rajasthan, declaring that the party would also approach the high court to reclaim the party’s six lawmakers who merged the legislative party with the Congress last year. Read moreChina shuts down US mission in Chengdu city, US flag lowered at dawnThe US consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu officially shut down on Monday morning within 72 hours of Beijing ordering its closure as a tit-for-tat shutting of its Houston consulate amid worsening ties between the two largest economies of the world. Read more‘India probably did not have World Cup-winning team in 2019’: Aakash ChopraFormer India cricketer Aakash Chopra on Monday said that the reason that Virat Kohli-led Indian team could not win the World Cup last year was probably because India did not have a World Cup-winning team. India were pegged to be one of the favourites going into the tournament, but the team crashed out of the semifinal after losing to New Zealand. Read moreResul Pookutty says no one gave him work in Hindi films after Oscar win: ‘I had gone through a near breakdown’After AR Rahman spoke on how a ‘gang’ was sabotaging him in the Hindi film industry, sound designer and editor Resul Pookutty has said he was also shunned by Hindi cinema after he won an Oscar for Slumdog Millionaire. He won the Academy Award for Best Sound Mixing, along with Richard Pryke and Ian Tapp, for the Danny Boyle film. Read moreGudiya the baby rhino starts grazing, video is all kinds of adorableIf cute baby animal videos make your heart happy, here’s a video of a baby rhino that will do the trick. This video shows a baby rhino named Gudiya, a resident of Patna Zoo, who has started grazing. Chances are you already know about Gudiya. Read moreHow to incorporate walnuts in your mealsWe all know the health benefits of walnuts but apart from a few basic usage in making a dish with walnut as an ingredient, we rarely know how to use this wonder nut. It can be used as a healthy snack, helps in boosting the nutritional value of our meal and can even be used in the batter of banana bread. Read moreWatch: AK-47 magazines, Chinese grenades seized from LeT hideout in Shopian||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-don-t-care-if-speaking-truth-about-china-costs-my-political-career-says-rahul-gandhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hZLdpYWEEFi28YfVvNIjEI.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: SC allows Speaker to withdraw appeal against HC order on rebel MLAs||Rajasthan Assembly Speaker CP Joshi on Monday withdrew his plea before the Supreme Court (SC) that had challenged the Rajasthan high court’s (HC) July 21 order of directing him to defer action on the disqualification notice against 19 dissident Congress lawmakers, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing for Joshi told the three-judge bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra and also included Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, that the HC on July 24 had passed a detailed order staying action by Speaker Joshi against the dissident members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) and setting out legal issues, which it was proposing to consider. Consequently, the plea before the apex court against the July 21 order has become infructuous, he submitted. Also read: Among 2 questions to Ashok Gehlot, Rajasthan governor has a query about floor test“So, kindly permit us to withdraw this plea”, Sibal said.The bench allowed the prayer. Earlier on July 23, the SC had declined a stay on the HC proceedings while stating that it would examine the larger issue of whether or not HC has the jurisdiction to interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by Speaker Joshi. Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs had moved the Rajasthan HC on July 15 challenging the disqualification notice issued to them by Speaker Joshi a day earlier. The plea also challenged the Constitutional validity of clause 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, which provides for disqualification of legislators for “voluntarily giving up” party membership. Joshi’s notice stated that the MLAs were being asked for show-cause under clause 2(1) (a) since their conduct, including speaking against the party leadership, showed their intention to leave the Congress. Also read| Rajasthan political crisis: What does BSP’s party whip mean?The Pilot camp, however, submitted before the HC that the Speaker’s notice was in violation of their freedom of expression and voicing dissent against party leadership or CM Ashok Gehlot cannot be construed as an intention to quit the party. Joshi had argued that as per the 1992 SC judgment in the Kihoto Hollohan case, the HC cannot interfere with the disqualification proceedings till he actually makes a decision, and as a result, Pilot’s petition was premature. The HC after hearing the case for three days reserved its verdict on July 21 asking Joshi not to take any action against dissident MLAs till it pronounces its verdict on July 24. Then, Joshi moved the SC on July 22 without waiting for the HC order. Joshi’s plea was heard by the SC the following day, but declined to stay the HC order or proceedings. The HC had pronounced its order on July 24 saying the issue involves Constitutional question, including the validity of clause 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule. Joshi maintained that the Speaker’s proceedings are immune from the challenge before courts till a decision on disqualification is arrived at by the Speaker. He also argued that interim challenge against Speaker’s actions is not permissible, as per the Kihoto Hollohan case. “It pains us that HCs are not following SC judgments,” Sibal told the apex court on Monday in his concluding remarks during the hearing of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-sc-allows-speaker-to-withdraw-appeal-against-hc-order-on-rebel-mlas/story-whN2UC06OpZKgOxcNmq3DO.html
27-07-2020||India||Won’t lie about Chinese intrusions even if political career goes to hell: Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said those claiming Chinese forces haven’t occupied Indian territory in Ladakh are “not nationalistic and patriotic”, and he will continue to speak the truth about Beijing’s transgressions even if his “whole political career goes to hell”. Stepping up the attack on the government over the Chinese intrusions, Gandhi said the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continues to occupy parts of Indian territory in Ladakh. “Now, it is pretty clear that the Chinese have entered our territory. This disturbs me. It makes frankly my blood boil. How can some other nation just come into our territory?” he said in a video message issued on Monday. Gandhi, who has been criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) for his remarks on the border standoff, said “hiding the truth” and allowing China to occupy Indian territory is “anti-national”, and bringing it to people’s attention is “patriotic”. “I think the people who are lying about Chinese entering our country are the people that are not nationalistic. I think the people who are lying and who are saying the Chinese are not in India, they are the people who are not patriotic,” he said. Gandhi asserted he wouldn’t lie to the people of India on Chinese intrusions even if it costs him politically. “So frankly, I don’t care if it costs me politically. I don’t care if I have no political career at all after that. But, I am going to say the truth as far as Indian territory is concerned,” he said. Also read: In China’s troop movements in Ladakh’s depth areas, a hint about its real plan“If you want me to lie that the Chinese have not entered this country I am not going to lie. I simply will not do it. I don’t care if my whole career goes to hell. I’m not going to lie,” he added. Titled “Tough Questions on China”, the short video is the fourth in a series on the India-China face-off. Through the videos, Gandhi wants to share his thoughts on national issues. In the first video issued on July 17, he said India’s “troubled economy, foreign policy and neighbourhood” prompted China to take an aggressive stand against the country. The second video, titled “China’s Strategic Game Plan” and released on July 20, featured Gandhi talking about how the Chinese have triggered the border issue to pressure Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Also read: India twists the knife, will only cancel tenders that Chinese firm are set to winIn one of the sharpest attacks on Modi over the border standoff, he said the Chinese are attacking his image as “they understand that for him to survive as a politician, he has to protect the idea of ‘Chhapan Inch’ (56-inch)” and claimed that “if he allowed the Chinese to understand that they can manipulate him because of his image, the prime minister will no longer be worth anything for India”. In the third video titled “How should India respond to China?” released on July 23, Gandhi listed different measures to deal with the Chinese. “Psychologically you have to deal with the Chinese from a position of strength. If you deal with them from a position of strength, you can work with them, you can get what you need and it can be actually done. But if they sense weakness then you had it,” he said. “The first thing is you not going to take on China without a vision. And by that I don’t mean a national vision. I mean an international vision,” added Gandhi. In the latest video, Gandhi said as an Indian, his number one priority is the nation and its people. “How do you react to people who say your questions to the PM on China weaken India? Now if you as a politician want me to keep quiet and lie to my people, when I am absolutely convinced [when] I see the satellite photos. I speak to the ex-army people,” he added. Gandhi has repeatedly targeted Modi and his government over the Chinese transgressions and said the prime minister was not being transparent on the issue. The Congress has been demanding that status quo ante be restored at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and Chinese troops be pushed back to their side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-lie-about-chinese-intrusions-even-if-my-political-career-goes-to-hell-rahul-gandhi/story-M3jjKyMlz4BDdIWcczSDhP.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis: For BSP MLA Rajendra Gudha, it’s a rerun of 2008||New Delhi: Rajasthan legislator Rajendra Singh Gudha is one of the six MLAs that jumped from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to the Congress in September last year but he’s not losing any sleep over the diktat that’s been issued by his party. Speaking to Hindustan Times from the Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur, he said, “This whip (order not to vote in support of Ashok Gehlot) isn’t worth the paper it’s issued on.’’Gudha’s blase attitude is partly because he’s done this many times before. It was 2008 assembly polls that he first fought on a BSP ticket from Udaipurwati. Just like in 2018, the BSP had that year as well won six seats, their best performance in the state. And again, just like post 2018, Gehlot had engineered all six MLAs to join the Congress party. In fact, Gudha and another MLA Murari Meena were the original BSP MLAs who are MLAs even now. What’s interesting about Gudha, however, is that while he was a Congress minister till 2013, he went back to the BSP ahead of the last polls because the Congress didn’t give him a ticket again.“You should ask the BSP why they again gave me a ticket,’’ he said. “As far as the anti-defection laws go, you have to have 2/3rd of the party but in this case, we had the entire party leaving for the Congress. So what’s the problem?’’ Gudha is also infamous for alleging in the assembly last year, that the BSP handed tickets to only those that paid. It was an allegation strongly rejected by the party at the time.His former BSP colleague Murari Meena however has a completely different point of view. That may also stem from the fact that Meena is with Team Sachin Pilot while Gudha supports Gehlot. Meena has been with the Congress since he switched from the BSP in 2008.“The BSP challenge is on a legally sound ground,’’ said Meena, “In 2008, the BSP merger challenge didn’t stand the scrutiny of the court because it was filed by an outsider. This time it has been challenged by an MLA.’’That MLA is the BJP’s Madan Dilawar but the Rajasthan High Court dismissed his petition today. BSP chief Mayawati’s move to challenge the merger came as a statement that it was only possible if the BSP had merged nationally with the Congress Party. The six MLAs are key to the Congress which has it took its tally from 99 to a comfortable majority of 105 without the help of supporting independents and other parties. “The merger took place months ago. It is surprising why the BSP central leadership has woken up and realised the merger was illegal. BSP is making this plea only after a BJP MLA - Madan Dilawar has filed a petition in the HC to disqualify the BSP MLAs. The BSP and Mr Dilawar are both wrong,’’ said Sunil Fernandes, a lawyer who is representing the Congress Party. “The X Schedule permits merger of legislative party also. The contention that BSP as a national party must merge with the INC for the BSP MLAs to merge with INC is misconceived. The parent party may not merge but members of a legislative party have the right to merge with some other party under the X Schedule (Anti - Defection Act) of the Constitution.’’Fernandes was countering the contention of BSP’s senior leader Satish Mishra who in a statement last night said that individual MLAs cannot merge unless there was a national level merger between the two parties.“Whip was issued as the MLAs had won elections on BSP tickets and they can’t get involved in Congress’ activities or vote for them. BSP chief decided this after a lot of deliberation. We’re working on her (Mayawati’s) directions,’’ said BSP’s Bhagwan Singh Baba.“It’s wrong to see this as cosying up to BJP,’’ said a BSP MP speaking on condition of anonymity, “Why should we sit quiet when the party which has repeatedly stabbed us in the back is now getting a taste of its own medicine?’’The BJP said that governor or the court should intervene. “A constitutional & legal situation has risen. Either the High Court should decide or the Governor should intervene in the matter,’’ said Satish Poonia, BJP incharge of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-what-does-bsp-s-party-whip-mean/story-wlZb2B5N1qxEbkGgPXEWlO.html
27-07-2020||India||32 fresh cases take Arunachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally to 1,158||Thirty-two more people, including six ITBP personnel, have tested positive for Covid- 19 in Arunachal Pradesh, taking the northeastern state’s caseload to 1,158 on Monday, a senior health official said.Eleven fresh cases were reported in Seppa, the district headquarters of East Kameng, eight in Changlang district, six in Upper Siang, five in the Capital Complex region and one each in East Siang and Lower Subansiri districts, State Surveillance Officer Dr L Jampa said.The new cases in Seppa are contacts of a Covid-19 patient in East Kameng district, while four of the eight new patients in Changlang are returnees from other states and two each are government employees and health workers, he said.The six fresh cases reported in Upper Siang district are Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, while both the new patients in East Siang and Lower Subansiri had returned from other states, Jampa said.The five fresh infections in the Capital Complex region were detected during rapid antigen tests, he said.Barring nine, all the new patients are asymptomatic.They were shifted to Covid-19 care centres, Jampa said.Seventy-seven more people, including 70 from the Capital Complex region, have recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from hospitals on Sunday, he said, adding they have been advised strict home quarantine and self-monitoring.Of the 1,158 cases, 650 are active while 505 people have recovered from the disease and three patients have died, he said.Arunachal Pradesh witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases after the residents of the state started returning from other parts of the country.The state has recently registered a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, with 967 people testing positive for the infection since July 1, Jampa said.Arunachal Pradesh reported its first Covid-19 case on April 2 and the person recovered from the disease on April 16.The state registered its second case on May 24.The Capital Complex region, comprising Itanagar, Naharlangun, Banderdewa and Nirjuli areas, has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at 337, followed by Papum Pare (61), East Siang (39), Namsai (36), Changlang (32) and Tirap (24), the official said.The recovery rate among the Covid-19 patients in Arunachal Pradesh is 35 per cent and a total of 59,558 samples have been tested for the disease in the state so far, Jampa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-fresh-cases-take-arunachal-pradesh-s-covid-19-tally-to-1-158/story-LWDN2tVxrAnCy1GNJGFODM.html
27-07-2020||India||2 trapped as house collapses in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh due to heavy rain||Two persons were trapped in debris when their houses collapsed over them early on Monday morning following torrential rains in Bangapani sub-division of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district.The incident occurred at Dhamigaon village in Bangapani-sub division, which had witnessed a cloudburst recently that killed 12 persons in Gaila and Tanga villages.State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and revenue police personnel were rushed to the village to launch rescue operations, Pithoragarh District Magistrate VK Jogdande said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-trapped-as-house-collapses-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-due-to-heavy-rain/story-Py1zxSeh3HXo8K3UgT6JbI.html
27-07-2020||India||Dr Kalam left indelible marks on science, politics: Amit Shah pays tribute to former president||Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday paid tribute to former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam on his death anniversary. He said that Kalam has left indelible marks on several fields ranging from science to politics.“Tributes to Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, an epitome of intellect, wisdom and simplicity. A People’s President, who left indelible marks on several fields ranging from science to politics,” Shah tweeted.Shah said that Kalam’s quest for knowledge continues to inspire and capture the idea of a self-reliant India.BJP national president JP Nadda also put out a message saying that Kalam was a people’s President whose ideal life will keep on inspiring people in the country.“My heartfelt tribute to former President of India Bharat Ratna Dr APJ Abdul Kalam ji on his death anniversary. He was a people’s President whose ideal life will keep on inspiring the people of the country,” Nadda tweeted. Known as the Missile Man of India, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam contributed not only to science but also served as the 11th President of India and was widely regarded as the ‘People’s President’.As an aerospace scientist, Kalam worked with India’s two major space research organisations--Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).His most significant works include the development of the Indian ballistic missile and launch vehicle technology. He played a central role in one of India’s most important nuclear tests, Pokhran-II. For his work in science and politics, the People’s President was awarded India’s highest civilian honour or the Bharat Ratna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-kalam-left-indelible-marks-on-science-politics-amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-former-president/story-uEL2DvhjHXuJOqMU6HM7kN.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan speaker drops Supreme Court plea against Sachin Pilot, rebel MLAs||Rajasthan assembly Speaker CP Joshi on Monday withdrew his petition from the Supreme Court challenging a July 21 order of the high court directing him to defer disqualification proceedings against former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress legislators backing him.Joshi told the three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that Rajasthan high court passed a detailed 32-page order on July 24 and the legal issues which the Supreme Court was proposing to consider have merged with those that the state court would be considering as per July 24 order. Also read: Rajasthan guv returns files on convening assembly session, seeks new info“So kindly permit us to withdraw this plea,” senior counsel Kapil Sibal, who was representing Joshi, said.The bench, which also comprised justice BR Gavai and justice Krishna Murari, allowed the prayer.Also Watch l : BSP asks 6 MLAs to vote against Congress l What it means for Gehlot govt “It pains us that high courts are not following Supreme Court judgments,” Sibal said as the hearing drew to a close.The three-judge bench was hearing Joshi’s special leave petition (SLP) related to whether courts can interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by an assembly speaker against lawmakers even before a decision has been taken.Also read: Mayawati springs a surprise, heads to court to reclaim her 6 MLAs from CongressPilot and 18 Congress MLAs moved the Rajasthan HC on July 16, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by Joshi. The high court had on July 24 ordered status quo on the matter, admitted the writ petition by the Pilot camp and deferred its final verdict on the matter.Before that, on July 22, the speaker had filed an SLP in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-speaker-cp-joshi-withdraws-supreme-court-plea-against-sachin-pilot-rebel-congress-mlas/story-lDMbUa2xqhFGTi43o1KVBJ.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Don’t care if stating truth on China costs my political career’: Rahul Gandhi||In his latest video message, Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi said that the Chinese have occupied Indian land and hiding the truth about it is “anti-national”. “It is absolutely clear that the Chinese have entered the Indian territory and it makes my blood boil,” he said, adding that as a politician, he cannot keep quiet on the matter. “I have seen the satellite images, have spoken to ex-Army people. If you want me to lie that the Chinese did not enter the country, I will simply not lie, even if my whole career goes to hell,” he stated. Gandhi said that those who are lying about the Chinese presence on India’s land are the ones who are not patriotic. “I don’t care if it costs me my political career, but I will state the truth as far as the Indian territory is concerned,” he said.  Also read: In another setback to China, Russia suspends deliveries of S-400 missilesThe Chinese have occupied Indian land.Hiding the truth and allowing them to take it is anti-national.Bringing it to people’s attention is patriotic. pic.twitter.com/H37UZaFk1xIn a similar video message last week, Gandhi had said that the government lack a vision in dealing with the China situation. “If you deal with them (China) with a position of strength, you can deal with them,” Gandhi said in the video. “Dealing with the situation with China requires a vision, an international vision,” Gandhi said, adding that India needs to have a global vision and needs to become an idea in itself.“PM is 100% focused on building his own image. India’s captured institutions are all busy doing this task. One man’s image is not a substitute for a national vision,” Gandhi posted on Twitter along with his video message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-care-if-stating-truth-on-china-costs-me-my-political-career-rahul-gandhi/story-ncwjM5Ikr4F2N4d75jmrRM.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan crisis in Supreme Court again, hearing on speaker’s plea against HC order||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear Rajasthan assembly Speaker CP Joshi’s petition challenging a July 21 order of the high court directing him to defer disqualification proceedings against 18 Congress legislators led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.A three-judge bench will hear Joshi’s special leave petition (SLP) at 11am related to whether courts can interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by an assembly speaker against lawmakers even before a decision has been taken.Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs moved the Rajasthan HC on July 16, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by Joshi. The high court had on July 24 ordered status quo on the matter, admitted the writ petition by the Pilot camp and deferred its final verdict on the matter.Before that, on July 22, the speaker had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court.Monday hearing will be Joshi’s second attempt to get the high court’s stay order cancelled.Joshi had moved the top court complaining the high court had no jurisdiction to ask him to defer the disqualification proceedings. In his petition, Joshi called the court order “illegal, perverse and in derogation of the powers” of the speaker.The top court had last week refused to accept Joshi’s initial request to cancel the high court’s stay order, pointing that the two high court judges had already reserved their order to be pronounced on Friday.The high court, however, did not deliver its ruling on the case. It formally admitted Pilot’s petition against the disqualification notices on Friday, accepting the request to make the central government a party in the case and identified the legal points that it will take up during the hearings.“The Speaker’s lawyers will be making arguments before the Supreme Court on Monday though the possibility of withdrawing the petition has not been ruled out,” a Congress functionary had said earlier.Prateek Kasliwal, the speaker’s lawyer in Jaipur, said the decision regarding withdrawing the SLP will be taken by the legal team in Delhi.Pilot has also moved a caveat in the Supreme Court to ensure that no orders are passed on Joshi’s petition without hearing him and his supporting MLAs.Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who has represented the speaker in the high court, said his party wanted a floor test in the Rajasthan assembly and was “begging” for it, but the governor was not convening the House and “delaying” the trust vote allegedly at the behest of the Centre.The fresh proposal sent to the governor did not have any mention of floor test though.“Since no party has demanded a floor test, there is no need to mention that the House has to be convened for holding it. As already stated by the chief minister, the House will discuss Covid-19 situation and also conduct some important legislative business,” he said.On Monday, Governor Kalraj Mishra returned the file related to the convening of the assembly session to the state’s parliamentary affairs department and sought additional details from the government.Mishra has not taken any decision yet on calling the assembly session, people aware of the development added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-in-supreme-court-again-hearing-on-speaker-s-plea-against-hc-order/story-1VlRGcOpTfAX36TwwgPDCO.html
27-07-2020||India||Among 2 questions to Ashok Gehlot, Rajasthan governor has a query about floor test||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has sought clarifications from the state government as he returned the proposal by chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the convening of the assembly session from July 31.Officials had said earlier in the day that Mishra had asked for additional details from the government as he gave the file back to the parliamentary affairs department.Mishra, according to news agency ANI, has asked whether chief minister Ashok Gehlot wants a trust vote in the state assembly. “Do you want to move Motion of Confidence? It is not mentioned in the proposal but you have been speaking about it in media,” the governor was quoted as saying by ANI.He also said it would be difficult to call all the members of legislative assembly (MLAs) at a short notice during the coronavirus pandemic.“Can you consider giving a 21-day notice over the convening of assembly session?” was his second poser, reported ANI. Mishra has not taken any decision yet on calling the assembly session, people aware of the development added.The Congress party has been demanding a special session amid the political crisis due to a rebellion by Sachin Pilot and a section of Congress legislators supporting the former deputy chief minister. The Gehlot camp, which is confident of its numbers and feels a floor test may be its best bet to end the political crisis, has said the governor is delaying convening a session due to pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government.Before this, Ashok Gehlot had requested Mishra to start a session of the state assembly to discuss bills, including one on the coronavirus pandemic, without mentioning a floor test.Also read: Mayawati springs a surprise, heads to court to reclaim her 6 MLAs from CongGehlot had in a reworked proposal asked him to start a session of the state assembly from July 31.Mishra has denied the Congress’ charge, saying he will follow constitutional norms to convene the House.The governor had turned down the earlier proposal sent by the Congress government and said that it did not mention a date or a reason.Meanwhile, Rajasthan assembly Speaker CP Joshi withdrew his plea before the Supreme Court which had challenged the Rajasthan high court order of July 21 directing him to defer action on disqualification notices against Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs.Also read: Rajasthan speaker drops Supreme Court plea against Sachin Pilot, rebel MLAsSenior counsel Kapil Sibal, who was representing Joshi, told the three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that the high court, on July 24, passed a detailed order staying action by the speaker against the dissident MLAs and setting out legal issues which it was proposing to consider.Therefore, the plea before the Supreme Court against July 21 order has become infructuous, he submitted.“So kindly permit us to withdraw this plea”, Sibal said.The bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari allowed the prayer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-returns-files-related-to-convening-of-assembly-session-seeks-additional-details-from-gehlot-govt/story-rSqthrBlf9A53J7MYcC9dL.html
27-07-2020||India||Nearly 50,000 new Covid-19 cases in one day take India’s tally over 14.35 lakh||India added a record 49,931 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 708 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, pushing the tally to more than 14 lakh, according to the Union health ministry. It took just two days for the country’s tally to reach 14,35,453—there were 13,36,861 Covid-19 cases on July 25.The health ministry’s dashboard showed there are 485,114 active cases of Covid-19 and 32,771 people have succumbed to the viral disease till date.The recovery rate of patients of the coronavirus disease went slightly up to 63.92% from Sunday’s 63.91% after 31,991 people were discharged from hospitals across the country. So far, 917,567 people have recovered from Covid-19.The gap between active and recovered cases has widened to 432,453 now.The surge in numbers came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said people need to remain “extra vigilant” as the threat posed by the outbreak persists.PM Modi said, while addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, India’s recovery rate is higher than that of other countries and its fatalities lower, but the “hazards are far from over”. Also read| Virus threat not over, need to stay extra vigilant: ModiThe PM also said it was important to practise social distancing and wear masks to fight the virus. “At many places, it is spreading fast... We have to bear in mind that Corona is as fatal today as it was in the beginning – that’s why we have to be fully cautious,” he said.According to data analysed by HT, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar face the immediate risk of becoming the new hotspots of Covid-19 due to a rapid increase in new cases, rising positivity rates and low testing.Also read: Bihar, Karnataka, Bengal and Andhra face huge risk of becoming Covid-19 hotspotsKarnataka has reported 96,141 cases, Andhra Pradesh 96,298, West Bengal 58,718 and Bihar 39,176 so far.Maharashtra continued to the worst-hit state in the country with an infection tally of 375,799, followed by Tamil Nadu with 213,723 cases and Delhi with 130,606 cases.Data from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office showed on Sunday that the number of deaths from the coronavirus disease reduced from 1,089 between June 1 and June 12 to 605 recorded between July 1 and July 12, a drop of 44.50%.The analysis conducted by the Delhi health department showed that in the July period, the deaths recorded within 24 hours of hospital admission dropped to 15%, down from the 34% figure in the June period. The data also showed that the percentage of deaths recorded within four days of admission to hospitals witnessed a drop from 67% to 35% in the two periods.According to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker, there are more than 16 million people who have contracted the viral disease and 647,928 patients have died so far across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-50-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-one-day-take-india-s-tally-over-14-35-lakh/story-9DFD3p7zGaM15TcZx3rNNJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Muslim man undertakes 800km journey to attend bhoomi pujan in Ram Temple||A Muslim man has begun 800-km long walk from Chhattisgarh’s Chandkhuri, the village where Kaushalya, mother of Lord Rama was born, to Ayodhya, the venue for the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram temple that will be conducted on August 5.Mohammad Faiz Khan, who has reached Madhya Pradesh’s Anuppur, told ANI, “I am a Muslim from my name and religion but I am a devotee of Lord Rama. If we find out about our ancestors, they were Hindus. Their names might be Ramlal or Shyamlal. We all have Hindu origin whether we go to church or mosque.”“Our main ancestor is Lord Rama. Allama Iqbal (Pakistan’s national poet) had tried to explain in a way in which he said that the one who has perfect sight, will consider Lord Rama as lord of India. With this reverence, I am taking soil from Kaushalya’s birthplace at Chandkhuri to Ayodhya for dedicating it during the ground-breaking ceremony,” he said.Asked about people criticising his initiative, he said, “Some people in Pakistan have created fake IDs with Hindu and Muslim names and are abusing each other to show that all communities are fighting in India.”He claimed that he has walked 15,000 km to various temples and even stayed there.“This is not the first time I am walking to the temples. I have walked 15,000 km and stayed in temples and mutts. Nobody said a word against me. This journey is only 800 km,” Khan said.“Pakistan is trying to create communal tension in India on the occasion of Ram temple construction,” he added.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-man-undertakes-800km-journey-to-attend-bhoomi-pujan-in-ram-temple/story-c9EGv6BerYsWPb5pLD6i2M.html
27-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bihar, Karnataka, Bengal and Andhra Pradesh face immediate risk of becoming Covid-19 hotspots and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar, Karnataka, Bengal and Andhra face huge risk of becoming Covid-19 hotspotsKarnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar face the immediate risk of becoming the new hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, due to a rapid increase in new cases, rising positivity rates and (for the last two) low testing, according to data analysed by HT. Read moreOff-duty Delhi police officer stops to clear traffic jam, run over by truckA 54-year-old assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Delhi Traffic Police was killed after an allegedly speeding mini truck hit and dragged him for nearly 50 metres on a service lane near the Rajokri flyover in southwest Delhi where he was busy clearing a traffic jam on Saturday night. Read more‘Risky’ exporters to face action: OfficialsThe finance ministry is considering taking stern action against “risky” exporters who have fraudulently claimed Goods and Services Tax (GST) refunds worth Rs 2,020 crore, and are untraceable, two officials said requesting anonymity. Read moreChina reports 61 fresh Covid-19 casesChina reported 61 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 26, up from 46 cases a day earlier, the health commission said on Monday. Read moreBCCI treated me unprofessionally; Harbhajan, Sehwag, Zaheer badly mismanaged: Yuvraj SinghFormer India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh believes the BCCI did not manage his former teammates such as Harbhajan Singh, Virender Sehwag and Zaheer Khan well towards the end of their careers and hoped the board will recognise the efforts of match-winners in the future and honour them for their contribution towards Indian cricket. Read moreKangana Ranaut’s team says Taapsee Pannu has ‘non-existent career’, gives her tips on how to become an A-listerThe war of words between Kangana Ranaut and Taapsee Pannu just refuses to end. Now, Kangana’s team has hit out at Taapsee and accused her of ‘trying to sabotage justice’ for the late Sushant Singh Rajput. Read moreRecent Garmin outage was caused by a WastedLocker ransomware attackGarmin went down recently leading to its fitness devices being left disconnected for nearly a day and affected the company’s wearables, apps and their call centers. According to two sources who have direct knowledge of the outage, the outage was caused by a ransomware attack. Read moreMonday Motivation: Famous quotes to kick-start your Monday morning with a boostThe pandemic has been the hub of procrastination for a lot of us, and working from home is still difficult to navigate through, on top of that if you add the Monday blues, it is a bit too much to take in! Perhaps it wasn’t such a brilliant idea to binge that TV show till 3 in the morning. Read moreRover, the cat, appears to be giving the term ‘catwalk’ a whole new meaning. WatchMany cat parents may agree to the notion that felines particularly have a knack for looking prim and proper. Well, here is a kitty who is taking that species trait to a whole new level by serving some fierce fashion looks. Posted on Instagram on July 20 from Rover, the cat’s very own account, the video is almost 30 seconds long. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bihar-karnataka-bengal-and-andhra-pradesh-face-immediate-risk-of-becoming-covid-19-hotspots-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VdsDLHsmeU8jxWVwqzaGoM.html
27-07-2020||India||Assam flood toll crosses 100; Ganga breaches the danger mark in Bihar||The flood situation remained grim in Assam and Bihar on Sunday with five more deaths and nearly 4 million people affected in the two states. According to a bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the five fresh deaths raised the flood-related toll in the state to 102. Besides deaths due to drowning, 26 more people have died across the state since May due to landslides caused by heavy rain, as per ASDMA. As on Sunday, nearly 2.5 million people in 2,265 villages in 23 of the state’s 33 districts were still affected by floods. Goalpara (4.70 lakh) was the worst affected district followed by Barpeta (3.95 lakh) and Morigaon (3.33 lakh). Nearly 46,000 people uprooted due to floods were taking in 457 relief camps in 16 affected districts.Union minister for development of north eastern region Jitendra Singh spoke to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and assured him help from the Centre and the North Eastern Council to restore and repair the infrastructure damaged in floods.Meanwhile, the situation continued to deteriorate in Bihar, with the water level of the Ganga river breaching the danger mark at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur and overflow from the Gandak flooding more areas on Sunday. According to the water resources department (WRD), the rise in water level of the Ganga in Patna and Munger has affected Diara and low-lying areas on its course. Rivers such as Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla, Adhwara and Mahananda are also flowing above the danger level, putting pressure on embankments at different places. Champaran and Mithilanchal region are among the worst-hit areas, with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force on standby for rescue operations.According to news agency PTI, a 25-year-old woman gave birth to a baby girl on board an NDRF rescue boat plying on the swollen Burhi Gandak river in flood-affected Bihar on Sunday, officials said.The woman was being rescued from her marooned house in Gobari village of East Champaran district when she developed severe labour pain and later delivered the baby around 1:40 pm, they said.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team was accompanied by an ASHA (accredited social health activist) worker who helped in the childbirth, an NDRF spokesperson said in Delhi.So far, about 1.50 million people residing in 625 panchayats of 86 blocks across 11 districts have been affected due to the recent spell of floods in north Bihar. WRD officials said that the situation might worsen as the meteorological department had predicted heavy rains in the Himalayan region in Nepal and planes of north Bihar in the next 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-toll-crosses-100-ganga-breaches-the-danger-mark-in-bihar/story-K6DOoAGOl3BtCEXjn0LfII.html
27-07-2020||India||After Sonu Sood helps Andhra farmer, Chandrababu Naidu says ‘will take care of his daughters’||Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N Chandrababu Naidu lauded Bollywood actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood’s effort to send a tractor to a farmer in Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh to help him till the land. Naidu took to Twitter on Sunday evening and hailed Sood’s effort to help those in need.Tomato farmer Nageswara Rao’s plight came to limelight after a video clip of him ploughing the land with his two daughters went viral on social media. They were seen carrying the yoke on their shoulders. Sood promised them a pair of ox but later said the family deserved a tractor. Rao used to run a tea stall before Covid-19 left him out of business. He returned to his village and was forced to take up agriculture for his livelihood.“So sending you one. By evening a tractor will be ploughing your fields. Stay blessed,” Sood said in a tweet. Spoke with @SonuSood ji & applauded him for his inspiring effort to send a tractor to Nageswara Rao’s family in Chittoor District. Moved by the plight of the family, I have decided to take care of the education of the two daughters and help them pursue their dreams pic.twitter.com/g2z7Ot9dl3Following suit, Naidu on Sunday announced that he will take care of the education of Rao’s two daughters and help them “pursue their dreams”. “Spoke with @SonuSood ji & applauded him for his inspiring effort to send a tractor to Nageswara Rao’s family in Chittoor District. Moved by the plight of the family, I have decided to take care of the education of the two daughters and help them pursue their dreams,” Naidu’s tweet read.  This family doesn’t deserve a pair of ox 🐂..They deserve a Tractor. So sending you one. By evening a tractor will be ploughing your fields 🙏 Stay blessed ❣️🇮🇳 @Karan_Gilhotra #sonalikatractors https://t.co/oWAbJIB1jDSood, who is known for his negative roles in the film industry, is being hailed as a real-life hero owing to his philanthropy amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sonu-sood-helps-andhra-farmer-tdp-s-chandrababu-naidu-says-will-take-care-of-his-daughters/story-NbmjSkqeHiew9yffCD6kMO.html
27-07-2020||India||Apple’s move to Tamil Nadu brings hope for better recycling of electronic waste||For too long, India has been called out for its poor electronic waste handling. In part, this is true, even today. Hundreds of poor illegally extract saleable materials and components, damaging their health and polluting the environment. There is no investment in making their lives safer, or better, although under new laws, this might be shifting slowly. On the other hand, too often, we forget about how our electronics are made. With Apple shifting to Chennai, India and Apple both have a great opportunity to re-make the future. Previously, Apple was called out for phones that were produced in pathetic conditions, with underpaid workers. In Chennai, all this should be a thing of the past. It must ensure it is the best possible job for a worker in this niche.Apple is setting up in the land of recycling and the Swachh Bharat Mission. It can offer both it’s brand and India so much more. For one, can the plant expand to dismantle and recycle most or all parts of the Apple products discarded? The new law anyway requires it to collect a percentage of e-waste generated, and recycle it. It will be the first to do this, perhaps use some recovered materials in manufacturing. It could let the public see the process first hand. We have to shift to circularity in the coming few years, and this factory is not only valuable in itself, but also for the potential it has to transform the global idea of circular economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apple-s-move-to-tamil-nadu-brings-hope-for-better-recycling-of-electronic-waste/story-BeD9JXmS9v2nEZxsyBoxRN.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Risky’ exporters to face action: Officials||The finance ministry is considering taking stern action against “risky” exporters who have fraudulently claimed Goods and Services Tax (GST) refunds worth Rs 2,020 crore, and are untraceable, two officials said requesting anonymity. One official working in the finance ministry said that the government has so far identified 1,474 exporters and their refund claims were suspended. HT had reported on July 18 that the government had blocked refund claims worth Rs 1,875 crore involving 1,377 such exporters. “However, customs officials have been sensitized to expedite refunds to genuine exporters in these difficult Covid-19 days,” the official added. He said, so far integrated GST (IGST) refunds of more than ~1.37 lakh crore have been disbursed and only about ~ 2,026 crore is pending, which is being processed as per the law. The government is using data analytics to identify “risky” exporter entities that take input tax credit fraudulently and monetise it by paying IGST and claiming a refund on that. Imports of goods and services are treated as inter-state supplies and attract IGST. Another officials working at the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said, “Feeling the heat, some fake and risky exporters are lobbying with some prominent trade associations to allege that genuine exporters are being harassed by being asked for over 1,500 documents each for conducting verification, but this is completely untrue” The officials said data analytics by CBIC’s Directorate General of Risk Management (DGARM), which is followed by field-level verification by the officers have found 1,474 ‘risky’ exporters including seven star exporters who tried to claim IGST refund of over ~ 2,020 crore were untraceable at their declared place of business and therefore their refund has been rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/risky-exporters-to-face-action-officials/story-Z0XLdYYUSBP7X6n1iv11qJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Participative governance must reach panchayat level, says Prasad||The central government’s e-governance feedback initiative, MyGov, is now likely to be extended right up to the panchayat level to help improve local participative governance. MyGov platform provides an opportunity to citizens and all stakeholders from across the world to share their views on key governance issues across all stages by directly engaging with the government departments, policy makers and implementers. Speaking at the eve of the completion of six years of MyGov, which was launched on July 26, 2014, information technology (IT) minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday commended the efforts of the team involved with MyGov in improving participative governance across the country. “The MyGov movement must go forward,” Prasad said. “12 states have already joined it. It represents a model of participative governance that must reach the gram panchayat level.” He added that the intiative should act as a be catalyst for giving a platform to the most talented minds to share their ideas. MyGov also launched the Saathi Chatbot this April, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, that allows people to provide inputs and solutions to the government, thereby participate in policy-making. The chatbot also answers any queries people have with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic. MyGov also has state intiatives, which provides access to the e-governance initiative in local languages, 12 states. These include Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Officials in the ministry said that they are also ready to launch chapters in nine other states, once the chief ministers inaugurate the same. The next phase will include Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Puducherry, Goa, Andhra Pradesh and Daman and Diu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/participative-governance-must-reach-panchayat-level-says-prasad/story-PnxEeazmQyHEYKHtslLn7K.html
27-07-2020||India||Mayawati’s BSP springs a surprise, heads to Rajasthan court to reclaim her 6 MLAs from Congress||Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party on Sunday evening dived headlong into the Ashok Gehlot versus Sachin Pilot playing out in Rajasthan, declaring that the party would also approach the high court to reclaim the party’s six lawmakers who merged the legislative party with the Congress last year.The six legislators had asked Speaker CP Joshi to consider the BSP legislative party to have merged into the Congress in September last year, a request that was promptly accepted by CP Joshi. The defection had riled BSP boss Mayawati who had launched sharp attacks at Gehlot for backstabbing the BSP though it had been supporting his government.This was the second time in a decade that chief minister Ashok Gehlot had lured Mayawati’s lawmakers to his party. In his previous term as chief minister, Gehlot had been able to similarly persuade all the six legislators from Mayawati’s party to join the Congress.Watch: BSP asks 6 MLAs to vote against Congress l What it means for Gehlot govt Last year’s induction of the six BSP lawmakers placed the Congress comfortably over the majority mark of 101. Gehlot also had the support of 12 out of 13 independent legislators and the 5 legislators from smaller parties.Gehlot appeared invincible. But Sachin Pilot, his deputy in the government and Rajasthan Congress chief till earlier this month, had other ideas. Pilot moved out of Jaipur early this month with his group of legislators amid buzz that he was, along with the BJP, trying to pull down the Gehlot government.The Congress moved fast, sacking Pilot from his positions in the party and the government and asking Speaker CP Joshi to start disqualification proceedings against him and 18 lawmakers backing him.The rebellion did deplete Gehlot government’s strength in the assembly; the Congress government had 125 members in the 200-member assembly till late last month. But by most accounts, he appeared to have a tenuous majority.Mayawati had tweeted her first statement on the Rajasthan standoff 9 days ago, pouring out her anger on Ashok Gehlot for stealing her lawmakers, tapping phones of rivals and demanding that the governor impose central rule on Rajasthan. And then, not a word.It was a BJP lawmaker Madan Dilawar who finally approached the high court last week challenging the merger. Dilawar’s petition also underlined that speaker CP Joshi, who had issued notices to Pilot and his team within hours of receipt of a complaint from the Congress, was yet to decide the BSP’s complaint filed last year that asked for disqualification proceedings against the 6 BSP legislators who joined the Congress.The BSP finally moved Sunday evening, announcing that the six MLAs - counted as Congress MLAs by the assembly - had been directed to vote against the Gehlot government in a no-confidence vote. The directive, issued by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Misra, told the six legislators that speaker CP Joshi’s order merging the BSP legislative party into the Congress was illegal because there had been no such merger of the party.Mayawati’s party also said that the BSP would move the high court against the speaker’s order but indicated that it hadn’t made up its mind if it should file an application to become a party in the ongoing disqualification case or file a fresh petition.The BSP effort to wade into the political row came at a time when Ashok Gehlot has been particularly struggling to get governor Kalraj Mishra to convene the assembly so that the Congress government can face the trust vote. Gehlot has claimed the support of 102 lawmakers, just one seat over the majority mark of 101. Congress leaders are concerned that if Gehlot does not get to prove his majority soon, Pilot or the BJP could succeed in luring out a couple of lawmakers and reduce the government to a minority.This tenuous majority also leaves scope for the BSP to play a crucial role to give Gehlot sleepless nights, and if the high court eventually rules in its favour, even play the kingmaker in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-springs-a-surprise-heads-to-court-to-get-6-mlas-back-from-congress/story-dH8nTGXf3szIlPRgsukzXO.html
27-07-2020||India||Assam: NDRF team evacuate villagers, livestock in flood-affected Barpeta district||A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Sunday evacuated villagers and livestock to safer places from flood-affected areas of Dighirpam Bazar in Assam’s Barpeta district.The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) said that the death toll has reached 96. Floods have wreaked havoc in Assam’s various districts for the fourth time this year.A total of 2,543 villages are reeling from the effects of rising waters of Brahmaputra, among its other tributaries, which have affected 1.22 lakh hectares of crop.There are 50,136 people residing in 496 relief camps in the state, the SDMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-ndrf-team-evacuate-villagers-livestock-in-flood-affected-barpeta-district/story-9TxV5U4pr7tYr7p0HmOOFJ.html
27-07-2020||India||Virus threat not over, need to stay extra vigilant: Modi||India has been united in fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epidemic and has performed better than many other countries, but people need to remain “extra vigilant” as the threat posed by the outbreak persists, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. Addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, Modi said India’s recovery rate – the percentage of Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the viral illness – is higher than that of other countries and its fatalities lower, but the “hazards” of the outbreak “are far from over”. “Today, the recovery rate in our country is better compared to other countries; the mortality rate in the context of corona in our country is much less as well, compared to most countries,” Modi said, adding: “Of course, the loss of even one life is saddening, but India has also succeeded in saving the lives of millions of her people.” The Prime Minister also sounded caution, and said it was important to practise social distancing and wear masks to fight the virus. “At many places, it is spreading fast... We have to bear in mind that Corona is as fatal today as it was in the beginning – that’s why we have to be fully cautious,” he said. Till Sunday, India recorded a recovery rate of 63.9% -- higher than the hardest-hit nation, US (47.6%) – and a fatality rate of 2.3%, lower than the global rate of 4%. These figures have been recorded even as infections have risen rapidly in the country, with more than 1.4 million overall cases and a total of 32, 811 deaths till the end of the day. The contagion, which had until recent weeks largely affected urban metropolises like Mumbai and Delhi – has begun spreading across states with most lockdown restrictions lifted.Maharashtra is the hardest-hit state in the number of infections, followed by Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Telangana, West Bengal and Odisha are among the states that are now adding hundreds of new cases daily. The PM also said that while the country continues to fight the coronavirus epidemic, there is also the need to scale up employment and help businesses. “On the one hand, we have to fight the battle against Corona with full awareness & vigilance; on the other, whatever our responsibilities, through sheer perseverance… business, jobs or studies… we have to lend pace to it, taking it to greater heights,” he said. India was among the countries to impose a strict lockdown, first enforced on March 25, to curb the spread of the disease. While most of the restrictions have now been eased, economic activities are stuttering to restart months after as the country continues to record thousands of new infections daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-threat-not-over-need-to-stay-extra-vigilant-modi/story-VyVUOa8K3YbxFSy4oeHXuN.html
27-07-2020||India||92% deliveries in hospitals, every third child born through a c-section||Findings of the latest survey on the state of India’s health conducted by the National Statistical Office in 2017-18 show a positive change: the proportion of women delivering a child in a hospital (or health care institution) has increased over the past two decades by nearly 73 percentage points in rural India and 37 percentage points in urban India. At least nine of every 10 pregnant women now deliver a child in a hospital and thereby avail better health care facilities. But nearly every third woman who delivers a child in a hospital undergoes a caesarean-section or C-section surgery, which is a rate twice of what the international health care community considers ideal, and almost the same it is in the US. Personal preferences and older mothers are part reason for this, as is, in some cases, profiteering , but another reason, experts say, is that health care workers do not have the time, patience, or inclination to wait. At 28.1%, the share of women delivering through a C-section has risen by nearly 25 percentage points in two decades from as low as 3.2% in 1995-96. The survey findings also show that it is the private sector hospitals that are largely responsible for the high rate of C-sections in India, as a result of which average Indians pays more for childbirth than they would have otherwise. (See Chart 1) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Four rounds of the nationally-representative National Family Health Survey have also recorded rising C-section rates over time – from 9.5% of all hospital births in 1992-93 to 22.8% in 2015-16. According to the World Health Organisation, which considers the ideal rate for C-sections to be between 10% and 15%, these surgeries are effective in saving maternal and infant lives but only when they are required for medically indicated reasons. “There is no evidence showing the benefits of caesarean delivery for women or infants who do not require the procedure,” the organisation said in a statement on C-section rates published in 2015. “At population level, caesarean section rates higher than 10% are not associated with reductions in maternal and newborn mortality rates.” To be sure, the C-section rate is high in many of the developed nations as well, for example nearly 32% of all institutional deliveries in the US are done through a Csection, while this figure is 33% for Australia, 28% for Canada and 35% for China, according to data compiled by the World Health Organisation.This means the C-section rate in India is twice the ideal rate. It is only in the government sector hospitals in rural India where less than 15% women give birth through surgery. The C-section rate in government hospitals in the urban sector is nearly double at 26%. But when it comes to private sector hospitals, a majority of births (54% in rural areas and 56% in urban areas) are conducted through a C-section, which is almost four times more than the ideal rate. To be sure, the C-section rates are even higher in charitable hospitals, but only about 1% births take place in such hospitals. (See Chart 2) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();About 29% of institutional births in India take place in a private sector hospital, but these hospitals conduct nearly 63% of all C-sections in the country. Government hospitals conduct nearly 70% of all deliveries but only 35% of all C-sections. At 69%, Telangana has the highest overall rate of C-sections in the country, 52.8% in government hospitals, highest among all states, and 87% in private sector hospitals, second highest in the country. In many states where a large share of deliveries happen through a C-section, the rates are high in both government and private hospitals, but the rate in the latter is higher than that in the former in all states and union territories except Meghalaya and Dadra & Nagar Haveli. Among big states, the percentage point difference is the highest in Odisha where nearly 76% deliveries in private sector hospitals happen through a C-section compared to just 14% in government hospitals. (See Chart 3) !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The higher rate of C-sections also means that Indians are spending more on child birth than they would otherwise. The average expenditure per child birth in case a mother undergoes C-section is nearly five times more than that in case of a normal delivery – around ~23,000 compared to ~4,700. The average expenditure in any case is six to seven times more in private hospitals compared to government ones . A normal delivery in a government hospital costs around ~2,100 on average compared to nearly ~15,000 in a private hospital. Similarly, in case of C-section delivery, the average expenditure in government hospitals is around ~5,500 compared to nearly ~33,000 in private ones.Professor Indranil Mukhopadhyay, who teaches public health at Jindal School of Government and Public Policy, said “pure commercial interest” is behind the high C-section rates in India, particularly in private sector hospitals. “There are alarming figures and I call it an induced epidemic of some sort. Because regulations aren’t enforced well, doctors get commissions for referring patients to diagnostic labs and similarly get paid more when they conduct a C-section.”Mukhopadhyay said that high C-section rates among more wealthier families is an indicator of the financial motive. According to the fourth National Family Health Survey conducted in 2015-16, the share of women in the poorest 20% households of India who delivered through a C-section was 4.4% compared to 35.9% among women in the wealthiest 20% families.Dr Sanghita Bhattacharyya, public health specialist at the Public Health Foundation of India, said commercial interests, rising age of childbearing and changing preferences of women are all partly responsible for the rising C-section rates. “There’s a push from private players for conducting more C-section deliveries especially as public insurance schemes have started to gain ground, but apart from this the rising age of childbearing and the fact that many women now personally prefer a C-section could also be contributing factors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-rise-in-hospital-deliveries/story-kJBaAwYQo6Gc6rWz6RxZsM.html
27-07-2020||India||Rajasthan HC to hear today plea against BSP unit’s merger with Congress||A petition filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Madan Dilawar against the merger of all six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs in the state with the Congress party last year will be heard by the Rajasthan high court on Monday.The petition was filed on Friday against the Speaker’s decision to allow the merger that increased the Congress’ strength in the house.The bench of Mahendra Kumar Goyal will hear the petition on Monday. The petitioner has questioned the inaction of the speaker on his complaint in March this year for disqualification of these six legislators under the 10th schedule of the Constitution (the anti-defection laws).The Ashok Gehlot camp in the Congress appears to have a tenuous majority in the Rajasthan assembly at the moment: it has 101 legislators (excluding the speaker and another lawmaker who is indisposed, but including allies); a rebel faction led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has 22 lawmakers; the BJP-led grouping has 75. It’s easy to see what the disqualification of six legislators (of the 101) could do to the government’s majority.According to the petition, speaker CP Joshi declared the six BSP MLAs – Sandeep Yadav, (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kisangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati) – as having merged with the Congress on September 18, 2019. Dilawar,the MLA from Ramganj Mandi constituency in Kota district, has challenged the validity, legality and correctness of the Speaker’s order.Earlier, he moved a petition before the Speaker on March 16 under the 10th schedule praying for disqualification of these six MLAs. That remains undecided.Late on Sunday, the BSP issued a whip to the six MLAs to vote against the Gehlot government in any proceedings of the House. A signed communication by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said all six MLAs were elected on the election symbol of the BSP issued by its national president Mayawati and were bound by a party whip to vote against the Congress government .It also rejected the contention that they had duly merged their legislative party unit with the Congress. “All six MLAs have been issued separate notices wherein they have been informed that since BSP is a recognised national party as such there cannot be any merger under para (4) of the Xth Schedule at the state level at the instance of the six MLAs unless there is a merger of the entire BSP everywhere at the National Level …,” a statement from the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-to-hear-today-plea-against-bsp-unit-s-merger-with-congress/story-NQGehpCgfdAfYPr2BN4qfI.html
27-07-2020||India||In China’s troop movements in Ladakh’s depth areas, a hint about its real plan||With the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deploying close to 50,000 troops in Aksai Chin, the Indian Army for the first time has deployed a squadron (12) T-90 missile firing tanks, armoured personnel carriers (APCs) and a full troop brigade (4,000 men) at Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) to prevent any Chinese aggression from the Shaksgam-Karakoram pass axis, according to top military commanders familiar with the matter. India’s last outpost at Daulet Beg Oldi DBO lies at a height of 16,000 feet just south of Karakoram pass and on banks of Chip-Chap river, north of the Galwan-Shyok confluence.As some bridges on the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road cannot handle the weight of a 46 ton T-90 tank, the Indian Army commanders sent the T-90 tanks after the June 15 Galwan flare-up by fording the rivers and rivulets using specialized equipment. The armoured personnel carriers (APCs) or infantry combat vehicles , M 777 155mm howitzers, and 130 mm guns had already been sent to DBO after Chinese aggression at patrolling points 14, 15, 16 , 17 and the Pangong Tso finger features.Also Read: China tried to jab India with a new claim on Bhutan. Why it has boomerangedWhile India and China have decided to first totally disengage and then de-escalate from the area, the Indian Army is not only matching troop strength but also keenly watching the PLA deployment of tanks, air defence radars and surface to air missiles in Aksai Chin. The disengagement is work-in-progress with each side verifying the movements of the other, the commanders, who asked not to be identified said. While the Indian military has also decided to black-top the advance landing ground at DBO, the main reason for deploying tanks in the area is to prevent any sudden Chinese move from the north, they added. Also Read: ‘Gratuitous’: Indian official’s acerbic retort on China’s advice on foreign policyAlready China has built some 36 kilometres of road in the Shaksgam Valley (5163 square kilometres were illegally ceded by Pakistan to China in 1963), and Indian military planners fear that PLA will link the G-219 (Lhasa-Kashgar) highway to Karakoram pass through the Shaksgam pass. Even though this will require tunnelling under the permafrost of Shaksgam glacier, the Chinese have the technical ability to complete the job. Also Read: Twin naval exercises with US supercarriers signal QUAD has arrivedThe fear is that once the link is completed, the PLA will put pressure on DBO from the north as it needs a buffer to prevent the Indian Army from targeting the road.According to the military commanders, the main purpose of PLA aggression this summer was to clear all the friction points with the Indian Army along the 1147 km long line of actual control (LAC) in East Ladakh and impose the 1960 map claim. However, this attempt was forcefully repelled by the men of 16 Bihar who took on the 3 Mechanized Infantry of Xinjiang Military district on June 15 at Galwan.This plan dovetailed into a larger plan of linking the G219 highway to G314 (Kashgar-Islamabad Karakoram highway) via Karakoram-Shaksgam pass axis in order to save not only time but distance. A fruition of this plan would have made Indian army positions untenable not only at DBO but also at Siachen as the outpost is linked to Sansoma (crucial base on Nubra river before Siachen) via Saser la-Murgo axis. In many ways, Pervez Musharraf‘s plan to interdict Srinagar-Kargil highway and starve Indian positions at Siachen during the 1999 Kargil war between India and Pakistan has a parallel in China’s Xi Jinping’s attempt to interdict the DSDBO road to cut off DBO 21 years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moves-squadron-of-missile-firing-t-90-tanks-to-last-post-near-karakoram-pass/story-h4LtB6PZXtiYpMadupySlK.html
27-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India is now conducting in excess of 400,000 tests a day on average (the number tends to drop off over the weekend, but has been rising consistently). That’s still short of the million tests-a-day number that has become this column’s most popular refrain, but is way higher than what the country used to do even a month ago.The recent surge in testing is being helped by the increase in antigen tests. These are also called Rapid Antigen Tests because the results are usually available within the hour — unlike the molecular tests which take longer, a couple of days typically, but with backlogs up to five days sometimes. If it is any consolation, US media is full of horror stories of how some people have been waiting up to 10-12 days for results as a wave of infections sweeps across that country. Both the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test and the Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (NAAT) are examples of molecular tests.Also Read: Jumbo rapid antigen testing drive: 76 of 7,962 frontliners test positive in 2 daysSuch molecular tests are highly accurate in identifying current infections of the coronavirus disease. They are so accurate that they do not need to be confirmed using any other test. They are poor tools to help measure prevalence of the disease in the population, though, because they cannot identify past infections — and often, both public health and local administrative authorities need to know just how much of a population has been infected because this will influence other decisions, such as what to open up and when.There are some molecular tests that take much less time than the RT-PCR and NAAT ones but these are not in wide use.Also Read: Bihar, Andhra, W Bengal, Karnataka face risk of becoming Covid-19 hotspotsAntigen tests are in the news in India. They helped Delhi scale up testing rapidly, and with the number of daily new cases in the Capital declining sharply, health administrators want other states to start using them as well. Unlike RT-PCR and NAAT tests, which search for the virus’ genetic material, antigen tests look for proteins that are usually found on the surface of the virus. Like molecular tests, they are good indicators of current infections (and like them, they cannot measure past infections).There is a problem with such tests though — they are very accurate when it comes to what are called true positives, which means that if they show people to be infected, the subjects most probably are, but they are not so accurate when it comes to so-called true negatives, which means that at least some of the people they show to be uninfected are, in fact, infected. That’s the reason scientists recommend following up negative antigen tests with molecular tests, especially if the subjects being tested are symptomatic (but this does not account for the large proportion of people who remain asymptomatic despite being infected).Also Read: Rapid antigen kits key in scaling up Covid-19 testingIt’s important to understand that this does not mean antigen tests should not be used. There are times when it makes sense to use them — when infections are peaking, for instance, especially in one neighbourhood and the primary need is rapid testing — and how (preferably with a follow-up RT-PCR test for all those testing negative). In effect, they should be used to address the time constraint, not the testing-capacity one. They are also not good measures of whether it is safe for a person to return to work. I mention this specifically because at least some private testers are suggesting that they can be used for this purpose.In theory (and in theory alone), the only tests that can be used to define an individual’s eligibility to return to work are those that test for antibodies. Unlike the molecular and antigen tests that use throat swabs, these use blood. In general, they are faster than antigen tests, although a review of current research literature shows that their accuracy varies widely. They do not identify current infections but are good measures of past ones — and therefore, ideal to measure prevalence (or immunity). The results of such studies are open to interpretation, though. Our understanding of the coronavirus disease, and the strength and duration of the immunity provided by antibodies, is still evolving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-3dYzQ8QkVNOZ3Nc0jRqUkL.html
27-07-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases cross 50,000 for the first time||New Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 50,000-mark in a single day for the first time ever on Sunday, taking the total number of infections in the country to 1,434,476, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Recoveries crossed the 900,000-mark with 31,572 new recoveries taking the number to 916,505 (63.9% of those infected). A total of 32,811 people have died from Covid-19, with 716 new fatalities being recorded on Sunday.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 9,431 new cases, the highest in the country, followed by Andhra Pradesh’s 7,627 and Tamil Nadu’s 6,986 cases. Delhi reported 1,075 new infections on Sunday, taking the Capital’s tally to 130,606.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-50-000-for-the-first-time/story-D1O9tzm9l7faNegWu88vFO.html
27-07-2020||India||IAS aspirant’s gang of 6 used explosives to open ATMs in Madhya Pradesh, caught: Cop||Six people, including a civil services aspirant, were arrested for robbing ATMs using explosives in Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh, police said on Sunday.Hemant Chauhan, superintendent of police, Damoh, said that the mastermind of the gang was 28-year-old civil services aspirant Devendra Patel and the gang, arrested by Damoh Police on Saturday, was looting ATMs by blowing them up using gelatin sticks since June last year. “The accused had formed a gang and started looting ATMs by blowing it up with the help of a detonator since June last year. Recently, they blew up an ATM in Simaria area in neighbouring Panna district on July 19 and looted cash worth Rs 23 lakh.” He added that Devendra had learnt the technique of looting ATMs on the internet.“Most of them are educated and have good knowledge of technology. Devendra Patel, who is a civil services aspirant, had learnt the technique of looting ATMs on the internet. They used to come on two bikes by covering their faces. Two people used to overpower an ATM gaurd and spray black paint on cameras, two used to connect the detonator with the bike battery and two used to collect the cash. They used to take only 14 minutes in committing the whole crime,” Chauhan said. However, the gang was busted following a robbery in Panna, thanks to a CCTV camera installed in a shop next to the ATM.“After committing crime in Panna, they followed the same modus operandi but didn’t pay attention to a CCTV camera installed in a shop just next to the ATM. Police got some important clues from the CCTV footage and arrested them from their native village,” Chauhan said.The other five members of the gang were identified as Jgeshwar Patel, Nitesh Patel, Jairam Patel, Rakesh Patel, and Param Lodhi, all residents of Khajri village of Damoh district.Police recovered Rs 25.57 lakh cash, two country made pistols, eight live cartridges, detonator, fake currency notes of Rs 3 lakh and a coloured printer from them. Police are also interrogating the gang to know whether they are involved in other crimes too as fake notes of Rs 500 denomination were also recovered from a house of Devendra Patel, said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-services-aspirant-among-6-arrested-for-looting-atms-in-mp/story-pUnXSu5YnRgELtxf0AOXEL.html
27-07-2020||India||India twists the knife, will only cancel tenders that Chinese firm are set to win||A bidding process already underway for an Indian government contract will not be scrapped merely because of a Chinese firm’s participation, two government officials said on Sunday, adding that this is being done to avoid unnecessary delays in the execution of key projects.On Thursday, the Centre said that companies from nations that share a border with India will be barred from bidding for government contracts for goods and services until they register with the industry department. It said the decision was taken to “strengthen the defence of India and national security”; the move is being seen as an effort to counter China amid a tense border stand-off with the neighbouring nation.The order, which did not name any country, is applicable for all prospective tenders, and also for the tenders that have already been invited but not yet awarded.The two government officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an ongoing tender process will be scrapped only if one of the technically qualified bidders is a Chinese firm and it is also the lowest bidder.Tender evaluations often have two parts -- technical qualification and price bid. A company emerges as a shortlisted bidder only after it meets all technical qualifications. After that, price quotes of all shortlisted bidders are evaluated and the lowest price bidder gets the contract, the first official said.An order clarifying the move has already been circulated to all ministries, public sector units and state governments asking them not to scrap earlier tenders and initiate fresh tendering processes only because of the presence of a Chinese entity as one of the qualified bidders, the officials said.“In other words, the tender should not be scrapped if it is unlikely to be awarded to a Chinese company,” the first official added.The clarification was issued by the Union finance ministry on Friday after stakeholders raised concerns that retrospective implementation of the July 23 order would lead to scrapping of all tenders, resulting in a huge loss of valuable time, the second official said.There was some confusion related to a clause of the July 23 order about ongoing tenders, he said. The clause of the Thursday order read, “If the qualified bidders include bidders from such countries [read China], the entire process shall be scrapped and initiated de novo. The de novo process shall adhere to the conditions prescribed in this order.”The clarification issued on July 24 said “qualified bidder means only those bidders who would otherwise have been qualified for award of the tender after considering all factors including price”.“If bidders from such countries would not have qualified for award for reasons unconnected with the said order (for example they do not meet tender criteria or their price bid is higher... or any other reason) then there is no need to scrap the tender/start the process de novo.”India shares land borders with China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan. But the July 23 order exempts some of these countries to which India extends lines of credit or provides development assistance. The Thursday order takes into its ambit all public sector companies, autonomous bodies and public-private partnership (PPP) projects receiving financial support from the government. State governments and their undertakings have also been directed to follow suit.India and China have been locked in a months-long border stand-off, which resulted in a deadly clash last month that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The two sides have lately failed to make a breakthrough in reducing the tensions despite intense negotiations at the military and diplomatic levels, and a disengagement process at some friction points has remained sluggish.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) said: “The clarification has removed uncertainty about ongoing tenders. This will save significant time and prevent time and cost overrun.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-tenders-with-china-firms-participation-will-not-be-hit/story-DpJ4BBrFyOpHFkOaaKPrXN.html
27-07-2020||India||Battles fought inside nation too, pick your role: PM Modi||Battles are fought not just on borders but also within a country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, urging citizens to behave responsibly in order to boost the “morale and honour” of soldiers and asking countrymen to refrain from social media practices that could be “detrimental” to the nation.Everyone must decide his/her role in these battles that play out on many fronts simultaneously, Modi said in his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address, reminding people that soldiers fight to protect the country under the “harshest conditions” while calling for a strong sense of national unity.In his address, which coincided with the 21st anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas, Modi also accused Pakistan of trying to back-stab India by “nursing delusions of encroaching upon Indian soil” in 1999, when New Delhi was looking forward to mending its ties with Islamabad. Modi also said people bound by a common thread who put the country above everything else bolster the strength of soldiers.“At times, without paying heed to the essence, we encourage certain things on social media that are detrimental to the country. There are times when we keep forwarding things out of sheer curiosity. Despite knowing that it is wrong, we keep doing it. “These days, battles are fought not just on borders; they are fought within the country too, on many fronts simultaneously. And every countryman has to decide his or her role in that. We too should determine our roles, fully bearing in mind soldiers fighting on the borders under the harshest conditions,” Modi said.His comments came at a time when India and China are locked in a border dispute in eastern Ladakh with military and diplomatic officials of the neighbouring countries attempting to hammer out a disengagement plan.A violent clash on June 15 that killed 20 Indian Army soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troopers in Galwan valley and the subsequent tensions in bilateral relations have triggered an intense political debate, including on social media. Hitting out at Pakistan, Modi said India can never forget the circumstances under which the Kargil war took place. “Pakistan had embarked upon this misadventure, nursing delusions of encroaching upon Indian soil, to distract attention from the internal strife prevailing there. India was then in the process of making efforts to foster good relations with Pakistan,” Modi said.The war was declared over on July 26, 1999, after Indian soldiers pushed back Pakistani troops, a bulk of them drawn from the neighbouring country’s Northern Light Infantry, from the captured peaks in Kargil.Quoting a Sanskrit adage, Modi said, “…to the wicked, enmity with one and all for no reason comes naturally. People with such a disposition keep thinking of harming even their well-wishers…that is why when India extended a hand of friendship, Pakistan tried to respond, stabbing in the back. But after that, when our gallant army displayed deeds of valour, when India demonstrated her might the whole world watched it...”What former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee said from the ramparts of the Red Fort after the Kargil war is still relevant, Modi added.“Atalji had then reminded the nation of a mantra of Gandhiji. Mahatma Gandhi’s mantra was…in the face of any dilemma, in order to decide what to do or what not to do, one must think of the poorest and the most helpless person of India. “One must assess whether one’s deed will result in benefitting that particular person or not. Going beyond Gandhiji’s thought, Atalji had said that the Kargil war has given us another mantra. And the mantra was: before taking any important decision, we should think whether our step, our endeavour is befitting to the honour of the soldier who laid down his life in those remote mountains,” Modi said.Modi urged the youth to visit a website highlighting the tales of bravery of armed forces and police personnel since Independence.“Today I call upon you to visit, the website, www.gallantryawards.gov.in, positively. There, you will come across an array of information on our brave warriors and tales of their valour. And when you discuss these with your friends, they will become a source of inspiration,” he said.Modi said he, too, got an opportunity to visit Kargil and witness the gallantry of the jawans. “That day is one of the most precious moments of my life,” he said.Criticising Modi’s address, Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the government’s action and policy made it clear that the Prime Minister had failed to understand “Soldiers Ki Baat”. “Under his leadership, India has the lowest defence budget since 1962. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has frozen the dearness allowance of serving officers of army, navy and air force. The CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) has pulled up the government for providing sub-standard gear to soldiers serving in Siachen...many more such examples show that BJP uses valour of our soldiers only for votes,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battles-fought-inside-nation-too-pick-your-role-pm-modi/story-5W83KHYSvi9nRfpR1mXVSP.html
27-07-2020||India||India will send 10 locomotives to strengthen ties with B’desh||New Delhi India will hand over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh on Monday, reflecting a renewed focus on the “neighbourhood first” policy to bolster economic ties and connectivity within the region amid the border standoff with China. The handover of the broad gauge diesel locomotives, part of grant assistance from the Indian side, is in line with a commitment by New Delhi during Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s visit last October, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. The locomotives will be handed over during a virtual event to be joined by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and railways minister Piyush Goyal and their Bangladeshi counterparts AK Abdul Momen and Mohammed Nurul Islam Sujon, as well as envoys of the two countries and senior officials. The handover will come close on the heels of the first cross-border container train reaching Bangladesh on Sunday with 50 containers of FMCG goods and fabrics. Last week, the two sides marked a notable achievement in maritime connectivity with the first shipment of container cargo from Kolkata to Agartala in the landlocked northeastern region via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port. The connectivity initiatives with Bangladesh coincide with other moves by India to shore up relations with key neighbours amid the standoff with China. In reject weeks, New Delhi has kept a wary eye on stepped up activities by Beijing in regional capitals such as Kathmandu, Male and Colombo. The people cited above believe China was behind Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s recent outreach to his Bangladeshi counterpart. On Saturday, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the Saarc framework, and Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion is also being considered by New Delhi. The Indian mission in Male, in a statement on Sunday to mark the Maldives’ Independence Day, said India had provided $400 million through an extended currency swap arrangement to tide over a liquidity shortage and will soon “announce another substantial financial assistance package” to help post-Covid-19 economic recovery. The people said India-Bangladesh railway cooperation is a vital element of efforts to promote trade and connectivity. Both sides are working to enhance rail connectivity by developing new projects and restoring old links. Currently, the four operational rail links between the two sides, all of which originate in West Bengal, are Petrapole-Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singhabad-Rohanpur, and Radhikapur–Birol. The first container train that reached Bangladesh on Sunday left the Container Corporation of India Ltd’s (CONCOR) terminal at Majerhat near Kolkata on Friday and crossed over using the Benapole-Petrapole link. This container train will now be a regular service connecting CONCOR terminals in India to stations in Bangladesh such as Benapole, Jessore, Singia, Noapara and Bangabandhu Setu West, Indian officials said. The two sides signed an MoU for the service in April 2017 and a trial run was conducted in April 2018. There are also two passenger trains – Bandhan Express from Kolkata to Khulna and Maitree Express from Kolkata to Dhaka – though services are temporarily suspended due to the pandemic. Seventeen railway projects with a commitment of $2.44 billion were included in assistance extended by India to Bangladesh. India has offered lines of credit for these projects at a rate of interest of 1% a year, with repayment over 20 years with a moratorium for five years. Nine projects have been completed, including supply of wagons and equipment. The Kulaura-Shahbazpur line, being built at a cost of $78 million, is set to be completed by the end of this year, and the Khulna-Mongla line worth $389 million is set for completion by June 2021. A cross-border link of 12 km between Agartala and Akhaura is set to be completed by March 2021 and will enhance freight and passenger connectivity between the rest of India and the northeastern states. Experts believe the attention given to ties with Bangladesh is part of efforts to overcome the impact of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) on bilateral relations. Bangladesh’s leadership was irked by reports that illegal migrants in states such as Assam would be deported to the neighbouring country. Maya Mirchandani, senior fellow at Observer Research Foundation and professor of media studies at Ashoka University, said: “We’ve neglected the neighbourhood for some time. Bangladesh has been upset since CAA was passed, and the perception it has created about ethnic Bengali Muslims in particular.” She added: “In the current context, with Chinese adventurism on India’s borders, it is imperative for Delhi to be less dismissive of neighbours falling into China’s ‘debt trap’ and be more pro-active about repairing ties that have been starved for attention.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-send-10-locomotives-to-strengthen-ties-with-b-desh/story-rJVXzRU50NniCE2GPiLLLN.html
27-07-2020||India||Displaying country of origin made mandatory for e-tailers||The Consumer Protection Act , 2019, which came into force from July 20, 2020, has brought in a new regulatory framework for e-commerce in the country, requiring online platforms to display the country of origin of items sold, apart from new rules that will enforce product liability for the first time. Rules framed under the Consumer Protection Act , 2019, covering aggregators, such as Amazon, or inventory-led models where retailers own and sell the stocks, are now required by law to specify the country where a product is made or assembled. According to the new rules, any seller, whether online or offline, will be subject to “product liability”. This means that a product manufacturer or seller will have to compensate for “any harm caused to a consumer” because of “defective products” manufactured or sold. Every online entity must also provide pre-purchase information related to return, refund, exchange, warranty and guarantee and delivery of shipments. “These rules are necessary for enabling the consumer to make an informed decision at the pre-purchase stage on an online platform,” said consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan . Paswan said the new law considerably increases “transparency and choices” to empower consumers. The e-commerce rules will apply to all electronic retailers offering goods and services, whether registered in India or abroad, Paswan said.E-commerce platforms have to acknowledge the receipt of any complaint from a consumer within 48 hours and redress the complaint within a month.Under this Act, the Central Consumer Protection Authority will be empowered to probe violations of consumer rights and institute complaint and order recall of unsafe goods and services. The new Act enables a consumer to file complaints electronically in consumer commissions, which can have videoconferencing for hearing.According to the Act, an Alternate Dispute Resolution mechanism of Mediation will simplify the adjudication process. A complaint will be referred by a Consumer Commission for mediation when there is a scope for early settlement and if parties agree for it. Mediation will be held in mediation cells under consumer commissions. There will be no appeal against settlement through mediation.Sriram Panchu, a Chennai-based lawyer, who specialises in mediation, said the provision of mediation under the new law is fit for cases where damages are payable in monetary terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/displaying-country-of-origin-made-mandatory-for-e-tailers/story-ZwZPCYxXMWm9VrwDIVzG8K.html
27-07-2020||India||‘Roar gets louder’: Evidence of tiger breeding brings cheer in Kaziranga despite floods||Amid reports of wild animal deaths due to floods, photos of a tigress and two cubs captured on a camera trap inside Assam’s Laokhowa Burhachapori wildlife sanctuary have brought cheer to forest officials and conservation activists.This is the first evidence of tiger breeding in the protected area, a buffer of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR). “Roar gets louder. First ever camera trap evidence of successful breeding of tigers in Laokhowa Burhachapori wildlife sanctuary, buffer of Kaziranga Tiger Reserve. Result of more than 15 years of hard work and effort. Kudos,” KNPTR posted on Twitter on Sunday.“The area was brought under KNPTR in 2007 and conservation efforts renewed. Before we started our efforts, the area was under grip of encroachers. There used to be around 240 cattle stations inside Laokhowa-Burhachapori. We removed the encroachments and now the area is protected” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR.“The camera trap photo confirms breeding of tigers in Laokhowa Burhachapori for this first time. This is a significant development and will strengthen tiger conservation efforts,” said M Firoz Ahmed, head of tiger research and conservation division at Aaranyak, a Guwahati-based wildlife NGO.Nearly 85% area of KNPTR, spread over 430 sqkm, is inundated by floodwater at present. This monsoon, 129 wild animals, including 14 rhinos have died in and around the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increased-tiger-sightings-reported-from-flood-hit-assam/story-hXM0RVkqhWpsrgPDQbo8XP.html
27-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling accused funded terror activities: NIA||A multi-agency team probing the Kerala gold smuggling case has said one of the accused, K T Ramees, was the key link in diverting proceeds of smuggling to fund anti-national activities in south India.In its petition seeking the remand extension of Ramees, who is in customs custody, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said he seemed to be the kingpin and was in constant touch with some fringe elements working against the interests of the country.“He used to insist other accused to make use of the situation and bring maximum gold from the middle-east. He wants to weaken financial position of the country. He was also close to many who indulged in unlawful activities and he made frequent trips to abroad,” the NIA said in the custody report.Ramees was arrested by customs officials from his house in Malappuram after the NIA detained two other accused, Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandip Nair, from their hideout in Bengaluru on July 10, five days after 30kg gold was seized from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.“He made several trips to the UAE and other countries in five years. When asked about this, he said he runs a hotel in Dubai. But later we found that it was incorrect. We have information that a good portion of the smuggling proceeds was used to fund fringe elements,” said a senior official familiar with the probe.Customs officials said Ramees (28) was first booked in 2014 in connection with the smuggling of 15kg gold through cargo in Kozhikode. But he got away by paying fines. In 2016 the forest department had booked him for hunting a deer. But he was not convicted in that case. Another case was registered against him after he tried to smuggle six rifles through the Kochi airport.“We will also inquire how such a history- sheeter got away and who all helped him,” said the senior official cited above, adding he used to fund various political parties and was engaged in social activities to dodge suspicion. The multi-agency team headed by the NIA and assisted by customs, DRI, enforcement directorate and income tax department officials is also investigating a possible nexus involving hawala transactions and smuggling. Meanwhile, the NIA has summoned M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, for questioning in Kochi. He was earlier questioned by customs for nine hours and the NIA for four hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-funded-terror-activities-nia/story-J0X7sNFmbHWWN8DVl05S6L.html
27-07-2020||India||Govt plans to build cold storage, supply chain for Covid-19 vaccines||As Covid-19 vaccine trials enter a defining stage worldwide, Indian authorities have started preliminary discussions on a wide range of issues, from logistics to ethical questions, to set the stage for a smooth supply and effective use of a vaccine when it is ready. Multiple ministries and authorities across India’s science and technology spectrum are involved in these discussions, said functionaries involved in the process, adding that the country’s Covid management team doesn’t expect a vaccine to be available before early next year. “At least two meetings have taken place on preparing the ground for the first vaccine. There will be more talks in the next few weeks. There are complex issues” said a government official involved in the discussions who asked not to be named.Also read: Rapid antigen kits key in scaling up Covid-19 testingThe authorities are carefully watching the development of at least nine vaccines—including two Chinese candidates— of which the brightest hope is the candidate of Oxford AstraZeneca. The Pune-based, Adar Poonawalla-led Serum Institute has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine in India. Human trials on this vaccine (combined phase2/3 trials) are to begin in India next month. “The internal discussions have started so that we are fully prepared and to avoid any last-moment glitches. One of the key issues is distribution in remote areas such as North East India and how we have to set up large-scale cold storage facilities in such areas,” added the official.Data, analysis of Covid cases across the country, and information technology and scientific inputs will go into these discussions that deals with a pandemic situation which has already seen more than 1.39 million cases in India. Discussions have also begun on how to distribute the vaccine -- whether it should only be given through government hospitals and public health care facilities at the district level, or if private hospitals should also be involved. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage While some countries, including the US have struck large deals with companies developing vaccines (the US has, for hundreds of millions of doses), India is yet to finalise any such agreements. The authorities are also clear that the entire production from Serum Institute can’t be consumed domestically. India, the largest of the SAARC countries, also has an obligation to see that its neighbours get a share of the most-coveted vaccine. “This again, brings us to helping neighbouring countries to set up logistics and infrastructure to distribute the vaccine.” Like many other countries, India too has allowed accelerated trials, especially in the animal toxicity tests—the stepping stone for human trials—for a faster development of vaccines that generally takes years to develop. Government functionaries are also debating the issue of who should be the beneficiaries for the first batch of vaccine—frontline health workers or the country’s aged population. Also read: Bihar, Andhra, Bengal, Karnataka face risk of becoming Covid-19 hotspots“This question has triggered a huge debate worldwide. We have to carefully make this sensitive decision,” said another functionary who asked not to be named, adding that no final decision has been arrived at. Talks of creating a central database of all those who are vaccinated across states are also going on. With the vaccine candidate of China’s Sinovac Biotech also reaching the third stage of human trials Indian officials are hoping the country doesn’t have to depend on China with whom relatons are at an all-time low right now. “We just hope such a situation doesn’t arrive when we have no other choice but to depend on the Chinese,” the first official said. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIt’s for this reason that officials are closely following the progress of two indigenous vaccines, Covaxin and ZyCov-D, developed by Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila respectively. Both are in Stage 1 of trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-to-build-cold-storage-supply-chain-for-covid-vaccines/story-7Pchq7AMotDbzvwLKPHApM.html
27-07-2020||India||Rapid antigen kits key in scaling up Covid-19 testing||With at least 400,000 tests conducted for the second day in a row till Sunday morning , India is clearly ramping up its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing, with the introduction of rapid antigen testing being the key behind the sudden sharp increase in testing -- from around 250,000 tests a day a month ago. Nearly one in four Covid-19 tests for diagnosing the viral disease conducted currently uses a rapid antigen test kit. An antigen is a protein (in this case present on the virus) that induces an immune response in the body in the form of production of antibodies against a disease, and detecting its presence through an antigen-based test determines a present infection. According to the Union health ministry data released on Sunday, 4,42,263 tests were done in the previous 24 hours across roughly 1300 approved laboratories across the country. Of this, nearly one lakh samples were tested using rapid antigen based testing kits to diagnose Covid-19. The rest were the fold standard reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests.  India aims to increase its testing capacity to one million tests per day on average in coming weeks. “Antigen testing has also played its role in ramping up Covid-19 testing as it’s quicker, easier to perform and cheaper than RT-PCR,” said Harsh Vardhan, Union health minister. India has conducted almost 10.6 million tests since January 22. The antigen based kit largely being used currently, especially by governments, is Indian Council of Medical Research approved ‘Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit’ developed by SD Biosensor, a South Korea based company that has its manufacturing unit in Manesar, Gurugram. Delhi was the first state to start antigen based Covid-19 testing last month, and other states that have deployed antigen testing in a significant way include Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and some north Eastern states. Experts say it is a good tool to perform mass testing. “Since positives results are confirmed positives, it will work in picking up cases, even if it is not able to pick up all cases. In areas where the viral load is very high it should work well, and that’s what we want -- that cases are tracked early. RT-PCR is a better test but can’t be deployed on mass scale as it’s not only cumbersome and expensive but also takes much longer. It’s ok to conduct confirmatory negative tests through RT-PCR,” said Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, King George’s Medical University, Lucknow. According to health ministry, lower rate of Covid-19 deaths can also be attributed to aggressive testing along with improved hospital infrastructure by combining public and private sector efforts that enabled early identification of Covid-19 patients. India’s case fatality rate as on Sunday was 2.31%. Patients are also recovering in large numbers on a daily basis, and Saturday’s government data showed highest recoveries in a single day of 36,145 Covid-19 patients. The total number of recoveries has reached 8,85,576, with the current recovery rate of 63.92%. “Most positive cases do not require hospitalization, and those needing intensive care is actually a minuscule number. Most people who are in hospital have got moderate disease with good chances of recovery. The need is to take care of our old and vulnerable population, especially those with co-morbidities, who are at high risk of developing severe illness,” says Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Max Healthcare....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-antigen-kits-key-in-scaling-up-covid-testing/story-zxd2j2R6hRlxErfZrshHWO.html
27-07-2020||India||PM to launch three labs today to help ramp up testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch high throughput Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata on Monday to ramp up testing capacity and help strengthen early detection and treatment, the Prime Minister’s Office said.High throughput faculties allow experiments or screening that large scale or on higher volume.These centres will be able to test over 10,000 samples in a day, and reduce turnaround time and exposure of lab personnel to infectious clinical materials.“The three high throughput testing facilities have been set up strategically at ICMR institutions -- National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research in Noida, National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health in Mumbai and National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases in Kolkata,” the PMO said in the statement.The virtual launch of these centres will be attended by union health minister Harsh Vardhan and Maharashtra CM, Uddhav Thackeray, West Bengal CM , Mamata Banerjee and Uttar Pradesh CM,Yogi Adityanath.“The labs are enabled to test diseases other than COVID-19 as well, and post the pandemic, will be able to test for Hepatitis B and C, HIV, mycobacterium tuberculosis, cytomegalovirus, chlamydia, neisseria and dengue,” the statement said.On Sunday, the PM in his radio broadcast Mann KI Baat cautioned against letting the guard down and said people should refrain from taking off the masks during interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-three-labs-today-to-help-ramp-up-testing/story-tep2UL7Pb0g3JVpWjF2geI.html
27-07-2020||India||Javadekar says concerns over EIA are unfounded||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said concerns raised by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on the draft environment impact assessment notification 2020 were “unfounded” and based on “misrepresentation”.Ramesh, a former environment minister, is the chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on science and technology, environment, forests and climate change. In a letter to Ramesh, Javadekar said, “Your observations are noted. There are 15 more days for suggestions. I will reply to you in detail. Government will finalise after considering various suggestions. Government decisions are always open for scrutiny...”Ramesh, in a letter dated July 25, said he wished to record his strongest objections to draft EIA 2020 notification on grounds that “it allows for post facto approvals which go against the very principle of assessment; It reduces public participation in all steps of environment clearance process; it does away with environment impact assessment altogether in many cases of expansion; increases validity of environmental clearances allowing projects to secure land for longer durations and it gives union government full powers to appoint state environment impact assessment authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/javadekar-says-concerns-over-eia-are-unfounded/story-9bruth6B0h3uh5mFdz8OzM.html
27-07-2020||India||Detainees may soon be released: Bukhari||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (LG) Girish Chandra Murmu has assured of releasing all political detainees, including Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti, detained in the aftermath of the nullification of Article 370 in the coming days, Apni Party leader Altaf Bukhari said on Sunday.When HT reached out for a response, Jagdish Singh, director, public relations, Raj Bhavan, said the LG was in Jammu and only he will be in a position to comment on the issue.A delegation of the fledgling Apni Party led by Bukhari, a former PDP leader, met Murmu on Tuesday.“I...discussed many things with him including the restoration of statehood and the polls. The lieutenant governor assured that in the coming days, all political leaders who are still detained, including former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, will be released by the government,’’ Bukhari told HT over phone from Delhi. He said he expected that the leaders will be released on or before Eid.The government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, on August 5, 2019, and also bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. The government has said it will work towards restoring J&K’s “special status” at an early opportunity.As protests erupted in the wake of the August 5 announcement, several political leaders and activists including former chief ministers were detained as a preventive measure. While prominent politicians such as ex-CMs Farooq and Omar Abdullah have been released, over 25 leaders, including Mufti, are still in detention.Last week, National Conference (NC) president and Srinagar parliamentarian Farooq Abdullah and his son, Omar Abdullah, filed a petition in the Jammu and Kashmir high court, challenging the detention of 16 senior NC leaders.‘’We are even hopeful that leaders will be released before Eid,” Bukhari, who formed the Apni Party in March, said.Bukhari said he wanted to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to know status of a memorandum, which he, along with other party leaders, had submitted to them in March. “I am in Delhi today and will seek an appointment with the PM and the home minister.’’Bukhari earlier met them on March 13, and demanded the restoration of statehood, protection of domicile rights and job reservation, besides the release of political leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detainees-may-soon-be-released-bukhari/story-RG4UoAbtHD3pXB14i0UvGK.html
27-07-2020||India||Deficient rainfall in parts of country||Several north-eastern states are dealing with floods but many areas in the core monsoon zone that includes parts of central and eastern India and some regions in the north-west have recorded a high rate of rain deficiency in July, a period when the rains are normally dominant.Rajasthan has a deficiency of 33%; Madhya Pradesh 40%; Chhattisgarh 23%; Jharkhand 20% and Odisha 27% for the month July. Uttar Pradesh has a shortage of 14% but is not in the India Meteorological Department’s deficient category. This is mainly because of scanty rainfall in western Uttar Pradesh. For the entire monsoon period since June 1, these states are bordering the deficient category because they have recorded under 19% deficiency, considered to be in the “normal” range or they have a minor rain surplus.Delhi, after covering a deficiency of over 50% in four days, is back to “deficient” category with a shortage of 20% as on Sunday. For July, Delhi has a shortage of 8%. Himachal Pradesh has a deficiency of 33% and Kerala 27% for the June-July period.The rain deficiency in these states will increase as the monsoon over northwest and central India will remain subdued at least for the next 2-3 days, according to IMD scientists.“Rains may pick up over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi from July 28 for around two days. Monsoon trough was weak over the core monsoon zone. No low-pressure system or cyclonic circulation has developed over Bay of Bengal which can strengthen monsoon rains over the region. Monsoonal winds from Bay of Bengal are also very weak in July,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.“Under such a scenario, monsoon rainfall is likely to remain subdued over plains of Northwest and Central India during next 2-3 days. However, rainfall is likely to increase over northeastern parts of India with heavy to very heavy rainfall during July 28 to 30,” the IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.Overall, the country has recorded 5% excess rain between June 1 and June 25; 15% excess in east and northeast India; a 17% deficit over north-west India; 3% excess over central India and 16% excess over the south peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deficient-rainfall-in-parts-of-country/story-FiJST6fcL5zccvzQuGMYWM.html
27-07-2020||India||BSP issues whip to 6 Rajasthan MLAs who merged with Congress, instructs to vote against Gehlot govt||In an interesting twist to the battle for power in Rajasthan, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has issued a whip to six Rajasthan assembly MLAs-- who had announced a merger with the ruling Congress party last year-- to vote against the Ashok Gehlot government in any proceedings of the house including the no confidence motion, according to news agency ANI.A signed communication by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on July 26 says that all the six Rajasthan MLAs that were elected on the election symbol of BSP issued by its national president Mayawati are bound by a party whip to vote against the Congress government in the state. It also rejects the contention that they had duly merged their legislative party unit with the Congress. Also Watch | BSP asks 6 MLAs to vote against Congress l What it means for Gehlot govt“All six MLAs have been issued separate notices wherein they have been informed that since BSP is a recognised national party as such there can not be any merger under para (4) of the Xth Schedule at the state level at the instance of the six MLAs unless there is a merger of the entire BSP everywhere at the National Level which admittedly has not been done in the present case and therefore they cannot claim any merger under any illegal and unconstitutional order of speaker which is against the Xth Schedule as well as against several judgments of Hon’ble Supreme Court…,” the statement says.Rajendra Gudha, Lakhan Meena, Deepchand Kheria, Sandeep Yadav, JS Awana, and Wajib Ali had last year declared to have merged with the Congress after winning state polls as BSP candidates.The official communication from the BSP says that the above MLAs have been notified that they are bound to follow the whip of the BSP failing which they would invite disqualification from the assembly.The statement adds that the BSP also plans to join the proceedings in the High Court challenging the legality of the merger. Rajasthan BJP MLA Madan Dilawar had moved Rajasthan High Court on Friday to challenge the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress party in September last year.He had claimed that the assembly speaker had not acted on his complaint seeking disqualification of these six legislators under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution in March this year.According to his petition, speaker CP Joshi declared BSP MLAs – Sandeep Yadav, (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kisangarh Bas), Lakhan Meena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati) – as having merged with the Congress on September 18, 2019.The bench of Justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal will hear the petition on Monday.The numbers are evenly poised in Rajasthan with Congress having support of 101 MLAs excluding the assembly speaker in the 200-member assembly. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has requested the governor to call a session of the assembly on July 31st, where he intends to prove his majority in the house. His government is also relying on the votes of the six MLAs BSP claims as its own||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-issues-whip-to-6-rajasthan-mlas-who-merged-with-congress-instructs-to-vote-against-gehlot-govt/story-lPJ3edfTlIwp6JnxolHi7L.html
