28-07-2020||India||Firms’ rights will be safeguarded: China on fresh ban||New Delhi: Against the backdrop of New Delhi’s fresh ban on 47 clones of prohibited Chinese apps, Beijing said on Tuesday that it will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies. India’s June 29 ban on 59 mobile apps with Chinese background, including WeChat, “severely damaged the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies”, Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement. “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles,” she added. “The Chinese side has lodged solemn representation to the Indian side and asked the Indian side to correct its wrongdoings,” Ji said, responding to a media query on whether WeChat was asked to stop providing services to its Indian users. The ban orders for the Chinese apps and their clones are among a string of economic measures unveiled by the Indian government in the wake of the months-old border standoff between the two countries. There was no immediate reaction by Indian officials to the Chinese spokesperson’s comments. Following the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a brutal clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), there were demands from the public and political parties for restrictions on trade ties with China. Spokesperson Ji said the Chinese government “consistently asks Chinese enterprises to abide by international rules and local laws and regulations when conducting external cooperation”. She added, “Practical cooperation between China and India is mutually beneficial. Deliberate interference in such cooperation will not serve the interests of the Indian side. China will also take necessary measures to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies.” Despite the June 29 ban, Indian users of WeChat were able to use the communication app till the weekend. When users sought to use the app this week, they received a message saying services were not available due to local restrictions. On Monday, India’s information and technology ministry announced the fresh ban on 47 apps, most of them clones and variants of the apps banned in June. The total number of Chinese-origin mobile applications blocked is 106. The government is also examining other Chinese apps for violating user privacy and national security....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firms-rights-will-be-safeguarded-china-on-fresh-ban/story-GmKQHzt3qDV2ZrgLZEuOdP.html
28-07-2020||India||Pilot camp’s MLA files petition to quash horse trading FIRs, seeks NIA probe||Congress’ Rajasthan MLA from Sardarshahar Bhanwarlal Sharma on Tuesday filed an application in the state high court (HC) requesting it to quash the FIRs registered by the special operations group (SOG) related to an alleged plot to topple the Ashok Gehlot government and instead handover the probe in the matter to the national investigation agency (NIA).Sharma is considered to be loyal to Sachin Pilot, all 18 MLAs supporting Pilot are camping in a hotel in Haryana’s Manesar.“We have requested the court to quash the FIRs registered by the special operations group related to charges of toppling of the government. All the cases are connected. In the alternative, we have prayed to the court to get the case investigated by the NIA,” said Swadeep Singh Hora, counsel for Sharma.The SOG has so far registered three FIRs on complaints related to alleged horse-trading of MLAs with an eye on dislodging the Congress government in the state. The first FIR number 47 was registered on July 10, in which two accused Ashok Jain and Bharat Malani were arrested. They are presently in judicial custody.The second FIR number 48 and third FIR number 49 was registered on July 17. In FIR number 48, three accused, including Sardarshahar MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and one Gajendra Singh were named.The FIRs were registered on the basis of a complaint filed by Mahesh Joshi, the Congress party’s chief whip in the Rajasthan assembly, after audio clips related to alleged selling and buying of MLAs surfaced on Thursday evening and went viral on social media.The FIRs were filed under Section 124A (sedition) and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).One of the audio clips allegedly contains a conversation between Sharma, who is acting as a mediator for Pilot and Union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.One person on the clip is heard saying that more legislators are needed to dislodge the Gehlot government and the other person exudes confidence that the current dispensation would not last long. The veracity of the audio clips has not been established so far and those suspected to be on the tape have denied it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-camp-s-mla-files-petition-to-quash-horse-trading-firs-seeks-nia-probe/story-zE34fqP3q2ApA4NQDamdIJ.html
28-07-2020||India||100-year-old Pune woman defeats Covid-19||Even as Pune’s Covid-19 tally continues to surge, a 100-year-old woman from the city became one of the oldest persons in Maharashtra to defeat the virus. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department officials, the woman was admitted along with four other members of the family in Covid Care Centre at Yerawada on July 20. “Her health deteriorated on July 24 through after subsequent treatment she showed remarkable recovery. She was responding to the treatment given by the doctors. The woman was completely on liquid diet for eight days,” said,” said Madhav Jagtap , Deputy Commissioner of PMC on Tuesday. According to Dr Sangita Bharati, one of the doctors who treated her, due to worsening of health after her saturation levels went down, there were plans to shift her to another hospital. However, the woman eventually overcame the virus. The woman is from Chandannagar area and had no major pre-existing ailments except blood pressure, said PMC health chief Dr Ramchandra Hankare. “Everyone at the Covid Care Centre made all possible efforts to ensure the woman recovers from Covid-19,” said Hankare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-year-old-pune-woman-defeats-covid-19/story-Wys8B91eN1L8lrARXHn6SO.html
28-07-2020||India||India to export 40 million surgical masks, 2 million medical goggles every month||The government on Tuesday permitted export of 40 million surgical masks and 2 million medical goggles every month as country is producing these protective gears in excess to their domestic demand, a top official said.“Following PM @NarendraModi ji’s mantra of Aatmanirbhar Bharat [Self-reliant India], in a momentous decision to promote Make in India & Industrial growth, Govt. permits export of 4 crore 2/3 Ply Surgical Masks & 20 lakh Medical Goggles every month, along with restriction-free export of Face Shields,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet.Following PM @NarendraModi ji's mantra of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, in a momentous decision to promote Make in India & Industrial growth, Govt. permits export of 4 crore 2/3 Ply Surgical Masks & 20 lakh Medical Goggles every month, along with restriction-free export of Face Shields. pic.twitter.com/BRuuTtcj8FEarlier exports of these items were banned to ensure their adequate domestic availability as these equipments are crucial in fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), an arm of the commerce and industry, on Tuesday emended the earlier notification “to the extent that the export policy of 2/3 ply surgical masks, medical goggles is amended from prohibited to restricted category” while export of face shields has been made free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-export-40-million-surgical-masks-2-million-medical-goggles-every-month/story-F7LzsxaXaFiYbpSyhn7PWN.html
28-07-2020||India||Odisha girl escapes with minor injury as mobile phone explodes during online class||A Kendriya Vidyalaya student from Puri district of Odisha escaped with minor injuries when her mobile phone exploded during online classes on Tuesday.Rupsa Pallai, standard VII student of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Puri’s Adarshnagar area was taking notes during her online class on her mobile phone when it exploded. She sustained minor burn injuries.“Luckily, I escaped with minor scalds on my left palm. It could have been worse,” said the girl.In Odisha, government and private schools have been offering online classes due to the lockdown. Mobile phone technicians said the explosion may have happened due to some defective part of the phone or overheating.Also Read: Odisha lawyer makes state government nominee of his bank fixed depositsA recent survey of New Delhi-based National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA), conducted across 419 government and private institutes, found that an estimated 90 lakh students in government institutions may not be able to access online education due to electricity problem or the unavailability of the smartphone or the laptop.The report said that the inability to access online lessons will shrink overall enrolment in higher education institutes by 60 lakh students, to 3.1 crore from 3.7 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-girl-escapes-with-minor-injury-as-mobile-phone-explodes-during-online-class/story-T20ORPQH5GeOSCLDcK2mjM.html
28-07-2020||India||Odisha lawyer makes state government nominee of his bank fixed deposits||A lawyer in a coastal Odisha district has made Jagatsinghpur district collector the nominee for two fixed deposit accounts worth Rs 14 lakh to fulfill his desire to give back to the society.Though civil lawyer Basudeb (he does not use any surname) of Jagatsinghpur district had made the district collector the nominee in two fixed deposits accounts worth Rs 2 lakh and Rs 12 lakh, owned by him and his wife, in 2016 and 2019 respectively, he revealed it about a week ago.“As the Covid-19 casualties increased in Odisha, I got scared and decided to let the district collector know about making him the nominee of my accounts in the event of me and my wife’s demise. I have diabetes and was worried and so I let the collector know about it through a WhatsApp message,” said 65-year-old Basudeb, a resident of Sipi village near Jagatsinghpur town of the district.Also Read: Analyse Covid-19 situation, redesign strategy: Odisha chief secretary to officialsDistrict collector Sangram Mohapatra said he was surprised when he got the message from Basudeb. “I was taken aback as no one does this. I then met him and his wife. He wants the money to be used for the underprivileged and the downtrodden people in the district,” said Mohapatra. “This spirit of philanthropy would inspire others,” he added.Basudeb said while society has given everyone a lot, it’s one’s duty to give back as much as possible. “How would the amount in my bank account help if it keeps lying there? It should be of some use to someone in the society,” he said, adding that neither his wife Bidyutprava nor his two lawyer sons opposed his decision. “I have tried to give both my sons, the best education. The elder one is a lawyer in Supreme Court while the younger one practices in Orissa High Court. Let them earn their own bread.”A Brahmin and a member of the communist party, Basudeb (Basudeb Sarangi) dropped his surname in 1972 to protest the practice of casteism in the society. He named his elder son Biplab Stalin and younger one Bismay Stalin after the famous Communist leader from former Soviet Russia. However, he became disillusioned with Communism in 1984 and resigned from the party. However, he has been standing up for local causes in his district.Basudeb’s younger son Bismay Stalin said he was happy with his father’s decision of making the state government a nominee in his fixed deposit. “I am proud to be his son,” he said.The 65-year-old Basudeb is not done yet, he next plans to sell about.0.2 acres of his land and donate the proceeds to a trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lawyer-makes-state-government-nominee-of-his-bank-fixed-deposits/story-5pKNHRckOKJnZxlyu0mzbJ.html
28-07-2020||India||I-T dept felicitates 4 women centenarians in MP, Chhattisgarh for regular tax payments||Four centenarians, all women, including a 117-year-old were felicitated by Income Tax department in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh for paying income tax regularly, the office of principal chief commissioner, Income Tax (MP-CG) at Bhopal said. According to officials, Girija Bai Tiwari (117), a resident of Bina town in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh may be the oldest taxpayer in the country at present.The felicitation ceremonies on Monday at the residences of these taxpayers were part of programmes to mark the 160th Income Tax Foundation Day that fell on Sunday. The three other centenarian taxpayers are Ishwaribai Lulla (103) and Kanchan Bai (100), residents of Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Beena Rakshit (100), a resident of Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, said a statement by principal chief commissioner, Income Tax (MP-CG) AK Chauhan. “As a part of income tax foundation day celebration various programmes were conducted on July 27 which includes felicitation of centenarian taxpayers, opening of two new Aayakar Sewa Kendra (ASK) at Morena and Balaghat, felicitation of top performers of the year in various fields within the department etc,” Chauhan said.Girija Bai Tiwari’s date of birth on her PAN (permanent account number) card is written as April 15, 1903. She is the widow of a freedom fighter late Siddhanth Tiwari and she gets a pension from the state government. “My great grandmother never missed paying income tax for several decades. She is an example for us that we must pay our taxes honestly and regularly. There are people who avoid paying taxes. They should draw inspiration from my great grandmother,” Girija Bai Tiwari’s great grand-daughter Anjali Tiwari told reporters at Bina on TuesdayShe said, “Our wish is that her name gets an entry in the Guinness Book of Worlds Records for being the oldest taxpayer in the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-felicitates-4-women-centenarians-in-mp-chhattisgarh-for-regular-tax-payments/story-dXp8XtLRXv1ka5ulRdNQ7L.html
28-07-2020||India||I am not a stakeholder in politics, Governor Dhankhar tells Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday wrote a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying he was “stunned and shocked” by her remark on Monday that “there are some who do non-cooperation despite holding constitutional and keep harassing the state. It should not happen.” Banerjee made the remark, without naming Dhankhar or the office he holds, while attending a virtual programme in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched high throughput Covid-19 testing facilities at the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) national institutes in Mumbai, Kolkata and Noida in Uttar Pradesh. “I take strong exception to such uncharitable, unfounded and unmerited stance. These are unbecoming of the position you hold,” Dhankhar wrote in the two-page letter which was released to the media. “I am not a stakeholder in politics but have undoubted stakes in governance in the state in view of my constitutional obligation….,” wrote Dhankhar who has been accused by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on numerous occasions of acting like a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the main adversary of Banerjee in the coming 2021 assembly polls. The acrimonious relationship between Raj Bhawan and the government has been making headlines since September last year with the TMC accusing Dhankhar of overstepping his limits and interfering in day-to-day affairs of the government. Giving a long account of what he has done as governor, Dhankhar wrote, “Non responsive stance at your end is not in consonance with the Constitution. I am required to be aware of the state of affairs and affairs of the state.” Accusing the state police of “putting a finger in every pie,” Dhankhar wrote that “failed governance at ground level cannot be covered up by cosy position in the media.” Bengal’s minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy took a swipe at the governor by saying if Dhankhar had no stake in politics then he would not have reacted to the chief minister’s statement that did not even mention him. “It was a virtual meeting between the chief minister and the prime minister and Dhankhar had no role there. He should rather play a sympathetic role to help people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-not-a-stakeholder-in-politics-governor-dhankhar-tells-mamata-banerjee/story-8rNPLb2ff22kqQRgEwRFzN.html
28-07-2020||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000 mark; death toll climbs to 67||Kerala reported its highest single day spike of 1,167 Covid-19 cases so far of 1167, taking the infection tally to 20,894 while the death toll climbed to 67 with four more fatalities on Tuesday. Thirtythree health workers were among the infected and the active cases stood at 10,091 while 679 people were discharged on Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. At the Kinfra Park in Menamkulam here around 300 people were tested and 88 of them found positive for the virus, he said. Dismissing allegations that several Covid-19 deaths were not being reported in the state, he said the state government has been declaring the fatalities as per the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation. “As per the guidelines, it’s a COVID death when a person dies due to severe coronavirus infection fatally affecting his organs. If a COVID patient dies in an accident or commits suicide or is drowned, it’s not a COVID death,” he said. The expert panel of the health department will take the decision. Of the fresh cases, a total of 888 were infected through contacts while the source of infection of 55 people was not yet known, he told reporters here. While 122 people had come from abroad, as many as 96 returned to Kerala from other states. The four deaths were reported from Ernakulam, Kasaragod, Alappuzhaand Thiruvananthapuram districts, Vijayan said. Over 1.56 lakh people were under observation. Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Malappuram and Thrissur districts recorded over 100 cases on Tuesday and there were 486 hotspots in the state. In the last 24 hours, 19,140 samples were tested, taking the cumulative to 3,62,210specimens. Results were awaited for 6,596 samples. Thiruvananthapuram with 227 cases on Tuesday topped the districts in the fresh infections, followed by Kottayam 118, Malappuram 112 and Thrissur 109.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-000-mark-death-toll-climbs-to-67/story-P2O3GUo0I1GTUp2v1vjecK.html
28-07-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: CM Vijayan’s ex-secretary’s grilling ends, no clean chit yet||After a two-day marathon grilling, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar was allowed to go by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) but he is yet to get a clean chit in the gold smuggling case, said a senior official familiar with the probe. Earlier, there were reports that the senior IAS officer will be made an approver in the case but the official quoted above denied it. Though the government disowned the once powerful principal secretary and acted against him, many in the ruling CPI(M) fear that the probe will be used to embarrass the state government. The opposition parties, the Congress and the BJP, have sought CM’s resignation alleging he was aware of his secretary’s actions. BJP national president J P Nadda also took potshots at the government saying “gold is yellow everywhere but it is red in Kerala.” On Tuesday, Sivasankar was questioned for more than 10 hours at the NIA office in Kochi. Later, he was allowed to go to his Thiruvananthapuram home. He was grilled twice by the customs and the NIA in Thiruvananthapuram and was later summoned to Kochi.Once the face of the government, Sivasankar got embroiled in the controversy after the seizure of 30 kg gold from a consignment sent to an employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. It was reported that some officials at the CM’s office had allegedly pressurized the customs to release the consignment.Also Read: Kerala gold smuggling accused funded terror activities: NIABut Sivasankar reportedly told investigators that though he knew some of the accused including Swapna Suresh, he was not aware of their smuggling background. There are also reports that he was instrumental in appointing Suresh as a business development manager with the Kerala Information Technology Infrastructure Limited and helped her arrange a room in an apartment outside the state secretariat which they used for smuggling activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-cm-vijayan-s-ex-secretary-s-grilling-ends-no-clean-chit-yet/story-R75zvjOfUSKgRZyH1qMsDK.html
28-07-2020||India||India’s involvement in ITER reflects capabilities for advanced design and manufacturing: PM Modi||As scientists started assembling the world’s largest fusion device at ITER in southern France on Tuesday, India said the project demonstrated the country’s capabilities for design and manufacturing at the most advanced levels. A special message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi was delivered by India’s envoy to France, Jawed Ashraf, during the virtual ceremony at ITER headquarters that marked the start of the assembly. French President Emmanuel Macron and leaders from China, Japan, South Korea, Russia, the US and Europe joined the event. “India is proud to be part of a global enterprise that is at the frontier of science and engineering,” Modi’s message said. “Indian scientists have made valuable contributions to the development and fabrication of the cryostat, the cooling system, the cryo-distribution system and several kilometres of cryo-lines. They remain involved in many other aspects of the project,” it added. India’s scientists also demonstrated the country’s “capabilities for design and manufacture at the most advanced levels”, the message said. “Equally, our institutions, scientists and engineers have benefited enormously from collaborating with their peers from around the world,” it added. The ITER machine, the world’s biggest science project, is being assembled to replicate the Sun’s fusion power. The assembly began after components arrived from around the world, reflecting the willingness of 35 partner countries to work together in the fight against climate change. Fusion provides clean and reliable energy without carbon emissions. It involves minute amounts of fuel found in seawater and lithium. A pineapple-sized amount of fuel is the equivalent of 10,000 tons of coal. The cost of a fusion plant is expected to be on the lines of the cost of a nuclear fission plant, but without problems associated with nuclear waste. Modi’s message described the beginning of ITER assembly activities as an “important milestone in the progress of project”. Scientists and engineers around the world developed a range of components that represent design, innovation and engineering of great complexity and precision, while adhering to schedules and timelines despite restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the message said. The prime minister wished the project, which reflects international collaboration at an unprecedented level, all success on behalf of 1.3 billion Indians. The country is represented in the international project by ITER-India, which is under the Institute for Plasma Research and governed by an empowered board chaired by the secretary of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE). India became the seventh full partner of ITER in December 2005. ITER-India designed and built the country’s contributions to ITER, including the cryostat, a massive vacuum containment vessel that is the single largest component of the ITER machine. According to the organisation’s website, the ITER machine will be the first fusion device to produce net energy and maintain fusion for long periods of time. It will also be the first fusion device to test integrated technologies, materials and physics regimes needed for the commercial production of fusion-based electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-involvement-in-iter-reflects-capabilities-for-advanced-design-and-manufacturing-pm-modi/story-rsi383AySAqpG3XEStXdRK.html
28-07-2020||India||Doubled speed of cargo trains during lockdown, increased freight loading: Railways||The ministry of railways on Tuesday said it surpassed freight traffic on July 27 as compared with the corresponding period last year and doubled the speed of its freight trains “in spite of Covid 19 related challenges.”The national transporter increased the average speed of its freight trains to 46.16 kmph which is more than double as compared to its speed of 22.52 kmph last year.The suspension of passenger trains since March 22 has led to decongestion of a bulk of the national transporter’s network. At present only 230 special passengers are plying while cargo and parcel trains have been allowed to operate since the lockdown began. “In the month of July the average speed of freight trains is 45.03 kmph which is around double as compared to last year for the same month (23.22 kmph). West Central Railway with the average speed of 54.23 kmph, Northeast Frontier Railway with the speed of 51 kmph, East Central Railway 50.24 kmph, East Coast Railway 41.78 kmph, South East Central Railway 42.83 kmph, South Eastern Railway 43.24 kmph and Western Railway with the speed of 44.4 kmph are the leading Railway Zones in the average speed of freight train in Indian Railways,” the ministry said.It also marginally inched higher in its freight loading on July 27 as compared with the same period last year at 3.13 million tonnes with an increase of 0.3%. However, the cumulative, overall loading of freight trains remains 18.18% less than last year.On July 27, the Railways loaded a total 1,039 rakes with freight including 76 rakes of foodgrain, 67 rakes of fertilizer, 49 rakes of steel, 113 rakes of cement, 113 rakes of iron ore and 363 rakes of coal. “Railways has achieved record loading of foodgrains this fiscal which is 80%more than last year, and has also introduced time tabled parcel services – 4,541 services and transported 2.41 lakh tonnes cargo generating a revenue of Rs 86.88 crore,” said railway board chairman VK Yadav said at a press conference on Tuesday.Food grain distributions during the lockdown had more than doubled with the Railways transporting 5.2 million tonnes of foodgrains in April after the country went under a lockdown on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, Hindustan Times had reported on April 27.Railways has set an ambitious target of achieving freight loading 50% more loading in the current financial year as compared with FY 2019-2020, Yadav said.“These improvements in freight movements will be institutionalized and incorporated in the upcoming zero based time table. These steps will lead to significantly higher freight traffic and earnings for Railways and cost competitive logistics for the entire country,¨ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubled-speed-of-cargo-trains-during-lockdown-increased-freight-loading-railways/story-yOBrdHaYzk4BCmSwf3RQMK.html
28-07-2020||India||Ram Mandir Bhumi Pujan day draws near, donations continue to rise||As the Ram Mandir Bhumi Pujan day is approaching, donations for building a ‘grand’ temple at Lord Ram’s birthplace at Ayodhya are also coming in. The construction of the temple will begin after the laying of the foundation stone at Ram Janmabhoomi, most likely by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5. Renowned spiritual guru and ‘Katha vachak’ Morari Bapu has announced a donation of Rs 5 crore from his Vyaspeeth to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Morari Bapu had announced the donation during an online spiritual talk on Monday saying his ashram in Chitrakoot will send Rs 5 crore for the construction of Ram Mandir while also asking devotees to contribute voluntarily. A Hindu seer also announced that the Ram Temple trust was not averse to taking donations from Muslims. Watch: Ram Temple: Time capsule to be placed in foundation? Official clarifies“The Trust is not averse to taking donations from Muslims, if they are willing to donate,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das. Kamal Nayan is successor designate of chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Politicians have also started donating money for the Ram Mandir. Deputy chief minister in Uttar Prasad government, Keshav Prasad Maurya went to Ayodhya along with his wife on Tuesday. Also Read: Owaisi alleges PM Modi will violate ‘constitutional oath’ by attending Ram Temple ceremonyMaurya donated Rs 6.60 lakh to the Trust on behalf of late Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) president Ashok Singhal, his late guru Gurujan Singh and family members. “Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya met chairman of the Trust, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and handed over cheques to him. He donated Rs 6.60 lakh for construction of Ram Mandir,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram. Earlier on March 25, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had donated Rs 11 lakh to the Trust for the construction of Ram Mandir. Adityanath had donated money during the shifting of the idol of Ram Lalla from makeshift temple to a pre-fabricated temple at Ram Janmabhoomi. The Mahavir Mandir Trust of Patna has also announced a donation of Rs 10 crore for the cause with installments of Rs two crore to be paid every year as per the instructions of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. First installment has been paid.Apart from cash, devotees are also donating gold and silver to the Trust. Hyderabad based jeweler K Srinivas has donated one kg gold brick and a five kg silver brick to the Trust. Watch: After UP CM Yogi, his deputy visits Ayodhya to take stock of Ram Temple prepAjay Rastogi, state president of Bullion Jewellers Association, Lucknow, and members of his association, have donated 33 kg silver bricks to the Trust. Through online donations in the past four months, the Trust has received around Rs 6 crore in its two bank accounts in State Bank of India, main branch, Ayodhya. The Trust is also sending acknowledgement receipt of donations along with ‘thanks letter’ by post to donors. The Trust is hopeful that there will be no shortfall of money for the construction of Ram Mandir. The VHP has planned to connect with 10 crore families across the country and collect donations ranging from Rs 1 to Rs 10 from each family for the Ram Mandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-bhumi-pujan-day-draws-near-donations-continue-to-rise/story-P44NAJhkiiwFw0LoIdubfL.html
28-07-2020||India||Indian Navy’s clear message to Beijing following escalation of border tension ‘registered’ by China: Report||The Indian Navy’s clear message to Beijing through its aggressive deployment of almost all frontline warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean Region following escalation in the border row in eastern Ladakh has been “registered” by China, top defence sources said on Tuesday. The Indian Navy deployed a range of its frontline warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean Region(IOR) to send a clear message to China when the border tension escalated manifold in the wake of the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15. The sources told PTI that the government adopted a multi-pronged approach involving the Army, the Indian Air Force(IAF) and the Navy as well diplomacy and economic measures to send a clear signal to China that its misadventure in eastern Ladakh was not acceptable at all. They said the three service chiefs are engaged in deliberations on almost a daily basis to ensure a coordinated approach in dealing with the situation as well as to make China understand about India’s clear message. The sources said the three services are coordinating on the military response to the border row. The Navy has significantly expanded its deployment in the IOR deploying a plethora of warships and submarines to create pressure points on China as the maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for its supply chain through sea routes. “Yes, our message has been registered by China,” said a source without elaborating. Asked whether China has responded to India’s deployment, the sources said there was no visible increase in forays by Chinese ships in the IOR. They said the reason could be the PLA Navy’s excessive deployment of resources in the South China Sea following the strong opposition by the US to Beijing’s expansive territorial claims in the region. The US sent a number of its warships to the South China Sea to demonstrate freedom of navigation and rallying support to countries who have territorial disputes with China over the region. The Indian Navy is also ramping up its operational cooperation with various friendly naval forces like the US Navy and Japan Maritime Self Defense Force in view of the fast evolving regional security landscape. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control(LAC). The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The Army significantly enhanced deployment after the clashes in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government has given the armed forces “full freedom” to give a “befitting” response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. After the last round of military talks, government sources said the Indian side conveyed a “very clear” message to the Chinese army that status quo ante must be restored in eastern Ladakh and it will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity. PTI MPB GSN GSN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-s-clear-message-to-beijing-following-escalation-of-border-tension-registered-by-china-report/story-lFYTm6P5a6PALQggL2UAPL.html
28-07-2020||India||Slouching towards BJP? Ex-ally HD Kumaraswamy goes all-out against Congress||In a withering attack against its former ally, Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy alleged that the Congress is synonymous with horse-trading. Till about a year ago, his party ran a coalition government with the Congress in Karnataka.The JDS leader ridiculed the national party’s ‘save democracy’ campaign being run by it currently in light of developments in Rajasthan.Pointing out that while the Congress is running a campaign against the BJP and accusing it of buying MLAs to topple democratically elected governments, Kumaraswamy said: “What has the Congress done? Haven’t they lured all BSP MLAs who supported the Congress to form government in Rajasthan? Is this not a buyout?”“Is this democratic behavior? If you are dividing the like-minded party MLAs supporting you, through deceit, who would support you? Are these mistakes not visible to you?” he questioned.The former CM accused the Congress of working to divide the JDS in the past.“Is it not a fact that for the sake of one Rajya Sabha seat, the Congress government in Karnataka purchased eight JDS MLAs? Is this democracy? Didn’t Congress conspire to form a government after the 2018 assembly polls by buying our MLAs? Does Congress have the moral courage to answer these questions?” Kumaraswamy said in a statement.The Kumaraswamy outburst comes at a time when he is increasingly seen by analysts as being soft on the BJP. Even as the Congress has repeatedly attacked the BJP government and alleged massive corruption in the purchase of Covid treatment-related equipment, the JDS has been rather quiet about it.Both Kumaraswamy and Deve Gowda have asserted that the priority right now is to fight the pandemic and bills about purchases could be examined later. This has been interpreted by analysts as being soft on the ruling party and leading to speculation about the relationship between the two parties.On July 23, addressing a press conference to respond to charges on corruption related to purchase of Covid related equipment, revenue minister R Ashoka had pointedly asked the Congress to “learn from JDS on how to work with the government during a pandemic rather than level baseless allegations”.The Congress, however, chose to react rather cautiously to Kumaraswamy’s latest outburst.Speaking to HT, Congress’s chief spokesperson BL Shankar said: “Our Save Democracy campaign is to ensure that the spirit of the constitution is upheld. We want everybody to examine how elected representatives should not be bought and sold as well as the role of the Governor, the speaker, and the whip. Kumaraswamy’s comments are unwarranted, ill-timed, and inappropriate as it is the duty of opposition parties to join hands to prevent the constitution from being subverted.”Asked whether JDS was cosying up to the ruling party in the state, Shankar said: “It is for each party to take decisions on the road ahead.”BJP spokesperson S Prakash though welcomed Kumaraswamy’s comments, saying: “It is borne out of the experience he must have had while dealing with the Congress.”Prakash though said that there was no question of the BJP having any truck with the JDS. “We have a majority of our own. Why would we (need their) help?”Political analyst Manjunath though said that recent remarks by JDS showed the party’s growing closeness to the BJP.“Though Deve Gowda today made some comments against the state government asking it to withdraw some of the recently issued ordinances, JDS realises that as long as Shivakumar and Siddaramiah are at the helm of the Congress in Karnataka, they have a challenge on hands. There is no love lost between Siddaramiah and the Gowdas. Also, the JDS fears Shivakumar might emerge as the leader of Vokkaligas, who traditionally have been its most solid supporters. Which is why JDS is increasingly soft on the BJP,” said Manjunath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slouching-towards-bjp-ex-ally-hd-kumaraswamy-goes-all-out-against-congress/story-CUiMRF9goNfZmvBZG4bFKK.html
28-07-2020||India||AIIMS Rishikesh successfully tests air ambulance landing, service starting soon||In an initiative to improve health care facilities in the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, on Tuesday, successfully conducted test landing of an air ambulance service in the premises of the hospital. After getting permission from the director general of civil aviation (DGCA), a six-seater helicopter made a test landing at the hospital on Tuesday. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will soon inaugurate the facility in a formal launch. This facility will help improve health care facilities in the state, as patients in serious condition in far-flung areas can be brought to the hospital through the air ambulance. Professor Ravikant, director of AIIMS said that earlier, helipads of IDPL and at Jollygrant were used to bring patients from remote areas of the state to AIIMS. He added that with this initiative, AIIMS Rishikesh will become the first government health institute in the country with an air ambulance facility. Also Read: Two dead, one missing after houses damaged in heavy rains in UttarakhandAs part of the trial run, the hospital director along with Captain Deep Srivastava, the civil aviation advisor to the government of Uttarakhand flew from Jollygrant to AIIMS Rishikesh. Dr. Madhur Uniyal, in-charge of aviation and air rescue services of AIIMS Rishikesh said, “Our hospital stands completely with the state government to provide immediate treatment to the victims of disasters and road accidents in any part of the state. We are working with determination in this regard and for that, a helipad has been made on campus to save the lives of critical patients.”Also Read: Corbett has India’s largest tiger population among 50 reserves: report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-rishikesh-successfully-tests-air-ambulance-landing-service-starting-soon/story-9fkd3RAVVLAmAtPtohruvN.html
28-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: NIA arrests DU professor Hany Babu in Bhima Koregaon case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NIA arrests DU professor Hany Babu in Bhima Koregaon caseThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) said Tuesday it has arrested an associate professor of English of Delhi University in connection with the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case.Read more. Kejriwal govt rejects Delhi police’s list of lawyers for riots cases, fresh face-off with LG loomsDelhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has rejected the proposed list of advocates to represent Delhi Police in court cases linked to riots in northeast Delhi earlier this year in February.Read more. ‘Shots from 30,000 feet’: Pics show Rafales re-fuelling mid-air on way homeThe first batch of five Rafale fighter jets, on their way to India, were seen being re-fuelled mid-air from a French Air Force tanker, and the pictures taken at 30,000 feet were posted on Twitter by the Indian embassy in France.Read more.PM Modi to meet banks, NBFCs tomorrow to discuss financial sectorPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be joining banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) tomorrow evening to deliberate on the vision and roadmap for the future, tweeted his office on Tuesday.Read more. Varanasi craftswomen send wooden Rakhi to PM Modi and jawans in Galwan valleyA group of Varanasi craftswomen have sent hand-made wooden Rakhis to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian Army soldiers deployed in Galwan Valley near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in eastern Ladakh. The Rakhis made by the women of the PM’s parliamentary constituency have been sent through his parliamentary office in the city.Read more. India, Mauritius PMs to inaugurate new Supreme Court building on ThursdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth will on Thursday jointly inaugurate the new Supreme Court built in Port Louis with Indian grant assistance, reflecting New Delhi’s sharpened focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s father files FIR against Rhea Chakraborty for abetment to suicide, theft, cheating: Patna PoliceSushant Singh Rajput’s father, KK Singh, has filed an FIR with the Patna Police, against the late actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty. Sanjay Singh, Inspector General of Patna Central Zone, told ANI that the FIR was registered under various sections, including abetment of suicide.Read more. Virat Kohli’s ‘climb up a tree and chill’ throwback pic may make you reflect on the small joys of lifeVirat Kohli has shared a new picture on Instagram and chances are his caption may leave you with various thoughts. If you’re someone who loves the outdoors, Kohli’s post may hit you right in the feels and remind you of a time when you spent your day walking barefoot on the grass or surrounded by nature. Read more. Watch: Rafale jets refuelled mid-air on their way from France to IndiaThe 5 Rafale fighter aircraft en route to India were refuelled mid-air. Pictures of the refuelling exercise were taken at a height of 30,000 feet. The Indian Air Force ‘appreciated the support’ provided by the French Air Force for the Rafale journey. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-nia-arrests-du-professor-hany-babu-in-bhima-koregaon-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fIPteSIuBRrRyyvfoI6JDP.html
28-07-2020||India||NIA arrests DU professor Hany Babu in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) said Tuesday it has arrested an associate professor of English of Delhi University in connection with the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case.Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil, 54, is a resident of Gautam Buddha Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. The case relates to inciting people and giving provocative speeches during an Elgar Parishad event organised by the Kabir Kala Manch at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence resulting in loss of life and property and statewide agitation in Maharashtra, an NIA spokesperson said.On September 11, 2019, the Pune police had searched his house in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. The Pune Police filed a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet in this case on November 15, 2018 and February 2, 2019 respectively.The spokesperson said that during investigation, the NIA found that senior leaders of CPI (Maoist), an organisation banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, were in contact with the organizers of Elgar Parishad as well as Hany Babu to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities. The NIA took up the investigation of the case on January 24 this year and arrested two other accused - Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha - on April 14.“During further investigation, it was revealed that accused Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil was propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and was a co-conspirator with other arrested accused,” the NIA spokesperson said.Hany Babu will be produced before NIA Special Court in Mumbai on Wednesday, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-du-professor-hany-babu-in-bhima-koregaon-case/story-SAafTMG22XjKxeoSKSp30H.html
28-07-2020||India||Explosion in parcel from Amritsar creates panic in Bengal post office, probe on||A small explosion in a parcel from Amritsar in Punjab caused panic at Pradhan Nagar post office in north Bengal’s Siliguri town on Tuesday morning with staff and customers running for cover as sparks and smoke came out of the parcel around 11.30 am when a postman was handling it. The bomb squad soon reached the spot with sniffer dogs followed by a criminal investigation department (CID) team. Police have started an investigation. The parcel was booked through EMS Speed Post by a man named Anirudh Bhardawaj who deals in air guns in Amritsar, police said. The parcel, which was shipped on July 10, was meant for Anuj Tamang, a local resident. Tamang is being questioned. Kunwar Bhusan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Siliguri (Zone 2), said, “The investigation has so far revealed that the parcel contained inflammatory substance used as cartridge in air guns.” Also Read: 2 killed as heavy rains lash north Bengal, thunderstorm forecast for KolkataArchana Dey, the postmaster of Pradhan Nagar post office said, “The parcel reached the post office in the morning.” A senior police officer told HT that inflammatory substances cannot be shipped through post offices and it is being probed how the parcel was sent from Amritsar. It may be recalled that in June 2011, a female school teacher was killed by a parcel bomb sent to her home in the English Bazar area of Malda district in north Bengal. ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosion-in-parcel-from-amritsar-creates-panic-in-bengal-post-office-probe-on/story-RrL4tOHxoIN4L0vutzk90N.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Will verify it’: Centre to top court on J&K L-G’s 4G restoration remark||The Central government told the Supreme Court, on Tuesday, that it will verify media reports claiming that Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu advocated restoration of 4G internet services in J&K.The centre, through its top law officer Attorney General KK Venugopal, was responding to an argument by NGO Foundation for Media Professionals which claimed that Murmu had made a statement to the media that 4G should be restored, a stance contrary to the central government’s, which in its affidavit had said that such restrictions will have to continue for two more months before they are reviewed again.“In our affidavit, we have attached a news report showing L-G has made a statement that 4G should be restored. It is also in line with the statements by J&K interlocutor Ram Madhav. I have submitted those media reports,” senior counsel Huzefa Ahmadi, who was appearing for the petitioner NGO told the court.“We will verify it”, Venugopal told the court.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing J&K, sought more time to file a response.The three-judge bench headed by justice NV Ramana posted the case for hearing on August 7.The Central government had told the court on July 21 that a special committee, constituted as per the Supreme Court’s May 11 order to review internet restrictions in J&K, has decided against affording any relaxation to such restrictions for the time being. In its affidavit, the MHA stated that the special committee held a meeting on June 10 where it comprehensively considered all aspects of the matter - including terrorist related incidents in J&K before deciding to continue with the restrictions on 4G mobile internet.The Centre’s response was to a petition moved by the NGO in June seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against the Central government and the union territory of J&K on the ground that no action was taken to comply with the top court’s judgment of May 11 to review restrictions on internet speed.The May 11 order was passed by the apex court on a plea filed by the NGO in April challenging the order issued by the J&K administration on March 26 restricting internet speed in mobile data to 2G and praying that 4G internet services be restored in J&K.The petitioner had claimed that patients, doctors, and the general public of J&K were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 because of restrictions on mobile internet speed to 2G.It was also pointed out that slow internet speed also renders telemedicine (diagnosis and treatment of patients by means of telecommunication) or online video consultation impossible.The Supreme Court, in its May 11 judgment, refrained from passing directions to restore 4G mobile internet services in J&K instead constituting the special committee comprising high level government officers to take a call on the same and examine the necessity to allow faster internet in certain geographical areas of the newly formed union territory. The committee was to comprise the secretary of ministry of home affairs, secretary of ministry of communications and the chief secretary of J&K.The NGO then approached the court in June filing the present contempt petition claiming there is no information available in the public domain about whether the constitution of the special committee has been notified and whether it has conducted any meetings or passed any orders.The Central government has maintained that there is no contempt made out since the special committee was functional as per the Supreme Court judgment and it has reviewed the restrictions as directed by the court before deciding to continue with the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-verify-it-centre-to-top-court-on-j-k-l-g-s-4g-restoration-remark/story-wDC6vhjizyOGzhk3Ssb9QO.html
28-07-2020||India||Kerala Covid-19 tally crosses 20,000 with record single day spike of 1,167 cases||With the highest single-day spike of 1,167 cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala crossed 20,000 mark on Tuesday, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Out of 20,896 total cases, active cases are 10,091 and recovered 10,733, he said.With more four casualties death toll went up to 68 in the state. Situation in capital city Thiruvananthapuram remained grim with 227 fresh cases. The CM said in the state capital while checking 18 persons, one person was turning positive and it was a worrying point. Statistics show a steady rise in cases in the state from January 30, when the first case was reported in the state, it took almost five and a half months to reach 10,000-mark on July 16. But it took just 12 days to cross 20,000 mark. The CM said going by the present tally next month is really crucial for the state.Local transmission continues unabated. Earlier imported cases formed a large chunk of new cases but now local infections cause 70 percent of cases. Out of 1167 cases, 888 people contracted the virus through local contacts. Among fresh cases, 33 are health workers.“In India for every 12 people, one is tested positive but in Kerala, in 36 people one is getting positive. But in Thiruvananthapuram, it is 18: 1. This is really disturbing,” he said. He rejected the opposition charge the state lags behind in tests. “Opposition repeats it every day without checking facts. Our daily testing rate reached 20,000 a day. Let them say whatever they want,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-tally-crosses-20-000-with-record-single-day-spike-of-1-167-cases/story-TmPYgamDELgwPR0UuaYeyH.html
28-07-2020||India||Ravi’s poetic tryst with number games!||Actor-anchor-producer Ravi Dubey added another feather in his cap. The young actor penned a hard-hitting poem on people’s obsession with staying on the top of the game. “I’m an actor and I believe everything else is an extension of it. One inspiring afternoon I was deliberating on various things that of late we all have gone through and I realised that currently we are in perpetual deadlock. It’s our obsession to stay top in number games in any job field for that matter, I felt the numbers are of prime relevance and creativity has taken a back seat,” said Ravi over the phone He says that this number game is applicable for the entertainment industry too. “This was actually distressing because we compromise with quality to keep up the number game. Sadly, we are made to engage into numbers from our childhood be it school, college, career or bank account — all that matters is numbers. So, I connected with all these thoughts and came up with this piece,” he said.Ravi has not only written but has narrated the poem too. He adds, “When I asked my wife (Sargun Mehta) for her opinion, she approved it and that made me a bit more confident. Then I narrated it to my friend Varun (Prabhudayal Gupta). He turned it around for me and put all his efforts to make it a happening project. And, that’s how the poem ‘Aankde’ came alive. If it was not for him, I wouldn’t have done the narration. Then of course the music by Shishir Samant made this video poetry complete.” The actor feels one should know how to differentiate between work and quality of work. “I don’t understand that why an actor needs to take up same kind of work to stay in limelight! Why I can’t opt for something that I am enjoying doing at the moment? After giving more than a decade to the industry I want to take up only quality work. With Sargun I shot for a video, then this video poetry and soon other projects will be on roll too.”Ravi’s last TV stint was as a host of a reality show. “When I started in 2006 then TV was very different in terms of stories, writing and characters. My last daily soap was ‘Jamai Raja’ and I really enjoyed playing numerous characters during the 5-year-old run. Then I tried my hand in reality TV and also hosted a couple of shows.” As a producer Ravi is planning to come up with multiple projects. “Not just as a producer but as an actor too there are multiple projects in pipeline across mediums. But, at present the creative side of me is highly active so in soon I’m launching my own music label under which ‘Aankde’ was our first venture. I am keeping my fingers crossed and hope after the ongoing crisis is over the industry will be back with a bang.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ravi-s-poetic-tryst-with-number-games/story-LsE0W8KyisIg8uRPyuxdzN.html
28-07-2020||India||With more rain forecast, Bihar’s flood situation set to worsen||With rain forecast in Nepal and in the catchment areas, the flood situation in North Bihar region is likely to deteriorate, officials said Tuesday. Bihar has received 706.4 mm rain against normal rain of 484.6 mm between June 1 and July 28 which is 46% above the normal. Darbhanga has received 127 % surplus rain followed by East Champaran with 103% during the same period, the Patna Met office said.. In Darbhanga district, the swollen Adhwara river set a new highest flood level (HFL) of 48.5 metres at Bishunpur after 35 years, officials said. The district has already been facing the devastation unleashed by Khiroi and Bagmati rivers for the past one week in the wake of rains in the foothills of the Himalayas in Nepal. The water resources department (WRD) has alerted the officials of Kishanganj, Purnia and Katihar districts after the Mahananda river rose by almost two metres at Taiyabpur in Kishangan on Tuesday forenoon. “The rise in water level of Mahananda was attributed to heavy rains in Nepal,” said WRD secretary Sanjiv Hans. The Burhi Gandak river which has flooded the parts of Muzaffapur, Khagaria and Samastipur, set a few HFL at Sakara in Muzaffapur and thereby exerting tremendous pressure on the safety embankment in the area. The Kosi is also flowing above the danger mark and is hovering near the HFL at Baltara in Khagaria. Left to fend for themselves, thousands of families have shifted on to embankments or on road with bare minimum belongings to save their life and wait for the water to recede to return home. “Hundreds of families have settled down in makeshift polythene tents on NH 28 near Dewapur and are somehow managing to live in the absence of any government relief,” said Manoj Yadav, a resident of Barauli in Gopalganj. Meanwhile, floodwaters from the Gandak, which had breached its embankment at three places in East Champaran and Gopalganj, have entered fresh areas. “Gopalganj is facing unprecedented floods, as pucca houses in Bhawanipur have got submerged with water for the first time in the past many decades,” said Somesh Datt, a local resident. Rail and road traffic have been disrupted in many districts for the past one week as approach roads to bridges have been washed away and floodwaters are overflowing the roads. The disaster management department (DMD) claimed that about 29.62 lakh people have so far been hit due to the floods in 837 panchayats of 101 blocks of 12 districts across the state. As many as 808 community kitchens are being run to provide food to those in the government-run shelters. A couple staying in a makeshift shelter on a roadside along Darbhanga- Jayinagar (NH-527B) at Koyla Asthan was crushed to death in their sleep by a speeding van early Tuesday morning. The deceased were identified as Surendra Yadav (40) and his wife Paramshila Devi (35), a native of Koyla Asthan village. Infuriated over the incident, local people staged a protest and blocked roads for nearly four hours in protest while seeking compensation for the bereaved family. The deceased had four children. The block development officer (BDO) Mahtab Ansari said an ex-gratia amount of ₹4 lakh each, besides ₹30,000 under National Family Benefit Scheme and ₹3,000 under Kabir Antyeshti Yojana were granted to the victims’ family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-more-rain-forecast-bihar-s-flood-situation-set-to-worsen/story-OEDAAbWVTqbbT4sLE5gZTL.html
28-07-2020||India||India, Mauritius PMs to inaugurate new Supreme Court building on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth will on Thursday jointly inaugurate the new Supreme Court built in Port Louis with Indian grant assistance, reflecting New Delhi’s sharpened focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy. The Supreme Court building is one of five projects implemented under a $353-million special economic package extended by India in 2016. The structure is the first India-assisted infrastructure project in the capital of Mauritius. India also announced the implementation of nine “high impact community development projects” (HICDP) in the Maldives on Tuesday. Indian envoy Sunjay Sudhir handed over a symbolic cheque to mark the implementation of projects worth $5.6 million during a ceremony at the foreign ministry in Male, which was attended by foreign minister Abdulla Shahid and members of Parliament. New Delhi has taken several steps in recent days to revive economic activity amid the Covid-19 crisis and to shore up relations with key neighbours amid the border standoff with China. On Monday, India handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh. Over the weekend, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility under the Saarc framework for Sri Lanka. Another $400 million was provided through an extended currency swap arrangement to the Maldives and India will soon “announce another substantial financial assistance package” to help post-Covid-19 economic recovery. The inauguration of the new Supreme Court building in Port Louis will be done via video conference in the presence of senior members of the judiciary of Mauritius and other dignitaries. The building was completed within schedule and below the expected cost, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The building, spread over more than 4700 sq m with 10 floors and a built-up area of 25,000 sq m, has green features and high energy efficiency. It will house all divisions and offices of the Supreme Court. In October 2019, Modi and Jugnauth inaugurated the first phase of the Metro Express project and a new 100-bed ENT hospital in Mauritius, also built under the special economic package. Construction of 12 km of the metro line was completed till last September, and work on a 14-km line in the second phase is underway. “The successful and timely completion of India-assisted high quality infrastructure projects in Mauritius shall also create greater opportunities for Indian companies in Mauritius and in the region,” the statement said. India and the Maldives signed a MoU on HICDPs during the visit of late former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj in March 2019. A grant of $5.6 million was announced for these projects and there was another cash grant of $7 million for small projects. These projects, chosen by the Maldives, are meant to have a high level of community impact and participation in areas such as income generation, healthcare, education and sustainable development. The HICDPs include three fish processing plants in Addu city, the Addu Tourism Zone and a bottled water plant in Hoarafushi, which are being steered by local authorities. Contracts for building the fish processing plants were awarded on July 22 and contracts for five eco-tourism projects are expected to be awarded soon. Sudhir said India’s strategy for development cooperation with the Maldives includes big projects under a $800-million line of credit and a large number of smaller grant projects. He noted these projects are transparent and demand-driven, with full ownership for the Maldives government. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the standoff with China had clearly triggered a policy reappraisal by South Block. “India remains committed to its ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, which has led to many successes. South Asia is of immense importance to India’s national interests and it has to keep pursuing these goals,” he said. “Recent developments pertaining to Iran and Nepal underline the need to pursue the ‘neighbourhood first’ policy with greater commitment and perhaps greater generosity. We can expect more such initiatives, perhaps even for Myanmar,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-mauritius-pms-to-inaugurate-new-supreme-court-building-on-thursday/story-HMxmeZjRsK0SyqVuSQfdDL.html
28-07-2020||India||Varanasi craftswomen send wooden Rakhi to PM Modi and jawans in Galwan valley||A group of Varanasi craftswomen have sent hand-made wooden Rakhis to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian Army soldiers deployed in Galwan Valley near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in eastern Ladakh. The Rakhis made by the women of the PM’s parliamentary constituency have been sent through his parliamentary office in the city.Craftswomen including Shalini, Vandana, Rita, Pushpa, Sita along with craftsmen Virendra, Rajkumar and Rameshwar Singh reached the parliamentary office and submitted the Rakhi packets to parliamentary office in-charge Shiv Sharan Pathak. The office in-charge accepted the Rakhis and assured them that it would be sent today (Tuesday) only. Geographical indication (GI) expert Padma Shri Rajnikant, who helped the women make the wooden Rakhis, said that they started making them around a week back.Besides the Rakhis, the women also sent an accompanying letter to the Prime Minister requesting him to tie one wooden Rakhi on his wrist and to ensure that others being sent for the jawans in Galwan Valley reach them.The letter also acknowledges that the wooden Rakhis are a product of a GI initiative to promote wooden craft in Kashi.“With your blessings and taking inspiration from Atma Nirbhar Bharat, we decided to make Rakhis for the first time under Kashi’s GI registered craft ‘Wooden Lacquerware and Toys’ in which Rameshwar Singh (state awarded craftsman) provided much support. On the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, we are sending these Rakhis to the brave soldiers in the Galwan Valley,” says the letter.The craftswomen claim that around 50,000 pieces of handmade wooden Rakhis of Varanasi’s GI craft have been prepared and supplied giving employment to many women craftsmen during these times of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-craftswomen-send-wooden-rakhis-to-pm-modi-and-jawans-in-galwan-valley/story-Pun3aOP5PtyBnIbnNi5TlJ.html
28-07-2020||India||Flood situation in Assam improves marginally; over 42,000 still in relief camps||With rains easing a bit, the flood situation in Assam improved marginally on Tuesday. According to a bulletin by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the number of districts affected by floods, which was 28 two weeks ago, came down gradually to 21 on Tuesday. At present nearly 20 lakh people are still affected by floods—a significant drop since last 1o days when the figure has reached around 40 lakhs. One more death due to drowning was reported during the day, taking this season’s tally to 104. “Rainfall has eased in the past few days and flood waters are drying in most places. The situation is likely to improve further in the next few days as there is no prediction of heavy rainfall,” said Pankaj Chakraborty, state project coordinator, ASDMA.Over 42,000 people uprooted by flood waters are still taking shelter in 236 relief camps in 16 of the affected districts. Nearly 1 lakh hectare crop area continues to be inundated, said the ASDMA bulletin. According to a bulletin by Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali and Kopili rivers continued to flow above the danger level at several places. The flood situation in Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) has also eased a bit with nearly 75% area of the park spread over 430 sq km inundated at present—till few days ago 90% area of the park was submerged. A total of 137 park animals including 14 rhinos have died during floods this season while 163 of them have been rescued, said a bulletin issued by the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-in-assam-improves-marginally-over-42-000-still-in-relief-camps/story-D8UxZbQQ8YU3FgboPVZIbI.html
28-07-2020||India||Tripura villagers say Covid-19 an urban disease, shun door-to-door survey||For the past two days, people from different villages of Khowai district of Tripura have been resisting a door-to-door survey for Covid-19 that began on Monday, claiming that the disease affects only urban people and not the rural people. Villagers of Mungiakami, Tulasikhar, Twimadhu and other areas of the district resisted the medical teams on Monday, the first day of the survey, by blocking entry and exit points to their villages. They didn’t even agree to take part in the survey even after being told that samples would be collected only from those having symptoms of Covid-19. According to the police officials, the situation in all these places are peaceful but they are yet to give their consent to be covered under the survey.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Director of health and family welfare department Dr. Radha Debbarma too visited the places and tried to convince the people. “We don’t know why they protested. We tried to convince them but they did not allow the survey today (Tuesday) also,” said Dr. Debbarma. The state has recorded a total of 4,067 cases of Covid-19 out of which 2,560 have recovered. Seventeen patients succumbed to the disease while one died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-villagers-say-covid-19-an-urban-disease-shun-door-to-door-survey/story-gPG9Cdjp373Cjl7ttJEF3O.html
28-07-2020||India||With $4.5 billion in loans, and a $1 billion more in pipeline, co-founder India is top China-led bank borrower||The China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB)’s prompt move to set up a Covid-19 support fund for its members is an example of the Multilateral Development Bank’s (MDB) “power of action”, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday.Xi said the AIIB, coalition in which India is a co-founder, moved “…promptly to set up a Covid-19 Crisis Recovery Facility (CRF) to support its members in containing the virus and reviving their economies. This is a typical example of the AIIB’s power of action”.The Chinese President was speaking at the fifth annual meeting of the Beijing-based bank, proposed by him in late 2013, and launched in January 2016.Since its launch, India has emerged as the overall top borrower — $4.5 billion — from the Beijing-based bank, and also the top beneficiary of Covid-19-related relief fund. As the largest borrower, India has almost 25 percent of all approved AIIB loans channelled to it. India remains the top virus relief fund borrowers as of now with $500 million and $750 million in its lending history, followed by $750 million each for Indonesia and the Philippines, $500 million for Pakistan and $250 million for Bangladesh.Besides the $4.5 billion, India is set to get over $1 billion for building mass transport systems, including the Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Rail Project costing $500 million, Mumbai Metro line-5 costing $350 million and Chennai Metro Corridor-4 costing $350 million.All the three projects are in advanced stages of approval and are likely to receive a nod in six-to-nine months.“It has got off to a good start. From the 57 founding members to today’s membership of 102 spanning the six continents of Asia, Europe, Africa, North America, South America and Oceania, the AIIB has grown from strength to strength and provided nearly US$20 billion in infrastructure investment to its members,” Xi said at the online meeting. AIIB, Xi said, has established itself in the world as a new type of professional, efficient and clean multilateral development bank.“The initiative is designed to develop infrastructure and connectivity in Asia and deepen regional cooperation for shared development,” Xi said.At least nine of the 17 loans approved for India through the AIIB since 2017 are standalone loans from the bank while the remaining loans have been co-financed with other MDBs including the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.The AIIB has loaned India some $1.25 billion for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic in two tranches in May and June – the second part of $750 million approved on June 17, two days after the deadly Galwan Valley clash at the line of actual control (LAC) between Indian and Chinese border troops.Soon after the loans were sanctioned, and though the AIIB is an MDB with New Delhi as a founding member, the Chinese state media made it a point to say that it showed that Sino-India economic ties should not be hampered by the tension at the border.“China apparently does not want the border tensions to extend to the economic field,” Long Xingchun with the Academy of Regional and Global Governance at Beijing Foreign Studies University, told state media.The AIIB loans to India have been given to states like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, and West Bengal.Some projects it has financed or partly funded include Bangalore Metro Rail Project and Mumbai Urban Transport Project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-4-5-billion-in-loans-and-a-1-billion-more-in-pipeline-co-founder-india-is-top-china-led-bank-borrower/story-nIJr6S5KxPOLK3L3IxNfaM.html
28-07-2020||India||NIA opposes Sudha Bhardwaj’s bail plea, says she is getting best treatment in jail||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday told the Bombay high court that it opposed the interim bail plea of Sudha Bharadwaj, activist and accused in the Elgar Parishad case who is lodged in Byculla women’s prison since her arrest in 2018. Bharadwaj had approached the Bombay high court against the rejection of her interim bail plea by the special NIA court in May. Though she has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPA), Bharadwaj sought interim bail on medical grounds in light of the directions issued by the Supreme Court to decongest jails due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Bhardawaj’s lawyer Ragini Ahuja told a a division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice V G Bisht that though the application in HC had been filed on June 11, it was not heard earlier. Ahuja further submitted that Bhardwaj suffered from some chronic ailments and due to her co-morbid condition and the fact that the Covid infection had spread in some jails, she was seeking temporary bail. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh who appeared for the NIA opposed the application and submitted that Bharadwaj was being provided proper health facilities and her condition was being monitored regularly. In light of this and the fact that the UAPA did not have provision for bail she should not be granted it.Singh further submitted that the jail authorities were complying with directions of the court that were issued in other applications and said that he wished to place the judgments on record, which the court accepted. Singh said that he would submit the compilation by Thursday after which the court posted the matter for hearing on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-opposes-sudha-bhardwaj-s-bail-plea-says-she-is-getting-best-treatment-in-jail/story-whXn0NLOisZgqxmsTcH6AL.html
28-07-2020||India||Kejriwal govt rejects Delhi police’s list of lawyers for riots cases, fresh face-off with LG looms||Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has rejected the proposed list of advocates to represent Delhi Police in court cases linked to riots in northeast Delhi earlier this year in February.The Delhi government, which had expressed its displeasure with the names in the panel submitted by the police, was asked by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to decide the matter expeditiously within a week.“Delhi Cabinet led by Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal dismisses the panel of advocates appointed to represent Delhi Police in Delhi riots case.Delhi cabinet directs Home Dept to appoint the best lawyers for a fair and impartial trial,” stated a tweet on AAP’s official website. The development has brought into sharp relief the differences between LG’s office and the Delhi government on this issue. While the Delhi government has objected to the names alleging they were suggested by the Centre while highlighting the need for a “fair trial” citing the existence of serious questions over Delhi Police’s handling of the riots, the LG’s office has dismissed those concerns while stressing on the need for a dedicated team to handle the February riots cases with consistency across courts.Also Read: Kejriwal launches job portal to help boost Delhi’s economy, allows street vendors to operateDelhi Police had proposed to appoint six senior advocates for arguing on its behalf in 85 cases related to riots and also proposed that 24 cases related to anti-CAA protests could be assigned to public prosecutors. 53 people had died in north east riots.LG Baijal had written to Kejriwal earlier this month citing his deputy and acting Delhi home minister Manish Sisodia’s objections to the names and requested that the matter be reconsidered. It was also reported that differences between Baijal and Sisodia on the issue could not be resolved in a meeting held through video conference.“In view of urgency and sensitivity of matter, it is requested that the decision of Cabinet be communicated expeditiously, preferably within a week,” Baijal was quoted as having said in his letter.Also Read: Delhi govt launches portal for job-seekers, employersThe first round of confrontation between the AAP government and the L-G’s office took place in June this year over the appointment of 11 special public prosecutors for the communal riots cases. The LG’s office had then overruled Delhi government’s rejection of the police’s request by invoking the power under Article 239 AA(4) of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-govt-rejects-delhi-police-s-list-of-lawyers-for-riots-cases-fresh-face-off-with-lg-looms/story-FHivhRsFwoXYOWLCInJJVO.html
28-07-2020||India||Two die as heavy rainfall damages railway over-bridge in north Bengal, triggers landslides||The driver of a truck and his assistant died at Jalpaiguri district in north Bengal on Tuesday morning when the vehicle fell through a railway over-bridge a portion of which caved in after being damaged by incessant rain. The bridge is located on NH-31 C. The truck was carrying banana from Assam. The deceased were residents of Goalpara, Assam. Santanu Bala, sub-divisional officer of Malbazar, said “Raju Sheikh (40) and Debraj Saha (35) died when their truck met with the accident near Odlabari.” Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts are receiving heavy rainfall since Monday. Landslides have been reported at several places. Roads between Siliguri and Darjeeling have suffered damage due to landslides while the NH-10, which connects Sikkim to the rest of the country, is in bad condition in Kalimpong district. About a kilometre away from the where the truck fell through the bridge, the overflowing Leesh river has damaged another railway over-bridge, disrupting connectivity between Siliguri and the Dooars region. “There have been landslides at Mirik, Pankhabari and other places in Darjeeling district but there is still connectivity between Siliguri and Darjeeling,” said S Poonambalam, the district magistrate. In the plains of Darjeeling district, several bridges and culverts have been damaged. Some people were injured in Tindharia and Mirik when their houses were damaged. “In Kalimpong district, landslides have been reported in some places such as Yolbong and Mahakal Dara. There was a big landslide at a location along NH-10 on Monday night but the route to Sikkim has been cleared,” said R Vimala, Kalimpong district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-die-as-heavy-rainfall-damages-railway-over-bridge-in-north-bengal-triggers-landslides/story-3SuDZ0RkXJLVkMOIuaV5mL.html
28-07-2020||India||HC rejects pre-arrest bail pleas of two PMC Bank directors||The Bombay high court (HC) last Thursday dismissed anticipatory bail applications filed by two directors of scam-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. After perusing investigation papers Justice Sadhana Jadhav pronounced the operative order of rejecting anticipatory bail applications filed by the PMC Bank directors, Gurnam Singh Hothi and Daljit Singh Bal. The judge said neither of the PMC Bank directors deserved discretionary relief of pre-arrest bail. Hothi and Bal had moved the HC after the sessions court had rejected their anticipatory bail pleas. However, the sessions court had granted them interim protection from arrest till June 15, and the interim protection was extended by HC from time to time. While rejecting the applications, Justice Jadhav also withdrew the interim protection, and as a result, paved the way for the arrest of the two accused in the PMC Bank scam, estimated to be 7,457.49 crore. Detailed reasoning for dismissal of the pleas is awaited. The Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) had on September 30, 2019, registered a case in connection with the fraud perpetrated by the bank officials and accused many of its directors of illegally extending huge loans to realty firm, Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and its group companies to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore. According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), PMC Bank had masked 44 dodgy loan accounts involving advances to the tune of Rs 7,457.49 crore to some entities, including HDIL, by tampering with its core banking system, and the accounts were accessible only to select staff members. The bank had created 21,049 fictitious accounts in a bid to ensure its master data tallies to the loan disbursals of Rs. 7,457.49 crore, RBI has stated in an affidavit filed in response to other PMC Bank-related petitions before the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-pleas-of-two-pmc-bank-directors/story-z69YjrLhkDvVQ6pK733F7N.html
28-07-2020||India||Corbett has India’s largest tiger population among 50 reserves: report||Uttarakhand’s Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) has reported the highest tiger density among India’s 50 reserves with 14 tigers per 100 sq km, followed by Kaziranga, Nagarhole and Orang tiger reserves, according to the 656-page report ‘Status of Tigers Co-predators and Prey in India’, released by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday on the eve of Global Tiger Day. According to the report, CTR has the highest tiger numbers with 231 inside the reserve and 266 using the reserve. CTR is followed by Nagarhole tiger reserve in Karnataka with 127 tigers, Bandipur Tiger Reserve (Karnataka) with 126 tigers and Bandhavgarh and Kaziranga tiger reserves with 104 tigers each. On Corbett Tiger Reserve, the report states, “A total of 5,004 tiger images were obtained from which 231 tigers were identified with tiger density estimated at 14 tigers per 100 km. Tiger population using the tiger reserve was 266, while the number of tigers present only in the tiger reserve were 231.” Dhananjai Mohan, Director Wildlife Institute of India (WII) said Corbett Tiger Reserve has maintained its top spot when it comes to tiger population among all the 50 tiger reserves in the country. “Last time in 2014 also, Corbett had recorded the highest tiger population for any tiger reserve in the country,” he said. According to the 2014 tiger census, Uttarakhand had 340 tigers including 215 in Corbett and 16 in Rajaji Tiger Reserves. On reasons for Corbett recording such a high number of tigers, senior scientist at WII Qamar Qureshi said that for a good tiger population you need a good prey base. “In the survey of the prey base in Corbett, we not only found it was good and one of the best in the country, it was also evenly distributed across the Corbett landscape. This has sustained a good population of tigers in Corbett”, he said According to the latest report, Corbett has a total of 32 species of ungulates, carnivores, omnivores, with chital, sambar and barking deer the most common species The tiger population inside the Rajaji tiger reserve is 38 while the number of tigers using the reserve is 52, says the report. Rajaji Tiger Reserve is spread over three districts including Haridwar, Dehradun and Pauri Garhwal over an area of nearly 1,150 sq km There are 442 tigers in Uttarakhand according to All India Tiger Estimation Report 2018 released by PM Narendra Modi in July last year in July. The tiger population in the Himalayan state has risen from 178 in 2006, 227 in 2010, 340 in 2014 and 442 in 2018. Parag Madhukar Dhakate, chief conservator of forests (CCF) Uttarakhand said a small Himalayan state recording such good tiger numbers, especially in Corbett is primarily due to good forest cover that harbours good prey base and focus on better conservation and protection strategies. “The combination of these factors has led to the thriving of tigers and their highest density tiger in the country”, he said. NTCA in collaboration with state forest departments, NGOs and coordinated by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), conducts national assessment for the ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators, Prey and their Habitat’ every four years since 2006. The latest report assesses the status of tigers in terms of spatial occupancy and the density of individual populations across India. The report compares information obtained from the earlier three tiger censuses (2006, 2010, and 2014) with data obtained from the 2018 tiger census to estimate population trends at the country and landscape level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbett-has-india-s-largest-tiger-population-among-50-reserves-report/story-iwcEKO7UbDeGqbj88ypRWN.html
28-07-2020||India||Moderate rainfall with occasionally intense spells likely over parts of India: IMD||Moderate rainfall with occasionally intense spell likely to occur over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining north Coastal Odisha, north Coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining Telangana, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Konkan and Goa during next three-four hours, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Meanwhile, Delhi-NCR is very likely to experience moderate rain with one or two spells of heavy rainfall during the evening of July 29 to July 30. The expected impact includes the disruption of traffic, waterlogging in low-lying areas and disruption of municipal services is also expected.Widespread heavy rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls will be very likely over Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and north-eastern states (mainly over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya) till July 30, said IMD.IMD has issued an orange alert (very heavy rain) in some districts for July 29 and 30. On July 29, an orange alert is issued over Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts, and on July 30, an orange alert is issued over Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. In addition, on July 29, a yellow alert is issued over Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, and Thrissur districts. On July 30, a yellow alert is issued over Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur and Kasargod districts.IMD has predicted heavy rainfall/thundershowers at most places over Konkan, at many places over Madhya Maharashtra and at few places over Marathwada for this week.The MeT department also predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala during next four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-rainfall-with-occasionally-intense-spells-likely-over-parts-of-india-imd/story-n0h8IhLWyJyMEb9KVXfwaM.html
28-07-2020||India||Terming it anti-northeast, Assam groups and parties up ante against draft EIA 2020||The draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2020, threatens to be the next flashpoint in Assam after the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, with several prominent groups and parties opposing it by terming it anti-north-east. Issued on March 12 by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), if implemented, EIA, 2020, will be applicable across the country and subsume EIA, 2006, with regards to setting up projects or expansion/modernisation of existing projects entailing capacity addition. The guidelines of EIA are used to study and predict the effect of a proposed activity/project on the environment. It is used as a tool to compare various alternatives for a project and tries to identify the one that represents the best combination of economic and environmental costs and benefits. The draft EIA notification, 2020, states that it aims to make the process of prior environment clearance “more transparent and expedient through the implementation of an online system, further delegations, rationalisation, standardisation of the process, etc”. But since the new draft reduces the period set aside for public consultation and allows post-facto clearance of projects, many groups, and parties are sceptical that it is aimed at hurting interests of Assam and the north-east and would harm the region’s fragile ecosystem.“This proposed law is objectionable primarily because it paves the way for post-facto clearance of projects in eco-sensitive zones and sidesteps inputs by communities likely to be adversely affected by such projects,” said Congress legislator and leader of opposition in Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia in a letter to Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar on July 23. “Private companies concerned can even prepare their own EIA reports by engaging private consultants. This is a travesty of natural justice and a body blow to the rights of indigenous people over their land,” he added seeking scrapping of the draft EIA notification, 2020, in its present form. Saikia cited EIA, 2020 as “extremely dangerous” for Assam and the north-east in view of the damage, which has already been caused by mining/drilling operations underway or sanctioned in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the region. “The EIA draft, 2020, legitimises the systemic repression perpetrated by the Central government. It is violative, exploitative, suppresses public involvement, and cripples biodiversity. Its inclusions are unjust, anti-democratic and anti-environment for Assam and the north-east at large,” Samujjal Bhattacharjya, chief adviser of All Assam Students Union (AASU), had tweeted on July 25. The opposition to EIA, 2020, has some recent context in Assam. On April 17, the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) under the MoEFCC had allowed opencast coal mining at Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary, a move that caused an uproar in Assam. In May, the MoEFCC gave environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by Oil India Limited (OIL) under Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) area in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district. On May 27, a natural gas well of OIL located at Baghjan, adjacent to DSNP, had a blowout and then caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters and displacing around 2,000 families besides causing ecological damage to the surrounding area. The gas well blaze is yet to be extinguished. “The Central government’s intention is to loot the land and resources of Assam and the rest of the north-east. Hence they brought out this draft EIA notification, 2020, which is detrimental to our interests,” Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti leader Manas Konwar had alleged at a press meet in Guwahati on July 25. “The draft EIA notification, 2020, allows the Centre to set up industry within a 100-kilometre (km) aerial distance from any international boundary without a public hearing. Since almost all states of the north-east, including Assam, are connected to international borders, this draft is directly against the interests of the people from the north-east,” said Partha Protim Bezbaruah, general secretary, Liberal Democratic Party, a regional outfit. The MoEFCC had published the draft EIA notification, 2020, on March 12 seeking feedback from the public within 60 days. Later, the Delhi high court had extended the deadline to August 11 owing to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terming-it-anti-northeast-assam-groups-and-parties-up-ante-against-draft-eia-2020/story-973anIqcppVby9lDtcN6WP.html
28-07-2020||India||Companies are stressed, have little appetite for loans: Industry||Business have pointed to encouraging signs of growth recovery on the back of the resurgent rural economy, but expressed fears about stressed sectors such as aviation, hotels and commercial vehicles, two apex associations said in separate statements on Tuesday. They also said companies have little appetite for loans due to their inability to service debt amid the Covid-19 crisis. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said economic uncertainties are hampering industry’s ability to plan for the future, while the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) said companies are hesitant to take credit risk in these circumstances. Assocham secretary general Deepak Sood said the main issue today is capability to service debt rather than availability of loans. “With a large number of industries still operating at less than half the capacity, leveraging their balance sheets further would be counter-productive,” he said. Reeling under debt-ridden balance sheets and economic uncertainties in the face of the Covid-19 crisis, Indian industry is left with little appetite for any more loans, with the result that most bank deposits are either parked with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or used by the central bank to fund ever-increasing government borrowings, Assocham said in a statement. Barring a few sectors, most others witnessed de-growth in credit deployment. Construction witnessed 3.7% contraction, while other sectors such as gems and jewellery (-3.7%) and leather and leather products (-4.4%) too were hit, it added. “Even after meeting the increased requirements of the government borrowings, the system is flush with liquidity with virtually no takers,” Sood said. The RBI Monetary Policy Committee should brainstorm on this difficult situation when it meets for the credit policy review, scheduled next month, he said, adding he expected a one-time loan restructuring. In a virtual conference between RBI governor Shaltikanta Das and CII members on Monday, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh and Kotak Mahindra Bank vice chairman Uday Kotak had proposed a one-time loan restructuring scheme to ease stress on businesses and lenders because of disruptions due to the pandemic. Das said the suggestion was noted. A one-time restructuring permits lenders to extend loan tenures or change payment terms to save the account from becoming a non-performing asset (NPA). The central bank is, however, opposed to the idea because in the past, loan restructuring led to ever-greening of loans rather than recognising them as bad loans. CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee said there are early signs of recovery, but it is critical to build on these by “deploying all the policy levers”. He said there are “promising signs”, pointing to a “V-shaped recovery” in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown. “In order to nurture the nascent signs of recovery, it is important to mitigate the uncertainties that are currently prevailing regarding the restrictions. Corporates are unable to plan beyond a horizon of a few weeks, affecting all operations,” he added. Banerjee said business activities “must be allowed to function, by removing the uncertainties associated with imposing ‘mini lockdowns’”. Although it is not possible to predict the course of the pandemic, a dashboard approach, triggering predictable responses based on the progression of infections, can reduce uncertainty and boost consumer and industry confidence, he added. “It is pertinent to note that the recession staring at us in the current year is different from the previous recorded episodes of recession which were all triggered by a monsoon failure,” he said. This year, the agricultural sector has emerged as the beacon of hope for India’s economy, he added. “Apart from normal monsoon and healthy sowing, a slew of government schemes in the form of livelihood interventions, such as expanding the MNREGA [Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act] programme and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, have supported the rural economy considerably. This has raised hopes of a rebooting of the economy by the rural sector,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/companies-are-stressed-have-little-appetite-for-loans-industry/story-tRiKwU0XWTtJ5KB1diIO4N.html
28-07-2020||India||Congress asks why Chinese company allowed into power sector in J&K||The Congress on Tuesday asked the government why a Chinese company with links to the PLA has been allowed into the strategic power sector in Jammu and Srinagar.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a briefing that the company named Dongfang was even banned by the World Bank.“This company named Dongfang is active in many countries. It has a special relationship with Pakistan. It is not only under the direct control of Chinese government and army, but the World Bank also imposed a ban on it last year due to allegations of corruption,” Khera said.“We want to know from the Prime Minister why a controversial Chinese company is being allowed to come up in the border states that too in a strategically important area like energy?”Khera claimed that Dongfang has been given a contract for two lakh smart meters and warned that because it involves radio technology there is a danger of the two cities facing blackout or even data theft.“The company which got this contract subcontracted to Dongfang the remote communication technology component. In any smart meter the radio frequency system is a very critical component. If a company has the RF technology of a smart meter, that company can access the data of the consumer… that company can ensure a blackout in that area within minutes,” he said. Khera said while the government was right in banning Chinese mobile phone apps, it made no sense to allow a Chinese company to allow a foothold into a vital sector in strategic locations like Jammu and Srinagar.“On the one hand, apps related to China are being banned, on the other hand, why is important data of the citizens of Jammu and Kashmir being given to a Chinese company?” He said although trade is important, it should not compromise strategic interests.“Along with diplomacy, trade is also an important factor for the relationship between two countries. But no country does trade while risking its strategic interests,” Khera said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-asks-why-chinese-company-allowed-into-power-sector-in-j-k/story-Et4JHWsHrBiuvEuZgWwFEK.html
28-07-2020||India||Schools and colleges may reopen in West Bengal from September 5, says CM Mamata Banerjee||Schools and colleges may reopen from September 5, observed as the Teachers’ Day, if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic curve flattens in August, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. The state government will enforce complete lockdown over the weekends till August 31, except for August 1, August 15 and August 22, all of which fall on Saturdays. “Schools and colleges will remain closed until August 31. If the situation improves in August, we will reopen schools and colleges on September 5. Classes may continue on alternate days for a month and then there will be recess for Durga puja in October. We will take the call in August,” Banerjee told media persons at Nabanna, the state secretariat. The government has started bi-weekly lockdown from last week to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Bengal that has reported over 60,000 cases and 1,400 deaths to date. “As Bakr-Eid and Independence Day will be observed on August 1 and 15, respectively, the lockdown will be enforced on August 5 and August 17. The rest of the days will be on weekends. It will be a total lockdown,” said Banerjee. Later, she said as Ganesh Puja would be observed on August 22, a Saturday, the lockdown would be enforced on August 24, a Monday. Bengal has also formed teams, led by senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, who will monitor the Covid-19 situation in eight worst-affected districts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-and-colleges-may-reopen-in-west-bengal-from-september-5/story-7W9K9SHMcJQAuvc7iRMWsL.html
28-07-2020||India||Rajasthan cabinet sticks to July 31 as assembly session date, reply sent to governor||The Rajasthan cabinet chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to stick to its demand to convene the assembly session from July 31, instead after 21-days as recommended by the governor. The queries raised by Kalraj Mishra as a precondition for convening the assembly session were also discussed.A senior Rajasthan minister said that the party hopes that governor Kalraj Mishra “respects the constitution” and approved the cabinet’s proposal, failing which further course of action will be decided.“If still, he does not approve then it is clear that there is no constitution. They are doing politics by keeping aside the constitution. The governor should understand that this fight is for the pride and honour of Rajasthan,” state transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said after the cabinet meeting.Citing an example, he asked if the country would afford a similar hypothetical situation of the President turning down PM Narendra Modi’s cabinet proposal for convening a Lok Sabha session. “Then how will the country run,” he asked and added that “The BJP is doing politics to weaken Lok Sabha and state assembly”. He reiterated his party’s stated position that the governor had no right to reject the cabinet’s proposal.“We do not want any confrontation with the governor and neither have any resentment against him. The governor is the head of our family. Under article 163 of the India Constitution, it is clearly written that no governor of the country can deny the proposal by the cabinet,” he added.Governor Kalraj Mishra had returned Gehlot government’s earlier proposal for convening the assembly session from July 31 and suggested that he give 21 days notice for the same and made arrangements for social distancing and ensured live streaming of the floor test. Also Read: BSP to file plea in Rajasthan High Court tomorrow against merger of its MLAs with CongressCongress minister said the governor had no legal right to make the queries.“The governor’s query is simple and the replies were discussed. However, he has no right to query under the law,” Khachariyawas said.He said the business advisory committee of the assembly will decide the agenda of the session and the speaker will decide the seating arrangements as per social distancing norms in the assembly. On the issue of a 21-day notice for calling the session, the minister said it was just a delaying tactic.“The entire BJP is working as slaves of the Congress dissidents. If today, the BJP people are told by Congress rebels that don’t let the session begin then it will not happen. How much time should be given so that they can horse trade the MLAs but not one will break as people are awake,” he alleged.Also Read: Rajasthan cabinet meets to discuss points raised by governor for calling assembly sessionThe current threat to the state government has been precipitated by the rebellion of 19 Congress MLAs including former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. The Gehlot government has blamed the BJP of plotting his government’s downfall in connivance with Pilot. It has also alleged that the governor is also acting unconstitutionally at the behest of the BJP leadership.Revenue minister Harish Choudhary said, “We don’t want the governor to follow us but the constitution, the law and the rules; this is what we are requesting. The Governor should leave the speaker’s issues to him, government’s issues with the cabinet, and he should also follow the Supreme Court judgments.”The governor has returned cabinet recommendations for calling the assembly session twice while raising technical issues. His office has told the Rajasthan government that an assembly session can be called at a short notice provided it states that holding a floor test is its purpose. But the Congress government has cited “discussion on Covid situation in the state” as the main reason for calling the session.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek has rejected Congress allegations of putting pressure on the governor and claimed that the current turmoil in the state Congress was the result of an internal factional feud, existence of which was visible since the formation of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cabinet-sticks-to-july-31-as-assembly-session-date-reply-sent-to-governor/story-5pGB27aNVUqHF7KTHwlRGJ.html
28-07-2020||India||BJP MLA files petitions seeking disqualification of 6 BSP MLAs in Rajasthan||Madan Dilawar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, on Tuesday, filed two petitions in Rajasthan high court (HC), requesting disqualification of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers, who had merged with the ruling Congress government in the state last year.  The six BSP members of Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) who had merged with the Ashok Gehlot–led government are Sandeep Yadav, Tijara MLA, Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli), and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati).  “Assembly Speaker CP Joshi had dismissed our plea without hearing our line of argument. This prompted us to move the HC against the Speaker’s decision. We have prayed before the court to disqualify the membership of the six BSP MLAs and pass an order that upholds justice and equality,” said Ashish Sharma, Dilawar’s counsel.  Also read: BSP to file plea in Rajasthan High Court tomorrow against merger of its MLAs with CongressWhen Dilawar was asked why they had to file two petitions in the court, he said, “initially a communication was conveyed to me from the assembly secretariat in which they had given me a two-line answer that your petition in front of the speaker has been rejected. Later in the day, the assembly secretariat sent us a detailed two-page reply on the disqualification petition filed by me hence we amended the petition and filed a revised petition,” added Dilawar.When Dilawar was asked on what grounds he had filed the petition of disqualification of six MLAs, he told that there has been no merger of the BSP into the Indian Nation Congress. Because even at present, the BSP is continuing as a recognized political party, both at the state as well as the national level.  “The BSP never merged with the Congress, therefore its legislatures have no right to merge with Congress or with any other political party. The six MLAs have voluntarily given up the membership of the BSP on whose ticket they were elected and have joined the Congress in violation of the provisions of law. Hence, they are liable to be disqualified under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India,” told Dilawar.He further said that as per 10th Schedule of the Constitution, the condition of two-third MLAs accepting the merger is a second condition, not the first. The first is that the original political party of the legislature who are claiming merger should have merged with another political party. The six MLAs have no right to merge their original party with another political party.“Also, the BSP remains as a separate political party at the national level as well as state level. Therefore, these MLAs cannot drive any benefit of the provisions of the 10th Schedule, even if all of them decided to merge with any political party,” Dilawar said.Legal expert Akhil Chaudhary said, according to the law, the BSP legislature party “is independent and is not subordinate to its national presence or leadership”. The law also says “two-thirds of the members of the legislature party” are eligible to join another political party or form a separate party.“Therefore, there is no question over the merger of the political party at a regional or national level. In our Constitution scheme, Vidhan Sabha is not subordinate to Parliament or any other house. The federal structure makes it independent, irrespective of multiple party systems. The merger is totally legal,” said Chaudhary.The BSP will also file a petition on Wednesday that will challenge the merger of the six MLAs who had won Rajasthan assembly polls in 2018 on the party’s symbol.“The merger of these six MLAs with Congress was unconstitutional. We are preparing a petition and will file a petition soon,” said Bhagwan Singh Baba, BSP’s Rajasthan president.  On Monday, the Rajasthan HC had disposed of the petition by Dilawar, who had questioned Speaker Joshi’s alleged inaction over the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Gehlot government last September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-files-petitions-seeking-disqualification-of-6-bsp-mlas-in-rajasthan/story-P4AVYCW3XNEYzLAAtsCZaM.html
28-07-2020||India||Govt has taken comprehensive steps to reduce impact of coronavirus pandemic: Lok Sabha speaker||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla praised the Modi government on Tuesday for its “comprehensive steps” in the fight against the coronavirus and said their results in reducing the impact of the pandemic have been encouraging.Birla said he has great faith in the strength and resilience of the Indian people, and added that the path to victory can be difficult but never impossible.The Lok Sabha speaker made these remarks while chairing the Empathy Conclave 2020 on World Hepatitis Day in Parliament House.Speaking at the conclave, organised by the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and virtually attended by many parliamentarians, Birla underlined the responsibility of public representatives to spread awareness about liver disease among people.Talking about the pandemic, he said in these difficult times, the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has “taken comprehensive steps to reduce the impact of the pandemic and the results have been encouraging.” He hoped a vaccine for Covid-19 would be found soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-taken-comprehensive-steps-to-reduce-impact-of-coronavirus-pandemic-lok-sabha-speaker/story-tRqm6XscNG4vuwMbp6FC0H.html
28-07-2020||India||Babri mosque case: Special CBI court completes recording of statements||A special CBI court here completed on Tuesday the recording of statements of the accused in the Babri mosque demolition case.        Deposing before CBI special judge S K Yadav through video conferencing from Thane in Maharashtra, former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case due to political vendetta and maintained that he was completely innocent.          Of the 32 accused in the case, Pradhan was the penultimate on the list.        The judge separated the case against the last accused Om Prakash Pandey, who is not traceable as his family told the CBI that he had become a monk 15-16 years ago and did not return home since then.        The court completed the proceedings under Section 313 of CrPC which gave the accused an opportunity to refute the prosecution evidence against them. BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi had recorded their statements last week. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by ‘kar sevaks’ who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site. The court is conducting day-to-day hearing in the case to complete its trial by August 31 as directed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-mosque-case-special-cbi-court-completes-recording-of-statements/story-7yR7cgQ8O3cIW3INvCYEKO.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Shots from 30,000 feet’: Pics show Rafales re-fuelling mid-air on way home||The first batch of five Rafale fighter jets, on their way to India, were seen being re-fuelled mid-air from a French Air Force tanker, and the pictures taken at 30,000 feet were posted on Twitter by the Indian embassy in France.“Indian Air Force appreciates the support provided by French Air Force for our Rafale journey back home,” tweeted Indian Air Force. These five jets include 3 single-seater and 2 twin-seater aircraft.WATCH | Rafale jets refuelled mid-air on their way from France to IndiaThe two-leg flight involves the Rafales covering a distance of nearly 7,000 km. The five fighters landed safely at Al Dhafra after a seven-hour flight from France on Monday evening.The French air force refuelled the Indian fighters using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra. Aerial refuelling support will be provided by the IAF’s Russian Ilyushin-78 refuellers for the second leg of the journey from Al Dhafra to Ambala.The jets are being flown by pilots who have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft, the IAF said. The Rafales will be a part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the ‘Golden Arrows.’India has taken a significant step in “strengthening its air power and defence preparedness” with the first five Rafale fighter jets, built by French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation, flying out from the Merignac airbase in Bordeaux, the Indian embassy in France said in a statement.“Real beauty and beast!” Indian ambassador to France Jawed Ashraf said while the planes were being flagged off in Bordeaux. “First five Rafale to India – swift, nimble, versatile, advanced and lethal,” he added.“This also marks a new milestone in the strong and growing India-France defence cooperation,” the Indian Embassy said in a statement.The new fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of IAF, which has for long planned to update its fighter jet force.Acting on a special request by the IAF, France has accelerated the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India. The first Rafale’s RB-001 tail number denotes the initials of the IAF chief: Rakesh Bhadauria. He led the complex negotiations for the Rafale deal.France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year. Air and ground crews of the IAF have been in France for almost three years for the management of the Rafale programme.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to plug gaps in the IAF’s capabilities. The delivery of 36 fighters will be completed by the end of next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-from-30-000-feet-pics-show-rafales-re-fuelling-mid-air-on-way-home/story-iyFwCywE5ZXkXPjl5GVRyM.html
28-07-2020||India||2 killed as heavy rains lash north Bengal, thunderstorm forecast for Kolkata||Incessant rains in the Dooars region of north Bengal cut off direct road connectivity with Siliguri as a bridge on the arterial National Highway 31 was damaged, leading to an accident that killed two persons, officials said on Tuesday.The Met department has warned of heavy to very heavy rain till Friday morning in the north Bengal districts of Kalimpong, Alipurduar, Darjeeling, Coochbehar and Jalpaiguri.A bridge over Juranti Khola at Bagrakote on NH 31 got damaged in the heavy rain since Monday night, officials said, adding that a pickup truck coming towards Siliguri from Assam fell in it, killing its driver and helper.“The driver probably could not see the damage on the bridge in the early morning amid rain, leading to the accident,” a police officer said.Direct road connectivity between Siliguri and several areas in the forested Dooars region, where several tea gardens are also located, has been cut off owing to the damage to the bridge, officials said.Bagrakote recorded 23 cm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am, the highest in West Bengal during the said period, the Met department said.Other places in north Bengal that recorded heavy rain during the period were Neora (14 cm), Champasari and Murti (13 cm each), Bagdogra (11 cm), Kalimpong (9 cm), Siliguri, Sevoke, Sukhiapokhri, Gazaldoba and Hasimara (8 cm each), the Met department said.“Heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain is very likely over the districts of north Bengal between July 28 and 30,” Regional Met director G K Das said in Kolkata.He warned of landslides in hilly regions, inundation of low-lying areas, blockage of roads and rise in water levels in the rivers.The weatherman has forecast thunderstorms with lightning in the south Bengal districts, including Kolkata, till Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-as-heavy-rains-lash-north-bengal-thunderstorm-forecast-for-kolkata/story-NZ2cnw2nK34an7KwxxCsfO.html
28-07-2020||India||Youth kills brother on suspicion of mobile phone memory card theft in MP||A 19-year-old youth allegedly killed his younger brother who was a minor on suspicion that the latter stole his mobile phone memory card and sold it to someone in a village in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh, police said Tuesday. The murder was committed on Sunday night and the accused was arrested on Monday, said police. Surakhi police station in charge Anand Raj said the body of 16-year-old Lekhan Ahirwar from Gosra village was found on a cot in his house on Sunday night with deep injury marks on his neck. “The police team which reached there found that the deceased’s elder brother Madan Ahirwar was not present in the house and villagers told the team that the two brothers often used to have quarrels between them. A neighbour said he heard noise from the house on Sunday night but thought it was a usual quarrel between the two brothers,” he said. The police officer said the deceased’s parents were away in their agriculture field when the incident took place. The deceased’s younger sister who is mentally retarded was home. On getting information from some villagers that they had seen the elder brother near a hillock with an axe and some clothes in his hand the police team later detained him. “During interrogation Madan Ahirwar who is a school dropout confessed to have committed the crime. He told us that two to three days back his younger brother had stolen the memory card from his mobile phone and sold it to someone and despite repeated queries he didn’t admit that he had stolen the memory card. On Sunday night too, he again questioned his younger brother and wanted to know whom he had sold the memory card. His younger brother’s consistent denial of his alleged crime infuriated him and he hit him with the axe lying nearby that caused his death on the spot,” Rai said. The police officer said the accused was arrested under section 302 of Indian Penal Code. He was produced before a court from where he was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-kills-brother-on-suspicion-of-mobile-phone-memory-card-theft-in-mp/story-qiZTMs7rC33JDRaKVdcPSL.html
28-07-2020||India||Gangotri shrine shut till August 15 days after govt allows pilgrims from other states||Days after the Uttarakhand government allowed pilgrims from other states to visit the Char Dham shrines with certain conditions, priests from Gangotri shrine in Uttarkashi district on Tuesday announced that they will keep the shrine closed till August 15. This decision was taken looking at the increasing cases of Covid-19 in the state. In the past week, over 1,000 cases have been reported from the state. After a meeting of the Gangotri Dham Temple Committee, Purohit and Sadhu Samaj, priests from Gangotri shrine unanimously decided that the shrine will remain closed till August 15 with immediate effect and the entry of pilgrims and devotees will be prohibited. The priest community has further decided to set up two-kilometre long barriers before the shrine and paste a poster with the details about the shrine being closed. Also read: India’s Covid-19 fatality rate falls to 2.25%, recovery rate crosses 64%Suresh Semwal, chairman of Gangotri Dham Temple Committee, said he has also informed the district magistrate of Uttarkashi in this regard through a memorandum. “Earlier, the temple was closed for darshan, now, we will block the entrance of the shrine by setting up barriers two kilometres ahead and prohibit the entry of anyone towards the shrine. We have decided this to prevent the community-spread of Covid-19 in this area,” said Semwal. The Uttarakhand government on Friday decided to allow pilgrims from other states to visit the Char Dham shrines with some conditions. According to the new guidelines, the pilgrims will need to have a latest RT PCR negative report (conducted within 72 hours of entering the state). Those who don’t have the negative report will be required to complete the mandatory quarantine period after entering the state before proceeding with their pilgrimage to Char Dham shrines. The pilgrims will also be required to upload their negative RT-PCR report, or a report stating their completion of quarantine, on the website of the Char Dham board to get the permission to visit the Char Dham shrines. They will also need to keep all these documents with them during the pilgrimage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangotri-shrine-shut-till-august-15-days-after-govt-allows-pilgrims-from-other-states/story-nM4FjKGGoxNPsJuerKIBEP.html
28-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate crosses 64% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s Covid-19 fatality rate falls to 2.25%, recovery rate crosses 64%India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the Covid-19 pandemic which has been falling progressively is now 2.25% which is one of the lowest in the world, the government said Tuesday. Read moreHeavy rains slow down Mumbai; waterlogging disrupts traffic across seven locationsTraffic movement across Mumbai has been severely disrupted because of waterlogging following heavy rains that lashed the city on Tuesday morning. Read moreComfy, cozy, chic define this season’s coolest styleComfort wear and workout wear are having a moment in the fashion world. And there is no stopping us from wearing these clothes outside, provided they are styled creatively. In the pre-Covid-19 world, style mavens had already transformed loungewear and active wear into a hot fashion trend, teaming their oversized blazers with cycling shorts and sneakers. Read moreKids enjoy on makeshift merry-go-round in this heartening video. WatchA video of three children enjoying on a makeshift merry-go-round has made its way onto Twitter and is winning several hearts. The video shows the children spinning around on this swing they seem to have created with just a tree trunk and some rope. Their creativity and delight over this swing have struck a chord with tweeple. Read more‘I can’t please you’: KKR skipper Dinesh Karthik on how he settled dispute with Andre RussellWhen Kolkata Knight Riders decided to move and not retain Gautam Gambhir in their squad in 2018, all eyes were on who they would give the top job of captaincy too. The eventual choice of Dinesh Karthik surprised many, but the wicket-keeper batsman stamped his class on the team by guiding them to the play-offs in his first season as captain. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti reveals why family has not demanded CBI probeSushant Singh Rajput’s elder sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, has revealed why the family has not yet demanded that the investigation into his death be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). She was responding to a fan who encouraged her to ‘fight for truth’ and seek a CBI probe into the matter. Read moreAfter Amazon, Flipkart takes a shot at instant delivery service, launches Flipkart Quick in IndiaFlipkart on Tuesday announced the launch of its hyper-local delivery service, Flipkart Quick. The company is piloting the service in select localities in Bengaluru starting today. The list includes Whitefield, Panathur, HSR Layout, BTM Layout, Banashankari, KR Puram and Indiranagar. Read moreToyota’s version of Maruti Vitara Brezza all set for launch in festive seasonToyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) plans to launch its compact SUV, based on Maruti Suzuki’s Vitara Brezza, in the upcoming festive season, according to a senior company official. Read moreRam Temple: Soil from Badrinath sent to Ayodhya, PM Modi likely to perform pujaSoil from Badrinath and water from the Alaknanda river have been sent to Ayodhya. The soil & water will be used in the foundation-laying ceremony of Ram Temple. A delegation of Vishwa Hindu Parishad left for Ayodhya with the soil & water. A time capsule will be placed underneath the new Ram Temple in Ayodhya. A temple trust member made the announcement ahead of foundation-laying. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-64-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LsoMHVBZsLDfeSzM8WAnEK.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Clean chit to those who murdered democracy’: Priyanka Gandhi on BSP’s whip to MLAs||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday took a veiled dig at the BSP, alleging that the whip issued by it to its MLAs in Rajasthan is a clean chit to those who “murdered” democracy and the Constitution. The BSP on Sunday issued a whip to six MLAs, who had left the party to join the Congress last year, to vote against the ruling party in the state in case of a trust motion in the Assembly.“Undeclared spokespersons of the BJP have issued a whip in support of the BJP. But, this is not a whip but a clean chit to those who murder democracy and the Constitution,” she said in a tweet in Hindi.While the BSP MLAs have claimed that they have joined the Congress of their own will, the BSP has been claiming that since theirs is a national party, the local unit cannot merge on its own. The Congress government in Rajasthan led by Ashok Gehlot is facing a crisis after 19 of its rebel MLAs including Sachin Pilot revolted against it. Gehlot is now keen to prove his majority on the floor of the House and is now demanding a session of the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clean-chit-to-those-who-murdered-democracy-priyanka-gandhi-on-bsp-s-whip-to-mlas/story-7G1G3Q726GjBwyOmtbr80K.html
28-07-2020||India||Owaisi alleges PM Modi will violate ‘constitutional oath’ by attending Ram Temple ceremony||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s possible attendance at foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ayodhya Ram temple will amount to a “violation of the constitutional oath” taken when assuming office.Owaisi’s comments follow a left leader’s letter to the Centre disapproving the possible live telecast of the Bhumi Pujan ceremony in Ayodhya on August 5, calling it against the “accepted norms of national integrity”.The foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5 is likely to be broadcast live for the benefit of millions of devotees advised to pray at home and stay away from Ayodhya on the momentous occasion due to existing covid 19 restrictions .Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to perform prayers in the sanctum sanctorum of the earmarked Ram Temple site before laying its foundation stone at around 12:15 pm on the day. However, an official confirmation of the Prime Minister’s programme for the day has not been released so far. Also Watch | Ram Temple: Soil from Badrinath sent to Ayodhya, PM Modi likely to perform puja Also Read: PM Modi likely to perform puja in Ayodhya on August 5 “Attending Bhumi Pujan in official capacity will be a violation of @PMOIndia‘s constitutional oath. Secularism is part of the Basic Structure of Constitution, We can’t forget that for over 400 years Babri stood in Ayodhya & it was demolished by a criminal mob in 1992,” Owaisi tweeted on Tuesday.Several other prominent leaders including the proponents of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement are expected to attend the groundbreaking ceremony. Earlier a National Congress Party (NCP) leader’s objections to Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s possible participation in the event, made on similar grounds, was rejected both by Shiv Sena and the NCP. Apart from Thackeray, veteran BJP leaders LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are also invited to the ceremony.Ram Temple construction at Ayodhya was cleared by a 5-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, which handed over the disputed land to Hindu parties, finding legal merit in their claim to the site, considered to be the birthplace of Lord Ram. It put an end to the more than a century old dispute that had led to a communal rift in the Indian society.Watch: Ram Temple: Soil from Badrinath sent to Ayodhya, PM Modi likely to perform pujaMost Muslim parties involved in the litigation have accepted the court’s decision. The Central government has also maintained that the acceptance of the court delivered verdict on the Ram Temple demonstrates the strength of Indian democracy.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has described the August 5 ceremony as the culmination of 500 years of struggle for the Hindu community. Appeals have been made by Hindu organizations for recreation of Diwali like celebration on August 5 in symbolic recognition of Lord Ram’s return to Ayodhya, his hom, after spending several years in exile.Around 200 people are likely to be invited for the ceremony. The list includes prominent industrialists, politicians as well as prominent religious leaders of Hindu, Jain, Sikh and Buddhist sects. A number of development, tourism and infrastructure projects for Ayodhya will also be announced on August 5, added a government statement. Three-day Vedic rituals will start at Ram Janmabhoomi on August 3 and continue till August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-alleges-pm-modi-will-violate-constitutional-oath-by-attending-ram-temple-ceremony/story-3IC1lL1rGWKoqwpcqEAqaI.html
28-07-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan chairs India’s first virtual cabinet session from hospital||Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chauhan chaired India’s first virtual Cabinet session from Chirayu hospital here on Tuesday after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “I am well and trying to stay active. My cough is almost gone and I no longer have a fever. Having Covid-19 has taught me to be self-reliant as I have to make my own tea and wash my own clothes. This has benefitted me a lot as even after several physiotherapy sessions, I was not able to clench my fist because of a recent operation. Now it feels perfectly fine,” the CM said in his address, getting a few good laughs from the members of Cabinet.He added, “We made history today by hosting our country’s first-ever virtual Cabinet meeting. This is the time to demonstrate our oath, that no matter what the circumstances may be, we will continue to work for the growth and development of the people of our state.”A health bulletin from the Chirayu Hospital where Chouhan is admitted said on Tuesday, “The health of the CM continues to be stable on the fourth day of admission. He has a mild cough, no fever. His medical parameters are normal. He slept well and took a proper diet in the hospital. He has followed his morning yoga routine and continues to be in good spirits.”Narottam Mishra, the state’s Home Minister later informed that several decisions were taken in the session, including the renaming of the Chambal Expressway to ‘Chambal Progressway’.“Approval has been given to the CAMPA (Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority) scheme, which will greatly benefit the forest department and the rural area. The CM’s Rural Path Vendor Loan Scheme has also been approved. This will benefit several street vendors across the state and will improve their living conditions,” he added. Mishra further said 21 out of the 22 Nagar panchayats had been restored and the Prime Minister crop insurance scheme would continue in 2020-2021.On Sunday, the CM had reviewed the Covid-19 situation and the government’s measures to combat the pandemic in the state through video conferencing.The Chief Minister had said, “For effectively curtailing the Covid-19 spread, it is extremely important to seek the cooperation of public and social service institutions.”Meanwhile, Bhopal reported 199 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the state’s health department informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-chief-minister-chairs-india-s-virtual-cabinet-session-from-hospital/story-1t4zsRsft1iXHlfhiRuXrM.html
28-07-2020||India||Dalit woman’s body taken off funeral pyre after upper caste group objects||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday demanded a high level inquiry and strict action against the culprits who forced the family members belonging to Dalit community to remove the dead body of a woman from the funeral pyre in a village located in Agra district.In a series of tweets, Mayawati said, the people belonging to upper caste community forced the Dalit community family to remove the dead body off the funeral pyre, claiming that cremation ground was used by the upper caste people. “The incident is shameful and it should be condemned. To check the repeat of such an abhorrent incident, the state government should order a high level inquiry and take strict action against the culprits,” she said. The matter relates to village Kakarpura where Pooja (25) had died on July 19th. Her husband complained that they were not allowed to cremate the body by upper caste members. “My wife Pooja died after prolonged illness on July 19 and was taken for cremation on July 20. There was no objection by those in the village, but half a dozen members of the upper caste community came and objected to cremation by us as we are Gujrati ‘Nat’,” said Rahul Bajania, the husband of the deceased. “We had the pyre prepared but were forced to take the dead body away to village Nagla Lal Dass, about four kilometers away, where the cremation was undertaken finally,” said Rahul, who claimed that police had reached the village but were helpless in front of upper caste members. Superintendent of Police (West) Ravi Kumar said that no complaint was lodged in this regard. Later, the incident was highlighted by the local people on social media“We have not received any complaint but the Circle Officer for Achhnera circle has been assigned the task to find out more about the matter. Necessary action will follow on his finding,” said SP West.(With inputs from Hemendra Chaturvedi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-woman-s-body-taken-off-funeral-pyre-after-upper-caste-group-objects/story-4lfdzcdmydUQGF4p0268pJ.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Major relief after 3 months’: Aaditya Thackeray shares good news on Mumbai’s Covid-19 situation||Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday shared “good news” on the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai and said that the country’s financial capital reported only 700 cases today. “That too with the highest testing till date in Mumbai in a single day (8776),” the minister added. Thackeray, however, said that now is not the time to get complacent but to continue to chase the virus out. Mumbai has been adding just over a thousand new cases of Covid-19 for the last few days. On Monday, Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally stood at 110,182 while the death toll was at 6,132.“This is chase the virus in full capacity. A major relief after 3 months. Caution: don’t let the guard down! Don’t let your mask down! Only get numbers down!” he said in a series of tweets.  Also read: Indian startup develops Covid 19 detecting mobile app, takes 5 minutesThe good news: Only 700 cases today in Mumbai & that too with highest testing till date in Mumbai in a single day(8776).This is chase the virus in full capacity. A major relief after 3 months.Caution: don’t let the guard down! Don’t let your mask down! Only get numbers down!Lauding the administration’s ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to curb the spread of coronavirus, Thackeray said that Mumbai will see more testing under the initiative which is being carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).“Chase the Virus model of Mumbai is being implemented in MMR region actively that has seen a ramping up of facilities in the past few weeks. Along with MMR, rest of Maharashtra too is taking all efforts to tackle covid pandemic effectively,” he tweeted. Apart from reporting the highest number of coronavirus infections in the country, Maharashtra has also been grappling with the highest Covid-19 casualty rate. The increase in deaths has become a cause of concern for the administration.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had directed officials to form a task force for clinically ill patients in every district. The first such task force was created in Mumbai in April.On Monday, the chief minister directed health officials to form an integrated Covid-19 treatment procedure by discussing Allopathy, Homeopathy, Ayurveda and Unani medicine streams.“Two sets of instructions can be formed for the state task force, which will issue them for public usage. Prevention and treatment will be the two categories in which inputs from various treatment methods will be included,” Thackeray said.Maharashtra sits on top of the national Covid-19 tally with over 3.8 lakh cases of which nearly 1.5 lakh are active. The Covid-19 death toll in the state is over at 13,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-relief-after-3-months-aaditya-thackeray-shares-good-news-on-mumbai-s-covid-19-situation/story-dDq7PJdPi0eRksRHEckO4H.html
28-07-2020||India||Indian startup develops Covid 19 detecting mobile app, takes 5 minutes||A government supported IT company in Bengaluru has developed an application capable of capturing an individual’s vital health statistics through mobile phone to determine one’s propensity to Covid 19 infection and can potentially play a big role in early detection of disease and risk assessment of infected population, according to a ministry of science and technology. The new technology based on medical screening has the potential to detect possible infection in an asymptomatic individual, helping in prioritising the conventional testing queue as well as in risk assessment of an asymptomatic individual to establish if he/she can become symptomatic apart from assistance in risk assessment of an asymptomatic individual for recovery.The application, being developed by Bangalore based startup Acculi Labs, creates an individual’s Covid risk assessment profile called Lyfas Covid score. While AarogyaSetu works on the principle of contact tracing and requires an individual to feed symptoms, Lyfas is a “proper medical screening test” which purely depends upon test results.Generation of Lyfas Covid score has been achieved through repurposing Lyfas-- a clinical-grade, non-invasive, digital functional biomarker smartphone tool for screening, early detection, root cause analysis, acute event risk assessment, prognosis, and home monitoring of chronic diseases.“Lyfas is an Android application in which, when one keeps the index finger on the rear camera of a mobile phone for 5 minutes, captures the capillary pulse and blood volume change and derives 95 biomarkers with proprietary algorithms and signal processing techniques. It uses the power of smartphone processors and smartphone sensors to capture a bunch of body signals,” says the statement from the science and technology department of the government of India.Also Read: Covid-19 pandemic: Can you get the coronavirus twice?The signals hence captured are then processed on the principle of Photoplethysmography(PPG), Photo Chromatography(PCG), Arterial Photoplethysmography(APPG), mobile spirometry, and Pulse Rate Variability(PRV).“Lyfas then provides cardio-respiratory, cardio-vascular, hematology, hemorheology, neurology based parameters that are capable of tracking minute pathophysiological changes in the body. These changes are further profiled into organ system-wide response,” the statement adds.The technology has been proved to detect asymptomatic individuals with an accuracy of 92%, specificity of 90%, and a sensitivity of 92% in a study conducted with Medanta Medicity hospital, according to the government release. The tool can be handy for population screening, monitoring of quarantined individuals, and surveillance at the community spreading phase. “Witnessing the success of the study, the Medanta ethics committee has approved it for a larger population study. This study is currently registered in Clinical Trials Registry- India (CTRI) and is acknowledged by the World Health Organisation (WHO),” the statement adds.Also Read: Scientists identify immune system variation linked to severe casesLyfas has been developed by Acculi Labs in association with the Union government’s CAWACH (Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis) initiative.CAWACH is supporting market-ready innovations for control of Covid-19 and startup ideas to address associated challenges. Acculi Labs was selected after several rounds of screening for a solution towards mass screening. Its product Lyfas has received a grant of Rs 30 Lakh from DST and is now virtually supported by IIT Madras, Healthcare Technology Innovation Centre (HTIC), MedTech Incubator.“Inexpensive, accessible, point-of-care smartphone based diagnostics is a powerful tool that would tremendously help in screening the high risk cases, sustained monitoring of quarantined cases and general surveillance. Lyfas is an interesting example of the rising power of technology startups in innovating relevant and creative solutions for the emergent challenges with speed and efficacy,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology.The clinical trials and regulatory proceedings for Lyfas Coved Score are expected to be completed by the end of September, after which the testing facility will be made available for the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-startup-develops-covid-19-detecting-mobile-app-takes-5-minutes/story-pB69DtRslPDJkx3tF1gOdN.html
28-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate falls to 2.25%, recovery rate crosses 64%||India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the Covid-19 pandemic which has been falling progressively is now 2.25% which is one of the lowest in the world, the government said Tuesday.“India continues its march as a country with one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. This achievement is a result of effective implementation of containment strategy combined with house-to-house surveys, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on holistic Standard of Care approach which ensured that hospitals were left unburdened with supervised home isolation for the asymptomatic patients,” the union health ministry said in a statement.It said under the guidance of the Central government, states and union territories have focused on reducing the fatalities by effectively managing the severe cases and prioritising care of the high-risk population using field health care workers leading to decrease in the CFR across the country. “The CFR has reduced from around 3.33% in mid-June to 2.25% today,” the statement said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The ramped up three-tier hospital infrastructure along with prompt and seamless patient management has helped consistent increase in the recoveries. “For the fifth day in a row, India has seen more than 30,000 recoveries per day. The focused efforts of Centre and State/UT governments on early detection and isolation along with handholding of States/UTs by the expert teams of AIIMS, New Delhi for efficient clinical management of hospitalized cases and periodic visits of central teams, have borne results with continuously improving the recovery rate,” the statement said.The recovery rate has seen a sharp increase from around 53% in mid-June to more than 64% as on Tuesday. With 35,176 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the total recoveries stand at 9,52,743, it said.India’s Covid-19 tally stands at over 14.83 lakh.The health ministry also said that with improving daily recovery numbers, the gap between the recovered cases and active cases is also persistently increasing. Presently, it is 4,55,755. “This means the actual active case load is presently 4,96,988 and all are under medical supervision,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-falls-to-2-25-recovery-rate-crosses-64/story-CgwQZZFQ7HLA80dBtWVj0M.html
28-07-2020||India||ED raids GVK Group offices in connection with Mumbai airport scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday carried out raids at multiple locations belonging to Hyderabad-based GVK Group, company that runs Mumbai airport, and its promoters in connection with its money laundering probe in alleged irregularities worth over Rs 800 crore in the development and maintenance of the airport, two officials familiar with raids said. They said the searches were primarily conducted in Mumbai and Hyderabad offices of GVK as well as the office of Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) - the Joint venture which runs the Mumbai airport. The probe agency had registered a case under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) in the first week of July on the basis of a CBI FIR lodged on June 27. The FIR named 13 people - including the Chairman of GVK Group, GVK Reddy - the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), and several companies that were given contracts at the airport. The GVK Group didn’t respond to an email query on the ED raids. However, after the FIR on June 27, it had issued a statement saying: “MIAL would have provided every assistance had the agency sought explanation or any document even if a preliminary enquiry had been initiated. MIAL is a transparent and responsible corporate entity which is committed to cooperate with the agency in its investigation to arrive at the truth.”MIAL is a joint public-private partnership venture between the Airports Authority of India (AAI), GVK Group, and a few other entities. The GVK Group has a 50.5% stake in MIAL, and AAI 26%.According to the FIR, the AAI entered into operation, management, and development agreement (OMDA) in April 2006 for the airport’s modernisation, upgradation, operation and maintenance as part of the joint venture. MIAL was to share 38.7% of its revenue as an annual fee with the AAI as per the agreement.“The essence of the agreement was to create a world class facility and at the same time protect the interests of the government of India, promoters and passengers,” said the FIR. “Despite there being a clear cut understanding in the OMDA, the promoters of GVK group in MIAL, in connivance with their executives and the unknown officials of AAI resorted to siphoning of funds fraudulently adopting various modus operandi.”The CBI has alleged that MIAL got into fake work contracts during 2017-18 with at least nine companies on the pretext of real estate development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-gvk-group-offices-in-connection-with-mumbai-airport-scam/story-shwbGEvqZGQLrUgpdal0XN.html
28-07-2020||India||Nothing to eat, 2 men stole 80 kg butter from Mumbai pav bhaji shop; arrested||Two persons have been arrested on charges of a burglary at Cannon pav bhaji, a popular eatery, at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) in south Mumbai and stealing 100 kilograms (kg) of butter and cheese and along with sugar and big utensils. The accused have confessed to Mumbai Police about the crime and reasoned that they were forced to steal because they had nothing to eat during the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from end-March in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The pav bhaji outlet, a 48-year-old popular haunt for Mumbaikars and tourists alike, is located opposite the Brihanmumbai Municipal corporation (BMC) headquarters. PN Dandekar owns the eatery that employs 25 people and the stall was allocated by BMC’s Military Kiosk Committee.In his complaint to Azad Maidan police station, Dandekar, a resident of the Haj House area in the city, has stated that three days ago he received a call from a Mumbaikar informing him about the theft at his eatery that has been shut since the imposition of lockdown restrictions. Dandekar visited the stall and found out that it had been broken into from the rear side.A preliminary probe has revealed that 80 and 20 kg of butter and cheese, respectively, along with sugar and big utensils, which are estimated to cost around Rs 1 lakh, were stolen from the outlet. Mumbai Police arrested two pavement-dwellers -- Santosh Thapa (20) and Karan Jadhav (25) – for the theft on Sunday. “The accused live on nearby pavements and sell scrap for a living. They have confessed to their crime. They stole the goods, consumed the edible items, and sold some of the utensils. Efforts are on to recover the stolen utensils,” said an inspector of Azad Maidan police station, requesting anonymity. The duo has been booked under Section 454 ( break-in of a property), 457 (burglary at night), and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and remanded in police custody until Thursday (July 30).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-two-men-who-stole-100kg-butter-cheese-from-popular-pavbhaji-joint-arrested/story-BxLnRviy9DLhythLasFhmL.html
28-07-2020||India||BSP to file plea in Rajasthan High Court tomorrow against merger of its MLAs with Congress||Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will file a plea in Rajasthan High Court tomorrow against the merger of its MLAs in the state with the Congress. Earlier in the day, BSP supremo Mayawati lashed out at Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, alleging that he merged her MLAs with the Congress out of “malicious intent”. She said that the BSP supported the Congress unconditionally after the Assembly elections in Rajasthan. “In Rajasthan, after elections results, the BSP gave unconditional support of all its six MLAs to Congress. Unfortunately, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, out of his malicious intent and to damage the BSP, merged them with Congress in an unconstitutional. He did the same even in his last tenure,” Mayawati said on Tuesday. She said that the MLAs in question will lose their party membership if they don’t vote against the Congress in proceedings to be held during the assembly Session. She said the party is willing to even move the Supreme Court.  BJP leader Madan Dilwar files another petition before Rajasthan High Court against the merger of six BSP MLAs in the state with Congress party. The petition seeks cancellation of the membership of the six BSP MLAs from the state legislative Assembly. https://t.co/B7tdKQQJMg pic.twitter.com/JSslfskx80“The BSP could have gone to the court earlier too but we were looking for a time to teach Congress party and CM Ashok Gehlot a lesson. Now we have decided to go to the court. We will not let this matter alone. We will go even to the Supreme Court,” Mayawati said.Meanwhile, BJP leader Madan Dilawar on Tuesday filed another petition before the Rajasthan High Court against the BSP MLAs merger with Congress party. This is his third petition against the merger. In a relief to the Gehlot government, the High Court had dismissed Dilawar’s petition on Monday. Dilawar filed his second plea earlier today, seeking cancellation of the membership of the six BSP MLAs from the state legislative Assembly..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-to-file-plea-in-rajasthan-high-court-tomorrow-against-merger-of-its-mlas-with-congress/story-Npb8hdvN57GsQXN6qLXRrL.html
28-07-2020||India||Class 10 girl found dead in Bhubaneswar, youth arrested||A Class 10 girl was found dead at her home in Bhubaneswar on Monday. The police suspect that she was killed by her own family members.“The body has been sent for post-mortem. The reason behind her death can be ascertained once the report comes in,” police inspector Rashmi Mohapatra said.Mohapatra added that there were no injury marks on her body.Soon after the girl’s body was found, locals caught hold of a youth who was wandering in the area and handed him over to police. The youth later admitted to be in love with the girl, said the police.They further said that there was frequent quarrel at the girl’s home over the affair.The family members, meanwhile, claimed the girl was killed by some miscreants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-10-girl-found-dead-in-bhubaneswar-you-arrested/story-ZHsPYWVlOkT4lSbry9G3EL.html
28-07-2020||India||Heavy rains slow down Mumbai; waterlogging disrupts traffic across seven locations||Traffic movement across Mumbai has been severely disrupted because of waterlogging following heavy rains that lashed the city on Tuesday morning. “The traffic movement has been crippled across seven locations in the city,” said Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police (Joint CP), (traffic), Mumbai Police. Also read: Mumbai records its second-highest single day July rain in 5 yearsMumbai Police’s traffic department said waterlogging has been reported from Worli Naka and Rakhangi Worli. While Sardar Hotel, Lalbaug; Mumbai Central; Mahalakshmi temple; Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan Marg, Worli, are under a foot of water, leading to traffic disruption.Waterlogging near Byculla police station and Hindmata slip road, a low-lying area, has led to the diversion of traffic at these busy areas in the heart of the city, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-heavy-rains-slow-down-traffic-in-city/story-xl7aUQE0KfSLwvp9x5Qi2K.html
28-07-2020||India||Dalits protest outside police station in UP town after clashes in which 9 were injured||Members of two communities clashed in Maharajpur village under Baghrai police station in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh district late on Monday night. The clash is believed to be a fallout of a scuffle which took place during a ‘dangal’ (a wresting event) held on Nag Panchami few days back, the police said. Large number of dalits, including women, surrounded the Baghrai police station on Tuesday morning alleging that nine people were assaulted and injured by assailants in the scuffle. The protesters demanded immediate action against the accused. An FIR has been lodged and raids were being carried out to arrest the accused, Pratapgarh Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Singh said.Additional police force has been deployed in the area to avoid any untoward situation, he added.According to reports, a wrestling event was organised in Maharajpur village on July 25. Locals claim that Ashiq Ali, Asgar Ali and some other people from village Ahladganj started interfering in the sport and even engaged in a schffle with the organisers. However, the elders had intervened and pacified both the groups then.But on Monday night, a local Pintu Saroj was strolling on the main road of Maharajpur village when he was attacked by over a dozen youth from Ahladganj. Some other people who rushed to his rescue were also assaulted and injured by attackers who then fled when large number of villagers gathered.Nine injured people were taken to district hospital where doctors referred four of them to SRN hospital in Prayagraj for treatment. Enraged over the incident, a large number of people belonging to dalit community surrounded the Baghrai police station on Tuesday morning. They demanded immediate arrest of all the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalits-protest-outside-police-station-in-up-town-after-clashes-in-which-9-were-injured/story-tbVJCBRhyQMvR5cCRfOZKM.html
28-07-2020||India||No bias: Supreme Court rejects plea to reconstitute Vikas Dubey probe panel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an application seeking the reconstitution of the commission investigating the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in a police encounter earlier this month. The application was moved by Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Awasthi alleging bias against one of the commission members—KL Gupta, the former director general of Uttar Pradesh police. The petitioners cited newspaper reports where Gupta gave interviews allegedly supporting the version put forward by the state on Vikas Dubey’s encounter. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde felt that no bias was made out.Also read: ‘I would have killed Vikas Dubey for what he did to cops’, says his wifeLast week, the top court had approved the Uttar Pradesh government’s draft notification to appoint former top court judge BS Chauhan as the head of the three-member panel to look into the killing of eight policemen as well as the subsequent deaths of Vikas Dubey and five of his alleged associates.Gupta and former high court judge Shashi Kant Agarwal are also a part of the panel.The bench directed that the commission should start functioning within a week and the probe be concluded within two months. It will also have to examine how Dubey got bail or parole despite being accused in more than 64 criminal cases. Vikas Dubey and his men had gunned down a deputy superintendent of police and seven others, who were attempting to arrest him, on July 3 in Kanpur’s Bikru village. Also read | Surrender or meet the same fate: Vikas Dubey’s mother warns another sonHe was nabbed on July 9 from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. He was killed in what police described as escape attempt following an accident of the car Dubey was being brought back to Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bias-supreme-court-rejects-plea-to-reconstitute-vikas-dubey-probe-panel/story-TkAXV9xHR1LiKDKCGE0gSJ.html
28-07-2020||India||Mizoram’s Dampa and West Bengal’s Buxa have no tigers left: Report||Mizoram’s Dampa Tiger Reserve and West Bengal’s Buxa Tiger Reserve don’t have any tigers left, according to an official report released on Tuesday by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar.Corbett Tiger Reserve has the largest population of tigers with about 231 tigers, while Bandhavgarh, Bandipur, Nagarhole, Mudumalai and Kaziranga each had more than 100 tigers, according to the Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India report for 2018.Dudhwa, Kanha, Tadoba, Sathyamangalam and Sundarban each had more than 80 tigers, the report said.No tiger was recorded in Palamau Tiger Reserve during the 2018 assessment, according to the report. However, one tiger was photo captured and evidence of tiger signs were subsequently recorded from the tiger reserve between January and August 2019.The poor tiger status in Indravati, Udanti-Sitanadi and Achanakmar was related to the poor law and order situation in these areas, the report indicated.Some reserves such as Similipal, Amrabad, Nagarjunsagar Sri Sailam, Palamau, Sanjay-Dubri, Manas, Buxa, Dampa, Anshi Dandeli, Pakke, Nameri and Kawal are below their potential and require resources for better management.“For reintroduction of tigers into Palamau, prey augmentation needs to be coupled with restoration of law and order. For tiger reintroduction or supplementation in Palamau and Similipal, tigers need to be sourced from the closest source in the same genetic cluster,” the report said. “Buxa and Dampa can be repopulated through reintroductions from Kaziranga, after prey restoration in Buxa and strengthening protection in Dampa, which has a good prey base,” it added.Currently, tiger population within reserves is 1,923 (65% of the total tiger population of India), which means 35% of the tiger population still lives outside the reserves.The largest contiguous tiger population in the world of about 724 tigers was found in the Western Ghats (Nagarhole-Bandipur-Wayanad-MudumalaiSatyamangalam-BRT block), while the second largest population of about 604 tigers was found across Uttrakhand and western Uttar Pradesh (Rajaji-Corbett-Ramnagar-Pilibhit-Dudhwa block).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-s-dampa-and-west-bengal-s-buxa-have-no-tigers-left-report/story-pHwXgHyiHe3ZHbuT760EuI.html
28-07-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh woman held by police for peddling drugs, setting up racket||On a cold night in November 2017, Shabnam Ali called a relative to ask for some money she needed for the treatment of her ailing husband. The relative expressed his inability to arrange for funds but said he could help her earn some money if she delivers a small packet to a house.The small packet contained smack. Shabnam delivered the packet, got her cut, and that’s how the 34-year old homemaker entered the world of drug peddling. From delivering small packets of drugs in Shahjahanpur district of west Uttar Pradesh, she developed an intricate system of women drug mules and established a racket that spread across more than five districts in the terai region, giving a tough challenge to the authorities.Also read: UP govt urges I-T department, ED to probe Vikas Dubey’s close aide Jay VajpayeeShe was eventually arrested along with four other gang members on Sunday in Shahjahanpur. “Shabnam was caught red-handed with smack worth Rs 15 lakh. We were observing the activities of her gang for quite some time before we could arrest her,” Superintendent of Police, Shahjahanpur (rural), Aparna Gautam said.Police officials said Shabnam targeted women living in small families like her with some basic education and got them to become drug mules for her. These women used to pick up drugs of a certain value from handlers and carried them to other suppliers, or in some cases, directly to the customer. Also read: Process for human trial of Covid-19 vaccine begins in Kanpur hospitalSome of these women also travelled to nearby districts with packets of smack hidden discreetly in their bags or clothing. “Shabnam paid these women well which helped them support their families. Because the families were small, the members rarely suspected anything,” said a police officer who investigated her. The police teams are also identifying other women who carried drugs for her.Shabnam, like other smugglers in the region, used to smuggle smack from the nearby India-Nepal border when she started. Last year, Shabnam set up a system to get high-quality smack from Punjab. “Shabnam also used woman mules to carry the drugs back to UP. Due to the superior quality of her smack, the demand kept rising,” a police officer said. Shabnam invested the drug money in buying farmlands. Police officials estimated that she purchased a farmland worth over 6 crore rupees last year in her name and in the names of her relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-woman-held-by-police-for-peddling-drugs-setting-up-racket/story-1rRgqsUxoC4plC6iIemGaP.html
28-07-2020||India||Policeman slams bike keys into 20-year-old’s forehead for speeding||A policeman on patrolling duty allegedly slammed a key into the forehead of a 20-year-old man in Rudrapur town of Uttarakhand on Monday night for over-speeding while riding a motorbike.Following the incident, a large number of angry locals clashed with police only to be dispersed with mild lathicharge. Three policemen, including a sub-inspector, were booked on Tuesday evening after being suspended earlier by the district police administration, said an officer.Confirming the incident, senior superintendent of police, Daleep Singh Kunwar said, “One sub inspector and two constables involved in the incident have been booked in the incident for causing hurt, intentional insult and criminal intimidation under relevant sections of the IPC and under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. An inquiry into the incident has also been initiated by circle officer, Bazpur.”On Tuesday afternoon, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat took cognisance of the incident and directed the director general (law & order) to take strict action against the cops involved. The victim, Deepak, 20, is a resident of Rampura village in the area and had gone to a fuel station with a friend on his motorbike, said police.“While on their way, the police’s City Patrolling Unit cops, including the now suspended officers, asked them to stop as they were overspeeding. The two tried to flee from the scene, it is then that one of the policemen boxed the key of his own motorbike into Deepak’s forehead,” said the official who did not wish to be named.Ashok Kumar, director general (Law and Order) said, “The incident is a very serious one in which a man was severely injured. The cops on their part had said that while they were on duty, they saw him over speeding and tried to stop him. However, instead of stopping the motorbike he sped away which led to the incident.”The man, in pain and with keys dangling from his forehead, headed towards his village and narrated the incident to his family and other villagers which angered them.“The agitated locals then made their way to the local police station demanding strict action against the cops. They also tried to gherao the police station at which point they were lathicharged. They resorted to stone pelting. Soon, senior police officers reached the spot to control the situation,” the official said.Meanwhile, local legislator Raj Kumar Thukral also reached the police station and complained to the authorities about the incident. He also tried to pacify the crowd by assuring action against the cops behind the incident.“Meanwhile, a case has been lodged against about 150 unidentified persons for gathering near the police station and pelting stones at policemen. An investigation is on in that case too and the accused would soon be arrested,” said Ashok Kumar. Injured Deepak is undergoing treatment in a nearby hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-slams-bike-keys-into-20-year-old-s-forehead-for-not-wearing-helmet/story-GauHSk5qhWvoLVBnp3kNyO.html
28-07-2020||India||Election Commission’s rare reprimand for Kashmir Lt Guv over remarks on timing of elections||The Election Commission on Tuesday reprimanded Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor GC Murmu for his recent statements on election timing in the union territory, underlining that it was improper and amounted to interfering with the poll panel’s mandate.It is rare for the poll panel to issue a public statement against another constitutional functionary. Tuesday’s statement came after GC Murmu again spoke on the election timing in an interview. This time, he said the elections to the J&K assembly would be held after the delimitation exercise.Lt Governor Murmu last month told Hindustan Times that he did not see a problem in holding elections except the Covid-19 pandemic. “Election Commission takes exception to such statements and would like to state that in the Constitutional scheme of things, the timings etc. of elections is the sole remit of Election Commission of India,” the commission said in a statement.“It would be proper for authorities other than the Election Commission to refrain from making such statements which virtually tantamount to interfering with the Constitutional mandate of the Election Commission,” the statement said.The poll panel statement appeared to suggest that the decision on the election dates was a lot more complex than it was made out to be.The EC, before coming out with the election dates, takes relevant factors into consideration, the statement said. These, it said, include the topography, weather, sensitivities arising out of regional and local festivities in the area(s) where the election is to take place. “For example, in the current times, Covid 19 has introduced a new dynamic, which has to be and shall be taken into consideration at the due time. In the instant case, the outcome of Delimitation is also germane to the decision. Similarly, availability of central forces and railway coaches, etc. for the transportation of CPFs are important factors,” the commission said.All this is done after meticulous homework by the senior officials of the commission and a detailed assessment in due consultation with the authorities concerned. The commission also schedules a visit to the state concerned wherever required and holds extensive consultations with all the stakeholders., it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sole-remit-of-ec-poll-panel-reprimands-j-k-lt-guv-for-remarks-on-election-timing/story-KACYgp6yFE3U3TIyIpVLpI.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Don’t want clashes, hope governor holds assembly session from July 31’: Rajasthan govt||Amid a political tussle, the Rajasthan government on Tuesday said that the governor is the head of the family, and that they don’t want clashes. The remarks were made by Rajasthan Transport Minister Pratap Singh after a cabinet meeting where governor Kalraj Mishra’s three conditions for calling an assembly session were discussed.“We do not want any clashes with the governor, he is the head of the family. Constitution says governor cannot deny the cabinet’s proposal. We hope that respecting the constitution the governor will approve the proposal of starting the session from July 31,” said Singh.The minister also added that the state government has replied to all the queries raised by governor Kalraj Mishra.The cabinet meeting was held at chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s residence in Jaipur.The Congress government in Rajasthan is in turmoil after simmering differences between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot came out in the open.The Congress has accused the BJP of indulging in horse-trading to bring down the Gehlot government. It has also accused the BJP of pressuring the governor to delay the assembly session. The BJP and Mishra have rejected all the allegations.Gehlot wants an assembly session to be convened so that he can prove his majority. He has approached the governor with a proposal to convene the session of the state assembly.Mishra agreed to calling the session, but put forward three conditions on Monday - a 21-day notice for the sitting of the House; live-streaming of floor test; and ensuring social distancing in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.“If the government wants to win a vote of confidence, then it can become a reasonable ground for calling the assembly session on short notice. But it has to be said,” a Raj Bhavan statement said on Monday.Congress leaders said a 21-day notice isn’t necessary and pointed out that in 2014, the third session of the 14th Rajasthan assembly was summoned on September 7 and the proceedings of the House began on September 15. “There have been umpteen instances when the assembly was called with a much shorter notice,” said Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi.The governor had earlier questioned the need for calling the session when the government already had the majority and the disqualification matter was pending in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-clashes-hope-governor-holds-session-from-july-31-rajasthan-govt/story-jgQMEK5zr2qWesEhgAC2UI.html
28-07-2020||India||Covid-19 positive CM Chouhan takes to washing clothes, says it healed his hand||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said that he has been washing clothes on his own, ever since he tested positive for Covid-19, and it has benefitted his hand. The chief minister said his hand was recently operated on. CM Chouhan said that after his surgery, he was not able to clench his fist and physiotherapy also didn’t help much but washing clothes regularly healed his hand. Chouhan, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, conducted a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday via video conferencing. #WATCH Since I am #COVID positive, I've been washing my clothes myself. This has benefitted me a lot. Even after several physiotherapy sessions, I wasn't able to clench my fist as my hand was recently operated on, but now it is perfectly fine: Madhya Pradesh CM SS Chouhan. pic.twitter.com/W1SEfxhQEq In a video, Chouhan said, “since I am Covid-19 positive, I’ve been washing my clothes myself. This has benefitted me a lot. Even after several physiotherapy sessions, I wasn’t able to clench my fist as my hand was recently operated on, but now it is perfectly fine. In a series of tweets on Monday, Chouhan urged people not to hide their symptoms for Covid-19 and come forward for testing. “If you have contracted the infection, there is no need to fear, if you show symptoms, do not hide them, report immediately so that the treatment can be started on time. Timely treatment will make you healthy,” he tweeted.He lauded health professionals for selflessly taking care of patients amid the pandemic crisis. “The dedication of #CoronaWarriors is commendable. I salute all the Corona warriors of the state serving the #COVID19 victims by risking their lives selflessly,” he tweeted.“We should fight it with full confidence,” he said, emphasising the importance of social distancing and other preventive measures like washing hands and wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/washing-clothes-myself-after-testing-covid-19-positive-it-helped-in-healing-my-hand-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-lDr1G47PUFq1XofruheuSN.html
28-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mayawati slams Gehlot for merger of BSP MLAs in Cong and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Malicious intent’: Mayawati lashes out at Ashok Gehlot for merger of BSP MLAs in CongressBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said “In Rajasthan, after elections results BSP gave unconditional support of all its six MLAs to Congress. Unfortunately, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, out of his malicious intent and to damage the BSP, merged them with Congress unconsititutionally.” Read more After India’s fresh ban on apps, China says will take measures to safeguard interests of its companiesAgainst the backdrop of New Delhi’s fresh ban on 47 clones of prohibited Chinese apps, Beijing said on Tuesday that it will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies. Read more Supreme Court asks Centre to verify Jammu and Kashmir’s response on 4G curbThe Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to verify if Jammu and Kashmir’s administration has sent any communication to the ministry of home affairs for restoring 4G mobile internet services in the Union territory. Read more BJP legislator files plea seeking disqualification of 6 BSP MLAs who merged with CongMadan Dilawar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, on Tuesday, filed an application in Rajasthan high court (HC), requesting disqualification of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers, who had merged with the ruling Congress government in the state last September. Read more What is ODI World Cup Super League: Rules, format, points system explainedThe International Cricket Council (ICC) has officially announced the inaugural Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League tournament. With the tournament, ICC aims to bring context to the ODI cricket. Read more Rolls-Royce to focus on simplicity before opulence in Covid-19 worldWhile new products from Rolls-Royce are expected to continue with the rich heritage of offering unparalleled luxury, the British car maker is also choosing to underline simplicity to define its path ahead. Read more Tigmanshu Dhulia: ‘Two strong groups in industry made money but did nothing for cinema’In an exclusive interview, Tigmanshu Dhulia sees nothing wrong with groupism as long as it leads to productive work and good cinema. The director, however, says that is where the groups failed the film industry. Read more Have you seen Mumbai Police’s Andaz Apna Apna inspired advisory post yet? It’s litMumbai Police has now used a classic confusion from the film Andaz Apna Apna and given it a twist to drive home a message about the importance of wearing masks. Read more Covid-19: Global recoveries hit 10 million, Google staff to WFH till next JulyHere are top updates on the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far, global recovery, Covid at the centre of Rajasthan’s Assembly Session, Google staff to WFH till next July. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mayawati-slams-gehlot-for-merger-of-bsp-mlas-in-cong-and-all-the-latest-news/story-056bQzMev77qh03DcfesSP.html
28-07-2020||India||After India’s fresh ban on apps, China says will take measures to safeguard interests of its companies||Against the backdrop of New Delhi’s fresh ban on 47 clones of prohibited Chinese apps, Beijing said on Tuesday that it will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies. India’s June 29 ban on 59 mobile apps with Chinese background, including WeChat, “severely damaged the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies”, Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement. “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles,” she added. “The Chinese side has lodged solemn representation to the Indian side and asked the Indian side to correct its wrongdoings,” Ji said, responding to a media query on whether WeChat was asked to stop providing services to its Indian users. The ban orders for the Chinese apps and their clones are among a string of economic measures unveiled by the Indian government in the wake of the months-old border standoff between the two countries. There was no immediate reaction by Indian officials to the Chinese spokesperson’s comments. Following the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a brutal clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), there were demands from the public and political parties for restrictions on trade ties with China. Spokesperson Ji said the Chinese government “consistently asks Chinese enterprises to abide by international rules and local laws and regulations when conducting external cooperation”. She added, “Practical cooperation between China and India is mutually beneficial. Deliberate interference in such cooperation will not serve the interests of the Indian side. China will also take necessary measures to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies.” Despite the June 29 ban, Indian users of WeChat were able to use the communication app till the weekend. When users sought to use the app this week, they received a message saying services were not available due to local restrictions.On Monday, India’s information and technology ministry announced the fresh ban on 47 apps, most of them clones and variants of the apps banned in June. The total number of Chinese-origin mobile applications blocked is 106. The government is also examining other Chinese apps for violating user privacy and national security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-india-s-fresh-ban-on-apps-china-says-will-take-measures-to-safeguard-interests-of-its-companies/story-NhgXFDnMoxNyLAGaZUDRYI.html
28-07-2020||India||India hands over 10 broad gauge locomotives to Bangladesh||India provided 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh on Monday as grant assistance, with the leadership of the two sides committing themselves to more connectivity and infrastructure initiatives to boost trade and create new supply chains. The broad gauge locomotives, modified to suit height restrictions in Bangladesh, were flagged off by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and railways minister Piyush Goyal during a virtual ceremony that also featured their Bangladeshi counterparts AK Abdul Momen and Mohammed Nurul Islam Sujan. The move was part of a sharpened focus on India’s “neighbourhood first” policy, with New Delhi unveiling several moves in recent days to boost economic activity and help countries in the region cope with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. It also followed close on the heels of the launch of parcel and container train services by India and Bangladesh and the trans-shipment of goods from Kolata to Agartala via Chattogram port. Despite hiccups in bilateral ties caused by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Jaishankar and Momen spoke of the two sides scripting a ‘shonali adhyay’ (golden chapter) in relations and the role connectivity could play in growing trade and creating supply chains that aren’t vulnerable to disruptions such as the pandemic. Goyal and Jaishankar noted that the supply of essential goods to Bangladesh, especially during Ramzan, continued without disruptions due to freight trains. “Our partnership today stands out as a role model in the region for good neighbourly relations,” Jaishankar said, adding the implementation of the “neighbourhood first” policy was most evident in Bangladesh. Noting that India’s concessional lines of credit of nearly $10 billion for Bangladesh are the largest provided to any country, and Dhaka’s exports increased by 43% to cross the $1-billion mark in 2019, Jaishankar invited Bangladesh’s business community to enhance their engagement with India. Goyal said the leadership of both countries is committed to reviving railway links that existed before 1965, when the war with Pakistan led to their closure. Of the seven rail links that existed at the time, four are functional, two more – Chilahati-Haldibari and Shahbazpur-Mahisasan – are being revived and a new link between Agartala and Akhaura is being built with grant assistance from India. Momen thanked India for the locomotives, saying the “India-Bangladesh relationship is rock solid and is based on shared values”. He said the two old links currently being revived will establish rail connectivity with Bhutan and provide the shortest route to connect with Nepal. However, he added connectivity is more than seamless mobility of people, goods and capital, and the two countries will have to work on harmonisation of standards, customs and immigration procedures and environmental concerns. The handing over of the 10 locomotives fulfilled a commitment made by India during Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s visit to New Delhi last October. Officials said bilateral rail cooperation played a key role in mitigating the impact of the pandemic after trade via land border posts was disrupted. Both countries saw the highest ever exchange of freight trains during June, when 103 trains transported essential goods and raw materials. The railways of the two countries began cooperating in 1996 with the export of 10 locomotives from India. Since then, 40 more locomotives and 120 coaches were exported till 2016-17. The 10 locomotives provided by India have a residual life of almost three decades. Experts believe it is crucial for India to boost trade and strategic ties with Bangladesh. Former ambassador Pinak Ranjan Chakravarty, who served as India’s envoy in Dhaka, wrote in a recent commentary: “Bangladesh is India’s largest trading partner in South Asia and connectivity via Bangladesh is important for the development of India’s northeastern states. Bangladesh is also a crucial partner for India’s Act East policy and sub-regional cooperation under the rubric of BBIN [Bangladesh-Bhutan-India-Nepal].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hands-over-10-broad-gauge-locomotives-to-bangladesh/story-NJuG8WzyPmAFRzKCqOTzNI.html
28-07-2020||India||BJP legislator files plea seeking disqualification of 6 BSP MLAs who merged with Cong||Madan Dilawar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, on Tuesday, filed an application in Rajasthan high court (HC), requesting disqualification of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers, who had merged with the ruling Congress government in the state last September. The six BSP members of Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs), who had merged with the Ashok Gehlot–led government on September 18, 2019, are Sandeep Yadav, Tijara MLA, Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli), and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati). “Assembly Speaker CP Joshi had dismissed our plea without hearing our line of argument. This prompted us to move the HC against the Speaker’s decision. We have prayed before the court to disqualify the membership of the six BSP MLAs and pass an order that upholds justice and equality,” said Ashish Sharma, Dilawar’s counsel. The BSP is also expected to file a petition later on Tuesday that will also challenge the merger of six MLAs, who had won Rajasthan assembly polls in 2018 on the party’s symbol.“The merger of these six MLAs with Congress was unconstitutional. We are preparing a petition and will file it soon,” said Bhagwan Singh Baba, state president, BSP. On Monday, the Rajasthan HC had disposed of the petition by Dilawar, who had questioned Speaker Joshi’s alleged inaction over the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Gehlot government last September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-legislator-files-petition-in-court-seeking-disqualification-of-six-bsp-mlas-who-had-merged-with-congress/story-p3Y1NYmEYv50aInoxlYE3O.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Malicious intent’: Mayawati lashes out at Gehlot for merger of BSP MLAs in Cong||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati lashed out at Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, saying he merged her party’s MLAs with Congress due to malicious intent.“In Rajasthan, after elections results BSP gave unconditional support of all its six MLAs to Congress. Unfortunately, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, out of his malicious intent and to damage the BSP, merged them with Congress unconsititutionally. He did the same even in his last tenure,” Mayawati said on Tuesday.“We have asked the six MLAs, who are elected to Rajasthan assembly on the symbol of BSP, to vote against Congress in any proceedings to be held during assembly Session. If they don’t do so, their party membership will be cancelled,” she added.Mayawati also said that the party is ready to go to court. “The BSP could have gone to the court earlier too but we were looking for a time to teach Congress party and CM Ashok Gehlot a lesson. Now we have decided to go to the court. We will not let this matter alone. We will go even to the Supreme Court,” the BSP chief said.Her remarks came a day after the Rajasthan high court disposed of a petition by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator who questioned speaker CP Joshi’s alleged inaction over the merger of all six BSP MLAs in the state with the Congress last year.The decision came hours after the speaker upheld the merger while responding to the complaint by BJP leader Madan Dilawar filed in March.The move is a boost for the Ashok Gehlot led government which retains its tenuous majority in the house even as it fights a legal battle concerning the disqualification of a rebel group of 19 Congress lawmakers led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.In his petition, Dilawar said that the speaker declared the six BSP MLAs - Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kisangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati) - as having merged with the Congress on September 18, 2019. The move increased the Congress’s strength in the House.He had petitioned the speaker on March 16, seeking disqualification of the BSP MLAs under the 10th schedule of the Constitution (anti-defection laws).In 2008, too, six BSP lawmakers merged their party with the Congress in the assembly. Gehlot was the chief minister then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malicious-intent-mayawati-lashes-out-at-ashok-gehlot-for-merger-of-bsp-mlas-in-congress/story-B53lEeYzI4yHkSM01dbguO.html
28-07-2020||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to verify Jammu and Kashmir’s response on 4G curb||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to verify if Jammu and Kashmir’s administration has sent any communication to the ministry of home affairs for restoring 4G mobile internet services in the Union territory. This fact was brought to the top court’s attention by the petitioner, NGO Foundation for Media Professionals, in an affidavit filed in response to the Centre’s reply on the petition. The three-judge bench, headed by Justice NV Ramana, asked the Centre to verify this fact and posted the case for August 7. Attorney General KK Venugopal appeared for Centre. Meanwhile, the J-K administration has also sought time to file a response to petitioner’s affidavit. The petitioner has alleged contempt of the top court’s May 11 order claiming that the Centre has not reviewed the 4G restrictions as no order has been placed in the public domain. The Centre had filed an affidavit last week claiming that it was not possible to restore 4G services for the present but left it to the UT administration to decide. A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in J-K in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest the region of its special status. Most of the restrictions have since been eased even as the mobile internet remains restricted.The Centre has throughout claimed that 4G restoration is not feasible as terrorist activities are on the rise. Currently, J-K only has 2G internet service.The May 11 order was passed after the NGO in April challenged restriction on mobile internet speed to 2G. The NGO sought restoration of high-speed 4G internet services saying patients, doctors, and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 pandemic because of the restrictions. It pointed out slow internet speed makes telemedicine, or online consultation, impossible.The Supreme Court on May 11 refrained from passing directions to restore 4G services and instead constituted the committee comprising high-level government officers, including the Union home secretary, to take a call on the matter. The committee was asked to examine the necessity to allow faster internet in certain geographical areas.The Centre told the court the committee was constituted by virtue of the May 11 order and no separate notification was required. The committee met on May 15 and sought further inputs before taking any decision. It again met on June 10 and decided not to relax the restrictions, the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-verify-jammu-and-kashmir-s-response-on-4g-curb/story-mgPyaoINTgxB3XEl20wblN.html
28-07-2020||India||In new Covid-19 order, Rajasthan govt announces fine for those not wearing masks in public||The Rajasthan home department on Monday issued a separate notification under the state’s Pandemic Ordinance, 2020, with a view to strictly adhere to the protocols to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.According to the notification, all workplaces have to be regularly sanitised and ensure that employees maintain social distance in office. If this is not done, a fine of Rs 10,000 will be imposed on them. The general managers of district industries centres and unit heads of RIICO have been authorised for this. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, every person should wear a mask or face cover in public transport services such as autorickshaws, cabs, rickshaws, buses and trains etc. The violators will face a fine of Rs 200. Regional transport officers and district transport officers have been authorised to impose the fines on violators.It is noteworthy that in view of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the government has already implemented stringent provisions and punishments, like Rs 200 fine for not wearing face mask in public, Rs 500 on shopkeepers for selling goods to customers without face mask, Rs 200 for spitting in public places and Rs 500 for consumption of alcohol, pan, gutka or tobacco in public places. In addition, a fine of Rs 5,000 would be imposed on those who organise a wedding party without following social distancing norms. Also, the fine would be imposed if the ceremony is organised without giving prior notice in writing to the sub-division magistrate. The notification also authorises chief executive officer of Zila Parishad, block development officer, regional transport officers, district transport officers, general manager of the district industry centres and unit heads of RIICO, within their respective jurisdiction to impose fine and ensure strict compliance of all safety standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-new-covid-19-order-rajasthan-govt-announces-fine-for-those-not-wearing-masks-in-public/story-tLPe8jsumQTA7Cmqy5RKPP.html
28-07-2020||India||India and UK join forces on new £8 mn research on antibiotic-resistant bacteria||India and Britain will deepen scientific research collaboration with five new projects to tackle anti-microbial resistance (AMR) that could lead to advances in the global fight against antibiotic-resistant bacteria and genes. The five projects are planned to start in September once they receive the appropriate clearances. Britain is contributing £4 million from the UK Research and Innovation Fund for International Collaboration, and India will match this with an equal amount. The Indian side will be represented by the department of biotechnology. The funding awards by the UK were announced by Tariq Ahmad, minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, ahead of a virtual visit to India on Tuesday. India is a key producer of antimicrobial for the global pharmaceutical supply chain, and the research projects aim to develop a better understanding of how waste from antimicrobial manufacturing could be inadvertently fuelling AMR. A statement from the British high commission quoted Ahmad as saying: “The UK has already partnered with India’s Serum Institute to manufacture the vaccine for Covid-19, if clinical trials are successful, with plans to distribute to a billion people across the developing world. “But there is more we can do together to tackle urgent global health issues in the world. Our thriving research and innovation partnerships will benefit people in the UK and India, and beyond.” British high commissioner Philip Barton said the UK is India’s second biggest research partner, with joint projects expected to be worth £400 million by 2021. “This huge investment enables us to work closely together on global health challenges such as the search for a Covid-19 vaccine,” he said. During the virtual visit to India, Ahmad will chair a roundtable via video conference with Indian and UK-based stakeholders on cold chain technologies that are critical for the transport of vaccines. He will also have a virtual meeting with minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan to discuss a range of issues, including multilateral cooperation, and a virtual meeting with Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. There will also be discussions with regional governments and others on opportunities in wind power. Among the five projects to tackle AMR is SELECTAR, which involves representatives from the University of Birmingham, Aligarh Muslim University, Panjab University, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Indian Institute of Technology and Jamia Millia Islamia University investigating the impact of waste release on microbial ecosystems. The Advanced Metagenomics, Sensors and Photocatalysis for Antimicrobial Resistance Elimination (AMSPARE) proposal brings together experts on sensor technologies, water treatment and remediation from India with experts on policy and industrial regulatory processes from the UK to research AMR proliferation in the environment. Another project involving experts from Puducherry and Chennai and the Imperial College London relates to advancement of knowledge for addressing antimicrobial resistance in the environment. Experiments, mathematical modelling and risk analysis by representatives from Birmingham University, Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad and Indian Institute Technology-Gandhinagar will contribute to risk assessment and setting evidence-based environmental standards. Representatives from the University of Warwick, PGIMER, CSIR-NEERI, Aligarh Muslim University, Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi and Banaras Hindu University will come together to inform policymakers and industry experts and managers on the impact of inappropriate waste disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-uk-join-forces-on-new-8-mn-research-on-antibiotic-resistant-bacteria/story-zgm5sidyURVPLgO1Z7SfCI.html
28-07-2020||India||In Imran Khan’s 18-point Kashmir plan for Aug 5, outreach to Turkey, Malaysia and China||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan who counts the campaign against India over Jammu and Kashmir as his government’s key achievement has roped in the Inter Services Intelligence, or ISI, in its 18-point plan to commemorate the Aug 5 anniversary of India scrapping Article 370 that extended special status to the valley, people familiar with the development said. The ISI is Pakistan’s notorious spy agency accused of nurturing terror groups, mostly directed at India and Afghanistan.The 18-point programme includes a visit by Imran Khan to occupied Kashmir where he is tentatively scheduled to address the assembly, a speech that is going to be beamed live. Before he reaches Muzaffarabad, Khan’s government intends a field trip for foreign journalists to the occupied territory. Like in the past, the terror training camps funded by the ISI would be off-limits for the journalists.India had tabled the law in Rajya Sabha to strip the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status under the constitution and turn the state into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh - on August 5. It was passed by the Rajya Sabha the same day, the Lok Sabha the next and received the presidential assent on 9 August. Also Watch | Pakistan, China plan dam in PoK; India slams ‘attempts at material change’Also Read: Article 370: Going back 72 years in historyThe introduction of the law was preceded by a security and communication lockdown in Jammu and Kashmir and detention of its top political leaders. Most of them have since then been released; PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti is among the exceptions.Pakistan, which like much of the country, was taken by surprise by New Delhi’s move had soon launched an international campaign against the nullification of Article 370. Imran Khan was the face of this pitch on and off Twitter. Khan even focused his speech at the United Nations General Assembly, or UNGA, last September on Kashmir, warned a “blood bath” in Kashmir when the curfew is lifted, prophesied a genocide on the streets of the valley and frequently referred to Pak’s nuke weapons to blackmail the world to intervene.Only two other countries spoke of Kashmir at the UNGA: Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Turkey and Malaysia, then led by Mahathir Mohamad.China also did issue two statements on the scrapping of Article 370. One asked India and Pakistan to work together on the Kashmir issue. But its primary concern was over the change of Ladakh’s status to a federally-administered territory. “China is always opposed to India’s inclusion of the Chinese territory in the western sector of the China-India boundary into its administrative jurisdiction,” China’s foreign ministry had said.India had then ticked off Beijing, underlining that changing the status of an Indian territory was an “internal matter”.For Imran Khan’s elaborate plan for August 5, Islamabad has reached out to Kuala Lumpur, Ankara and Beijing to issue statements to commemorate the first anniversary of Jammu and Kashmir’s new status. Or at least tweet.Turkey’s Erdoğan is expected to oblige but New Delhi is watching how Malaysia plays. Kuala Lumpur has a new prime minister in Muhyiddin Yassin who took over as prime minister on 1 March. A statement from China, a government official said, didn’t matter given how it had attempted to expand its territory that led to the standoff and the bloody Galwan clash in east Ladakh, and the first casualties on both sides along the Line of Actual Control in 40 years.The foreign ministry has been told to work closely with spy agency ISI on its diplomatic outreach to Organisation of Islamic Cooperation member countries and international human rights groups, organising commemorative events - even rallies - at missions abroad and drafting a fresh memorandum to be handed over to the UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan headquartered in Islamabad.Also Read: Pak military retains ‘dominant influence’ during Imran Khan’s tenure, says US reportCounter terror officials in New Delhi told Hindustan Times that the campaign had been drawn up by the military for Imran Khan, right from documentaries, pamphlets and newspaper supplements that would be put out to the tweets that would be put out. But Imran Khan will front the campaign.Quite like the ISI had created the The Resistance Front after August 5, a terror group without the religious label that could be used by Pakistan’s propaganda machine to claim that terror was homebred in Kashmir due to Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pakistan-s-18-point-kashmir-plan-for-aug-5-outreach-to-turkey-malaysia-and-china/story-jABoLZL2telkjr1C9JfAzL.html
28-07-2020||India||HoD of govt medical college nabbed for taking bribe from MD final year student||A Madhya Pradesh (MP) government-run Bhopal-based medical college’s head of the forensic medicine department was arrested by a team of special police establishment (SPE) of Lokayukta on Monday on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 from a postgraduate (PG) final year student and coercing him to make him pay up the sum with an explicit threat that a non-payment would lead to his failure in the examination, the Lokayukta’s office said. “The complainant Dr. Yashpal Singh, a resident of Narwar town in MP’s Shivpuri district, in his complaint to Lokayukta has alleged that the head of the forensic medicine department of Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, Dr. Murali Lalwani, had demanded Rs 1.5 lakh from him. This money was earned by Dr. Singh from the state government’s home department for performing post-mortem examinations, but Dr. Lalwani asked the complainant to give the amount to him, claiming that he had performed them (the examinations) on his behalf,” stated the release. “Dr Lalwani threatened the complainant that if he didn’t give the amount to him he would fail him in his examination. Dr. Lalwani had made a similar demand to two more PG students, Dr. Ashok Yadav and Dr. Sanjay Jain,” it added. “A team from the Lokayukta organisation, led by superintendent of police (SP), arrested the head of the forensic medicine department, Dr. Murali Lalwani, while he was accepting Rs 40,000 from the complainant in his office at Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, on Monday,” the release further stated. Manu Vyas, SP, SPE, Lokayukta, said, “The legal proceedings are on. Dr. Lalwani has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-hod-of-govt-medical-college-nabbed-for-taking-bribe-from-md-final-year-student/story-XYHq12h4OeaYkkN1DHXLEM.html
28-07-2020||India||5,877 Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra in past 27 days a cause for concern||Maharashtra continues to grapple with the highest Covid-19 casualties across the country, apart from having the greatest number of infections, and the increase in deaths has become a cause of concern for authorities. In the past 27 days, till July 27, a total of 5,877 Covid-19 deaths were recorded, as against 5,638 in June, 2,286 in May, 449 in April and 10 in March. The death toll for July alone accounts for 42.33% of the total of 13,883 deaths recorded in the state so far. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereOn Monday, Maharashtra reported 227 deaths. Of them, 39 were recorded in Mumbai, 28 in Raigad and 19 each in Panvel and Pune city. This was 21st day when the state recorded more than 200 deaths a day. With 13,883 deaths, the state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 3.62% on Monday. When compared to the figure for last month, CFR has improved, as it was 4.57% on June 27. But Maharashtra’s CFR continues to be the second highest in the country, after Gujarat, where CFR is 4.17% with 2,326 deaths and 55,822 cases till Sunday, according to statistics from the state medical education department. To reduce the number of Covid-19 deaths, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed officials to form a task force for clinically ill patients in every district. The first such task force was created in Mumbai in April. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Last week, Thackeray chaired a meeting with task force members from all districts and directed them to work in tandem so that the number of casualties can be reduced. He said there has to be proper coordination among the task forces and they should seek guidance from Mumbai’s task force. The state’s case count reached 383,723 after 7,924 cases were recorded on Monday, a dip of 1,507 cases from Sunday. This resulted in a decline in active cases from 148,601 to 1,47,592, as 8,706 patients recovered on Monday alone, according to the state health department. As many as 221,944 infected people have recovered so far and been discharged from hospitals across the state. As the state plans to open up more activities after the sixth phase of lockdown ends on July 31, there are projections that infections are likely to rise in August, officials said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday the state has reached the peak of the pandemic and cases will rise for another 15 days before hitting a plateau by mid-August. “We are expecting a plateau or flattening of the (case) curve somewhere around August 15. Once we hit the plateau, cases will start declining,” Tope told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-5-877-deaths-in-past-27-days-a-cause-for-concern/story-5Pu07jzrF1kXnHj5GGMMJL.html
28-07-2020||India||3 arrested for killing elephant five years back in Chhattisgarh’s Dhamtari||Three persons were arrested on Monday by a joint team of Chhattisgarh Police and state forest department personnel on charges of killing a tusker five years ago and recently trying to sell its tusk. Police have exhumed the body of the tusker from a field, where the accused had buried it, and the tusk has been seized. The trio has been booked under the relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and an investigation has started. “The elephant was electrocuted at Sikatta village in Dhamtari district five years ago. One of the accused, Chen Singh Markam, a farmer, had fenced his field, with live electric wires to prevent pachyderms from entering it,” said Arun Pandey, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (wildlife). Pandey said the accused have confessed to the police that they had buried the elephant that had died of electrocution five years ago because they were afraid of the repercussions of its death and did not inform the authorities concerned. “Markam and two of his friends had chopped the elephant’s body and buried it on the farm,” Pandey added. The police got a tip-off about a month ago, when Markam’s son Ranjeet tried to dig out the tusk and was on the lookout for a buyer. “The accused tried to mislead us. But Markam’s wife revealed the truth and the tusker’s remains were exhumed,” said a police official. The state forest department data showed that the pachyderm population in Chhattisgarh increased from 225 to 290 over the past 10 years. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has recently issued guidelines for the monitoring of wild animals in the state’s forests and improving measures for their conservation. North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants that have been involved in the loss of several human lives and property over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-three-arrested-for-killing-elephant-five-years-back-in-dhamtari/story-vwlGFMSY4X3UWpbvpvyVON.html
28-07-2020||India||Rajasthan cabinet meets to discuss points raised by governor for calling assembly session||The Rajasthan government is holding a cabinet meeting to discuss the points raised by governor Kalraj Mishra for convening a session of the state assembly.The Congress government has been constantly demanding that a session of the house should be called. Confident of its numbers in the assembly, the party is pushing for a floor test in the assembly in the wake of a power tussle between Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.The governor on Monday agreed to call a session, but asked the state government for a fresh proposal addressing his three conditions - a 21-day notice for the sitting of the House; live-streaming of floor test; and ensuring social distancing in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.“If the government wants to win a vote of confidence, then it can become a reasonable ground for calling the assembly session on short notice. But it has to be said,” a Raj Bhavan statement said on Monday.Congress leaders said a 21-day notice isn’t necessary and pointed out that in 2014, the third session of the 14th Rajasthan assembly was summoned on September 7 and the proceedings of the House began on September 15. “There have been umpteen instances when the assembly was called with a much shorter notice,” said Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi.The governor had earlier questioned the need for calling the session when the government already had the majority and the disqualification matter was pending in the Supreme Court.The Congress accuses the governor of delaying the session due to pressure from the BJP-led central government - a charge that Mishra denies.Meanwhile, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Monday sent a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention to facilitate an assembly session in the state. The CLP members claimed that horse-trading of MLAs was on in Rajasthan to topple an elected government.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said yesterday that he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apprise him of the political situation in the state and he has promised him to “get the matter seen”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cabinet-meets-to-discuss-points-raised-by-governor-for-calling-assembly-session/story-Pcju9eOgeQs8e7w85DeARK.html
28-07-2020||India||Only statutory dues can be deducted from accident claims: Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) last week observed that no other amount, except for statutory dues, are allowed to be deducted while computing amount of compensation to be paid in motor accident claims. “It is well settled that except for the statutory deduction to be made towards income tax, professional tax, no other deduction is permissible under law,” said justice VL Achliya. “The deduction from the salary of the deceased towards insurance, pension benefits, gratuity or grant of employment to the kin of the deceased is not permissible.” The court was hearing an appeal filed by a resident of Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district challenging an order passed by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Ahmednagar, in December 2011, granting compensation of Rs. 9 lakh to her and her ageing in-laws against a claim of Rs 15.5 lakh following the death of her husband in a road accident in 2007. The appellant claimed that the accident took place on June 2, 2007, barely three months after her marriage. She and her husband were going from Pune towards Ahmednagar on a two-wheeler. Her husband, a sepoy in the Indian Army, was driving the bike and she was riding pillion. She had complained that when they reached near Kamar Gaon, a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC)-run bus hit the two-wheeler and the vehicle was thrown off the road. Her husband died due to severe head injury and the appellant survived even though she, too, was critically injured. Later, she filed a motor accident claim, claiming compensation of Rs. 15.5 lakh from MSRTC. In 2012, she moved HC seeking enhancement in compensation after the tribunal awarded her Rs 9 lakh. Justice Achliya accepted the argument put forth by the appellant’s counsel and found the assessment of compensation made by the tribunal was against the settled position in law.The court held that she was entitled to Rs. 23.52 lakh as compensation.It also ordered that 23.52 lakh is equitably paid to the appellant and her in-laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-statutory-dues-can-be-deducted-from-accident-claims-hc/story-f4NMYYOA6jpEGb3y0bGLuJ.html
28-07-2020||India||Covid-19 and conjunctivitis: How to take care of pink eyes||The coronavirus pandemic has gripped the entire world, affecting millions. It has led to over six lakh deaths too and pharmacists across the world are racing to find a vaccine to cure Covid-19, the disease it causes.Covid-19 affectes different people in different ways Among the common symptoms that a patient of Covid-19 exhibits are fever, dry cough and tiredness. Some others may experience aches and pains, sore throat, headache and loss of taste or smell.But some experts have said that the coronavirus disease can spread through the eyes too, just as it does through the mouth or nose. According to American Academy of Ophthalmogists, the Sars-CoV-2 virus can cause pink eye infection (conjunctivitis).A study in this regard was done in June and published in the Canadian Journal of Ophthalmology. Academic studies at the outset of the pandemic identified conjunctivitis as a secondary symptoms in about 10 to 15 per cent of Covid-19 cases.How to protect your eyes during Covid-19• Guarding your eyes - as well as your hands, nose, and mouth. According to Rajesh Sinha, Professor of Ophthalmology at AIIMS, New Delhi, when a person touches an affected surface and then touches the eyes or the face, the virus can enter the body. With spectacles, one can prevent virus droplets from coming in contact with the eyes.• Those wearing contact lenses should consider switching to glasses for a while. “They should also be careful before rubbing their eyes,” said Ikeda Lal, Ophthalmologist at Delhi Eye Centre and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in New Delhi. This can allow the virus to get into the eyes.• Sunglasses or prescription glasses can be worn while going out to protect the eyes.• Use eye drops or lubricating agents. Since a lot of people are working from home, the screen time has increased considerably. And then there are webinars, web series, movies or video chats. All this can lead to dryness in eyer and increase the blinking rate. The eyer drops and lubricating agents will help in this, said experts.• Social distancing and hygiene is of course important. The ophthalmologists say that there is no substitute to washing your hands. And this should be done frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-and-conjunctivitis-how-to-take-care-of-pink-eyes/story-fik1wQlW1ACIO6uZdZumpL.html
28-07-2020||India||With 47,703 new Covid-19 cases and 654 deaths in 24 hours, India’s tally crosses 14.83 lakh||India’s Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,483,156 as the country added more than 97,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in two days even as the death toll crossed the 33,000-mark, Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday.The country reported 47,703 new cases of the viral disease and 654 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The death toll is at 33,425.This is also the sixth consecutive day that India has recorded more than 45,000 cases a day.It showed 35,176 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, which has taken the number of recoveries to 952,743. The recovery rate is 64.23%. More than 30,000 patients of the viral disease recovered daily for the last five days.The recovered cases also exceeded the active cases—496,988—by 455,755.Also read: 5.28 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day, says health ministryThe recoveries and death ratio is 96.6%:3.4% now, according to the government.The government said on Monday that the case fatality rate in India, which has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world, is progressively falling and it is 2.28%.The total number of samples tested up to Monday is 1,73,34,885 and the Union health ministry has said more than five lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in a single day over the two consecutive days. India tested 515,000 samples on Sunday and 528,000 on Monday.Also read: Covid worst global health emergency: WHOPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched three state-of-the-art high throughput Indian Council of Medical Research laboratories in Mumbai, Kolkata, and Noida to further ramp up the country’s daily Covid-19 testing capacity by 30,000. The Prime Minister said efforts were underway to increase the capacity to a million in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-47-703-new-covid-19-cases-and-654-deaths-in-24-hours-india-s-tally-crosses-14-83-lakh/story-Jdiiz6r81UbQy4JT6S1H1M.html
28-07-2020||India||5.28 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in a single day, says health ministry||A total of 5,28,000 samples were tested for Covid-19 across the country on July 27, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Tuesday.This, according to the MoHFW, is a result of the coordinated efforts of the Union and various State and Union Territory governments push to increase the testing for the infection in the country.Earlier on July 26, 5,15,000 samples were tested for the infection in the country.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday had said that efforts are being made to ramp up the testing capacity in the country to conduct up to 10 lakh Covid-19 tests per day.Meanwhile, the case fatality rate (CFR) for Covid-19 has been constantly falling in India and is currently at 2.28 per cent, while the total recovered cases crossed nine lakhs in the country.“With an effective containment strategy, aggressive testing, and standardized clinical management protocols based on the holistic Standard of Care approach, the Case Fatality Rate has significantly dipped. The Case Fatality Rate is progressively falling and currently, it is 2.28 per cent. India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world,” the MoHFW said on Monday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It further added on Monday that “Continuing the streak of more than 30,000 recoveries per day for the fourth successive day, 31,991 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. This has taken the total recoveries beyond nine lakhs and the number currently stands at 9,17,567. The Recovery Rate is 64 per cent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-28-000-samples-tested-for-covid-19-across-the-country-on-monday/story-2umI8aGULEvVYD2YTlvR2I.html
28-07-2020||India||BJP centralising authority under cover of Covid-19, says Sitaram Yechury||CPI-M general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday accused the BJP of strengthening the drive for centralisation of all authority and power “under the cover of a Covid-19 pandemic” and said it was “negating the principles of federalism”. “BJP under the cover of a pandemic is strengthening the drive for centralisation of all authority and power, negating the principles of federalism. Decisions are taken unilaterally by the Centre and the states are burdened with bearing the consequences of such unilateral decisions,” he said at a press conference.He alleged the functioning of parliament has been grievously circumscribed.“Questions have raised on the functioning of judiciary, ECI, ED and CBI. We condemn the authoritarian assault on democratic rights and civil liberties. Any expression of dissent is treated as anti-national,” he said. Yechury said that the party will observe protest week from August 20-26 all over the country by following precautions related to the pandemic.The 16 demands of the party include cash transfers to poor and needy, free foodgrains, expansion of MNREGA and strengthening interstate migration law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-centralising-authority-under-cover-of-covid-19-says-sitaram-yechury/story-5X1tYK3q2T1Mz2oJi8ECrL.html
28-07-2020||India||Indian climate activist Archana Soreng named by UN chief to new advisory group||A climate activist from India has been named by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to his new advisory group comprising young leaders who will provide perspectives and solutions to tackle the worsening climate crisis, as the global body mobilizes action as part of the Covid-19 recovery efforts. Archana Soreng joins six other young climate leaders from around the world who have been named by Guterres to his new Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change. Soreng is “experienced in advocacy and research, and she is working to document, preserve, and promote traditional knowledge and cultural practices of indigenous communities,” the UN said in a statement on Monday. “Our ancestors have been protecting the forest and nature over the ages through their traditional knowledge and practices. Now it is on us to be the front runners in combating the climate crisis,” said Soreng, who has studied regulatory governance from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) Mumbai and is the former TISS Students Union President. The young activists, aged between 18 and 28 years, will advise the UN chief regularly on accelerating global action and ambition to tackle the worsening climate crisis. The announcement marks a new effort by the United Nations to bring more young leaders into decision-making and planning processes, as the UN works to mobilize climate action as part of the Covid-19 recovery efforts. “We are in a climate emergency. We do not have the luxury of time,” Guterres said in a video announcing the establishment of the advisory group. “We need urgent action now – to recover better from COVID-19, to confront injustice and inequality and address climate disruption,” he said. Guterres said young people are on the front lines of climate action, showing nations and leaders what bold leadership looks like. “That is why I am launching my Youth Advisory Group on climate change today – to provide perspectives, ideas and solutions that will help us scale up climate action,” the UN chief said. The members of the Secretary-General’s Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change represent the diverse voices of young people from all regions as well as small island states. They will offer perspectives and solutions on climate change, from science to community mobilization, from entrepreneurship to politics, and from industry to conservation, the UN said. The initial seven members of the group have been chosen to give frank and fearless advice to the Secretary-General, at a time of growing urgency to hold government and corporate leaders to account on climate action. The other selected members of the group are climate activist Nisreen Elsaim of Sudan, Fiji’s Ernest Gibson, the co-coordinator for 350 Fiji, a regional youth-led climate change network, young economist Vladislav Kaim of Moldova who is committed to ensuring green and decent jobs for youth. Sophia Kianni of the United States who has helped organise nationwide strikes and is the founder of international nonprofit Climate Cardinals, founder and coordinator of Generation Climate Europe and spokesperson for Youth and Environment Europe, Nathan Metenier of France and lawyer and human rights defender Paloma Costa of Brazil. The establishment of the group builds on last year’s successful Youth Climate Summit – the first time a Secretary-General has convened a summit for young people entirely devoted to climate action. The summit brought over 1,000 young climate champions together from more than 140 countries to share their solutions on the global stage and deliver a clear message to world leaders: we must act now to confront the climate crisis. The initiative is also aligned with the Secretary-General’s vision for the UN Youth Strategy, launched in September 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-climate-activist-archana-soreng-named-by-un-chief-to-new-advisory-group/story-ozs4WjBM6YsMGyuTKFGhpN.html
28-07-2020||India||A million more affected by floods in Bihar, heavy rain forecast in northern districts||There is more bad news for Bihar, which is grappling with floods triggered by heavy rainfall. The Patna Meteorological Centre has warned of more rain till August 1, especially in northern parts of the state which are closer to the foothills of Himalayas.Flood waters have spread to new areas in 11 districts, affecting one million more population, the state disaster management department said. The department in its bulletin said that a total of 2.4 million people have been hit by flood across 11 of 38 districts in Bihar, with Darbhanga being the worst-affected.“The whole area over here is submerged and the flow of the water is so fast that the speed is constantly increasing,” a Darbhanga resident told news agency ANI.The flood affected districts are: Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, West Champaran, East Champaran, Khagaria and Saran.In fact, the situation is expected to further deteriorate in the entire northern belt - from Gopalganj to Katihar.Seven rivers (small and tributaries) are already flowing above the danger mark at 24 spots in 15 districts of the state. The embankments are under pressure in these areas.Chief minister Nitish Kumar said that embankments should be subjected to round-the-clock monitoring to keep the flood situation in check. He has asked the engineers of Water Resources Department to be alert.Seventeen teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and eight of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are involved in the rescue operations across the state.The air-dropping operation of food packets by Indian Air Force helicopters has been stopped in Gopalganj, Darbhanga and East Champaran districts due to worsening of situation and weather.The operation had started in these places on July 25.A senior officer of the disaster management department said the relief distribution through boats and other means would continue in these places as also in other marooned districts.The overflowing rivers of Bihar and the districts impacted:Gandak: East and West Champaran, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur and VaishaliBudhi Gandak: East and West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and KhagariaBaghmati and Adhwara: Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Muzaffarpur, DarbhangaKamala: MadhubaniKosi: Supaul, Khagaria, KatiharMahananda: Purnea, Katihar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-million-more-affected-by-floods-in-bihar-heavy-rain-forecast-in-northern-districts/story-D2dh4qHkaMLZoLhDezbP3I.html
28-07-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh condemns attempt to convert Pakistan gurdwara into mosque||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday condemned attempts to convert a historic gurdwara into a mosque in Pakistan’s Lahore and called upon the Centre to communicate the state’s concerns to the neighbouring country. Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan is a historical shrine built at the spot where Bhai Taru Singh was injured fatally in 1745. “Strongly condemn attempts being made to convert holy Gurdwara Sri Shahidi Asthan in Lahore, site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singh Ji, into mosque. Urge @DrSJaishankar to convey Punjab’s concerns in strongest terms to Pakistan to safeguard all Sikh places of reverence,” Singh tweeted.India has already lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the issue. “A strong protest was lodged with the Pakistan high commission today on the reported incident whereby Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan, site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singhji at Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore, Pakistan, has been claimed as the place of Masjid Shahid Ganj and attempts are being made to convert it to a mosque,” Anurag Srivastava, said the external affairs ministry’s spokesperson, said on Monday. “The gurdwara is a place of reverence and considered sacred by the Sikh community. This incident has been viewed with grave concern in India. There have been calls for justice for the minority Sikh community in Pakistan,” Srivastava said. He added that India had expressed its concerns in the strongest terms on this incident and called upon Pakistan to investigate the matter and take immediate remedial measures. Pakistan was also asked to look after the safety, security and well-being of its minorities, including the protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage. This was the latest in a string of protests made by India over the treatment of Pakistan’s minorities, especially Hindus and Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-condemns-attempt-to-convert-pakistan-gurdwara-into-mosque/story-d9j7Eh28BkGumDAb9AVbHP.html
28-07-2020||India||Oldest living IAF fighter pilot Dalip Singh Majithia turns 100, Air chief extends greetings||Retired Squadron Leader Dalip Singh Majithia, who holds the distinction of being the oldest living IAF fighter pilot, turned 100 on Monday. Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria extended his greetings to the centenarian who had retired in August 1947 when India achieved Independence. “IAF extends its best wishes to Sqn Ldr Dalip Singh Majithia (retd) on his 100th birthday today. He retired in Aug 1947 & holds the distinction of being the ‘oldest’ IAF fighter pilot now,” the IAF tweeted. Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria conveyed warm greetings & heartiest congratulations to Sqn Ldr Dalip Singh Majithia (Retd) on his 100th birthday, on behalf of all Air warriors.."Wishing you many more". pic.twitter.com/d2888G1iuu Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria conveyed warm greetings and heartiest congratulations to Majithia on behalf of all air warriors, the IAF said. It also shared a short video clip on him on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oldest-living-iaf-fighter-pilot-dalip-singh-majithia-turns-100-air-chief-extends-greetings/story-KoasrMdzdt8HqUSURvzNNP.html
28-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Least active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi since June 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid: Least active cases since June 1 in Delhi, 42% more beds than a month agoThe national capital now has a little less than 11,000 active cases of Covid-19, a number that is the lowest since June 1, according to data from Sunday that also shows how Delhi now has the 42% more beds than it had a month ago, suggesting it was amply prepared in case of a resurgence of cases. Read moreSomu Veerraju appointed president of BJP’s Andhra Pradesh unitSenior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and member of Andhra Pradesh state legislative council, Somu Veerraju, was on Monday appointed as the president of the party’s Andhra Pradesh unit. A communication to this effect was sent by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh late in the evening. Read moreBengal’s ginger farmers reap profit as sales shoot during Covid-19 pandemicGinger growers in West Bengal’s northern districts are reaping profits even the local economy is hit by the lockdown with people buying more driven by the belief that the plant increases immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreWorrying Covid-19 situation in MP as July witnesses more patients than March and JuneMadhya Pradesh has registered as many as 14,207 new patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in July till Sunday, which is more than the cumulative figure of 13,593 reported between March 20 and June 30. Read moreHunger to kill 128k more children over Covid-19 pandemic’s first yearCoronavirus and its restrictions are pushing already hungry communities over the edge, killing an estimated 10,000 more young children a month as meagre farms are cut off from markets and villages are isolated from food and medical aid, the United Nations warned Monday. Read moreEither I take five-fors or I get dropped: Ravichandran Ashwin opens up on lows and highs of careerR Ashwin, in his own words, has swung between the extremes in Test cricket in the recent past. The year 2019 began with India’s lead spinner being left out of the XI for the historic Sydney Test and he was later benched on the Test tour of the Caribbean as well. Read moreVijay Varma says only ‘one person’ is criticising Gully Boy: ‘If they bought all awards, why wouldn’t they buy for me?’Pink and Gully Boy actor Vijay Varma does not want to add to the ‘noise’ around the debate on nepotism and the ‘unfair’ treatment doled out to outsiders in Bollywood. He says the issue should be addressed with ‘compassion and real intent’. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Note 20 series pricing may leave you disappointedSamsung yesterday gave a glimpse of the five devices it will launch at the Unpacked event on August 5. Among these is the Galaxy Note 20 series which has been making a regular appearance in leaks. A new leak on the Galaxy Note 20 series reveals what’s supposed to be its prices in Europe. Read moreShould you be friends with your friend’s ex?So your friend recently had a bad breakup and you are friends with your friend’s ex. Does it mean that you also cut all your ties with your friend’s ex-boyfriend or girlfriend, since they don’t talk to each other anymore? It’s a catch 22 situation in which a lot of people have been into. Read moreDoggos demonstrate the right way to wear a mask, netizens are ready to obligeOur canine friends may be famous on the Internet for being derpy or silly. But when it comes to imparting some important message to the society, they do an excellent job. Case in point is this post shared by a doctor from Australia featuring two adorable doggos demonstrating the correct way to wear a mask. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-least-covid-19-active-cases-in-delhi-since-june-1-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7SYwUGLv5A7BTO3ViOVHCK.html
28-07-2020||India||Analyse Covid-19 situation, redesign strategy: Odisha chief secretary to officials||Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy directed all districts officials to analyse the changing Covid situation and redesign the strategy to handle it.“Analyse the Covid situation in your district and redesign your strategy to manage the crisis,” Tripathy directed collectors and chief district medical officers (CDMOs) through a video conference on Monday.Tripathy reviewed the extent of surveillance, quantum of testing, availability of Covid care centres, Covid health facilities, medicines and test kits. He directed collectors and CDMOs to make prior arrangements keeping in view the likely situation till the end of August.Additional chief secretary health and family welfare Pradeepta Kumar Mohapatra said, “We have sufficient stock of testing kits and medicines. Around 1,16,000 antigen test kits have already been supplied to the districts. These will be provided to each district as per demand.”He also asked collectors to enhance daily sample collection to at least 500. The hot spot districts were asked to scale up the sample collection up to 1,000 per day for early detection and treatment. They were asked to use the antigen test kits and upload the test results on the ICMR portal daily.The treating doctors were advised to take up plasma therapy as per the standard protocol. The collectors were advised to support plasma collection in all possible ways. It was decided that since plasma collection requires two days’ activity (one day for different tests and another for collection), the donors would be provided food and accommodation facilities at the headquarters of the plasma banks.Collectors were directed to fix the place of their stay and make all logistic arrangements for smooth collection of the plasma. It was also decided to provide travel assistance to the donors wherever required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/analyse-covid-19-situation-redesign-strategy-odisha-chief-secretary-to-officials/story-dnqKRU3UWbfrTYnNK7dioO.html
28-07-2020||India||Union minister hails India as ‘pharmacy of the world’ amid Covid-19 pandemic||Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers Sadananda Gowda on Monday said that India has proved that it is the “pharmacy of the world” in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking at a press conference here, Gowda said, “India is often referred to as ‘the pharmacy of the world’ and this has been proved true especially in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic when India continued to export critical life-saving medicines to the countries.”Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Meanwhile, minister of state for chemicals and fertilizers Mansukh Mandviya said that three bulk drug parks will be developed in the country in partnership with the states at Rs 3,000 crores.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Three bulk drug parks will be developed in the country in partnership with the states at Rs 3,000 crores. Four medical device parks will also be developed with a government grant of Rs 100 crores for one park,” Mandaviya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-hails-india-as-pharmacy-of-the-world-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-EnFNvfsJWjyvTKvRH4EPyH.html
28-07-2020||India||Bengal’s ginger farmers reap profit as sales shoot during Covid-19 pandemic||Ginger growers in West Bengal’s northern districts are reaping profits even as the local economy is hit by the lockdown with people buying more driven by the belief that the plant increases immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In places like Siliguri, the biggest city in north Bengal, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Cooch Behar and other parts, the sale of ginger has gone up over the last two months, with prices in wholesale and retail markets increasing rapidly. In the retail markets of Siliguri town, ginger price ranged between Rs 145 and Rs 160 a kg on Monday. “The price I got from wholesalers in Siliguri regulated market in the last one week ranged between Rs 68 to Rs 70 a kg,” Jabardan Rai, a ginger farmer from Peshok, said.“The wholesale price in Siliguri would have crossed Rs 100 a kg had there been no restriction on movement of people. The big buyers from Delhi and Mumbai are not coming,” Rai said. Raju Saha, a retail vegetable seller at Siliguri’s Champasari market, said his sales have more than doubled in recent weeks.“The demand has been on the rise and will rise further along with the price. At least 60,000 kg is sold every day,” Haridwar Singh, a commission agent at the regulated market, said. Sunita Agarwal, a homemaker, said she used to buy 400 grams of ginger a month but now she gets 2.5kg of the spice. “All members of my family are having ginger, lemon and turmeric water twice a day to boost immunity,” Agarwal said. West Bengal was the third-largest producer of ginger in 2018. Most of the state’s ginger is produced in the hills of Darjeeling and Kalimpong which come under the jurisdiction of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). The horticulture department of GTA said the annual production in 2019 was 29,400 metric tonnes grown over an area of about 2,000 hectares. “Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills produce a better quality of ginger and more than 60% are sent to other states,” Mahadev Chhetri, senior scientific officer with the Research and Development Centre for Horticulture, said.“It is good news that farmers are getting high price at a time when everything has come to a standstill because of the pandemic,” SP Singh, the district horticulture officer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-ginger-farmers-reap-profit-as-sales-shoot-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-2YziHAERXUnoZz7Y1oHjyN.html
28-07-2020||India||J-K High Court judge Sanjay Gupta dies at 59||Justice Sanjay Gupta, a sitting judge of Jammu and Kashmir High Court, died late on Monday due to an illness. He was 59.Justice Gupta is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.Born in 1961, Justice Gupta did his matriculation from Jammu’s Oriental Academy in 1976, graduated from GGM Science College in 1982 and had a bachelor of law degree from University of Jammu.Justice Gupta enrolled as an advocate with the Bar Council of Delhi in 1986, joined the Jammu bar in the chamber of senior advocate SS Lehar and practised in all fields including criminal, civil, revenue, Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) etc in subordinate courts and before the joining the high court. He was selected as a direct recruit in higher judicial service as district and sessions judge in 2004 and was posted as the additional district and sessions judge in Doda.He served as the district and sessions judge in various courts in Jammu, including as the 1st additional, 2nd additional, 3rd additional, additional district and sessions judge and principal district and sessions judge Jammu.Justice Gupta also remained posted as the 3rd and 4th additional district and sessions judge Srinagar as well as a judicial member of the special tribunal, J-K, in Jammu. He was also the part of the one-man forest tribunal of Jammu and Kashmir, principal district and sessions judge in Leh and principal district and sessions judge in Rajouri. Justice Gupta was posted as Jammu’s principal district and sessions judge and was then elevated as a permanent judge of Jammu and Kashmir High Court in June 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-high-court-judge-sanjay-gupta-dies-at-59/story-FFiCdq1Yvc7RWGtkwL4xgI.html
28-07-2020||India||Somu Veerraju appointed president of BJP’s Andhra Pradesh unit||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and member of Andhra Pradesh state legislative council, Somu Veerraju, was on Monday appointed as the president of the party’s Andhra Pradesh unit. A communication to this effect was sent by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh late in the evening. “BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda ji has appointed Somu Veerraju, MLC, as the state president of BJP, Andhra Pradesh. The appointment comes into effect immediately,” the communication said. Veerraju would be replacing former state minister Kanna Lakshminarayana, who had been in the post since May 13, 2018. Lakshminarayana had been in the Congress party for more than two decades before switching over to the BJP. Hailing from an agriculturist family in East Godavari district, Veerraju was the president and general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha in Andhra Pradesh for a quite long time. Later, he was elevated to the BJP state committee as its general secretary and vice-president. BJP state vice-president P Vishnuvardhan Reddy congratulated Veerraju on his nomination as the state BJP president. He hoped that under Veerraju’s leadership, the party would grow into a formidable force in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/somu-veerraju-appointed-president-of-bjp-s-andhra-pradesh-unit/story-rKfczLMrSTCCGKpwQCZrhO.html
28-07-2020||India||8 men who thrashed and killed Jammu resident over land dispute convicted for murder; given life sentence by court||A local court in Jammu awarded life imprisonment to eight people in a murder case on Monday, said officials of Jammu and Kashmir Police’s Crime Branch.The court convicted 10 accused in the case and awarded life imprisonment to eight of them. They were identified as Ramesh Singh, Tilak Raj and Suram Singh, sons of Satpal of Deharan, Balwan Singh, son of Saran Singh of Pakkhian, Raghubir Singh, son of Sardari Singh of Marjali, Mangal Singh aka Manga, son of Bhagat Singh of Ghorkha Nagar, Manoj Lal, son of Devi Singh of Harkund Floura and Tilak Raj, son of Hans Raj of Kangrail. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on each of the eight accused. Two other accused Bharat Bhushan, son of Devi Dutt of Janipur and Naresh Kumar, son of Roop Chand of Janipur Indra Colony, were awarded two-year imprisonment with a fine of Rs 10,000 each. Investigation was conducted by the Crime Branch in the heinous offence of murder in case under Sections 302, 147, 149, 352, 201 and 212 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3/25 and 4/25 IAA. “It was due to the meticulous and professional investigation by Crime Branch Jammu and effective prosecution that the case ended in conviction,” said a spokesperson of the Crime Branch.In 2006, all the 10 accused armed with sharp edged weapons and guns had trespassed into the house of Bodh Raj in Kanachak area over land dispute and attacked him. The victim, in an attempt to save himself, ran inside a room but was dragged out and again attacked and was killed by the assailants, said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-men-who-thrashed-and-killed-jammu-resident-over-land-dispute-convicted-for-murder-given-life-sentence-by-court/story-JrcSXE9St3DWaqs2XkGKsN.html
28-07-2020||India||Process for human trial of Covid-19 vaccine begins in Kanpur hospital||The process for human trial of the Covid-19 vaccine that Bharat Biotech has developed formally began at a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur. The first set of participants, who have cleared the screening process, will be vaccinated on Thursday or Friday under medical supervision.Prakhar Hospital, one of the two facilities chosen for testing the coronavirus vaccine in Uttar Pradesh, has 36 volunteers between the age group of 18 and 55 years. Five of the volunteers are women and two are 20-year-olds.Coming from diverse backgrounds, the volunteers also include sportspersons. “They are mostly from middle class background and all of them registered on their own volition as they want to contribute to the experiment that can help mankind in these trying hours,” said Dr JS Kushwaha, chairman of the hospital. All 36 volunteers on Monday underwent a comprehensive process of determining their health status, which needs to fit in the parametres the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has defined. Their blood samples and swabs were taken and sent to the ICMR certified laboratory for RT-PCR and anti-body test.“On the basis of these reports, the vaccine will be given to them at the hospital positively by Thursday or Friday,” said Kushwaha. The hospital will conduct the human trials in two phases on 100 volunteers. “People are regularly calling us and seek details of the process they will have to follow. Even today we got four calls from people, two of them women, and they wanted to be part of this trial,” he said. Before the vaccine is given, the hospital will insure the volunteers meet all the specified conditions. A team of specialists, led by a doctor from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), will administer the vaccine and monitor the health parametres for a period of two hours at the hospital before the volunteers are allowed to leave. The team will collect the blood samples on the 14th day and then on 28th day, these samples would be sent to the ICMR certified laboratory for the test.Kushwaha said the hospital is well-equipped for such trials and has conducted similar trials for Rotavirus and Pentavalent vaccines in the past. The hospital has received the go-ahead from the Data and Safety Monitoring Board and Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to commence the trial. Kushwaha appealed to the people that they should come forward and get involved in the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/process-for-human-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine-begins-in-kanpur-hospital/story-xRNqNgiac3vQFBOT8sxfCK.html
28-07-2020||India||Worrying Covid-19 situation in MP as July witnesses more patients than March to June||Madhya Pradesh has registered as many as 14,207 new patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in July till Sunday, which is more than the cumulative figure of 13,593 reported between March 20 and June 30. The death toll in the state is equally worrying as more than nine patients of the coronavirus disease died every day in July on average, a figure that was more than five till June 30, according to the health department’s bulletins. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe situation has gone from bad to worse in the state from lockdown to Unlock period with 132 new Covid-19 patients being identified every day on average till June 30 from March 20 when the first four patients were identified in Jabalpur.This number shot up to more than 546 patients every day in July on average or an increase of 313.63% patients daily. Till June 30, the number of Covid-19 patients who died was more than five per day on an average, 5.55 to be precise. It rose to more than nine patients in July every day or an increase of 65.58% daily. The week-wise toll in July also suggests an aggravating situation with an average of seven deaths per day in the first week. In the second week, the average was almost the same but in the third week, the figure shot up to 12 deaths per day and in the past eight days, it was 13 deaths daily on average. Based on data from March 20 to July 26, the death rate has come down to 3.19% as of Sunday night against 4.20% as on June 30 but this is primarily because the number of Covid-19 patients has been increasing alarmingly. At the same time, the recovery rate has come down to 68.82% as of Sunday night from 76.47% as was registered on June 30. Similarly, the active cases which stood at 2,626 on June 30 night alarmingly rose to 7,857 on Sunday night. The grim situation drove the state government to announce a 10-day long lockdown in the state capital of Bhopal, where it has gone from bad to worse, while authorities in Gwalior and Morena clamped curfew in the cities. “What is worrisome is the fact that the number of deaths has alarmingly gone up in July despite more and more awareness in public about the disease as compared to the first couple of months when the state government cited late arrival of patients in hospitals for the death rate being on a higher side,” Amulya Nidhi, a public health expert, said.“This is when the states like West Bengal, Gujarat and not to say of Kerala have shown marked improvement in their situation,” he added. He also pointed out that the government claims to have ramped up its testing facilities in the past four months or so and upgraded its health facilities and even launched a Kill Corona campaign in July for a door to door survey across the state. “This situation demands the immediate intervention of the central government to look into the problem areas in the entire state from the state government to the grassroots level.” SR Azad, another public health expert, said lockdown or curfew will be of no help unless the state government chalks down a comprehensive plan and implements it “strictly and honestly from the state level to the ward and village level”. “At the same time, the community participation in the government’s plan is a must which is lacking so far. It is all bureaucratic approach with which the government is working,” Azad said. Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, the state’s health minister, said the government’s priority is to control the spread of coronavirus disease in every district. “We have increased the number of Covid tests significantly. Coupled with this the fever clinics have also helped. Now, more and more people are being identified and treated,” Chaudhary said. “We are reviewing the situation of each and every district under the leadership of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. My appeal to all the people is to follow social distancing norms and other safety norms,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worrying-covid-19-situation-in-mp-as-july-witnesses-more-patients-than-march-and-june/story-1XLyyk0RU29G5aBML5ICML.html
28-07-2020||India||Congress’ Jammu unit stages protest against BJP’s ‘arm-twisting’ tactics in Rajasthan||The president of Congress’ Jammu unit Ghulam Ahmed Mir on Monday staged a vociferous protest against what he claimed was the “BJP’s arm-twisting tactics in Rajasthan” during the coronavirus pandemic. “We are protesting to save democracy in this country. The BJP has been constantly been resorting to undemocratic and unconstitutional means. First Goa, then Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and now Rajasthan, the BJP has been resorting to unconstitutional and undemocratic means to topple democratically elected governments,” said Mir. He said when people have the right to choose the government of their choice, then one with a full majority should be given full five-year tenure. “But the BJP is resorting to unfair means and is using governor’s rule to their advantage. The BJP getting its unfair practices implemented via Raj Bhavans. For instance in Rajasthan, the governor there has raised illogical queries on assembly session proposed by the Rajasthan CM via his cabinet,” he added. “The governor is asking Rajasthan CM unnecessary queries of why and what’s the agenda, which is undemocratic and unconstitutional on the part of the governor,” he added.Meanwhile, three Congress leaders wrote to Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday, asking him to convene an assembly session as per the advice of the state cabinet which, they claimed, would be the correct course of action as per the legal principles laid down by the Supreme Court. Salman Khurshid, Ashwani Kumar, and Kapil Sibal, who are also senior advocates at the SC, said that the apex court judgments in Shamsher Singh v. Union of India (1974) and Nabam Rebia v. Deputy Speaker (2016) limits the powers of Governor, who is obliged to defer to the wisdom of an elected government. “Any deviation from the established constitutional position would be an avoidable negation of your oath of office and create a constitutional crisis,” the former Union law ministers, said.The Congress party, which is confident of its numbers in the Rajasthan assembly, is pushing for a floor test in the House in the wake of a power tussle between chiffons minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot.The Congress accuses the governor of delaying the session due to pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government. Mishra has denied the charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-jammu-unit-stages-protest-against-bjp-s-arm-twisting-tactics-in-rajasthan/story-nuf0Z6xnesfMQjKWTVvVUP.html
28-07-2020||India||UK, India to collaborate in anti-microbial resistance research worth 8 million pounds||The United Kingdom and India are deepening their existing scientific research collaboration with five new projects worth eight million pounds to tackle anti-microbial resistance (AMR) that could lead to important advances in the global fight against antibiotic-resistant bacteria and genes.The funding awards were announced by Lord Tariq Ahmad of Wimbledon, Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth, ahead of a virtual visit to India on July 28, according to a statement from British High Commission here.India is a major producer of antimicrobials in the pharmaceutical industry global supply chain, and the research projects aim to develop a better understanding of how waste from antimicrobial manufacturing could be inadvertently fuelling AMR.Subject to clearances, the five projects are planned for September this year. The UK is contributing four million pounds from the UK Research and Innovation Fund for International Collaboration, and India is matching this with its own resources. In total, eight million pounds will be used to fund the research, said the statement.Ahmad said, “The UK has already partnered with India’s Serum Institute to manufacture the vaccine for COVID-19, if clinical trials are successful, with plans to distribute to a billion people across the developing world. But there is more we can do together to tackle urgent global health issues in the world. Our thriving research and innovation partnerships will benefit people in the UK and India, and beyond.”Sir Philip Barton, High Commissioner to India, said, “The UK is India’s second-biggest research partner, with joint research expected to be worth 400 million pounds by next year. This huge investment enables us to work closely together on global health challenges such as the search for a COVID-19 vaccine.”“Today’s announcement is another demonstration of our excellent research relationship and will strengthen the important fight against anti-microbial resistance,” he added.Ahmad will chair a virtual roundtable with senior Indian and UK-based stakeholders on cold-chain technologies that are critical for the effective transport of vaccines, ensuring they successfully reach their final destination, according to the statement.Other elements of the minister’s visit include meeting with Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs, V Muraleedharan, to discuss a number of subjects including multilateral cooperation, a meeting with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, discussions with regional governments and others on opportunities in wind power and a virtual tour of a UK funded solar plant in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-india-to-collaborate-in-anti-microbial-resistance-research-worth-8-million-pounds/story-0TH5DdCz41exySXUAKmYUN.html
28-07-2020||India||Central govt employees retiring during Covid-19 to get provisional pension||Central government employees retiring during the Covid-19 pandemic will get provisional pension till their regular Pension Payment Order (PPO) is issued and other formalities completed, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Monday. This decision was taken because with the pandemic and the lockdown, a government servant may find difficulty in submitting pension forms to the Head of Office or may not be able to forward the claim form in hard copy along with service book to the concerned Pay & Accounts Office in time, particularly if both the offices are located in different cities, he said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“This is very pertinent to the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) who are constantly on the move and whose Heads of Offices are located in cities different from where the Pay & Accounts Office is located,” said Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions.He said that after the Modi government took over, the Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare had upgraded and equipped itself to deliver the PPO to the employee concerned without delay on the day of his or her superannuation.Besides this, in the last few years, taking cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on digitalisation, the department has also created a portal, which can be accessed by any government employee approaching superannuation to find out the status of his or her pension papers, the minister said. However, because of the disruption in the official work due to the pandemic and the lockdown, Singh said, some employees who retired during this period may not have been provided with PPO.  But, as an evidence of the present government’s sensitivity towards pensioners and senior citizens, a decision was taken that in order to avoid a delay in the start of regular pension covered under CCS (Pension Rules) 1972, rules may be relaxed to enable seamless payment of ‘Provisional Pension’ and ‘Provisional Gratuity’ till regular PPO is issued, the minister said. “Government employees retiring during Covid-19 pandemic will be receiving ‘provisional’ pension till their regular Pension Payment Order (PPO) is issued and other official formalities completed,” Singh said in a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. According to an office memorandum issued by the department, the payment of “Provisional Pension” will initially continue for a period of six months from the date of retirement and the period of “Provisional Pension” may be further extended up to one year in exceptional cases.  “These instructions shall also be applicable in cases where a government servant retires otherwise than on superannuation i.e. voluntary retirement, retirement under FR 56, etc.,” it said.In another circular, the Department of Pensions & Pensioners’ Welfare has directed all offices maintaining GPF (General Provident Fund) accounts to complete all credit entries including accruing interest to the employees two years before retirement and then one year before retirement so that provident fund is also paid accurately in time, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-govt-employees-retiring-during-covid-19-to-get-provisional-pension/story-ZNdITLTndBSxdYw2Z5xz9K.html
28-07-2020||India||‘Lost in translation’ Priyanka’s clarification after Omar’s objection||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said that her comments against the Bharatiya Janata Party allegedly trying to topple democratically-elected governments, during a pandemic, were “lost in translation”.Participating in her party’s ‘#SpeakUpForDemocracy’ campaign on social media on Sunday, Priyanka Gandhi had said, “Leadership is recognised in times of crisis. During coronavirus pandemic, the country needs a leadership that works in the public interest. But the BJP-led central government has made its intention clear by trying to topple the governments elected by the people. The public will answer.” However, National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Sunday, took to Twitter to counter her remarks. He even shared a news report – ‘BJP Trying To Topple Governments Amid Pandemic’. “I don’t get the whole “during pandemic” argument. As though somehow toppling an elected government would be less reprehensible if we weren’t battling a health crisis. IMHO it’s wrong regardless of COVID,” he tweeted. Clarifying her tweet, Priyanka Gandhi said, “You’re absolutely right @omarabdullah. What I actually said was that leadership becomes evident during a crisis, and while the pandemic is on, the nation needs a leadership that works in the interest of its people.” “However, the BJP government has been busy trying to topple democratically elected governments, revealing its true mindset and character. It seems my point got lost in translation,” Priyanka Gandhi said in another tweet. The Congress has launched a nationwide campaign in protest against the alleged attempts by the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. Congress leaders and workers are also holding demonstrations in front of Raj Bhawans across the country except in Jaipur to protest against Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra’s allegedly “delaying tactics” in convening the assembly session to enable Gehlot to prove his majority in the House after his former deputy Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators rebelled against the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-in-translation-priyanka-s-clarification-after-omar-s-objection/story-O4TbaOvWDdInjgLtCZYTNN.html
28-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It’s definitely not business as usual — and it is unlikely that it will not be for a few more months.Every Monday, for many weeks now, the Indian arm of Nomura Securities has been publishing a Business Resumption Index (called the Nomura India Business Resumption Index, or Nibri). The index has plateaued around 70 for the past month. By mid-June, it had come out of the slump it saw in April — it hit the mid-forties then — and reached the late-sixties, but it has pretty much stayed at that level since. The index value of 100 corresponds to pre-pandemic level business activity and as the firm points out “the pace at which economic activity normalises [has] remained broadly unchanged for the week ended July 26”. It was 70 on July 19, 68.7 on July 12, 69.2 on July 5, and 70.5 on June 28.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia was locked down for 68 days between March 25 and May 31, although the second half of this period saw some activities being allowed in a restricted manner.The index’s plateauing over the past month is an indication that India’s return to economic recovery in 2020-21 will be slow, bumpy, and fraught with risks. Consensus estimates for the level by which the economy will decline this year are hovering around 5%, and some economists believe that the decline could be higher. It’s hard to make predictions when there is still no certainty on when a cure will become available (although recent data from Phase 1 clinical trials of several vaccine candidates are promising).“Overall, the Nibri suggests activity remains stuck at around 30 percentage points below pre-pandemic levels,” the Nomura research report said.The data merely reflects the situation on the ground. A report in HT last week said that around half the country’s population is under some form of lockdown — full, partial, or weekend — as local administrations deal with a sudden surge in cases.On Sunday, India saw in excess of 50,000 new coronavirus disease cases -- the first time it is crossing that mark, with 65% of the cases coming from states and Union Territories other than Delhi, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu, which, together, used to account for 65% of the cases in the country not so long ago. Delhi’s numbers have fallen sharply, but Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu’s have risen just as sharply — which means that the contribution of the big three to India’s Covid-19 tally is coming down because cases are rising in other parts of the country. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal are all seeing a spike in new cases. Three of India’s four most populous states are in this list; the one that isn’t is Maharashtra, which saw 9,431 cases on Sunday — almost 19% of all new cases recorded in the country. Bihar, Karnataka, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh “face the immediate risk of becoming the new hot spots of the coronavirus disease in India”, HT’s Jamie Mullick wrote on July 27, pointing to factors that individually or together suggest this: “rapid rise in new cases, rising positivity rates, and low testing”.Many of these states have been resorting to localised lockdowns to slow the spread of the disease. For instance, Uttar Pradesh announced a hard lockdown on weekends and also in some parts of the state where there are clusters of infections; West Bengal announced one for two days every week; Bihar is locked down till July 31, as are parts of Andhra Pradesh.It is only natural that lockdowns in India’s most populous states affect activities, business or otherwise. And it is only natural that the Indian economy’s return to normalcy is affected by the ongoing health crisis in its most industrialised state (Maharashtra), whose capital also happens to be the country’s most important commercial hub.It will be a while before it is business as usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-S2hlpJVXl3xtHswl9FPZpM.html
28-07-2020||India||Covid-19 curbs to ease in Kashmir ahead of Eid, mosques to remain shut||There will be a relaxation in Covid-19-related lockdown restrictions in Kashmir for three days from Tuesday to allow people to make purchases ahead of the Eid-ul-Azha festival on Saturday, August 1. However, all masjids and shrines will remain closed for prayers. The administration has also decided to allow cleanliness drives at mosques and shrines, but no prayers will be allowed.The J-K administration had on July 22 re-imposed lockdown restrictions for six days in nine out of the 10 districts of the Kashmir valley after a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole in a meeting with officials on Saturday had decided to ease the lockdown from July 28 to 30 in the Valley so that people are able to purchase goods and essential commodities. However, no public transport will be allowed except autos and personal cars.Farooq Khan,the advisor to Lieutenant=-Governor, chaired a meeting on Monday to review availability of essential items .“There will be a huge rush during these festive days as all the vendors, stall owners and shop keepers will reopen their business for Eid ul Azha shopping. These street vendors and roadside stalls should be asked to maintain proper spacing so that crowding of people would be avoided to maximum,” Khan said.The DCs have been asked to identify suitable places for the sale of sacrificial animals.The sale of animals will not be allowed on July 31, a day ahead of the festival. Officials said that all the masjids and shrines will remain closed for prayers.“Srinagar Municipal Corporation and Urban Local Bodies shall launch a cleanliness drive at all mosques and shrines in Srinagar and Valley well before Eid-ul-Azha. Besides, they will ensure all street lights are functional,” the order said.Religious leaders in the Valley this year have urged people to celebrate the Eid with simplicity taking all necessary precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded nine Covid-19-related deaths and 470 new infections, taking the total number of people infected with the disease in the region to 18,390.The death toll in the UT has risen to 321—298 fatalities in Kashmir and 23 in Jammu division till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-curbs-to-ease-in-kashmir-ahead-of-eid-mosques-to-remain-shut/story-EZQCXIivxfbYRDA25n9KQL.html
28-07-2020||India||MP cabinet to hold virtual meeting on Tuesday after CM Chauhan tests Covid+ve||Madhya Pradesh will witness its first virtual Cabinet meeting on Tuesday which will be chaired by the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan who is being treated for Covid-19 in a hospital in Bhopal.“Owing to corona infection, a virtual cabinet meeting will be held for the first time in the state on July 28. The members of the cabinet will be able to attend the cabinet meeting from any place through a video conferencing”, according to an official communiqué released on Monday.The cabinet meeting will begin at 11.30 am and the CM will address it from the hospital itself, as per the CMO.“The trial run of the virtual cabinet meeting will be held at 9.30 am on July 28. The members of the cabinet have been completely apprised of the virtual cabinet meeting,” the government notification added.The CM was hospitalised on Saturday after announcing that he had tested positive for the coronavirus disease. Earlier in the week, one of his ministerial colleagues had also tested positive.On Monday, Chauhan appealed to people not to visit him in the hospital and to take all precautions against coronavirus infection. He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his phone call to inquire about his health. Meanwhile, minister for panchayat and rural development Mahendra Singh Sisodia said he is going into home quarantine after four employees at his residence tested positive. “Four employees at my residence have tested positive for Coronavirus. Though my report has come back negative, I will home quarantine for the next five days at the doctors’ advice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-to-hold-virtual-cabinet-meeting-on-tuesday-after-cm-chauhan-tests-covid-ve/story-e05L7Mdif2NVjow9jpdUYN.html
28-07-2020||India||BJP MP Anil Baluni invites Priyanka Gandhi and family for meal: Report||BJP MP Anil Baluni has invited Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and her family for an ‘Uttarakhand meal’ once he shifts into his new house, which was occupied by the Congress leader till recently, sources said on Monday. Baluni has been allocated the 35, Lodhi Estate house in Delhi’s Lutyens’ zone. According to sources, the BJP MP invited Priyanka Gandhi for a meal comprising cuisines of Uttarakhand like ‘Manduwe ki roti’, ‘Jhangore ki kheer’, ‘Pahadi raita’ and ‘Bhatt ki churkani’.The Congress leader had invited Baluni for tea after he was allocated the bungalow. Sources said the BJP MP, in a letter, thanked the Congress leader for the invite. He, however, expressed his inability to move out as he had recently returned home after being treated for cancer. He said doctors have advised him to stay in isolation at home, they said. The BJP MP from Uttarakhand was diagnosed with cancer last year and had undergone treatment in Mumbai for several months. Baluni, BJP’s national media in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP, has been staying in a government bungalow at Gurudwara Rakabganj Road here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-anil-baluni-invites-priyanka-gandhi-and-family-for-meal-report/story-0RgSlf4yHUJ8aLsmZdkFLO.html
28-07-2020||India||5 Rafales head to India in boost to its air power||Five Rafale fighter jets of the 36 ordered by the Indian Air Force (IAF) took off from Mérignac in France and will reach their home base in Ambala on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi — a move that will boost rapid deployment of the jets to upgrade India’s ageing air power amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan.The two-leg flight will involve the Rafales covering a distance of nearly 7,000km. The five fighters landed safely at Al Dhafra after a seven-hour flight from France on Monday evening. “Real beauty and beast!” Indian ambassador to France Jawed Ashraf said while the planes were being flagged off in Bordeaux. “First five Rafale to India – swift, nimble, versatile, advanced and lethal,” he added. “This also marks a new milestone in the strong and growing India-France defence cooperation,” the Indian Embassy said in a statement.The new fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of IAF, which has for long planned to update its fighter jet force.The jets -- the first of the 36 Rafale jets purchased from French firm Dassault in a government-to-governent deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 -- have been specially tailored for IAF. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases, and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons on as many as 14 hard points.The delivery of the remaining 31 fourth-generation-plus fighters will be completed by the end of next year.The French air force refuelled the fighters — three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft — using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra. Aerial refuelling support will be provided by the IAF’s Russian Ilyushin-78 refuellers for the second leg of the journey from Al Dhafra to Ambala.The jets are being flown by Indian pilots who have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft, the IAF said. The Rafales will be a part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the “Golden Arrows”. The aircrew bringing the Rafales to India is headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the No. 17 Squadron. The first Rafale’s RB-001 tail number denotes the initials of the IAF chief: Rakesh Bhadauria. He led the complex negotiations for the Rafale deal. The Indian fighters will be equipped with Meteor missiles built by European defence major MBDA Missile Systems. The Meteor’s no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium range air-to-air missiles.It’s a magnificent achievement to get a fighter of this class decades after the IAF inducted the Mirage-2000s from France in the mid-1980s, said Air Chief Marshal Fali H Major (retd), a former IAF chief.“The Rafales bring tremendous capabilities to the table. We should now wait and watch how the fighter evolves in the Indian environment. I am sure it will meet each and every qualitative requirement of the IAF,” Major added.France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year. Air and ground crews of the IAF have been in France for almost three years for the management of the Rafale programme.The deal for the warplanes became controversial over allegations of corruption levelled by the Congress in the run up to the 2019 general elections, though the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government rejected the charge. The NDA government’s decision to buy 36 Rafales was announced in April 2015, with the deal signed a little more than a year later. This replaced the previous United Progressive Alliance’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited using parts imported from France. A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit tabled in February last year concluded that the new deal was 2.86% cheaper than the price negotiated by the UPA government. It did not disclose pricing details.“I am strongly impressed by the amazing efficiency and determination of the IAF and Indian Ministry of Defense, despite this unprecedented world health crisis, to master rapidly all aspects of the Rafale for Indian sovereignty and contributing to the protection and security of Indian people,” said Dassault Aviation chairman Eric Trappier.The IAF could deploy its new Rafale fighters in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region, where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation and disengagement has turned out to be a challenging process, according to people aware of the developments.A brutal clash at the Line of Actual Control in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh last month left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead. Tensions are also high with neighbouring Pakistan since India revoked the special status to Jammu & Kashmir in August last year.IAF’s air and ground crews have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft, including its highly advanced weapons systems and are fully operational. Efforts will now focus on swift operationalisation of the aircraft, a person familiar with the matter said. Acting on a special request by IAF, France has accelerated the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India — five jets are coming instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch. According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected by April-May 2022. However, all deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-rafales-head-to-india-in-boost-to-its-air-power/story-eIL5mv9pnXQ1I1t5CfXfoI.html
28-07-2020||India||Giant fish caught off Digha coast in Bengal; sold for ₹50k||A large fish belonging to the Ray family, most likely a giant Manta Ray given the location, was caught by a group of fishermen off the Digha coast near the Odisha-West Bengal border on Monday morning.Director of West Bengal United Fishermen Association, Pinaki Ranjan Kar said the fish weighed in around 800 kg and was caught by a group of fishermen 8 km off the Udaypur beach in Odisha near Digha . “The fishermen were shocked when they saw the fish in the net. The fishermen in Digha call it Shankar fish and resembles the ear of an elephant,” said Kar. The fish was 8 feet long and 5 feet wide. “Though the fishermen in Digha have earlier caught such fish, this was the heaviest,” he added. Sankar or Shankar fish is a generic name for all Rays in parts of East India. HT couldn’t independently verify the weight of the Manta Ray, though the species is known to reach much larger sixes (wingspans up to 7-8 metres in some cases; and weights in excess of 2000 kg)Kar said that soon after the news of the catch spread, a huge crowd to catch a glimpse of the fish at Digha. Later, a fish trading firm from West Bengal’s Ranighat locality of West Bengal bought it at a price of Rs 50,000. Parts of the Manta Ray (the gills for instance) are used in Chinese medicine, although the fish themselves are not rized for their meat. Giant Manta Rays are listed as vulnerable under the IUCN. Additional director of fisheries(marine) in Bhadrak, Chitta Ranjan Sahu said he is still verifying the authenticity of the video. “ Our people are trying to speak to the fishermen who caught the fish,” said Sahu.In March another large Manta Ray, weighing around 300 kg was caught by fishermen off the Digha coast. In January, a 200 kg one was caught in waters off Balaramgadi beach in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/giant-fish-caught-off-digha-coast-in-bengal-sold-for-50k/story-PY2IMWX4Yw3KnLW9koepsJ.html
28-07-2020||India||MoS Home praises CRPF, recalls ‘big damage’ it caused to China in 1959||Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai on Monday paid tribute to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) for its valour and sacrifice while recalling the “big damage” it caused to the Chinese Liberation Army (PLA) when it attacked a patrol of the Indian paramilitary force in Ladakh in October 1959. He drew parallels between the 1959 incident and the June 15 clash in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with the Chinese troops in Ladakh.Rai said China faced similar consequences on June 15 as it did in 1959 during a clash with CRPF men in Ladakh’s Hot Springs even as the paramilitary force was outnumbered. “What a coincidence. Whenever China attacks, its strength is huge and ours is less... but China has always suffered the consequences,” said Rai at a function to mark CRPF’s 82nd foundation day without elaborating. Union home minister Amit Shah was scheduled to attend the event but he could not because of some other meeting.China has not confirmed its casualties following the June 15 clash but has said they were on both sides. The clash marked the biggest loss of life in combat between India and China since 1967.Rai said on October 21, 1959, PLA troops attacked the CRPF patrol and killed 10 Indian troops besides taking seven as prisoners. He added the force showed great valour and caused “big damage” to the Chinese. The day (October 21) is also celebrated as the police memorial day, he added.“The CRPF has a rich history of valour and sacrifice...and on October 21, 1959, it showed that in Hot Springs in Ladakh when the Chinese attacked,” Rai said.He said the CRPF defended the country in Gujarat’s Sardar Post when a small team repulsed an attack by a 3,000-strong Pakistani army contingent in 1965. “Pakistan would shake with fear whenever it would recall this incident.”Rai said India has wiped out terrorism and naxalism (left-wing insurgency) under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah’s leadership. He added 150 terrorists have been killed in Kashmir over the last six months. Rai said terrorists should know they will have to either change their ideology or will be wiped out.Rai cited the 2019 Pulwama attack on a CRPF convoy in which 40 personnel were killed, and added Modi then declared this sacrifice will not go in vain.“The [air] force went into Pakistan and killed terrorists and Pakistan just kept watching. India did what it wanted to do,” Rai said, referring to the retaliatory air strikes in Pakistan’s Balakot in response to the attack.Rai said the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel gave the President’s colours to CRPF on July 27, 1950, in recognition of its good work in aligning princely states with India post-independence. But an official later said Patel gave the colours on March 19, 1950. The first CRPF battalion was raised on July 27, 1939, the official added. The force was raised as the Crown Representatives Police under the British. It was renamed CRPF in 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-home-praises-crpf-recalls-big-damage-it-caused-to-china-in-1959/story-hjFLSe0BSofJEuLYXDYO9J.html
28-07-2020||India||UP leads in setting up biogas plants||The government has issued 515 letters of intent so far for setting up compressed biogas (CBG) plants across the country with a bulk of them--126--in Uttar Pradesh, according to official data. The plants are being set up as part of efforts to reduce dependence on imported fuel and to check pollution from crop residue burning that exacerbates air quality crisis in the National Capital Region (NCR) every winter, officials said.According to the data cited above, 75 of these plants are being set up in Maharashtra, 59 in Haryana, 35 in Andhra Pradesh, 24 in Punjab, and seven in Delhi. Gujarat has got the go-ahead for setting up 32 plants, Karnataka 25, Madhya Pradesh 24, Assam two, Bihar 11, Odisha nine, Chhattisgarh 22, Rajasthan five, Goa two, Tamil Nadu 16, Telangana nine, Jammu & Kashmir two, Uttarakhand nine, Jharkhand seven and West Bengal (13). The estimated cost for the 515 plants is about Rs 18,000 crore.A petroleum ministry spokesperson said under the Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation scheme, 5,000 plants are expected to be set up by 2023. The plants have the potential of producing 15 million metric tonne CBG and to proportionately reduce India’s dependence on energy imports, the spokesperson added.Bio-mass sources such as agricultural residue, cattle dung, sugarcane press mud, municipal solid waste, and sewage treatment plant waste produce biogas through the process of anaerobic decomposition. The biogas is purified to remove hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, and water vapour to produce and compress CBG, which has more than 90% methane content, the (spokesperson?) said.“CBG has calorific value and other properties similar to compressed natural gas (CNG). Hence, it can be utilised as a green renewable automotive fuel. It can replace CNG in automotive, industrial, and commercial areas.”He said the move will also check pollution due to stubble burning. “Bio-mass surplus in India is about 150 million tonnes. From late September through October of each year, farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana burn an estimated 35 million tonnes of crop waste as a low-cost straw-disposal practice. CBG plants can curb this practice by giving additional income options to the farmers,” he said.The smoke from stubble burning to make way for winter crop sowing combines with vehicular and industrial pollution and triggers air quality crisis in New Delhi and surrounding areas.India imports nearly 83% of crude oil its processes. About 50% of its natural gas requirement is also imported. The government has set a target to reduce this import dependence by 10% over the next two years.Commercial sale of CBG from seven Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) outlets have started for the first time an alternative to natural gas. Two of these outlets are in Maharashtra (Pune and Kohlapur) while five others are in Tamil Nadu (two in Salem and one each in Namakkal, Rasipuram, and Puduchatram), the (spokesperson?) said.Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated one such plant at Namakkal last month. Speaking on the occasion, he said the government has been promoting biofuels including CBG to increase the green-energy mix, reduce import dependence, create employment, especially in semi-urban and rural areas, and reduce pollution. “Usage of CBG shall assist in achieving climate change goals of India as per the Paris Agreement 2015,” he said. He added the CBG project is aligned with flagship schemes like Swachh Bharat (clean India)’, Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and Make in India.The business is lucrative for entrepreneurs as state-run oil majors such as IOC and GAIL India take offtake guarantee to such plants. The government is also considering giving it a priority sector lending tag for easy and cheaper finance. It subsidies setting up of CBG projects, which could be availed up to 2020-21, the spokesperson said.According to Pradhan, the government is in the process of including bio-manure in the Fertilizer Control Order, 1985, to make the project more lucrative. Bio-manure is a key by-product of CBG plants. The move will make it easier for such plants to market bio-manure and provide an opportunity for organic farming.According to the oil ministry, 5,000 CBG plants are expected to produce 50 million metric tonnes of bio-manure.The spokesperson said countries like Germany, Italy, UK, France and Switzerland are promoting biogas usage. “The number of biogas plants in Germany has doubled to nearly 9,000 plants from 4,136 plants in 2010. The total biogas production capacity of the plants is 8.98 billion cubic meter, which is equivalent to 6.6 million metric tonnes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-leads-in-setting-up-biogas-plants/story-NHs5rpcWXWB3yvIPCkK7oL.html
28-07-2020||India||Artificial insemination of 50,000 animals across Himalayan state by May 2021, says state govt||Uttarakhand government is aiming to artificially inseminate 50,000 animals in each of the 13 districts of the state under the second phase of nationwide artificial insemination scheme. R Meenakshi Sundaram, secretary for animal husbandry on Monday said the second phase of the nationwide artificial insemination scheme will be conducted from August 1 to May 31 next year. “Under this, a target has been set to successfully breed 50,000 animals in each district. Sex graded semen of native cow and buffalo will be made available to the cattle rearers for Rs. 100,” the secretary told reporters. Sundaram added that the objective of the scheme is to improve the breed of the livestock and increase the number of animals of high genetic quality, which in turn will help in improving the livelihood of locals. The second phase of the nationwide artificial insemination scheme will be available free of cost in all the villages, dairies and private artificial insemination centres. “If the animal is not able to conceive in one time, then free artificial insemination facility will be provided for the second and third time also. For this process, semen of all types of native and exotic species of cows and buffaloes will be available. Each animal will be given an identification card like an Aadhaar which will have a marking of their identification tag and the details will be shared on a national level portal,” said Sundaram. As part of the process, each artificial insemination worker will be paid Rs 50 for each conception and Rs 100 rupees on the birth of an offspring. This year the state government aims to impregnate three lakh animals from sex classified semen of indigenous cow and buffaloes for which cattle rearers will have to pay Rs 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artificial-insemination-of-50-000-animals-across-himalayan-state-by-may-2021-says-state-govt/story-kfplZmRxJ1a7z7JDDBeutI.html
28-07-2020||India||Kulbhushan Jadhav case: New ordinance in Pakistan Parliament||The Pakistani government on Monday presented in Parliament an ordinance for approval to allow former Indian Navy commander Kulbhushan Jadhav, who is facing a death penalty for alleged espionage, to file a review petition against his sentence.The opposition opposed the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance when Prime Minister Imran Khan’s adviser Babar Awan presented it. The government defended it insisting that they were bound by the International Court of Justice (ICJ) ruling in July 2019 that ordered Pakistan to provide consular access to Jadhav and review his death sentence.The Opposition likened the proposed legislation to the National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO). Former military ruler Pervez Musharraf issued NRO in 2007 to granted amnesty to politicians, and bureaucrats facing cases. The country’s Supreme Court declared NRO unconstitutional in 2009.India on Thursday accused Pakistan of blocking all avenues for an effective review of the case and said it reserved its rights to avail of further remedies.The Pakistan government a day earlier petitioned the Islamabad high court to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav for filing the review petition against his death sentence. According to the petition, Jadhav has refused to file the petition. Jadhav cannot appoint a lawyer in Pakistan without India’s assistance, while New Delhi is also reluctant to avail the facility under the ordinance, the petition said.The government, in the petition, has asked the court to appoint a legal representative for Jadhav so that Pakistan can fulfil its responsibility to see to the implementation of the ICJ’s decision.India has said Pakistan has not provided documents related to the case and violated ICJ’s order.The Pakistani government promulgated the ordinance on May 20 to give foreign citizens convicted in the country the right to file review petitions in courts. The ordinance was aimed at complying with ICJ’s order for effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s conviction and sentencing by a Pakistani military court.In the absence of unhindered consular access to Jadhav and the documents, the Indian side tried, as a last resort, to file a review petition in Islamabad high court on July 18.Indian officials had walked out of a meeting with Jadhav on July 16 after Pakistan breached assurances about providing unimpeded consular access.Jadhav, 50, was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. In April 2017, Pakistan announced he had been sentenced to death by a military court.The ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan had violated Jadhav’s rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and stayed his execution while calling for an “effective review and reconsideration” of his sentence.India has rejected the allegations against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jadhav-case-new-ordinance-in-pak-parliament/story-3IijIZlgPvYPzGjdIt1bsJ.html
28-07-2020||India||Ex-BSP MLA says previous party’s whip won’t matter||Rajasthan legislator Rajendra Singh Gudha is one of the six MLAs that left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to join the Congress in September 2019. And after the BSP’s whip asking these leaders to vote against the Ashok Gehlot government in case of a floor test, he seems unperturbed. “This whip isn’t worth the paper it’s issued on,” he told HT over phone from Fairmont Hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur where MLAs backing Gehlot are camping. Gudha is no stranger to a situation like this. In the 2008 assembly polls, he first fought on a BSP ticket from Udaipurwati. Just like in 2018, the BSP won six seats back then, its best performance in the state. And just like what happened after the 2018 election results, all six BSP MLAs, including Gudha, joined the Congress in 2008. He was a Congress minister till 2013, when the party lost power to the BJP. Before the elections in 2018, he went back to the BSP after the Congress denied him ticket. “You should ask the BSP why they gave me a ticket again,” he said. “As far as the anti-defection laws go, you have to have 2/3rd of the party, but in this case we had the entire party leaving for the Congress. So what’s the problem?’’ he asked. His former BSP colleague, Murari Meena, who too quit the party to join the Congress in 2008, has a different point of view. That may also be because he is in the camp of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters, who have rebelled against Gehlot. Unlike Gudha, Meena did not go back to the BSP. “The BSP challenge is on a legally sound ground,” said Meena. “In 2008, the BSP merger challenge didn’t stand the scrutiny of the court because it was filed by an outsider. This time it has been challenged by an MLA.” Hours later, however, the Rajasthan high court dismissed the petition by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar, who questioned speaker CP Joshi’s alleged inaction over the merger of the BSP MLAs with the Congress last year. The BSP, too, moved the HC seeking to become a party in the petition. “The merger took place months ago. It is surprising why the BSP central leadership has woken up and realised the merger was illegal...The BSP and Mr Dilawar are both wrong,” said Sunil Fernandes, a lawyer who was part of the team representing the Congress party in the Supreme Court in a plea filed by the Rajasthan speaker.“The 10th Schedule permits the merger of the legislative party too. The contention that the BSP as a national party must merge with the INC [Indian National Congress] for BSP MLAs to merge with the INC is misconceived. The parent party may not merge but members of a legislative party have the right to merge with some other party under the 10th schedule [anti-defection laws] of the Constitution,” Fernandes said. He was countering the contention of senior BSP leader Satish Mishra, who, in a statement on Sunday night, said individual MLAs cannot merge unless there was a national level merger between the two parties. The BJP said the governor or the court should intervene in the matter. “A constitutional and legal situation has risen. Either the high court should decide or the governor should intervene...,” said Satish Poonia, the BJP incharge of Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-bsp-mla-says-previous-party-s-whip-won-t-matter/story-prbhEgiTLMrSn3u8cViRlM.html
28-07-2020||India||End delay in calling session, urges Congress||The Congress on Monday expressed hope that President Ram Nath Kovind would intervene and instruct Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra to immediately convene a session of the state assembly to enable chief minister Ashok Gehlot to prove his majority on the floor of the House. Addressing a virtual news conference, former Union finance minister P Chidambaram alleged that BJP-appointed governors have “violated the letter and spirit” of the Constitution and have in the process “gravely impaired” parliamentary democracy, its conventions and traditions. Three former Union law ministers, all from the Congress, Kapil Sibal, Salman Khurshid and Ashwani Kumar , wrote to Mishra, asserting that the delay in calling an assembly session would create a “constitutional crisis”. The Congress also staged nationwide protests outside Raj Bhawans, except in Rajasthan where party legislators held a prayer meeting demanding that the House be convened immediately. The comments and the letters came after Mishra sent back with queries, for the second time, a Cabinet note seeking an assembly session (this time from July 31). “I sincerely hope that the President will take note of what is happening — the erosion of parliamentary democracy, the erosion of the Constitution, the violation of the Constitution — and do what is right in the circumstances,” Chidambaram told reporters. He said if the chief minister, who is accused of not enjoying a majority, wants to prove it he is entitled to call a session at the earliest to do so. “No one can stand in his way. Placing any obstacle to calling the assembly session would undermine the fundamental basis of a parliamentary democracy,” the senior Congress leader said, alleging that the Rajasthan issue has assumed “dangerous and monstrous proportions”. In an interview with HT last week, Mishra said no was demanding that Gehlot prove his majority. However, given the ongoing court case concerning 19 Congress rebels led by Sachin Pilot, and the thin majority enjoyed by the government (101 in a house of 200, excluding the speaker and an indisposed lawmaker), the thinking within the Congress is that it is best if it proves its majority immediately -- a move that would also mean another vote of confidence cannot be asked for in the next six months. Chidambaram added that a majority government cannot be pulled down and the Congress will continue to resist any such attempt. He said the governor is bound by the Constitution to act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers in calling the assembly session. “It is settled law that the governor shall act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. The governor has no discretion — let me repeat, no discretion at all — in the matter. The questions that the governor had raised to stall the request were irrelevant and beyond his authority. His current stand that the law gives him a discretion to summon the assembly or not is a complete distortion of the law declared by the courts,” Chidambaram added. Congress leaders have accused Mishra of acting at the behest of the BJP-led central government. Asked if the Congress has lost all hope of bringing back Pilot and his supporters to the party fold, Chidambaram said: “I spoke to him many, many days ago. I have not spoken to him in the last 10 days or so, he has not called me either. It seems to me that he is embracing the BJP. In fact, he should be the first to stand up and say, please call the assembly session and then we will know which party he belongs to and what he will do”. Pilot has earlier denied speculations of joining the BJP. In their joint letter to the Rajasthan governor, the three senior Congress leaders and former law ministers said the governor’s office, as envisaged under the country’s constitutional scheme, is above and beyond the constraints and compulsions of partisan politics, “so that its holder can act freely and fairly to uphold the Constitution”. “Having served as Union Ministers of Law and Justice in different periods of time and as students of Constitutional law, we are of the clear view that established legal position obliges the Governor to call the assembly session in accordance with the advice of the state cabinet,” they added. “Any deviation from established constitutional position in the present circumstances would be an avoidable negation of your oath of office and will create a constitutional crisis,” the letter read. The BJP, however, said the Congress is targeting the governor to deflect attention from its internal fight. “The internal fight within the Congress party is the reason behind the political crisis in Rajasthan. Congress is known for misusing democracy and power. If Ashok Gehlot cannot handle power, he should resign,” BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao said, pointing to the number of state governments dismissed by Indira Gandhi when she was Prime Minister and head of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/end-delay-in-calling-session-urges-cong/story-VH9phSHxQrJrBgkQfrFJ3N.html
28-07-2020||India||Rajasthan assembly speaker withdraws Supreme Court plea over rebels’ disqualification||Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi on Monday withdrew his plea before the Supreme Court that challenged a July 21 order by the state high court directing him to defer action on disqualification notices sent to 19 dissident Congress lawmakers, including former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. On July 24, the Rajasthan HC passed a detailed order staying action by the speaker against the rebel Congress legislators while admitting the writ petition filed by the Pilot camp against the disqualification notices, senior counsel Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Joshi, told a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra.The speaker’s plea before the apex court against the July 21 order has, therefore, become infructuous (ineffective) due to the July 24 order, Sibal pointed out. “So kindly permit us to withdraw this plea,” he requested. The court allowed the same while granting the speaker the liberty to avail appropriate legal remedy against the HC order of July 24. This means Joshi can file a fresh petition challenging that ruling. “Kapil Sibal has submitted that the high court has passed a detailed order [on July 24] and the ad interim order passed [on July 21] has merged into the final interim order that has been passed by the high court [on July 24]. Thus, he wants to withdraw this petition with liberty to avail appropriate remedy as against the subsequent order. Accordingly, the special leave petition [SLP] is dismissed as withdrawn,” the bench, which also comprised Justice BR Gavai and Justice Krishna Murari, recorded. Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs moved the Rajasthan HC on July 15, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by Joshi. Subsequently, the high court on July 24 ordered status quo on the matter, admitted the writ petition by the Pilot camp and deferred its final verdict. Before that, on July 22, the speaker filed the SLP in the top court, challenging the HC’s July 21 order to defer disqualification proceedings. On July 23, the Supreme Court turned down the speaker’s request for a stay on that order and said it will hear the larger question of whether or not courts can interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by an assembly speaker against lawmakers even before a decision has been taken. The top court’s refusal to grant stay paved the way for the high court to pronounce its order on July 24. The HC will now examine in detail the legal issues involved and the petition is unlikely to come up for hearing anytime soon. The legal battle began after the Congress chief whip, Mahesh Joshi, filed a complaint before the speaker on July 14, seeking action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. Joshi, in his complaint, cited the absence of the MLAs from two Congress Legislature Party meetings, held on July 13 and 14, despite specific instructions. The rebels said Pilot never indicated any intention to leave the Congress party. In their petition filed in the HC, Pilot and the other MLAs submitted that were merely exercising their right to criticise party leadership and the functioning of the chief minister. The Pilot camp also challenged the validity of paragraph 2(1) (a) of the 10th Schedule, contending that the provision was very wide since even expression of opinion or views against party leadership are construed as defection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speaker-withdraws-sc-plea-over-rebels-disqualification/story-VrzloR0AF9fMFWAjXtezOP.html
28-07-2020||India||No respite for Assam, Bihar as floods worsen||Assam and Bihar continued to face a grim flood situation as rivers continued to remain in spate and floodwater entered new areas across the two states, bulletins from the state disaster management authorities said on Monday. The death toll in Assam has risen to 103 after another person died from drowning on Monday. In its bulletin, the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said the flood has hit over two million people in 22 of the state’s 33 districts. Goalpara continued to be the state’s worst-hit district with close to 462,000 people being affected by the flood, the bulletin said. It added that over 45,000 people, a majority of them from Goalpara, have been displaced and taking shelter in relief camps across 17 districts. According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, a number of rivers continued to overflow in the state. The Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger mark at Nematighat, Tezpur, Goalpara and Dhubri districts while the Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili and Beki rivers were also flowing above red mark, it said. The flood situation at the Kaziranga National Park has improved, with 80% of its area now being inundated as compared to 90% till last week, park authorities said. Of the 223 forest camps in the park, 62 are inundated. Over 130 animals, including 14 rhinos, have died in the flood, officials familiar with the matter said. In Bihar, floodwaters spread to new areas in the 11 affected districts, affecting one million more population, the state disaster management department said. The department in its bulletin said said a total of 2.4 million people have been hit by flood across 11 of 38 districts in Bihar, with Darbhanga being the worst-affected. The Patna Meteorological Centre has warned of more rain in the coming days. “Monsoon trough has reached close to the foothills of the Himalayas. Another north-south trough from Bihar to north Odisha is lying 1.5km above mean sea level. Under these mechanisms, northern districts of Bihar including Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj and Madhepura are very likely to receive heavy rain in the following days,” SK Patel, duty officer at the centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-respite-for-assam-bihar-as-floods-worsen/story-3IOzjiUfvf7m8EfP7qEaaL.html
28-07-2020||India||Governor clears assembly session, but sets 3 conditions for government||Governor Kalraj Mishra asked the Rajasthan government on Monday to initiate proceedings to convene an assembly session, even as he asked it for a fresh proposal addressing his three recommendations — a 21-day notice for the sitting of the House; live-streaming of floor test, if it happens; and ensuring social distancing in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. “If the government wants to win a vote of confidence, then it can become a reasonable ground for calling the assembly session on short notice. But it has to be said,” a Raj Bhavan statement said on Monday. The statement came in the backdrop of persistent demand by the ruling Congress to convene the House. Confident of its numbers in the assembly, the party is pushing for a floor test in the assembly in the wake of a power tussle between Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. The Congress accuses the governor of delaying the session due to pressure from the BJP-led central government — a charge that Mishra denies. Till late on Monday, the government did not officially respond to the governor’s concerns. Senior Congress leaders in Rajasthan, who held a discussion on the latest developments, said the three conditions could give more time to the state’s opposition BJP to try and get more MLAs on its side. On July 23, the Congress sent its first proposal to the governor for convening the session. A day later, Mishra asked the government to reply to his six-point questionnaire that raised issues such as why the session be should called at such a short notice and what preparations will be done in the wake of Covid-19. The Congress government sent a revised proposal the same day, reminding Mishra that he has to follow the aid and advice of the council of minister, but did not mention a trust vote. Monday’s Raj Bhavan statement said in such an extraordinary situation, it was not right to convene an urgent session and put the lives of 1,200 people— 1,000 assembly employees and 200 MLAs — in danger, a reference to the coronavirus pandemic. The governor said he had no problem if the session was called after a notice of 21 days, according to the statement. He also said discussions on important social and political issues could be done through online platforms. For conducting the trust vote in case one is moved, Mishra suggested that the proceedings be video-recorded and that the voting held though “yes” and “no” buttons. Congress leaders said a 21-day notice isn’t necessary and pointed out that in 2014, the third session of the 14th Rajasthan assembly was summoned on September 7 and the proceedings of the House began on September 15. “There have been umpteen instances when the assembly was called with a much shorter notice,” said Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi. A senior Congress functionary, who did not want to be named, ruled out the party going to court against the governor’s directions. “The governor would love to see us going to the court because then the issue of calling a session would get delayed…,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the governor had taken the right constitutional position. “In this Congress versus Congress fight, the governor and the BJP are being dragged unnecessarily,” he said. (with inputs from Aurangzeb Naqshbandi in Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guv-clears-assembly-session-but-sets-3-conditions-for-govt/story-RxRKu8Lrtm97I78cS8m1fN.html
28-07-2020||India||NIA quizzes CM’s former secy in Kerala gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday let off M Sivasankar, former secretary to the Kerala chief minister, after a nine-hour grilling session in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case. He was directed to appear before the agency again on Tuesday.This is the third round of questioning, after the customs department and a session by the NIA. A senior IAS officer considered close to the CM, he was suspended from service after his alleged association with one of the accused in the case, Swapna Suresh, was revealed.Sivasankar’s counsel S Rajeev said an intense media trail was on and many reports emerging these days were far from the truth. He said Sivasankar was cooperating fully with the probe team. The principal secretary was embroiled in controversy after the seizure of 30 kilograms of gold from a consignment that was addressed to an employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5.Following the seizure, there were reports that the CM’s office allegedly pressurised the customs to release the consignment. Sivasankar reportedly told investigators that although he knew some of them, he was not aware of their smuggling background. There are also reports that he was instrumental in appointing Suresh as the business development manager with the Kerala Information Technology Infrastructure Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-quizzes-cm-s-former-secy-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-4D8iAtIrL2kAeRKmw4rooK.html
28-07-2020||India||PM Cares a public fund, not intended to circumvent NDRF, govt tells Supreme Court||The central government on Monday dismissed concerns that PM Cares Fund is intended to circumvent National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), a statutory fund created under section 46 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005 (DM Act) for dealing with disasters.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan reserved its verdict.In a plea before the Supreme Court by NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) seeking transfer of contributions made to PM Cares Fund till date to NDRF, the centre’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that PM Cares Fund is a public charitable trust to which anyone can contribute.“Whatever amount that has to go to NDRF under the law will go (to NDRF). PM Cares is a public charitable trust. If private individuals want to donate, they can do so. There are several public charitable trusts getting donations”, Mehta maintained. NDRF is funded through budgetary allocations, the law officer pointed out. He was responding to the arguments of senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who claimed that PM Cares was a fraud on the Constitution and was intended to skirt the NDRF. The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.“See the objective of PM Cares. It is to be a dedicated national fund for distress situations such as Covid. This is a fraud upon Constitution. It’s a trust created to circumvent NDRF. It should be subjected to public scrutiny”, Dave, who was representing CPIL, said.He pointed out that PM Cares is not subject to audit by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) but by private auditors.“This government believes in transparency. Why should private auditors audit it (PM Cares)? NDRF under the DM (disaster management) Act is audited by CAG”, he argued.The petitioner claimed PM Cares was set up in violation of the legal mandate under the DM Act according to which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM-CARES Fund. All the contribution being made by individuals and institutions in relation to Covid-19 crisis are being credited into the PM CARES Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act”, the petition added.Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for an intervenor, pointed out that contributions made towards PM Cares come within the purview of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and corporates would, therefore, prefer making donations to PM Cares. The Companies Act of 2013 mandates that companies having net worth of at least Rs. 500 crore, or turnover of Rs. 1000 crore or more or a net profit of at least Rs. 5 crore during immediately preceding financial year have to spend at least 2 percent of their profits towards activities listed as CSR activities under schedule VII of the Act.“There are CSR benefits attached to this fund. Why will any person contribute to NDRF when they get so much relief under PM Cares?” Sibal askedIn its affidavit filed before the top court on July 8, the centre submitted that PM Cares is a fund established to carry out relief work and there are several such funds established on similar lines in the past.“Mere existence of a statutory fund (NDRF) would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM Cares Fund which provides for voluntary donations”, the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-a-public-fund-not-intended-to-circumvent-ndrf-govt-tells-top-court/story-tXoXFyCQ7uC01dzc9LIh8J.html
28-07-2020||India||Varavara’s family writes to Maha minister seeking updates on health||The family of veteran Telugu poet P Varavara Rao has approached state home minister, alleging lack of information on Rao’s health.The family, in its letter on Monday, said, “It is inhuman and unethical to withhold the information about Rao’s health to his anxious family. It is very clear that the jail authorities have regular updates about Mr. Rao’s health.”It has been alleged that when Rao’s daughter tried to contact the authorities at Nanavati hospital, she was told that the jail administration has been informed, but the jail authorities asked her to check with the hospital. “It is a mystery why this information is not passed on to the family by the jail authorities?,” the letter read.“Rao is an under-trial prisoner in your custody and the jail authorities have the responsibility to give us regular updates or instruct the Nanavati hospital to release regular health bulletins,” the letter read.They have requested the home minister to intervene and direct Taloja jail authorities or Nanavati Hospital to provide regular updates on Rao’s health, diagnosis of his health problems and line of treatment.The family had approached National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) over the issue on Friday.In a letter written to NHRC, Rao’s wife P Hemalatha and his daughters P Sahaja, P Anala and P Pavana, asked the commission to direct the state government and prison authorities to give periodic update on Rao’s health and share details of the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-s-family-writes-to-maha-minister-seeking-updates-on-health/story-yAaX9SnRBTzggJPjCDT9GM.html
28-07-2020||India||As Baghjan fire rages on, OIL sets July 30 deadline||The repair of an Oil India Limited (OIL)-operated well in Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia district which has been on fire since June 9, is down to a matter of replacing nuts and bolt-like studs and injecting a kill-fluid into the well, which is expected to be completed by July 30, a company spokesperson said Monday. New studs, fabricated at OIL’s Duliajan workshop, have been transferred to the site to replace those that were damaged and deformed in the blaze, a statement released by the company on Monday said. The blowout -- - an uncontrolled release of gas and oil condensate -- which occurred on May 27 has killed two firefighters, and caused a fire that has destroyed adjoining homes, injured three foreign experts examining the wellhead, and displaced at least 9000 people in the district, who have moved to relief camps.“While all other logistical requirements have been completed, two jobs, namely, capping the well and killing it, remain. To cap the well, we need to install the blow out preventer (BOP) on top of the wellhead,” said Tridiv Hazarika, OIL spokesperson. The wellhead has a mechanical device called a spool, which carries the weight of the blow out preventer (BOP).It was while removing one such damaged spool on July 22 that the foreign experts sustained injuries. “While inspecting the second spool which was not damaged, it was found that some studs, similar to nuts and bolts, were damaged. Without preparing the spool, removing the damaged studs and installing new studs, the BOP, which weighs around three tonnes, cannot be installed,” said Hazarika. A considerable amount of time was spent in removing the damaged studs, he added. “It is a precise operation and it needs to be done correctly as the spool will carry the weight of the BOP. If there is even the slightest fault, it will lead to severe problems. Hence, these tasks were done with extreme caution and they delayed our operation further,” Hazarika said. Once the BOP is installed, the process of killing the well would start. This would involve injecting a kill fluid, which is a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from the well back to the reservoir. “The length of the well is 3.5 km. So, it could take around 36-40 hours to fill the well with sludge and kill the well. Once the BOP is in place within the next two days, the killing operation would begin and the entire exercise should be over by July 30,” Hazarika said. There are 17 oil and five gas wells in the Baghjan oil field. The blowout took place in gas well no.5.Since the well is located close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, there were fears of environmental damage to the area due to the blowout and fire. Various assessment and impact studies of the blowout as well as the blaze in villages and nearby forest areas by multiple agencies such as ERM India, TERI, CSIR-NEIST and IIT-Guwahati are underway.Last month, National Green Tribunal ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife, and the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-baghjan-fire-rages-on-oil-sets-july-30-deadline/story-dlFo7j251wmYrcdmTilJkO.html
28-07-2020||India||Review CAPF recruitment rules: Delhi HC to govt||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to review the recruitment rules of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). The CAPF consists of seven forces -- Assam Rifles (AR), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Security Guard (NSG), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB)— that come under the authority of the MHA. The CAPF cadre officers have sought an amendment to the rules of recruitment and appealed that the vacancies of Senior Administrative Grade (SAG) should be filled by promotion and not by deputation of IPS officers. In several writ petitions filed since 2009, the officers have contested that that the salaries and perks of CAPFs’ cadre officers, who are directly recruited, should be at par with IPS officers. A bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon directed the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to immediately review the existing recruitment rules of each CAPF and place its decision in this regard before the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). “We find merit in the contention of the senior counsel/counsel for the petitioners, that during the Cadre Review, the Cadre Officers of CAPFs are also required to be compulsorily given an opportunity of hearing and be heard. Even if IPS Officers are occupying any posts in CAPFs, grant of opportunity of hearing to them is not the same as grant of opportunity to the Cadre Officers of CAPFs. It is only the Cadre Officers of CAPFs who have grievances qua stagnation, residency etc. and the IPS Officers, even if manning some posts in CAPFs, are not aggrieved therefrom,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-capf-recruitment-rules-hc-to-govt/story-vm9Kx1fSoDumi5GmIuFiNL.html
28-07-2020||India||RBI faced ‘intense pressure’ on liquidity: Former deputy governor||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was under “intense pressure” to open up “liquidity and credit taps” to prop up the economy, and its crackdown against non-performing borrowers was being “stayed”, the former deputy governor of India’s central bank Viral V Acharya has said in his book, giving new details on why he unexpectedly decided to quit his job while six months were still left in his tenure. In his book, “Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India”, published by SAGE Publications, Acharya argues that several policies “regressed” the economic environment while he was deputy governor between early January 2017 and mid-July 2019. “Capital was injected in weaker rather than healthier public sector banks; not much market capital was raised by any of these banks as originally envisaged; capital standards and PCA [prompt corrective action] framework were diluted; forbearance in loss recognition crept in again for some asset classes; and the resolution of several non-performing borrowers under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was stayed,” according to the book.At another point in the book, Acharya writes that RBI resisted and reasoned against such moves, and in the end, after some compromises, its earlier steps to restore financial stability prevailed. “There was no doubt a marked attrition in outcomes relative to our original objectives, but a complete degeneration into excessive monetary and credit stimulus that had caused the Indian financial sector to lose its stability in just the previous decade had been rendered difficult,” he wrote.This friction, he indicates in the book, led to the departure of then RBI governor Urjit Patel. “Nevertheless, attempts to alter the governance structure of the RBI to institutionalise such outcomes in future would have meant crossing the Rubicon and had to be foiled. As a result, the RBI lost its governor on the altar of financial stability,” Acharya wrote. The reference, while not naming Patel, ostensibly was to the resignation of Patel in December 2018.The finance ministry did not respond to an email query on this matter.His thoughts when he was coming to Mumbai in January 2017, he writes, were that “the Indian banking sector was sitting on one of the highest non-performing loans to assets ratio among the G20 countries and even among the group of emerging markets — a marked departure since its standing in 2009”.He writes that the banking sector stress in India tends to play out somewhat silently, just as in China where state-owned banks hold the majority of deposits and loans. “This is because government ownership rules out that depositors en masse ‘run’ on public sector banks even if bank borrowers default en masse, which some consider a positive backdrop for financial stability, unless and until the sovereign balance sheet solvency is itself considered to be on the brink.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-faced-intense-pressure-on-liquidity-former-deputy-guv/story-5FgZzTbtjSHcT1uDu5XBdP.html
28-07-2020||India||RBI chief pinpoints fiveshifts to shape economy||New Delhi: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday said five dynamic shifts -- fortunes shifting in favour of the farm sector, changing the energy mix in favour of renewable, leveraging information and communication technology (ICT) and startups, strengthening supply and value chains, and focusing on infrastructure as a growth multiplier -- have the potential to shape the future of the Indian economy.“They (the five factors) may escape our attention in this all-consuming engrossment with the [Covid-19] pandemic, but they could be nursing the potential to repair, to rebuild and to renew our tryst with developmental aspirations. These dynamic shifts have been taking place incipiently for some time,” Das told the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) via video conference.Commenting on the infrastructure as a growth driver, he said the infrastructure gap still remains large and there is a need for diversifying financing options. “Promotion of the corporate bond market, securitisation to enhance market-based solutions to the problem of stressed assets, and appropriate pricing and collection of user charges should continue to receive priority in policy attention,” he said.Das suggested that a big push to some targeted mega infrastructure projects could reignite the economy. “This could begin in the form of a north-south and east-west expressway together with high speed rail corridors, both of which would generate large forward and backward linkages,” he said.On agricultural transformation, Das suggested a change in policy focus from minimum support price (MSP). “Hitherto, the main instrument has been minimum support prices, but the experience has been that price incentives have been costly, inefficient and even distortive,” he said.He hoped that an efficient domestic supply chain will facilitate “domestic free trade” in agriculture that is triggered by three key policy changes -- the amendment of the Essential Commodities Act (ECA); the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance.With this enabling legislative framework, the focus must turn to crop diversification, food processing, agricultural exports, and public and private capital formation in the farm sector, he said. A similar opportunity now exists in the energy sector, especially renewable, Das said, adding that India is now a power surplus country, exporting electricity to neighbouring countries.The shift to greener energy would reduce the coal import bill, create employment opportunities, ensure sustained inflow of new investments and promote ecologically sustainable growth, he said, but added that reforming retail distribution of electricity while reducing commercial, technical and transmission losses remained a key challenge.Das described ICT and startups as key growth drivers. “The ICT revolution has placed India on the global map as a competent, reliable, and low-cost supplier of knowledge-based solutions,” he said. He said Covid-19 has impacted the outlook for startups, particularly the availability of funding due to the atmosphere of risk aversion. Regulatory uncertainty relating to work permits and immigration policies could also amplify challenges. The sector has to also deal with concerns relating to data privacy and data security, he added.“Promoting young firms and startups will be critical for greater employment generation and higher productivity-led economic growth in India,” he said.Das said this is the time to strengthen domestic and global supply chain. “Investment in sectors with strong forward and backward linkages in the supply chain can generate higher production, income and employment. Consequently, identification of such sectors becomes critical for strategic policy interventions,” he said.Global shifts in value chains in response to Covid-19 and other developments will create opportunities for India, he said. “Besides focusing on diversifying sources of imports, it may also be necessary to focus on greater strategic trade integration, including in the form of early completion of bilateral free trade agreements with the US, EU and UK.”DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at consultancy firm EY India said the RBI governor has invited India’s corporate sector to invest heavily in these five sectors that define an ongoing economic shift in the Indian economy.“First, in agriculture, the government’s new regulatory initiatives, including the creation of a genuine all-India market in agricultural products, will make returns to investment in agriculture more remunerative. Second, in the case of renewables, there is a clear scope for taking advantage of progressive cost reductions and substituting imports of solar panels from China by creating domestic capacity. Third, in the case ICT, the government’s initiatives for curbing Chinese technologies and applications opens up competitive space for Indian initiatives. Fourth, global supply chains are bound to be realigned in favour of India, and the private sector should invest extensively and take advantage of the space that is being opened up,” he said.Srivastava proposed another round of financial stimulus. “To finance public investment in infrastructure, government may consider another round of fiscal stimulus focused mainly on increasing government’s capital expenditure on infrastructure,” he said. The state governments may also be persuaded to borrow up to the enhanced limit of 5% of their respective gross state domestic product (GSDP) and the prerequite conditions for availing of this increased limit may also be relaxed”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-chief-pinpoints-fiveshifts-to-shape-economy/story-JP1LBwOZdNGbRzb52GDNUK.html
28-07-2020||India||France to donate 120 ventilators, 50k kits||France on Monday announced it will provide India with 120 ventilators and 50,000 test kits to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. The move coincided with the first five of 36 Rafale combat jets, ordered by New Delhi, flying out from a French airbase for the country. A team of French personnel, who are experts in inter-hospital transfers by military means, is also being sent to India. A French Air Force aircraft will fly in the equipment and personnel on Tuesday. The Airbus A330 MRTT aircraft is equipped with a “Morpheus” kit that enables the transport of critically-ill patients. The donation of the medical equipment and provision of technical expertise is in line with a recent announcement by President Emmanuel Macron, the French embassy said in a statement. The medical assistance package includes 50 Osiris-3 ventilators, which are portable and easy to use, and 70 Yuwell 830 ventilators with “bilevel positive airway pressure” (BiPAP mode), which are non-invasive hospital ventilators for mild Covid-19 patients. The Osiris ventilators are useful for emergency transport, intra-hospital transfer and recovery, and have different modes, including non-invasive ventilation. The Yuwell 830 ventilators use BiPAP to supply oxygen to lungs without intubation. France will also donate 50,000 high-quality serological IgG/IgM test kits and 50,000 nose and throat swabs and modes of medical transport. “As longstanding strategic partners, France and India are working together closely on the international response to the Covid-19 pandemic as well as providing reciprocal assistance according to the needs of the two countries,” the statement said. In a letter dated July 24, Macron thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for India’s support to France with medical supplies earlier this year. Macron wrote: “When France was going through a critical phase of this public health crisis earlier this spring, India was by our side. It played a very important role with regard to medicines. I wish to thank you once again for having authorised the export of medicines essential for the treatment of critically ill patients. This gesture reflected the exceptional nature of the partnership between our two countries.” He added, “India, in turn, is going through a difficult phase of the crisis. In these painful times for your nation, I desired France to stand fully by your side. To this end, I directed that we be able to respond to the needs identified by your administration by extending aid that is exceptional in its scope and modalities. “I believe that it is during tough times that historic ties are forged and strengthened between nations.” The announcement of the medical assistance coincided with the five Rafale jets leaving a French airbase for the 7,000-km journey to India with air-to-air refuelling and a stop en route in the United Arab Emirates. They are scheduled to reach India on July 29. France has completed the delivery of 10 jets on schedule, and five will stay back for a training mission. The delivery of all 36 jets will be completed by the end of 2021. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain will hand over the medical equipment to RK Jain, secretary general of the Indian Red Cross Society, on Tuesday. France had earlier extended financial support of 200 million euros to India through the French Development Agency (AFD) to boost social welfare systems and protect vulnerable people. The credit financing agreement was signed on June 22, with the programme designed by the World Bank already being rolled out. French companies have contributed more than six million euros (₹48 crore) to India’s national relief funds as part of their Covid-19 crisis response. Several companies have also supplied essential medical equipment and others are providing help to vulnerable sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-donate-120-ventilators-50k-kits/story-ioUyqqV1stYBGnd1ClTO6I.html
28-07-2020||India||PM launches three ICMR labs to boost testing capacity by 30k||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched three state-of-the-art high throughput Indian Council of Medical Research labs in Mumbai, Kolkata, and Noida to further ramp up the country’s daily Covid-19 testing capacity by 10,000. Speaking on the occasion, he said over 500,000 tests were being conducted in the country daily, and efforts were underway to increase the capacity to a million in the coming weeks.The tests are being conducted using both real-time reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and antigen-based testing. According to government data, at least 25% of the daily testing is antigen-based. It is quicker, cheaper, and easier to perform than the RT-PCR testing, which remains the gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19, experts say.Modi said more tests will assist early detection and treatment, and thereby help fight the virus spread. “These labs will not be limited to testing for Covid-19, but in future, will also be able to test for other diseases such as hepatitis B and C, HIV, dengue, tuberculosis among others,” said Modi while launching the labs. “Opening of these facilities will provide us the necessary strength required to scale up testing in states such as Maharashtra, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi. These are also cities with maximum economic activity so there is a larger movement of people. With the help of these facilities, our teams will be able to process a larger number of samples in one go.”Modi cited the government’s pre-emptive and proactive efforts and added it was due to these timely decisions that India is better placed as compared to other countries in terms of the Covid-related deaths.India’s recovery rate is also higher than in other countries and is improving on a daily basis. The total number of people who have recovered from the virus is about to reach a million.Modi said the Centre announced Rs 15,000 crore package at the beginning of this battle and that the country now has over 11,000 Covid-19 facilities and more than 1.1 million isolation beds. “While the country had only one Covid-19 testing centre in January, there are almost 1,300 such labs now.”Modi said from not having even a single personal protection equipment kit manufacturer as recently as six months ago, India now has over 1,200 manufacturers now, who are producing more than 500,000 such kits daily. “From being dependent on imports, now more than 3 lakh [300,000] N-95 masks are being produced in the country daily. The annual production capacity of ventilators has become 3 lakh [300,000] and there has also been a significant increase in the production of medical oxygen cylinders. This has not only helped save lives but has also converted India from an importer to an exporter.”Modi asked people to be careful during the coming festive season as chances of the virus spread are higher. “…till the time a vaccine is not developed, do gaz doori [distancing], wearing masks and hand sanitization are the tools at the disposal of the people to keep them safe.”Dr T Jacob John, a former virology department head at Vellore’s Christian College, said as the number of cases is rising, more samples need to be tested quickly. “High throughput facilities can test a large number of samples as compared to a normal testing machine that can run a limited number of samples in one go. It is important to get early results for appropriate diagnosis, tracing, and treating those who are infected so that the disease spread is controlled effectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-launches-three-icmr-labs-to-boost-testing-capacity-by-30k/story-m8nHacKmaqDjAg9RWYEhrJ.html
28-07-2020||India||Weekend lockdowns will not bring us results: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar spoke to Ramesh Vinayak and Hitender Rao about reviving the economy after the pandemic, the virus trajectory in Gurugram, and running a coalition government, among other issues. Edited excerpts: How is the economy shaping up post the lockdown? How good are revenue receipts and how much is your dependence on the market borrowings? April was bad for us. In fact, the revenue shortfall for April, May and June was about Rs 9,000 crore. We have tried to make up for it by borrowing from the market. Revenue started trickling in after the lockdown was relaxed and the collections were about 60% in June. By July 20, we have recovered well and are at par with our projections. We are now able to meet our routine expenses on our own. What budgetary cut are you contemplating in the revised estimates? It is quite understandable considering the deficit. The Rs 9,000 crore revenue shortfall would force us to recalibrate our outlay. How will the downturn in fiscal health impact the state’s development projects and welfare schemes? There will be no impact on welfare schemes, though our development projects have been delayed by three months. During the pandemic, we have spend an additional Rs 1,500 crore to give relief to people including Rs 600-650 crore cash distribution. This money was spent on the medical services, ration distribution, arranging return of migrant labour, and relief camps. In your role as finance minister, how do you plan to boost the economy during the pandemic?The central government package of Rs 20 lakh crore is a big relief. In the changing scenario due to the Covid-19 situation, I feel that the service sector will suffer but the manufacturing and agriculture sectors will do well.The central government has sought the views of the state and parents of students about reopening of schools. We will not open primary schools and will take a call for higher classes in August. Colleges and professional institutions would be the first to start. Projections show a rising coronavirus infection trajectory in the coming months. How do you plan to augment the health infrastructure including ventilator beds to meet any eventuality?See, what essentially matters is the number of active cases and not the cumulative numbers. How many patients have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic is important since such patients qualify for home isolation and takes pressure off our systems. As per our current projections and rate of recovery, we are doing well in terms of health infrastructure. But we keep reviewing it. The NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat have a majority of Covid-19 cases. Health minister Anil Vij hinted at the possibility of stricter curbs. Is a curfew or a selective lockdown on the cards?The weekend lockdowns will not bring us results. Things are slowly coming back on track and the imposition of a fresh lockdown would mean putting pressure on people. Our strategy instead is to go for aggressive containment in the NCR districts. We are screening more people and conducting more tests. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommended that NCR districts should follow Delhi’s model for combating the spread of the coronavirus. Do you see a need to work with Delhi since the increase in the number of cases in Gurugram has been attributed to the movement of people between the two cities? We, along with Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, are implementing a common strategy for combating the infection. Infection travelled to Haryana from Delhi initially, but now both states are at par in terms of contagion spread. Since there is so much back-and-forth movement from Delhi to Haryana, it is hard to conclude now on the origin of the contagion. Gurugram was kept in the orange zone despite a sharp rise in the number of cases to facilitate the reopening of the industry. What impact did the closure of businesses in the Millennium City have on the state’s revenue? How is the government planning to boost the local economy? We cannot overlook the adverse economic impact of three months. But if you look at the power consumption for the industry, it is at par with 2019. This means that the industry is operating at the same capacity as it was last year. Of course, there could be workforce engagement related issues because of the need to maintain social distancing. You recently spoke in Mewat about enacting a Freedom of Religion law to prohibit religious conversions by force, allurement or marriage. Why do you feel the need for such a law?There were complaints regarding forced conversions and marriages from many districts. People are free to adopt any religion in an informed manner but using coercion, allurement to force religious conversions is a matter of concern. Such incidents vitiate the atmosphere of society. We are studying similar laws enacted by other states and accordingly take a call. How has been your experience of running a coalition government so far? The BJP and Jannayak Janta Party have not been able decide on the common minimum programme. Any deadline? We are not new to coalition politics in the state. The BJP and the JJP both are like-minded entities, and both oppose the Congress. Common minimum programme is not a major issue because we do not have any conflict with our ally. We are well synchronized. The proposed 75 % private sector quota law is an example that we are on similar page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weekend-lockdowns-will-not-bring-us-results-haryana-cm/story-RxaEMOYAR4Kjad4MhsHnKN.html
28-07-2020||India||How the cold will alter the India-China power equation next month in Ladakh||On June 15 evening when the Indian Army troops clashed with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Galwan, the temperature of the river was close to zero (and below it in some places) and a large number of troops on both sides fatally succumbed to hypoxia (low oxygen levels because of the altitude) and hypothermia (excessive cold), people familiar with the matter said. According to Indian military commanders, this information is relevant because starting September, the weather will start taking a hand in Eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese troops are still locked in a stand-off as an uneasy truce between the two countries plays out. According to accounts given by the survivors of the clash, a large number of Chinese PLA troops came in an armoured personnel carrier and soon started dropping down due to lack of oxygen at 16000 feet when the fisticuffs began between the two armies. If lack of oxygen did not get them, then the frozen Galwan river did the job.While the Chinese PLA has not revealed the number of troops from III mechanized infantry of Xinjiang Military District that lost their lives in the clash, these are more, and not less than that suffered by the Indian side which loses 20 soldiers, the military commanders added, asking not to be named. Throughout the intervening night of June 15 and 16, two Chinese PLA helicopters carted the dead and injured to nearby hospitals or to hyperbaric chambers in depth areas.Although both sides decided to disengage after the Special Representative level dialogue on July 5, the exercise is long drawn out with winter ready to move into the theatre next month and firmly set in September in all the friction points. “ It is not the temperature that will kill but the wind which increases the chill factor. Add to this the rarefied atmosphere at Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and the weather takes a turn for the worse,” said a senior military commander.The military commanders said adverse weather conditions, including up to seven feet of snow, could put the Chinese at a disadvantage because its army in Akasi Chin is largely made of conscripts, who were drafted for a three month annual summer exercise in Tibet and Xinjiang in return for the state taking care of their future education. The PLA conscripts are used to moving on armoured carriers in contrast to their Indian counterparts who not only patrol on foot but live in the worst of weather conditions whether in Siachen or in Sikkim or in Thag La ridge in Tawang, the commanders added. The Indian Army has been fighting since 1984 in Siachen, Kashmir and North-east mountain theatre, the commanders pointed out. Even today, the Indian Army mans Indira Col west, the farthest point on Siachen Glacier, Sikkim finger area, Doklam, and posts in the mountain ridges in Arunachal Pradesh.The Indian Army has specialized in high altitude warfare and has the capacity to take on the enemy from the front as it proved during the 1999 Kargil war, where it fought from heights of Muskoh to Chorbat La in the Gilgit Baltistan area, the commanders said . As both India and China are fully deployed in Aksai Chin area and de-escalation is still some time away, the PLA will soon have to take a call on whether to end its aggression and restore status quo ante or be prepared to spend nights on Tibetan plateau where temperatures of 25 degrees below zero is normal, analysts said. Winter does not take toll on the troops alone but also on equipment with artillery barrels and engines freezing.The other issue that the PLA will also have to keep in mind is that the Indian Army is deployed all along the 3488 km long Line of Actual Control between the two countries, while the PLA is only deployed in selected places, the analysts added. This includes Sikkim, where the Indian Army surrounds the Chumbi Valley from three sides||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-will-add-new-twist-to-stand-off-from-september/story-Xs8fiZcdjpXnqFzZLRtRWK.html
28-07-2020||India||Rafale jets reaching Ambala airbase tomorrow to be game changer for IAF||India’s new Rafale fighters will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the air force and prove to be a game changer with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, people familiar with the aircraft’s capability said. The IAF’s Rafale jets will be armed with Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles — weapons that will allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap, said one of the officials cited above.The Meteor’s no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium range air-to-air missiles.The twin-engine fighter jet’s ‘payload fraction’ — its maximum take-off weight vis-a-vis its overall empty weight — is unmatched in aircraft of the same class, said a second official, who was associated with the Rafale project. “The Rafale’s empty weight is 10 tonnes and its maximum take-off weight is around 25 tonnes. Even transport aircraft don’t have that kind of payload fraction. The Rafale can carry a lot of weapons,” he said.The jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions — ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons and five tonnes of fuel. The fighter can easily switch from one role to another without compromising performance, said a third official.“The Rafale, by itself, is a very potent weapon platform but one must remember that modern wars are fought between systems. The jet has to be integrated into the IAF’s war fighting architecture — a task that the air force will certainly expedite but will require a finite time,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.When fully integrated, the Rafale would be an important part of the IAF’s offensive plans, Bahadur added. The active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar on the Rafale and its weapons package make it a formidable platform, said Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha (retd), a former IAF chief. “The Rafale will be a battle winner for the IAF and a huge morale booster at a time of military tensions with China. However, I feel the numbers are not adequate,” Raha said.He said the IAF should go in for more Rafale fighter jets as the order for 36 jets was not enough. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s decision to enter into a government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes was announced in April 2015 with the deal signed a little over a year later. This replaced the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by HAL using parts imported from France.The outcome of the dogfight with Pakistan Air Force on February 27, 2019, would have been vastly different if the IAF was equipped with Rafale jets then, said a fourth official who was involved in assessing that aerial combat.The dogfight took place a day after the IAF’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot in response to the Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) men were killed. India is looking at arming the Rafale fighter jets with an all-weather smart weapon of French origin that will allow combat pilots to engage ground targets from a standoff range of up to 60km. The IAF is likely to initiate the purchase of Hammer (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) using the emergency financial powers granted to the military by the government at a time of border tensions with China. The Rafale jets have been specially tailored for the IAF.India-specific enhancements on the jets include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases including Leh, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, helmet-mounted sight and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-to-be-a-game-changer-for-iaf/story-9JFbDz9rTmU8k9SK3k9RCP.html
