29-07-2020||India||Supreme Court slams IIT-B for backing out of smog tower project||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday took strong exception to Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay backing out of the proposal to construct smog towers in Delhi on an experimental basis to combat air pollution. A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra warned contempt of court action against IIT officials after solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the court that IIT Bombay had expressed unwillingness to take responsibility for the project and was proposing to back out.“How can they back out from a central government project after this court passed orders? Is it a child’s game? We will not tolerate this nonsense. We will draw contempt against them,” a livid justice Mishra remarked during the hearing of a case concerning air pollution in the national capital.The court during the last hearing, on July 21, had asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with IIT Bombay and Tata Projects Limited within seven days for installation of smog tower in Delhi.Tushar Mehta, however, told the court on Wednesday that the centre was exploring new options with National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and IIT Delhi since IIT Bombay had backed out but the court found the suggestion unacceptable.“We will proceed against IIT Bombay. I cannot tolerate this nonsense,” he said.The bench, which also comprised justices Vineet Saran and MR Shah, insisted Mehta talk to IIT officials and get back to the court with instructions within 15 minutes. Mehta, however, expressed his inability to obtain instructions at such a short notice and requested the court to grant time till Thursday.“How can I take instructions within 15 minutes? I don’t know anyone there (IIT Bombay),” Mehta replied.“We are not happy with IIT Bombay for violation of order of this court and for backing out,” the court said posting the case for Thursday, when IIT Bombay is expected to respond to the court.Calls to IIT Bombay’s public relations office went unanswered. Rising pollution levels in the national capital, despite various orders by the Supreme Court had incensed the apex court during a hearing on November 25, 2019. The court had then asked the CPCB and the states of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to take a concrete decision on installation and operation of smog towers to control pollution. It had also asked the Centre to constitute a high-level committee to study the use and feasibility of various technologies.The Centre constituted a high-level committee two days after that to examine and implement various technological options to arrest air pollution in the capital.The Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) had then proposed installation of smog towers as a pilot project in collaboration with IIT Bombay. Subsequently, the top court had on January 13 given green signal for the proposal and asked CPCB to install smog tower at Anand Vihar in east Delhi within three months. Another order was passed on February 28 to start work on smog towers and intimate the court about its status by March 6.The CPCB initiated various rounds of talks with IIT Bombay regarding the project and three versions of MoU were exchanged between CPCB and IIT. However, the talks bore no fruition, as IIT was not ready to take overall responsibility for the project including verification of works carried out by Tata Projects Limited (which was involved by IIT for construction, operation and maintenance of smog tower).The MoEF and the CPCB then filed an affidavit before the apex court on July 20 stating that the work on smog tower could not commence due to a deadlock with IIT regarding the finalization of the terms and conditions of the proposed MoU.The IIT was not willing to take up overall responsibility for the installation of the tower even though the project itself was conceptualised and developed by IIT in co-ordination with various other partners/ agencies, the CPCB said in its affidavit.Due to the same, the MoU has not been signed so far and ground work for installation of tower could not commence, it was submitted. The Supreme Court, however, refused to accept the stance by CPCB during the hearing on July 21 and ordered signing of MoU with IIT Bombay within seven days.Non-compliance with this order of July 21 on Wednesday incensed the bench, which said that if IIT Bombay had any issues, it should have informed the bench in January of the same and not after six months.“We will punish IIT Bombay. How can they back out after 6 months?” justice Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-slams-iit-b-for-backing-out-of-smog-tower-project/story-LuHxkKJPpOWY8HNrIyFPPJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Woman in MP’s Betul plotted murder of judge and family, arrested with 5 others: Police||Police in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh arrested six people including a woman on Wednesday for allegedly killing an additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) and his 33-year-old son and also attempting to kill the judge’s wife and another son by mixing poison in flour. The woman Sandhya Singh (45), who runs an NGO in Chhindwara district was the brain behind the crime and wanted to eliminate the judge and his entire family, police said. Besides Sandhya Singh, a resident of Rewa district, the others with whom she hatched the conspiracy for committing the crime include her driver Sanju Chandrawanshi, Devilal Chandrawanshi, Mubeen Khan, Kamal Singh and Baba alias Ramdayal who claims to be a sorcerer. All of them are residents of Chhindawara and have been arrested under sections 302, 328, 307 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code, said police. ADJ Mahendra Kumar Tripathi (56) and his two sons Abhiyanraj Tripathi (33) and Ashishraj (25) fell ill at his official residence at Betul, 175 kilometres south of Bhopal, on July 20 after eating dinner. They got some medical treatment for two days but when their condition deteriorated they were admitted to a local private hospital in Betul on July 23 where Ashishraj recovered while the condition of his father and brother deteriorated, police said. The judge and his elder son were referred to a private hospital in Nagpur on Saturday (July 25). Abhiyanraj was declared brought dead at Nagpur hospital the same day while Mahendra Tripathi died on Sunday morning, according to police. Betul police had already started an investigation after the judge and his sons were moved to hospital. The judge had told the police that their condition deteriorated after having chapaatis (bread). Since his wife Bhagya Tripathi did not eat the chapaatis she did not fall ill.Superintendent of police Simala Prasad said, “Sandhya Singh runs an NGO and came in contact with Mahendra Tripathi during his posting in Chhindwara 10 years ago. Later, ADJ Tripathi was transferred to Betul and Tripathi’s two sons- Abhiyan Raj, 33, and Ashish Raj, 25, and his wife Bhagya also shifted to Betul four months ago. When the judge’s family shifted to Betul, Sandhya was not able to meet Tripathi which led to altercations between the two. She also had a fight with Tripathi over investing some money.”“Due to continuous altercations, Sandhya decided to kill Tripathi and his whole family. Sandhya told Tripathi 15 days ago that Ramdayal Baba, the sorcerer from Chhindwara, would end all the problems he was facing in his personal life. On July 20, she gave wheat flour to Tripath and said it had a solution to all his problems so he and other members of his family should eat it together,” said Prasad. The SP said Ashishraj informed police on July 26 that while going to Nagpur his father had told him that Sandhya Singh had mixed something in the flour. “On July 27, we took a sample of the flour for a test which detected poison. When police arrested Sandhya, she confessed to having committed the crime and said Ramdayal had told her that he would mix poison in the flour and nobody would ever come to know about it,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-in-mp-s-betul-plotted-murder-of-judge-and-family-arrested-with-5-others-police/story-Pgwvcl0wEVY5eWb7zTszeN.html
29-07-2020||India||As an actor, one should open to all genres: Aparna Dixit||Actor Aparna Dixit , who resumed shooting of the show after three-month long lockdown in Mumbai recently, talked about her achievement, new opportunities and experience of working amid pandemic with safety and new normal. “I am thrilled to be part of a show that has reached its first milestone. It is an amazing feeling to see all your hard work being paid off. Completing hundred episodes and still going strong is an absolutely an achievement,” said Aparna over the phone. Sharing her feelings about working amid the Covid crisis, the young actor says, “Starting shooting for the show at a time when work in the industry is badly hit due to Covid-19 is a big relief for all of us associated with the show.” “When the corona started spreading none of us had any idea how shoots will be like. We are the first ones to go on floor for our show ‘Pyaar Ki Luka Chhupi,’ that completed hundred episode milestone, recently. When we went back for the shoot it was perplexing situation as we were apprehensive to go on the sets and at the same time happy to be back on work. Today, after over a month, it seems fine because each and every person around us is very cautious about health and hygiene. Also, we all follow guidelines of our channel, production team and staff are putting all efforts to make safety a topmost priority. Slowly, all production people and crews are settling down with this new normal.” Talking about her initial days, Aparna said, “I belong to Agra, and for college I went to Delhi University. It was in that phase when I was into a lot extracurricular activities like plays, dance performances and more. It was there someone spotted me and asked me to come for an audition in Delhi itself. I was a bit unconvincing that how is it possible, but it was too good to be true. Then I went to the place for auditions with my friends and gave it a try without much effort. Then I got a call back that I have been selected and it was an audition for the Balaji Productions. I reached Mumbai with my mother for the next round. Thankfully my parents were very supportive and asked me to give it a try. I strongly feel that god has carved my path.”Known for shows like ‘Mahabharata’ ‘Pavitra Rishta,’ ‘Kalash,’ ‘Porus,’ ‘Yeh Dil Sun Raha Hai,’ Aparna feels playing modern character is a bit difficult in comparison to others. She say, “I feel that as an actor one should be open to all genres because you cannot understand what it is that you are comfortable in until you try. Personally, I feel, in mythological as well as historical shows the characters are already set and we just have to get into it. But with contemporary serials you have to add a lot of emotions and experiences to the role.” Born and brought up in UP, Aparna, says the web platform has provided a lot of opportunities to all the actors be it big or small, “Actors who used to sit at home, with no work, have got more opportunities with web and OTT platforms. Also, it provides every one another way to display their talent. I think it’s a great thing that we are living in an era where we have a choice of mediums to work as performers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/as-an-actor-one-should-open-to-all-genres-aparna-dixit/story-Ezfffd0VUrynLMNnuqDc0K.html
29-07-2020||India||Rajasthan governor accepts Ashok Gehlot’s 4th proposal, assembly to meet from August 14||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday evening agreed to a new proposal sent by chief minister Ashok Gehlot government to convene the assembly session from August 14, ending the back-and-forth with the state cabinet over the session. The governor’s order came after the Gehlot government adapted its stand to reflect the governor’s views who had insisted on 21-day notice to legislators for the session.Governor Mishra had earlier in the day sent back the proposal to call the session from July 31, asking for concrete reasons to call a session on short notice at a time the coronavirus pandemic is raging across the country.Soon after the governor’s response, chief minister Ashok Gehlot – who is locked in a power tussle in the state with 19 Congress legislators including his former deputy Sachin Pilot -- met the governor for the second time in three days and called a cabinet meeting later in the evening.The governor said if the state government was not stating the reason for holding a short-notice session, it could call a regular session at 21 day’s notice.He asked the state cabinet to resubmit its proposal.Also Read: Speaker moves top court against HC on Sachin Pilot case, says it is judicial indisciplineThe Rajasthan cabinet had re-sent a proposal to hold a fresh assembly session to the governor on Tuesday, sticking to its July 31 date to convene the assembly. The proposal, however, did not detail any plan to hold a trust vote – which Congress strategists believe is the best move for the Gehlot-led government to prove majority and end political impasse in the state while the CM has the numbers. The Rajasthan crisis has seen an open tussle between Gehlot, who claims to have a majority in the house, and his now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and a set of rebel Congress legislators, who allege that Gehlot’s government is in a minority. Also Read: Convene the Rajasthan Assembly | HT EditorialWhile returning the earlier version of the proposal the Governor had suggested that the session can be called at short notice if the government says seeking a confidence vote is on the agenda.He repeated this on Wednesday, saying that under those circumstances calling a brief session at short notice was possible while maintaining social distance. “This can be a reasonable ground for calling a session at short notice,” Mishra said in the statement.Otherwise, he said, it would be better that the state government calls a regular session, like the monsoon session, at a 21-day notice. Before this, the governor had also advised live-streaming of the floor test, in case it was held, and asked about Covid-19-related precautions in the assembly.In the three-page press note from the Raj Bhawan, the Governor had earlier in the day said the government had not given clear replies to his previous queries.The Gehlot-led cabinet, which met on Tuesday, had said that governor Mishra did not have any locus standi in stipulating conditions to hold the session. The cabinet asked Mishra to abide by its proposal and claimed the failure to do so would be unconstitutional.The governor has now asked the Gehlot government to resubmit the proposal giving a “solid reason” to call a session at short notice. The cabinet should also make it clear why the sitting is being summoned without much notice under the present adverse circumstances, Mishra said in a reference to the Covid-19 pandemic.Addressing Congress workers at the party office in Jaipur before heading to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, the chief minister said: “The love letter has already come. Now, I am only going to have tea with him.”The CM then assured party workers there is nothing to worry and that “the high command is with you all”.“For the first time in history, sit-in protests were staged across the country outside Raj Bhavans. The Speak Up Democracy campaign was successful and it will continue. After the campaign the workers are enthused and a message conveyed in the public,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-accepts-4th-gehlot-proposal-approves-assembly-session-from-august-14/story-Vr7F8MuduFNbkhTDa9yiFI.html
29-07-2020||India||105-year-old woman in Kerala beats Covid-19 in nine days||A 105-year-old woman in south Kerala’s Kollam beat the odds of high mortality rate among elderly population to recover from Covid-19 on Wednesday giving much hope to the overworked medical fraternity in the state and the infected as well. Kollam medical college superintendent Dr Habeeb Naseem said the woman had tested positive on July 20 and was admitted to the hospital with breathing difficulties and persistent cough. A medical board was constituted and it monitored her health parameters regularly, he said.“A pillar of strength, she followed all our directives in letter and spirit. Within one week she tested negative. We did another test on Wednesday before discharging her. People who resort to extreme steps after testing positive will have to learn a lot from her,” said the superintendent. He said she was administered a symptomatic treatment. She was given a warm send off at the hospital. State health minister K K Shailaja congratulated the medical team which treated her back to life. “It is another example of our hard work and dedication. The medical team deserves much praise,” she said. “It is another feather in Kerala’s cap. It is really a medical wonder.” Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The woman is believed to be the third oldest person to recover form Covid-19 after a 107-year-old Dutch woman and a 106-year-old Delhi man. Two month ago an elderly couple from Pathanamthitta in central Kerala, 94-year-old K Thomas and his 88-year-old wife Mariyamma, had also recovered from Covid-19. Their recovery was much lauded. Meanwhile, Kerala reported 903 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday taking its tally to 21,799. The death toll mounted to 70 with two casualties during the day.There are now 10,057 active cases in the state and while recovered 11,374. As locally-transmitted cases mounted the government has decided to increase the number of tests. In the state it took more than five months to reach 10,000 cases, but it took just 12 days to cross 20,000 mark. The capital Thiruvananthapuram which is the worst affected has been under lock down for more than 20 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/105-year-old-woman-in-kerala-beats-covid-19-in-nine-days/story-9vkjWy86FxlyrYlvyi11GI.html
29-07-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot’s faceoff with governor ends, Rajasthan assembly to meet on August 14||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra has finally given a go ahead to state government’s proposal to convene a session of the legislative assembly from August 14 after having rejected three earlier proposals citing technicalities.The nod comes after the state government led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot decided to send a one line revised proposal altering the date of convening session to August 14 from the earlier proposed date of July 31, meeting a key requirement of 21-day prior notice as mentioned by Mishra on several occasions.“We have again sent a proposal to Governor Kalraj Mishra seeking to convene the Assembly session. We hope that the Governor will accept the proposal this time and announce the date to begin the session soon,” Pratap Khachariyawas, a minister in the Gehlot government, was quoted as saying by a news agency.Also Read: Rajasthan Speaker moves SC on high court hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea, says it is judicial indisciplineThis marks the culmination of a prolonged stand-off between the government and governor on the issue which began with Mishra returning the first proposal sent by the government to call an assembly session on July 23.The Rajasthan governor had since then held his ground and cited a few requirements for calling a session—21-day advance notice, stating the purpose of calling the session, maintenance of social distancing norms and recording of floor test proceedings, if it is held. Also Read: PIL filed in Rajasthan HC against Guv’s decision to not convene Assembly sessionThe Gehlot government had been insisting that issues such as seating arrangements for maintenance of social distancing and legislative business were in the domain of assembly speaker and house business committee respectively and the governor had little legal room to press for any definite commitment on those aspects.Mishra had asked Gehlot to specifically mention that his government wants to bring a trust motion in the house if he wanted an assembly session to be convened at a short notice.The Rajasthan government is in turmoil after the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and his 18 followers, all Congress MLAs. Gehlot has been insisting that his government still has the majority support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-kalraj-mishra-finally-agrees-to-convene-assembly-session-from-14-august-at-ashok-gehlot-s-government-s-request/story-fw1oDsiGkOabG47mdB0rHM.html
29-07-2020||India||Railways puts freeze on new projects this year to rationalise costs||In a bid to rationalise its expenses in the wake of the economic slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Indian Railways plans to put on hold infrastructure projects sanctioned in the current financial year other than those related to safety work, according to a Railway Board order.The railway ministry has clarified that the order, which has been reviewed by HT, will not affect any ongoing vital infrastructure projects of the railways.In a communication sent to all zones and public sector undertakings (PSU) on Tuesday, the board said projects that were previously approved but have made insignificant progress “shall be kept frozen till further orders except those which are essentially required for safe running of trains”.The national carrier has estimated a financial loss of around Rs 40,000 crore in its passenger segment due to suspension of regular passenger trains since March 22.“In pursuance of Ministry of Finance’s Office Memorandum No.42(02)/PFC-1/2014 dated 04.06.2020 on the subject and in view of the circumstances prevailing in the current financial year, following decisions have been taken by Board: New works/ Umbrella works included in Pink Book 2020-21 shall be kept in abeyance. However, those works which impact the safe running of trains and are considered essential and inescapable may be considered for sanction,” the board’s order said.Unutilized projects identified as ‘umbrella works’ of 2018-19 and 2019-20, if any, may be suspended, the order added. Umbrella works refer to projects that have been sanctioned combining similar work at different locations.The board has instructed zonal railways to review all projects already approved by them.“Exemption for sanction of works which are considered essential and inescapable will be obtained from the ministry of finance,” the order added.The order issued by the railway board refers to a directive issued by the finance ministry in June on government spending in the year.“It may be appreciated that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is an unprecedented demand on public financial resources, and a need to use resources prudently in accordance with emerging and changing priorities. However, many new proposals for in-principle approval are being received from ministries/departments,” the directive said.“No new proposal for a scheme/ sub-scheme, whether under delegated powers to Administrative Ministry including Standing Finance Committee proposals or through Expenditure Finance Committee should be initiated this year (FY 2020-21)except the proposals announced under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Package, Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package and any other special package announcement,” it said, adding that in-principle approval for such schemes will not be given in this financial year.The initiation of new schemes already approved in FY 2020-21 will remain suspended for one year till 31 March 2021 or till further orders, it added.“This means all new and existing works across railway units are basically halted as they don’t come under safety of train operations and are neither essential nor inescapable,” a railway official explained.When contacted by HT, a spokesperson for the railways ministry said it has to abide by the instructions of the finance ministry, adding sufficient resources exist and have been provisioned for to ensure that wheels of progress and modernisation continue to move at rapid speed. “The order is not going to impact any of any vital infrastructure projects of Railways. It is not going to impact our mission of 100% electrification of routes, doubling tracks , any of railway high speed corridors or DFCCIL, vital signalling projects , projects to launch new modern trains / locomotives, passenger amenities or any project to enhance safety. It may be noted that there is no capital expenditure reduction for infra works and full capex will be utilised,” he said.Railways, earlier this month, sent detailed orders announcing several cost-cutting measures. The Railway Board had all zones to review contracts and manpower requirements to curtail expenditure.“It is understandable. As it is, Indian railways had one of the most alarming operating ratios. So with Covid happening, they ended up incurring massive losses. Also, they incurred losses while transporting people to their home states during lockdown. However, Rs 40,000 crore loss is very large by any standard. So it is prudent to start cutting on expenditure that can be reduced,” said Jaijit Bhattacharya, president of the Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research (CDEP), a think tank.Railway Board chairman VK Yadav on Tuesday said the railway ministry aims to make up for the losses in the passenger segment through freight revenue. Freight traffic on July 27 was marginally more than that on the same day last year “in spite of Covid-19 related challenges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-puts-freeze-on-new-projects-this-year-to-rationalise-costs/story-khomScQluj7IrcelcWadcN.html
29-07-2020||India||Delete ‘secular’, ‘socialist’ words from the Constitution: Plea in Supreme Court||A petition in the Supreme Court (SC) has triggered a legal debate on whether citizens of India can be compelled to be secular, when the Constitution permits them the right to practice, profess and propagate their own religion under Article 25. The petition has sought deletion of the words “secular” and “socialist” from the Preamble of the Constitution, inserted in 1976 by the 42nd Constitution Amendment passed by Parliament. The three petitioners – two advocates and a social worker – who moved a common petition claimed that they intend to launch a political party. One of the conditions to register a political party with the Election Commission of India (ECI) requires them to compulsorily follow principles of socialism and secularism. This was added to Section 29-A (5) of the Representation of People Act, 1951, by an amendment in 1989. The petitioners – Balram Singh, Karunesh Kumar Shukla, Pravesh Kumar – have challenged the validity of this law and have also sought ECI and the Central government to respond to their petition. Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, who filed the petition, told HT, “In a democratic setup, the citizens cannot be bound to accept a particular ideology and the application of the ideology depends on the will of the people to be reflected through votes from time to time. In this case, the petitioners have said that ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’ concepts are political thoughts and seen in the light of right to practice religion (Article 25), right to free speech (Article 19(1)(a)), and these principles are against the principle of democracy.” The petition further argues that the original Constitution makers deliberately chose to keep these concepts out of the Preamble. On November 15, 1948, Professor KT Shah had proposed adding the words “Secular, Federal and Socialist Nation”, but the Constituent Assembly (CA) had rejected it after a lengthy discussion. Again, on November 25, 1948, a second amendment was introduced and discussed on incorporating the word ‘secular’ in the draft Constitution. That, too, was rejected. On December 3 that same year, a third attempt was made to include ‘secular’ in the Article 18 of the Constitution, which was also dismissed by the CA. The petition demanded the top court to examine that given this position, how could Parliament go against the solemn declaration by the CA, and modify or add ‘secular’ and ‘socialist’ words to the text of the Preamble by way of an amendment in 1976. The plea tries to examine the roots of secularism and socialism as a concept prevailing across the globe and dubs them as a “political thought” which has little relevance for the country. It states that the historical and cultural theme of Bharat is based on the concept of “Dharma”, which is different from the concept of religion and the communist theory of state cannot be applied to the Indian context. Going by the prevailing foreign concept of secularism, where state/government has no religion, the petition cited examples of how in India, state grants aid to minority religious institutions, enacts law relation to pilgrimages outside the country, has power to make laws related to charitable and religious endowment and religious institutions falling in Item 28 of the Concurrent List and has power under Article 25(2) to make law regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or other secular activity associated with religious practice. “In view of the fact that states have power to indulge in religious matters, though in limited sense, and can give grant to religious minorities, the state as a political entity cannot be a secular republic in strict sense,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delete-secular-socialist-words-from-the-constitution-plea-in-supreme-court/story-5JXAm1ml4eYKlYjCZRFJNM.html
29-07-2020||India||Local BJP leader found dead in Bengal, second in a month||A local leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party was found dead near his house at East Midnapore district in south Bengal on Wednesday. He was found hanging from a tree around 3 pm , police said. Even though BJP leaders alleged that Purnachandra Das, 44, was murdered by the ruling Trinamool Congress, TMC has refuted such allegations saying that he died by suicide. “There was a feud going on with our neighbours. He went out today to attend a meeting which was scheduled around 4 pm to find a solution to the problem. Around 3 pm his body was found hanging from a tree a few hundred metres away from the house,” said Subimal Das, the victim’s brother. Anup Chakraborty, a local BJP leader alleged that Das was murdered by the TMC who are hand in glove with his neighbours. “We are sure the TMC is associated with this. He was murdered and then his body was hanged to pass it off as a suicide,” Chakraborty added. Akhil Giri, TMC lawmaker from Ramnagar said: “Our party is not involved in this. He seems to have committed suicide because of depression. A legal tussle was going on between Das and his neighbour. The BJP is just trying to politicize it.” Police said that they are waiting for the post mortem report and investigation is on. Earlier this month, Debendra Nath Roy, a BJP legislator from north Dinajpur district in north Bengal was found dead near his house. His body was found hanging. Even though the BJP and his family members had alleged he was murdered and demanded a CBI enquiry, police said that he committed suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-bjp-leader-found-dead-in-bengal-second-in-a-month/story-n02cKNgt1ODP4KZO50nLwN.html
29-07-2020||India||Congrats for Rafale, tweets Rahul Gandhi to IAF; fires 3 questions at Centre||Rahul Gandhi, who had unsuccessfully centered the Congress campaign against the BJP in the 2019 elections around the deal to buy 36 Rafale fighter jets, on Wednesday tweeted his congratulations to the Indian Air Force after the first batch of the combat aircraft landed at the IAF’s Ambala air base.Gandhi then took aim at the BJP-led government and fired three questions at the Centre to revive his campaign pitch that alleged irregularities in the deal to buy the 36 jets from French company Dassault Aviation.The Congress had also tweeted a congratulatory note to the IAF a few hours earlier. That one went ahead to claim credit for zeroing in on the Rafale fighter in 2012. It has finally borne fruit, the Congress had tweeted before going on to accuse the government of buying the jets in an overpriced deal.Also read: Moments after Rafale fighter jets land, Rajnath Singh’s veiled warning to ChinaThe Congress claimed that the deal that was struck by the Manmohan Singh government was in power would have ensured that the Indian Air Force receives 126 fighter jets instead of 36 aircraft. The stark difference between the Congress and BJP deal reveals the BJP’s scam,” the Congress handle said in a post.“Congratulations to IAF for Rafale. Meanwhile, can GOI answer: 1) Why each aircraft costs Rs 1670 Crores instead of Rs 526 Crores? 2) Why 36 aircraft were bought instead of 126? 3) Why was bankrupt Anil given a Rs 30,000 Crores contract instead of HAL?” Gandhi said in a tweet, reiterating the allegations that had formed the crux of his campaign against PM Modi’s re-election in 2019.Congratulations to IAF for Rafale.Meanwhile, can GOI answer:1) Why each aircraft costs ₹1670 Crores instead of ₹526 Crores?2) Why 36 aircraft were bought instead of 126?3) Why was bankrupt Anil given a ₹30,000 Crores contract instead of HAL?Also read | ‘Rafale deal still hurting BJP’: Rahul Gandhi during Maharashtra poll rallyBut his campaign themed around these allegations of irregularities and his “chowkidar chor hai” slogan directed at PM Modi had backfired in 2019. Gandhi, 50, had resigned from the leadership role of the Congress soon after the election results were announced and since then, rarely spoken of the Rafale deal.Wednesday was an exception, possibly given the hype around the first batch of the planes that reached Ambala air base. Gandhi’s congratulatory note to the IAF, however, is also designed to underscore that he did not question the decision of buying the Rafale jets - it was a Congress government which has selected it - but only the terms of the deal.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had earlier in the evening alluded to the political campaign around the deal to praise Prime Minister Narendra Modi for going ahead with the deal. “The Rafale jets were purchased when they fully met the operational requirements of the IAF. The baseless allegations against this procurement have already been answered and settled,” Rajnath Singh tweeted.The NDA government’s decision to buy 36 Rafales was announced in April 2015, with the deal signed a little more than a year later. This replaced the previous United Progressive Alliance’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited using parts imported from France. A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit tabled in February last year concluded that the new deal was 2.86% cheaper than the price negotiated by the UPA government. It did not disclose pricing details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congrats-for-rafale-tweets-rahul-gandhi-to-iaf-fires-3-questions-at-centre/story-XCoYlUVeOPqnUZadNNGkuO.html
29-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 4 lakh mark with 9,211 new cases||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the four-lakh mark on Wednesday with the addition of 9,211 new cases, the health department said.The state’s tally now stands at 4,00,651. It continues to be the state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Out of the new cases, 1,109 were from Mumbai where the numbers rose by 400 from Tuesday’s low of 700 cases. Mumbai’s Covid-19 tally is now 1,11,991.Maharashtra now has 1,46,129 active cases of Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.There were 298 casualties across the state taking the death toll to 14,463. Sixty of the casualties were in Mumbai where the death toll now stands at 6,247.The number of patients who have recovered rose to 2,39,755 after 7,478 patients were discharged during the day.The health department said a total of 20,16,234 people have been tested so far in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-4-lakh-mark-with-9-211-new-cases/story-1n82NOBqZhd7M9iVMuzKCN.html
29-07-2020||India||Independence Day functions can be held with social distancing and wearing masks||The Union home ministry has allowed holding of Independence Day functions on August 15 with observation of health protocols like social distancing and wearing of masks through an order issued on Wednesday evening, containing guidelines for Unlock 3 phase that will come into effect from August 1.“Independence day functions at National, State, District, Sub-Division, Municipal and Panchayat levels and ‘At Home’ functions, wherever held, will be allowed with social distancing and by following other health protocols e.g. wearing of masks,” the order states.The order signed by the home secretary and released under Disaster Management Act on directions of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) says instructions issued by the ministry of home affairs on July 21 should be followed in this regard. On July 21, the Union home ministry had sent out a detailed guideline for Independence Day celebrations to chief secretaries of all states and UTs outlining the precautions to be observed on the occasion. Also Read: Covid Unlock 3: Yoga institutes and gyms allowed to operate from August 5“Every year, Independence Day is celebrated with grandeur, gaiety, fervour and enthusiasm. This year also, Independence Day will be celebrated in a manner befitting the occasion. However, in view of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, while organizing various programmes or activities for the Independence Day celebrations, it is imperative to follow certain preventive measures such as maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks, proper sanitization, avoiding large congregations, protecting vulnerable persons, etc.; and following all guidelines related to Covid-19 issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” the letter had stated.The letter also pointed out that the marquee ceremony at the Red Fort will take place but with a curtailed programme.“The ceremony at the Red Fort consisting of the presentation of a Guard of Honour by the Armed Forces and the Delhi Police to the Prime Minister (Pradhan Mantri), unfurling of the National Flag accompanied by playing of the National Anthem and firing of 21-gun salute, speech by the Prime Minister, singing of the National Anthem immediately after PM’s speech and release of tri-coloured balloons at the end.” The order said.The order also stated that an “At Home” reception will be held at Rashtrapati Bhawan on the occasion.At the state level, the order allowed unfurling of the national flag by the chief ministers after 9 am, accompanied by the playing of the national anthem, presentation of guard of honour by state police including paramilitary forces, home guards, NCC, scouts etc, speech by the chief minister and singing of the national anthem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-functions-can-be-held-with-social-distancing-and-wearing-masks/story-veifAeJMyniMWJduJP6aKM.html
29-07-2020||India||Restrict internet speed to 2G, orders J&K govt, day after media reports said L-G pushed for 4G services||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has decided to continue the curb on Internet speed across the Union Territory in an order released on Wednesday that says that internet speed shall be restricted to 2G only and available on post-paid sim cards. The development comes a day after the Central government told the Supreme Court that it will verify media reports that claimed Jammu & Kashmir’s lieutenant governor, G C Murmu, is in favour of restoration of high-speed 4G internet services in the Union Territory.Internet access across the Union Territory of J&K shall be made available; however, internet speed shall be restricted to 2G only and post-paid sim card holders shall be provided with access to internet: Jammu & Kashmir Government pic.twitter.com/5Oy55DeF4sThe internet restrictions are in place in the union territory since last year in August, when the erstwhile state’s special status was revoked through abrogation of Article 370 and its bifurcation into two union territories. Since then, centre has allowed some relaxations but has refused to restore 4G services saying the situation was not conducive. Orders were passed by the J&K authorities on March 4, 17 and 26 restricting internet speed for mobile data services to 2G.Earlier this month, the union government had told Supreme Court that a special committee constituted as per the Court’s order to review internet restrictions in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) has decided against any further relaxation for the time being.Centre had filed an affidavit referring to the committee considering all aspects of the matter, including terrorist related incidents in J&K, in its meeting held on June 10 before deciding to continue with the restrictions on 4G mobile internet. “Ultimately, based on wide-ranging assessment of the prevailing situation in this sensitive region, the committee arrived at a decision that no further relaxation on restrictions on internet services, including 4G services, could be carried out at present. It was also decided that the next review of the committee would be carried out in two months”, the affidavit had said. The top court has been petitioned by NGOs and media professionals, who have alleged that the Centre is not following the apex court’s directions to periodically review restrictions on internet in the union territory.The petitioners have claimed that patients, doctors, and general public of J&K were unable to access latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid- 19 because of the restrictions on mobile internet speed. They also argue that slow internet speed makes accessing of telemedicine (diagnosis and treatment of patients by means of telecommunication) or online video consultation impossible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restrict-internet-speed-to-2g-orders-j-k-govt-day-after-media-reports-said-l-g-pushed-for-4g-services/story-3Q7CNUvl1hXCTSFFzrxovL.html
29-07-2020||India||HD Kumaraswamy’s Rajasthan comment sparks Twitter war with Congress||Karnataka Congress party and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy exchanged barbs on social media a day after the former CM hit out at the national party saying it was synonymous with horse-trading. The Karnataka Congress’s official Twitter handle attacked Kumaraswamy for his remarks on the Rajasthan crisis saying “Have you become so innocent that you don’ t know the difference between a party’s MLA’s voluntarily joining another party and them being pressurized using constitutional bodies under operation Kamala?”Operation Kamala refers to an alleged BJP plan under which opposition party MLAs were lured to join the party.The remarks came a day after Kumaraswamy commenting on the Rajasthan crisis where the Congress has accused the BJP of trying to topple its government, said that his erstwhile partner was the progenitor of horse-trading and it had tried to break the JD(S) in the past.The Karnataka Congress also went onto attack Kumaraswamy asking “When you formed a coalition with us and sat on the CM’s chair using our support, was Congress’s morals alright? When you don’t have power you have suddenly remembered all of this. When the state is facing difficulties, a party which is both invisible and irrelevant, what moral right do you have to comment on us.”Kumaraswamy too hit back with a series of ten tweets. Hinting at Siddaramiah, he accused senior leaders of Congress unable to respond directly to him were using the party’s handle to fire at him. Asserting that it was Congress that came to him desperately seeking an alliance, he said he accepted it only to work for the welfare of farmers.“You have accused me of being invisible and irrelevant. In how many states of the country is Congress visible and relevant? There is only a fine line in the so-called ‘voluntary’ joining of MLAs to Congress and Operation Kamala. Congress sadly has fallen to such a low level. This is the reason for the current pathetic condition of Congress,” he said in one of his tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hd-kumaraswamy-s-rajasthan-comment-sparks-twitter-war-with-congress/story-VRpkuT0ynLzp0Mk1ZmsIeP.html
29-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Speaker moves SC on high court hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea, says it is judicial indiscipline||Rajasthan Joshi’s petition argued that the high court, which agreed to examine the constitutional validity of a provision in the anti-defection law, amounted to “gross judicial indiscipline and judicial impropriety” since a Constitution Bench of the top court had already given its ruling way back in 1992. The high court, Joshi argued, could not act as a appellate court over the correctness of the decision by the top court.Joshi also cited verdicts by the top court to argue that there was “no question” of the high court entertaining the joint petition filed by 19 Congress lawmakers led by Sachin Pilot because only the “final decision of the speaker is amenable to judicial review on limited grounds”.The high court had, however, stopped speaker CP Joshi from taking any action on the disqualification notices that he had issued to the 19 lawmakers on a complaint from the Congress. The Congress had invoked the anti-defection law to question the conduct of the rebel lawmakers and asked the speaker to disqualify them. The rebels, who were given three days to respond, however, rushed to the high court which stayed proceedings.The legal battle in Jaipur and national capital Delhi is the fallout of a rebellion by about 18 lawmakers led by Pilot against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The Congress appeared to have outsmarted the rebels about a fortnight back when it moved for their disqualification. If speaker CP Joshi concurs with the ruling Congress in Rajasthan, the strength of the assembly would have declined, lowering the majority mark. This move, however, didn’t succeed due to the high court’s intervention.Ashok Gehlot, who has a tenuous majority in the 200-member assembly with about 101-102 lawmakers on his side, had gone ahead to ask governor Kalraj Mishra to convene the assembly so that he could prove his majority. But Kalraj Mishra has been holding off for now, insisting that the government should give a 21-day notice for the assembly to be convened.At one point, Mishra said he was fine with exempting the provision that requires 21-day advance notice to be given provided the Gehlot government declares in writing that he intends to face the trust vote. The Gehlot government has been reluctant to spell out the agenda of the assembly session, accusing Raj Bhavan of violating constitutional norms and not issuing the formal orders as requested by the state cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-speaker-moves-sc-on-high-court-hearing-sachin-pilot-camp-s-plea-says-it-is-judicial-indiscipline/story-ZhNbFAXCmAQ8Y8QXINGTRL.html
29-07-2020||India||Govt junks night curfew under Unlock 3, schools to stay closed||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines on Wednesday for opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones in Unlock 3, which will come into effect from August 1 amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic.Under the new guidelines restrictions on movement of individuals during night (night curfew) have been removed, the MHA said in a statement.Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to open from August 5 for which Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19.Independence Day functions will be allowed with social distancing and by following other health protocols.Educational institutions will remain closed till August 31. “After extensive consultation with States and UTs, it has been decided that schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31, 2020,” the MHA said. International air travel of passengers has been permitted in a limited manner under the Vande Bharat mission. Further opening up will take place in a calibrated manner, it said.Metro Rail services will not be allowed under Unlock 3. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain closed.Social/ political/ sports/ entertainment/ academic/ cultural/ religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to remain prohibited.“Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation,” the statement said.Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the Containment Zones till August 31.“Containment Zones are required to be carefully demarcated by the State/ UT Governments with a view to contain the spread of COVID-19, after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by MOHFW. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed,” it said. It also said that the health ministry will monitor the proper delineation of Containment Zones and implementation of the containment measures.The latest guidelines said states will decide on activities outside containment zones.“States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities outside the Containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements,” it said.The national directives for Covid-19 management shall continue to be followed throughout the country, with a view to ensure social distancing. Shops will need to maintain adequate physical distancing among customers. Like the previous guidelines for Unlock 1 and Unlock 2, the latest guidelines also advises vulnerable persons (persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years), to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-junks-night-curfew-under-unlock-3-schools-to-stay-closed/story-vMOzqntJpdgAvHlRuQA9WK.html
29-07-2020||India||CM Gehlot proposes House session from Aug 14, meets Guv’s 21-day condition||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, after yet another cabinet meeting, proposed convening an assembly session from July 14, from the earlier demand of July 31, in deference to the governor’s 21-day notice period condition for calling such a session. The first proposal for an assembly session was sent on July 23 but it did not have the cabinet’s approval and no date was mentioned. Counting from that date onwards, the new date proposed meets the 21-day criterion.Earlier today, governor Kalraj Mishra returned for the third time a proposal from the state government to convene the assembly, saying the cabinet had refused to state the reason why it wanted a session at short notice.As the deadlock over calling a session deepened, CM Gehlot went up to meet the governor at the Raj Bhawan. The state cabinet met later.The governor said if the government was not stating the reason for holding a short-notice session, it could call a regular session after giving a 21-day notice.He asked the Gehlot cabinet to resubmit its proposal, giving a “solid reason” for calling a session at short notice.“The love letter has already come. Now, I am only going to have tea with him,” Gehlot told party workers at the state Congress office before heading for the Raj Bhawan.The Gehlot-led cabinet, which met on Tuesday, had claimed governor Mishra did not have any locus standi in stipulating conditions to hold the session. The cabinet asked Mishra to abide by its proposal and claimed the failure to do so would be unconstitutional.It also asserted that the agenda of the session will be determined by the business advisory committee of the house. It was the speaker’s domain to decide on social distancing norms in the assembly.Ashok Gehlot, who is battling a rebellion from his former Number 2 in the government - Sachin Pilot, claims the support of over 100 MLAs. Sachin Pilot, along with 18 MLAs, says he is only protesting the CM’s way of functioning. He has maintained that he is not joining the opposition BJP. The BJP with 72 MLAs has been watching the drama from the sidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-proposes-house-session-from-aug-14-meets-guv-s-21-day-condition/story-k1wRkcDQL9FRDfsQb7kU1N.html
29-07-2020||India||Covid Unlock 3: Yoga institutes and gyms allowed to operate from August 5||The Central government has given permission to operate Yoga institutes and gymnasiums during the Unlock 3 phase announced on Wednesday evening. However, education institutes, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls will continue to remain closed till August 31.Yoga institutes and gymnasiums were shut down since March 25, when the first phase of nationwide lockdown was announced. The centre has been ordering a phased wise reopening of economy after two months of hard lockdown ended in May. “Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to function from August 5, 2020 for which Standard Operating Procedure (SoPs) will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare ,” the order states.The first two phase of Unlock- a term coined to represent the various stages of unlocking the economy-- has led to resumption of most commercial activities including restricted domestic aviation and train operations apart from restaurants, hotels, saloons, malls etc. However, the government has been wary of other activities that are likely to result in mass congregation at one place including metro operations, entertainment parks and cinema halls. It has allowed religious activities but with SOPs restricting the number of attendees at such gatherings.The order released by the Union home secretary also says that every other activity that has been permitted outside of designated containment zones will continue without any restriction.The guidelines also do not permit resumption of metro train services in any part of the country. Delhi government under Kejriwal has been seeking resumption of Delhi Metro services citing the improved Covid 19 situation in the capital.Shopping mall operators had also presented a case for reopening of cinema halls in their premises citing it as the next logical step after reopening of malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-unlock-3-yoga-institutes-and-gyms-allowed-to-operate-from-august-5/story-JX4NBVAOVrcbJGXxR4be3K.html
29-07-2020||India||Restriction on artists above 65 likely to be reviewed on August 1, State informs HC||Maharashtra government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the guidelines imposing restrictions on cast or crew members above 65 years of age from attending film and TV serial shootings was a temporary measure, and, it may be reviewed, when the current lockdown restrictions, which was imposed since end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, end on Friday (July 31). Government lawyer Purnima Kantharia informed the two-member HC division bench, comprising Justice SJ Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla, that the guidelines were issued in the interests of senior citizen artistes in a bid to protect them from Covid-19 and cannot be termed arbitrary. She added that the restrictions were imposed because ageing persons are more vulnerable of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. Kantharia said the guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government for shooting of films and TV serials is expected to be reviewed on August 1 (Saturday) after the current lockdown restrictions are lifted. She added that changes are expected to be made in the guidelines but as of now it can’t be said as to what those changes would be. She was responding to a petition filed by Pramod Pandey (70), who has been earning his livelihood by performing bit roles in films and TV serials for the past four decades. He has challenged a clause contained in the guidelines issued by the state government on May 30 regarding shooting for films and TV serials. Pandey contended that he might be aged, but he is physically fit. He argued that the government rule deprived him of the only source of his livelihood, as it prohibited the entry of cast and crew members above 65 years of age to film studios and outdoor shooting sites. He claimed that a perusal of available data made it clear that majority of the persons affected by Covid-19 are below the age of 65 years. He stated that he would face grave hardship because of the prejudice, as he would not be able to survive with dignity and self-respect, if prevented from acting. Amicus curiae, senior advocate Sharon Jagtiani, termed the restrictions imposed on aged artistes as discriminatory, as they have been singled out and similar restrictions were not imposed on senior citizens in other walks of life. He argued that the guidelines were not based on valid grounds. The Indian Motion Pictures Producers’ Association (IMPPA) has filed a similar petition challenging the same clause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restriction-on-artists-above-65-likely-to-be-reviewed-on-august-1-state-informs-hc/story-rcc0utUb2NHTDmvu3LCa4L.html
29-07-2020||India||BJP MP Pragya Thakur claims she is getting threatening phone calls; FIR filed||BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur has claimed receiving multiple threatening and abusive phone calls, leading the police to file an FIR against unidentified persons and launch a probe, an official said on Wednesday.The FIR was filed on a complaint lodged by the Lok Sabha MP at a police station here, he said.Kamla Nagar Police Station in-charge Vijay Sisodia said, “A case has been registered against unidentified persons on Tuesday night for threatening the MP over phone and using abusive language.” He said Thakur received these calls from unknown numbers around 6.30 pm on Tuesday.Sisodia said, “The callers also abused her over the phone. The cyber cell is trying to find out from where these phone calls were made.“Appropriate action will be taken against the accused on the basis of information received from the cyber cell.” Meanwhile, Thakur, talking to reporters on Wednesday, said, “There were many calls yesterday. The phone displayed private and international numbers during these calls. The callers used very abusive language.” The BJP leader claimed the callers not only used abusive language against her, but also Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Thakur said the callers also abused her for making an appeal to people to recite ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ and for supporting construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya.She said, “I have lodged a complaint in this regard at Bhopal’s Kamla Nagar Police Station.” Thakur said she won’t get cowed down by such acts.“Such threats do not affect me. These are cowards, who are afraid. So they call from unknown numbers,” she said.On Saturday, Thakur had tweeted, “Let all of us together make a spiritual effort to wish people good health and end the coronavirus epidemic.“Recite ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ five times a day at your home from July 25 to August 5. Conclude this ritual by lighting lamps on August 5 and offering ‘aarti’ to Lord Ram at home.“Bhoomi pujan for construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya is scheduled to take place on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-claims-she-is-getting-threatening-phone-calls-fir-filed/story-7I01FJ0a9ZrQIyFZdqF9dK.html
29-07-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s son moves HC, challenges confiscation of trust properties||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Central government to file an affidavit in reply to a petition filed by Rohin Modi, the son of diamond trader Nirav Modi, a prime accused in Rs.13,500 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, challenging the confiscation of the properties purportedly belonging to a trust named after him. On June 8, the special court for trying offenders under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, had ordered the confiscation of Nirav Modi’s movable and immovable properties that are estimated to be worth about Rs 1,396 crore. The order was passed in accordance with section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2019, on an application filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing money-laundering aspects of the multi-crore fraud at the state-run PNB. The special court had in December 2019 declared Nirav Modi a “fugitive economic offender” as contemplated under the 2019 Act. The properties ordered to be confiscated include bank balances in India and the United Kingdom (UK), residential and commercial properties in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the UK, allegedly purchased by the diamond trader from the proceeds of the crime. Rohin Modi moved HC contending that the confiscated properties also include properties owned by Rohin Trust. He has challenged confiscation of the trust properties primarily on the ground of breach of principles of natural justice, which implied that the order was passed by the special court behind his back, without making him party and without issuing him notice. The petition came up for hearing on Tuesday before a two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht, who directed the Central government to reply to the petition in one week.The court has fixed August 7, as the next date of hearing. On January 31, 2018, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered an offence under various sections of the Prevention of the Corruption Act, 1988, and the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Nirav Modi and several others, including two officers of the PNB. According to the complaint lodged by PNB, between February and May 2017, Nirav Modi and his partnership firms namely, M/s Diamond R US, M/s Solar Exports and M/s Stellar Diamond, got fraudulently issued 150 Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) from Brady House branch of PNB in south Mumbai and duped the public sector bank to the tune of $1015.35 million, whihc is equivalent to around Rs.6498.20 crore. A similar offence is registered against Nirav Modi’s maternal uncle Mehul Choksi for duping PNB of crores of rupees by using the same modus operandi and fleeing to Antigua in the Carribbean islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-son-moves-hc-challenges-confiscation-of-trust-properties/story-dl8wQ4oU6z947e8UwdSaHN.html
29-07-2020||India||US, Australia see key role for India in Indo-Pacific security||India will have a key role in defence cooperation and post-Covid-19 recovery efforts in the Indo-Pacific by the US and Australia, which plan to strengthen partnerships in the region to ensure it remains secure, inclusive and rules-based. The matter figured in a meeting between US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper and their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Linda Reynolds in Washington on Tuesday, with a joint statement issued by the two sides making several references to India’s role in the Indo-Pacific. The US and Australia also expressed serious concerns about China’s “recent coercive and destabilising actions across the Indo-Pacific”, and the two countries said the Covid-19 pandemic has “created incentives for some actors to pursue strategic gains in ways that undermine the rules-based international order and regional stability”. The development comes at a time when India is set to include Australia in the Malabar naval exercise that it conducts with the US and Japan, and against the backdrop of the months-old border standoff with China. The US-Australia joint statement said the Indo-Pacific remains the focus of their alliance and that two countries are “working side-by-side, including with Asean, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Five Eyes partners, to strengthen our networked structure of alliances and partnerships to maintain a region that is secure, prosperous, inclusive, and rules-based”. On the issue of regional coordination, the two countries said they are committed to “trilateral dialogues with Japan and Quad consultations with Japan and India”, and were looking forward to further ministerial meetings of these forums. The Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad, which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US, was upgraded to the ministerial level last September. China has often expressed its opposition to the group, though India has said it is not aimed at any country. The US and Australia also referred to bilateral defence cooperation such as the joint naval activity by their warships in the South China Sea, and said they are committed to “pursue increased and regularised maritime cooperation in the region, as well as the Indian Ocean, bilaterally and in concert with other likeminded and regional partners”. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, described India as the “most natural partner” for security-related initiatives by the US and Australia both in the Indian Ocean and the wider Indo-Pacific region. “Though China is its biggest trade partner, Australia has growing concerns about what it perceives as China’s interference in domestic politics and issues such as cyber security. Australia also has concerns about China’s growing influence in the South Pacific, which it sees as its strategic backyard and which has been the focus of attention from Prime Minister Scott Morrison,” he said. “These concerns and similar worries for the US are areas of convergence with India. Australia certainly feels that if the Quad can get its act together, the four countries can counter the rising Chinese influence in the Indo-Pacific,” Patil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-australia-see-key-role-for-india-in-indo-pacific-security/story-pXqw6AEIVlw9bnlIeOWnPO.html
29-07-2020||India||Delhi’s recovery rate reaches 88.9% as discharges outscore fresh cases yet again||Delhi recorded 1,035 fresh Coved 19 cases on Wednesday to take the total number of infections in the capital to 1,33,310 till date. However, a greater number of patients—1,126-- were discharged on Wednesday after they were declared to have been cured by the authorities. This means that the total number of active coronavirus patients in the city is declining consistently to reach 10,779 as on Wednesday since 1,18,633 patients have been discharged so far.The number of fresh cases registered on Wednesday is a fraction less than Tuesday’s 1,056 new cases.The improving situation has prompted the Delhi government led by Arvind Kejriwal to delink 77 banquet halls and 40 hotels that were to be converted into Coved medical facilities. As Kejriwal has stated, the city has currently over 18,000 vacant beds in three type of designated Covid treatment facilities, hence the decision to delink the hotels and banquet halls.The decision was taken after the chief minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the city.“Some hotels were attached to hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. In view of the improving situation and all hotel beds lying vacant for the last many days, these hotels are now being released,” Kejriwal tweeted.The hotels and banquet halls were attached to increase the capacity for treating coronavirus patients as an emergency measure in June, when new cases were witnessing an upward spiral putting pressure on the existing health infrastructure.24 deaths were recorded over the last 24 hours taking the toll to 3,907. On Tuesday, 28 Covid deaths were reported. However, Monday marked another important landmark in Delhi’s continuous recovery from the disease with Delhi’s biggest coronavirus treatment facility of Lok Nayak hospital not reporting even a single death. The hospital has been recording a couple of deaths daily since it started treating Covid-19 patients in March. The number of deaths had shot up to 10 to 15 a day in June when the disease was at its peak in Delhi.According to data shared by the chief minister’s office earlier this month, the daily death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi had reached 101 in June. In comparison, Delhi recorded 27 deaths on average every day during the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-recovery-rate-reaches-88-9-as-discharges-outscore-fresh-cases-yet-again/story-Jv0BnZW15ofn5asd47ETgN.html
29-07-2020||India||Assam forest officials seize kangaroo, exotic wildlife from smugglers near Mizoram border||Assam forest department personnel seized a kangaroo, six macaws, three tortoises and two monkeys from wildlife smugglers at the Assam-Mizoram border on Tuesday night, officials said. Personnel of Cachar forest division in Silchar district of Assam intercepted a truck which was coming from Mizoram at the Lailapur forest sub beat around 11:30 pm on Tuesday. A search of the truck led to recovery of the exotic wild animals. Interrogation of the two persons in the truck, Narsimha Reddy and Navnath Tukaram Daigude revealed that the consignment was on its way to Guwahati. “The forest officials were carrying out a routine check of vehicles to detect smuggling of illegal timber when they noticed foul smell coming from the back of the truck. On being questioned, the two persons said that it was some rotten fruits. When the forest personnel investigated further, they found the animals,” said Sunnydeo Choudhary, DFO, Cachar forest division. The animals, a red kangaroo from Australia, six hyacinth macaws, two capuchin monkeys from South America, three Aldabra giant tortoises, were found packed in plastic and cartons. The two arrested persons told investigators that they had got the animals in Mizoram and were to hand the consignment to someone in Guwahati. The animals are being sent to the state zoo at Guwahati where they will be kept and health monitored. Investigations are on to find out how the exotic animals reached India. “Against the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic and its connection to wet markets, it’s high time we put an end to practice of keeping these exotic species as pets, refrain from illegal wildlife trade and let these animals live in their natural habitat,” said D. Deori, forest range officer of Hawaithang range near the Mizoram border.In its first global report on illegal wildlife trade released a week ago, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) had described wildlife trade as a global threat which has links with organized crimes like modern slavery, drug trafficking and arms trade. The illegal trade is estimated to generate revenue of up to $23 billion a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-forest-officials-seize-kangaroo-exotic-wildlife-from-smugglers-near-mizoram-border/story-RZKCMGOrMeDrpfRiEoot3K.html
29-07-2020||India||Despite pandemic, flesh trade thriving as demand persists, say social workers||Goa’s flesh trade rackets appear to be immune to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, if the recent raids conducted by the state police are any pointer to the thriving illicit trade that appears to flourish because of the economic hardships triggered by the pandemic. Goa Police has conducted three raids in eight days – between July 20 and 28 -- to bust flesh trade rackets and mushrooming human trafficking networks.Four women commercial sex workers were rescued and five pimps were arrested during these raids. Organisations working for the rehabilitation of sex workers have warned that the Covid-19-triggered economic downturn would push more victims into the sordid trade. “We have been tracking around 300 women, who were rescued in Goa and sent back to their respective native places. These were women, who were rehabilitated and had started a new life as sales girls in shopping malls or similar kinds of jobs. However, many of them became unemployed because of the pandemic and a majority of them have said that they have been approached by the traffickers, who are keen to lure them back into the trade,” said Arun Pandey, director of Anyay Rahit Zindagi, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that exclusively works for the rehabilitation of sex-trafficking victims. “Some enter the trade because of an acute fund crunch and mounting debts. Besides, the pandemic hasn’t deterred customers, who are willing to pay for sex,” Pandey added. He said the Covid-19 pandemic hasn’t ebbed the sex trade much like two decades ago, when the world was in the grip of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) outbreak. Goa Police is cracking the whip against the errant human traffickers. “We have zero tolerance for human trafficking in any form. We take strict legal action in any instance pertaining to trafficking. The law does not make any distinction on the basis of tourism or otherwise,” said Shobit Saksena, spokesperson, Goa Police. The authorities have conducted three separate raids against human trafficking over the past eight days. On Tuesday, a joint raid was conducted by the crime branch and the women police station in Calangute, where a victim (33), a resident of Assagao, a village in Bardez, was rescued and a pimp, Nandini Pawar (26), a native of Jalana in Maharashtra, was arrested for running a prostitution racket, On July 26, another pimp, Anita Karapurkar (30), was apprehended and two women were rescued from a hotel at Mapusa, North Goa. While on July 24, three pimps -- Deepak Kumar (25) and Anil Kumar (42) from Uttar Pradesh and Dinesh Sakes (41) from Maharashtra --- were arrested and a commercial sex worker was rescued. “A concerted effort needs to be launched to crack down on the customers, who create a demand for the illicit sex trade. The demand fuels the traffickers to lure the unsuspecting victims in the trade. Such is the demand that traffickers are willing to arrange flight tickets for commercial sex workers and even prepared to wait it out for them to undergo mandatory quarantine protocols,” Pandey said. ‘It’s a social trend that comes to the fore, especially during natural calamities such as droughts and famines. The Covid-19 outbreak is no exception because the contagion has battered the economy beyond imagination pushing many to enter sex trade to make both ends meet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-despite-pandemic-flesh-trade-thriving-as-demand-persists-say-social-workers/story-1Fe4QTxdkWL7O1KzKPgiCN.html
29-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot congratulates Rajasthan’s new Congress chief, hopes he will be unbiased||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said on Wednesday he hopes that the new Congress unit president in the state, Govind Singh Dotasra, will take care of those party workers whose hard word had helped the party to form a government.“I congratulate Govind Singh Dotasra for taking charge. I am hopeful that he will work without any pressure, will not be biased and will take care of the honour of Congress workers based on whose hard work the party was able to form a government,” Pilot tweeted.Pilot’s tweet came after Dotasra formally took over as the new chief of the Rajasthan Congress amid the political drama in the state.The former deputy chief minister was Congress president in Rajasthan before he was sacked from the post earlier this month after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot, who was Congress chief for six years was widely credited for leading the party to victory in the 2018 assembly elections in Rajasthan.“I would like to thank Sonia Gandhi ji and Rahul Gandhi ji for giving the responsibility to a small worker like me who comes from a farmer’s family,” PTI quoted him as saying.Chief minister Gehlot said Dotasra had played his role well as a member of the assembly and deputy chief whip when the party was in opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-congratulates-rajasthan-s-new-congress-chief-hopes-he-will-unbiased/story-nWpjJri56pxubFVRyTtaQK.html
29-07-2020||India||Maharashtra CM Thackeray to start travelling in the state to review Covid-19 crisis||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will start with a day-long trip to Pune on Thursday in his mission to assess the ground realities about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the state. The CM will visit Pune, where he will review the pandemic situation and the preventive measures that have been undertaken to contain the viral disease in the western Maharashtra region that comprises five districts such as Pune, Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara and Sangli. The move comes following trenchant criticism from the main opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). ‘The CM will cover all the six regions in a phase-wise manner. He will start with Pune, which is the headquarters of western Maharashtra. It will be a day-long trip. While the schedule for the other regions is yet to be firmed up,” said an official from the CM’s office (CMO). Though Thackeray has been regularly reviewing the Covid-19 outbreak by holding virtual meetings, he hasn’t ventured out yet, except for a few hotspots in Mumbai, the epicentre of the contagion in the country as well as Maharashtra. Last Saturday, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had taken a dig at the CM for digging his heels in Mumbai. “Even a school student can say that our Uddhavji is not going anywhere,” Patil had told a Marathi news channel. Pawar, who was defending Thackeray till last week, on Tuesday, spoke out and urged the CM to tour the state and meet the public, who are reeling under the impact of the viral outbreak. On Tuesday, Sharad Pawar (79), who heads the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which is a part of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, along with Thackeray-led Shiv Sena and the Congress, made a comment in passing about the CM is expected to tour the state to assess the pandemic situation on the ground that hasn’t happened to date. Pawar said he travels more than the CM. “He (Thackeray) is expected to monitor from the state capital as the head of the government, but that doesn’t prevent him from travelling. He must make it a point to tour the state by taking out some time from his busy schedule, meet the public and take them into confidence, which is yet to happen,” the veteran leader told a Marathi news channel. He was, however, quick to put his observation into perspective. “I don’t think that the CM is not taking everyone into confidence. He also speaks to everyone. The only difference is, I’m more visible as I keep travelling. He (Thackeray) doesn’t travel, and work from one place,” Pawar clarified when he was asked about the disputes within the MVA’s ranks based on the swirling allegations that the CM not taking the allies into confidence. Last Saturday, while defending the CM, Pawar had said Thackeray was urged to oversee and monitor the functioning of his team from Mumbai, as he is the head of the government. He had also singled out Thackeray for fulsome praise, as the latter was working round-the-clock in a bid to flatten the Covid-19 curve with single-minded devotion. Contrary to the CM, Pawar visited across parts of Covid-19-hit Maharashtra and reviewed preparations made by the local authorities along with the state health minister Rajesh Tope to contain the pandemic outbreak. Last Saturday, he was in Aurangabad city where he took stock of the situation. He also launched a campaign, “Mission Zero -- Aurangabad” that aims to bring down the Covid-19-related-death toll to zero in the city. The previous day he was in Nashik. While on July 20, he was in Solapur district. Leader of Opposition in the legislative assembly and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis also recently travelled around the state to review the Covid-19 situation. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra legislative council Pravin Darekar, too, had visited various Covid Care Centres and hospitals in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-thackeray-to-start-travelling-in-the-state-to-review-covid-19-crisis/story-XsLZoTVeIdbpg6u10IxdCL.html
29-07-2020||India||Harassed by stalkers, Indore school girl ends life hours before passing class XII with flying colours||Harassed by stalkers, a 19-year old school girl allegedly died by suicide on Monday in Indore hours before she was declared to have scored 74% marks in class 12 examination, said police. The incident didn’t come to light immediately as her parents assumed she might have ended her life fearing she might fail the examination. Later, police accepted a complaint from the deceased’s brother but didn’t lodge an FIR, as per family members. “Police registered an FIR on the complaint of the girl’s brother on Tuesday and are investigating the matter. No arrest has been made so far,” said Yogesh Tomar, town inspector (TI), Chandan Nagar police station said on Wednesday. “The 19-year-old girl, a resident of a locality in Indore, allegedly died by suicide early morning on Monday by hanging herself from the ceiling in her room. The girl’s father, who is a labourer, said he felt initially that she had done so out of fear of failure in the exam, the result for which was announced on Monday afternoon. They checked her result and found she had passed with 74% marks,” said the police inspector. Also Read: Man kills live-in partner over suspected illicit affairThe police officer added that his brother later found out from his friends and neighbours that his sister was being stalked and harassed by a couple of men.“Her brother came to know from neighbours and her friends that two men had been stalking and harassing her for a long time. One of the stalkers was exerting pressure on her to accept his offer for marriage with him. They also threatened the girl that they would kill her family, if she refused to accept the proposal. But the family was not aware of it,” the police inspector added.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh: Covid-19 patient allegedly dies by suicide at Covid Care CentreIt was also revealed that the stalkers had again threatened her a few hours before she ended her life. The brother of the deceased said, “My father and I had gone to Dhar for some work on Sunday. My mother had gone outside to purchase something. My sister was alone at home when the two stalkers, who have criminal records against them, barged into my house and threatened my sister with dire consequences if she didn’t marry one of them. Later, at around 3 am on Monday, she ended her life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harassed-by-stalkers-indore-school-girl-ends-life-hours-before-passing-class-xii-with-flying-colours/story-nwHqBp4ONr0VVapNQqLobK.html
29-07-2020||India||India, Bangladesh to use Sundarbans-waterways carefully so as not to disturb movement of tigers: Report||India and Bangladesh should carefully use the water-channels in the Sundarbans in a bid not to disturb the free movement of tigers between the two countries, which may ultimately affect their gene flow, a new report released by the Union government has warned. “In our rush to use waterways for economic transportation we have to be careful that these do not become barriers to tiger (and other wildlife) dispersal,” said the report titled, Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India (2018), which was released by the Union government on Tuesday. The Sundarbans is the world’s largest mangrove delta that is spread over 10,200 square kilometres (sq km). While 4,200 sq km lies in West Bengal in India, the remaining 6,000 sq km falls in neighbouring Bangladesh. Around 200 tigers have adapted to this mangrove delta as their natural habitat, lending global importance to the Sundarbans. The Big Cats swim freely across rivers and creeks from one island to another between the two countries. “Barges and ships carrying cargo often use these channels for transporting goods. This was particularly seen in Bangladesh. This has to be done carefully so that the tigers’ corridors are not disturbed. The Sundarbans is totally cut off from any other nearby tiger population and gene pool. As a result, it is important to maintain this as large single transboundary population,” said YV Jhala, a tiger expert and senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India (WWI). The report calls for regulation of transboundary collaboration and regulation of cargo in the waterways, suggesting that increased continuous use of these water channels inside the forest as a conduit for commercial boat traffic can transform the rivers to barriers to tiger movement. Despite efforts by forest departments of both the countries, joint patrolling and joint management activities remain a non-starter. Forest officials in West Bengal, however, said that cargo movement through the Sundarbans has long stopped on the Indian side. On the Bangladesh side, though, cargo ships and barges still use the water channels through the mangrove forests. “Even though cargo used to move through the Indian part of the Sundarbans, it has stopped since 2011. Now, the ships and barges take alternate water routes, avoiding the Sundarbans, to reach Bangladesh,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden, West Bengal. The report has cited that wildlife experts have got the first photographic evidence of Golden Jackals, as a co-predator of tigers that inhabit the world’s largest mangrove delta. “Golden jackal was captured for the first time in Sundarbans and seems to be a recent coloniser restricted to the mangrove forest edges of Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary and islands of the biosphere reserve adjacent to the human-inhabited islands,” the report says. Forest officials said even though the animal had been spotted by foresters and locals this is for the first time that it has been captured on camera and documented. Earlier in 2017, the picture of a wolf was captured in the Sundarbans taking wildlife experts by surprise. A total of 14 species of ungulates, carnivores, and omnivores such as tiger, chital, estuarine crocodile, fishing cat, jungle cat, leopard, and otter, among others, were captured on camera and documented in the Sundarbans. Wild pig and chital were apparently the most common species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-to-use-sundarbans-waterways-carefully-so-as-not-to-disturb-movement-of-tigers-report/story-dFY8bseoRxvGvu38rUFDzL.html
29-07-2020||India||Centre calls Jagan Reddy, KCR for meet over water dispute between states||The ongoing dispute between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh over construction of new irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers in violation of the AP Reorganisation Act has reached the Centre for an amicable settlement.Union minister for Jal Sakthi Gajendra Singh Shekawat has called for a meeting of the apex council on river water disputes between the two states on August 5.The council, headed by the Union minister, comprises the two chief ministers – K Chandrasekhar Rao of Telangana and Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy of Andhra Pradesh.A communication to this effect has reached the Telangana government on Wednesday.“Both the chief ministers will be attending the meeting through video conference to put forth their arguments on the projects taken up by their respective states. The Centre will suggest a way out to settle the disputes over water sharing,” an official in the state irrigation department familiar with the development said.The apex council was constituted as part of the AP Reorganisation Act in 2014 to sort out the inter-state disputes, since both the states, which were part of a combined Andhra Pradesh till June 2014, have common projects like Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala on Krishna river.Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh government on Monday issued a notification inviting tenders for the construction of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP), aimed at lifting 34,722 cusecs of water per day from Srisailam Reservoir on Krishna river from a depth of 800 feet.The tenders worth Rs 3,278.18 crore were called for the construction of the project under Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) basis within 30 months. The last date for filing of tenders is August 10 and the technical and commercial bids would be opened on August 12 and 13. “With the lowest bid taken as the benchmark, a reverse tendering process would be conducted on August 17 and the successful bidder would be finalised by August 19,” the notification said.However, the commencement of the RLIP would depend on the final judgment of the National Green Tribunal, which is hearing a petition filed by a Telangana activist G Srinivas, opposing the project stating that it was detrimental to the interests of Telangana. The NGT will take up the hearing on August 11.The Telangana government, too, lodged a complaint with the Krishna River Management Board opposing the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to construct the RLIP and also expansion of the existing discharge capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator constructed on Srisailam reservoir.Both the projects, worth around Rs 7,000 crore, are aimed at drawing an additional quantity of six to eight tmc (thousand million cubic feet) of water per day from Krishna river, which the Telangana government described as illegal, unilateral and against the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014.The Andhra Pradesh government defended the same stating that the new schemes were well within the state’s rights. What is more, the AP government accused the Telangana government of constructing projects - like Palamuru-Ranga Reddy lift scheme which was in violation of the Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-jagan-reddy-kcr-for-meet-over-water-dispute-between-states/story-6E0kj5F5cq8j2tNemxlLtN.html
29-07-2020||India||People must not pay more fares when booking tickets via travel agents on Vande Bharat flights: Govt||Passengers booking tickets through travel agents on international flights operating under the Vande Bharat Mission must not pay more than the fares mentioned on Air India’s website, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Wednesday.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, since May 6, international charter flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.“Passengers booking tickets for #VBM flights through travel agents, may please note that they should not pay more than the fares mentioned on the Air India website. Passengers facing issues of overcharging by travel agents may write to gmsm@airindia.in,” the ministry said on Twitter.India had on July 16 formed bilateral air bubbles with countries like the US, Germany and France that allows airlines of both the countries in the pact to operate special international charter flights. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to conserve cash. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. The airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights.However, occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25. PTI DSP KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-must-not-pay-more-fares-when-booking-tickets-via-travel-agents-on-vande-bharat-flights-govt/story-pd9SrSIZ8YB10M3W3cKMjL.html
29-07-2020||India||7 injured in blast at a quarter in elite academy for civil servants||Seven people were injured when an LPG cylinder exploded inside a room of a quarter belonging to an employee from Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie on Wednesday. The academy is a premier training institution for the freshly hired civil servants in India.Devender Aswal, station house officer at Mussoorie police station, said the injured were rushed to the LBSNAA Hospital where all are undergoing treatment for minor burns.Aswal said the injured include Kavita Aswal, aged 40 and resident of the type 2 quarter. The other six were neighbours.According to the police, the incident occurred when Kavita after changing her domestic cylinder left for morning walk. When she returned, she found the room filled with gas. She summoned her neighbours, who came to her rescue. Soon the gas caught fire with a loud blast shattering the windowpanes of the room resulting in glass shrapnel flying in all directions. All seven suffered burn injuries and were rushed to the hospital at LBSNAA premises. “A neighbour Vijay Kumar is grievously injured while others have received minor burns and are undergoing treatment in Mussoorie,” said Aswal.Aswal said the incident might have occurred due to the faulty regulator connection resulting in the leak and blast.The academy conducts a common foundation course for entrants to the All India Services, Indian Foreign Service; Group ‘A’ services of the Union and the Royal Bhutan Service followed by professional training for the regular recruits of the IAS and members of Royal Bhutan Service, according to LBSNAA website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-injured-in-blast-at-a-quarter-in-elite-academy-for-civil-servants/story-YthWW6FNuhah2pO0iTIByM.html
29-07-2020||India||Third minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet tests positive for Covid-19||A third minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, almost within 12 hours of another minister making it public late Tuesday night that he and his wife had tested positive for Covid-19.The chief minister is also being treated for Covid-19 at a private medical college’s hospital in Bhopal since Saturday. Chouhan and the three ministers have tested positive for the virus in the span of a week.The third minister who tested positive for the virus on Wednesday happens to be a minister of state hailing from Vindhya region. Responding to messages from the chief minister, his ministerial colleagues and several other BJP leaders on Wednesday, who wished him speedy recovery from the disease the minister said, “With wishes of you all I will be fully healthy after defeating coronavirus.” A senior state BJP leader too tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the party’s functionaries said. The senior BJP leader had accompanied the chief minister, state BJP president VD Sharma and a minister on a state government’s plane to Lucknow on July 21 to attend the funeral of Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon who had passed the same day after being hospitalised for more than a month. The minister who accompanied the CM to Lucknow was the first minister in the state cabinet to test positive for Covid-19 on July 22, the day he attended the state cabinet meeting along with other ministers. The meeting was chaired by the CM who tested positive for the virus on July 24. Chouhan and the minister are being treated at a private medical college’s hospital in Bhopal. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and MLA from Jabalpur Ajay Vishnoi sought to know from the CM as to why all the VIPs have been compelled to get treatment in a private hospital. “I wish chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ji who is being treated in Chirayu hospital a speedy recovery. At the same time, my request to him is that while staying in the hospital he should see as to what is there in Chirayu which we couldn’t do in a single government medical college of the state in the past four months. Why are all the VIPs of the state compelled to take shelter at Chirayu?” he tweeted.The opposition Congress was quick to react. State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “The chief minister must reply to the question from the senior BJP leader Ajay Vishnoi. But this is not a question of just four months. The CM must tell people why the BJP government in its 15 years rule could not update a single government medical college of the state where VIPs could be treated for Covid-19. The health services in the state are in shambles. We see almost daily how people are suffering in various parts of the state because of want of health facilities.” State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “I have not seen the BJP MLA’s tweet. However, if there is a question it applies more to the Congress as it’s Congress which was in power when coronavirus spread in the state and the then Kamal Nath government absolutely did nothing to upgrade a single government hospital in the state where corona patients could be treated well. Instead he was busy in IIFA award function meetings for the sake of entertainment of the ruling party leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-minister-in-shivraj-singh-chouhan-cabinet-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-JBIwf3bdueH2yHGCOddUNJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty moves Supreme Court, seeks transfer of probe from Patna to Mumbai||Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty Wednesday moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of an FIR lodged against her in Patna to Mumbai, where probe in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput is going on. The move came a day after Rajput’s father K K Singh lodged a police complaint in Patna against Chakraborty and six others, including her family members, accusing them of abetting the actor’s suicide. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, who is representing Chakraborty, said he has filed a petition in the apex court seeking transfer of the case from Patna to Mumbai. In her plea, Chakraborty has also sought stay on probe by Bihar Police on the FIR lodged by Rajput’s father till disposal of her plea in top court, the lawyer said. The 34-year-old actor died by suicide in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-moves-supreme-court-seeks-transfer-of-probe-from-patna-to-mumbai/story-lh4EOCkU03T9rqS3cdaQpK.html
29-07-2020||India||World-class fighter jets will prove to be game-changer: Amit Shah after Rafale landing in Ambala||Calling touchdown of Rafale fighter aircraft at Ambala airbase as “historic day” for Indian Air Force and proud moment for India, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said that “world-class fighter jets will prove to be a game-changer”.In a series of tweets, Shah congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Indian Air Force and the entire country on this “momentous day”.“Rafale touchdown is a historic day for our vigorous @IAF_MCC and a proud moment for India! These are the world’s most powerful machines capable to thwart any challenge in the sky. I am sure Rafale will help our Air warriors to safeguard our skies with its mighty superiority,” Shah said in a tweet.“From speed to weapon capabilities, Rafale is way ahead! I am sure these world class fighter jets will prove to be a game changer. Congratulations to PM @narendramodi ji, DM @rajnathsingh ji, Indian Air Force and the entire country on this momentous day. #RafaleInIndia,” he added.Shah said that Modi government is committed to build India’s defence capabilities.“Induction of these next generation aircrafts is a true testimony of PM @narendramodi’s resolve to make India a powerful and secure nation. Modi govt is committed to build on India’s defence capabilities. I thank honourable PM for providing this unprecedented strength to our IAF,” he tweeted.Earlier today, the five French Rafale fighter jets touched down at Haryana’s Ambala after covering a distance of nearly 7,000 km to join the Indian Air Force.The jets were given a customary water salute upon their arrival at the airbase, some 220-km from the India-Pakistan border.The formal induction ceremony of the aircraft would be held later. The aircraft would move out soon to another operational base for operational sorties.The five Rafale fighter aircraft took off on Monday for India from an airbase in France.Rafale has multi-directional radar system which can detect 40 targets at the same time in a range of over 100 Kms. It has advance radar warning receiver to identify hostile tracking system a towed decoy system to thwart incoming missile attacks.Rafale will ensure that our pilots will not have to cross the border to strike the target, that is about 600 Km in enemy territory.It will get French industrial support for 50 years. India had signed a deal worth over Rs 60,000 crore with France in September 2016 for 36 Rafales to meet the emergency requirements of the IAF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-class-fighter-jets-will-prove-to-be-game-changer-amit-shah-after-rafale-landing-in-ambala/story-TWR1s2Uj5uuubKJ1LbQzRN.html
29-07-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh: Covid-19 patient allegedly commits suicide at Covid Care Centre||Sagar: A coronavirus disease (Covid-1) patient (35) allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday night at a Covid Care Centre at Mahoba Road in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur district, which is located 344 kilometres north-east of Bhopal, police said. The Covid-19 patient was found dead on the balcony of the Covid Care Centre, the police added. The deceased was a resident of Chhatarpur district and had tested Covid-19 positive two days ago. “I spoke to him on Tuesday evening, when he complained to me of a loss of appetite. We are clueless what made him take this drastic step,” the deceased’s uncle said. The police have started a probe into his death. “We got the information about a Covid-19 patient’s death by suicide. An investigation has started. We are looking into whether there was any foul play in his death,” said Umesh Shukla, city superintendent of police (CSP), Chhatarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-patient-allegedly-commits-suicide-at-covid-care-centre/story-RRBeM2jNuWzq5YjFvneM1L.html
29-07-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries in India near 1 million mark, fatality rate dips to 2.23%||India’s case fatality rate (CFR) in the Covid-19 pandemic stood at 2.23% on Wednesday, the lowest since April 1, the Union ministry of health said in a statement. 2020, “Coordinated implementation of Test Track Treat strategy by the Union and State/UT governments has effectively ensured that the case fatality rate is maintained at a low level when compared to the global scenario, and it has been progressively falling. The CFR stands at 2.23% today and it is lowest since April 1, 2020,” the ministry said..It also said that the successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on holistic Standard of Care approach have in tandem resulted in a consistent trend of more than 30,000 recoveries/day for the sixth consecutive day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“The total number of recovered cases is fast approaching 1 million. With 35,286 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the total recoveries have jumped to 9,88,029. The recovery rate has reached another high of 64.51% amongst Covid-19 patients,” the statement said.With such consistent increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases currently stands at 4,78,582, it said. There are now 5,09,447 active cases which are under medical supervision.India’s Codi-19 tally stands at 15,31,669. The death toll is 34,193||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-in-india-near-1-million-mark-fatality-rate-dips-to-2-23/story-d9nvFVwFxyKYMXedoDxyeL.html
29-07-2020||India||Moments after Rafale fighter jets land, Rajnath Singh’s veiled warning to China||Moments after the five Rafale fighter jets landed at the Indian Air Force’s Ambala air base on Wednesday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the arrival of the aircraft in India would give the IAF’s combat capability a “timely boost” and make it “much stronger to deter any threat” that may be posed to our country. Singh, who had travelled to France last year to formally receive the first fighter jet, showered praises on the multi-role aircraft for its capabilities, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision to buy 36 fighter jets.Singh also packed in a sharp, even if veiled, message to China’s military.ALSO WATCH | Touchdown of Rafale jets in Ambala; IAF gives water saluteDefence minister Rajnath Singh didn’t name China. He didn’t have to. China’s People’s Liberation Army has parked troops near the Line of Actual Control where it had been in a standoff with Indian defence forces since May this year. It agreed to withdraw its troops from the standoff points after a bloody clash in Ladakh’s Galwan area following PLA’s attempts to erect structures on the Indian side led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of casualties on the Chinese side.Also Read: Indian Air Force with Rafale has plan to take the fight to ChinaBut Beijing has been slow to carry out a complete disengagement of troops as agreed between the two sides in several rounds of military and diplomatic talks. Besides, the army has also reported that the PLA, which thinned out its troops in the forward areas, had mobilised nearly 50,000 troops in the depth areas.“I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity,” Rajnath tweeted and posted a video clip of the Rafale jets landing at the Ambala base of the Indian Air Force.The fighter jets are widely seen as a game changer for India’s strategic capabilities who underline that it will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the Indian Air Force (IAF) with their advanced weaponry. The jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions — ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence, they say. Also Read: Rafale is a game changer, Chinese J 20 does not even come close, says ex-IAF chief DhanoaFormer IAF chief BS Dhanoa told Hindustan Times just before the planes landed that Rafale with its top of the line electronic warfare suite, Meteor beyond visual range missile and SCALP air to ground weapon with its terrain following capability outguns any threat that the Chinese Air Force produces.Rajnath also credited PM Narendra Modi for taking a timely decision to purchase the aircrafts in 2016 that had led to a huge controversy, especially after the Congress rested its campaign for the 2019 General elections around the allegation that India had bought overpriced fighter jets. The government, however, fought it out, defending the deal in the Supreme Court and campaigning for the Lok Sabha elections. It won.Singh credited the prime minister’s courage for going ahead with the deal.“The Rafale jets were purchased only because PM Shri @narendramodi took the right decision to get these aircrafts through an Inter-Governmental Agreement with France, after the long pending procurement case for them could not progress. I thank him for his courage & decisiveness,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moments-after-rafales-fighter-jets-land-rajnath-singh-s-veiled-warning-to-china/story-h7qmKKdgC8mjPWunqYVXyJ.html
29-07-2020||India||‘Touch the sky with glory’: PM Narendra Modi welcomes Rafale fighter jets with a Sanskrit tweet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has welcomed the landing of Rafale fighter jets in Ambala with a tweet in Sanskrit which refers to the obligation of protecting one’s nation being supreme.The Prime Minister’s tweet came moments after the first batch of five Rafale Jets touched down in Ambala on Wednesday afternoon after covering 7,000 km in flight since its take off from France on Tuesday.“There is no greater blessing than protecting the nation, protecting the nation is a virtuous deed and protecting the nation is the best Yagna. There is nothing beyond this. Touch the sky with glory. Welcome,” a rough translation of his tweet says.राष्ट्ररक्षासमं पुण्यं,राष्ट्ररक्षासमं व्रतम्,राष्ट्ररक्षासमं यज्ञो,दृष्टो नैव च नैव च।।नभः स्पृशं दीप्तम्...स्वागतम्! #RafaleInIndia pic.twitter.com/lSrNoJYqZOPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet also carries a reference to the motto carved on Indian Air Force insignia which says ‘Nav sparsham deeptam’ in Sanskrit or ‘touch the sky with glory’Prime Minister Narendra Modi is believed to have personally advocated for entering a government to government agreement with France for the procurement of 36 Rafale jets.The new Rafale fighters jets will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and prove to be a game-changer with their advanced weaponry, defence experts have said.After the Rafale jets touched down in Ambala, defence minister Rajnath Singh delivered a veiled warning to adversaries looking to challenge India’s territorial integrity without naming China, which has been locked in a protracted border conflict with India in eastern Ladakh, where a deadly clash between the armies of the two sides resulted in deaths of 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of casualties on the Chinese side. India has accused the Chinese Army of attempting to alter the status quo on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control.“I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity,” Rajnath tweeted and posted a video clip of the Rafale jets landing at the Ambala base of the Indian Air Force.Rajnath also credited the Prime Minister with taking a timely decision for the purchase of the aircraft.“The Rafale jets were purchased only because PM Shri @narendramodi took the right decision to get these aircrafts through an Inter-Governmental Agreement with France, after the long pending procurement case for them could not progress. I thank him for his courage & decisiveness,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the subject of a sustained political attack over the Rafale deal with France by the Congress-- led by its former president Rahul Gandhi in the run up to 2019 Lok Sabha polls—alleging irregularities in the government to government deal. However, the Supreme Court rejected the contention and the NDA led by PM Modi stormed back into power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-vision-with-a-tweet-in-sanskrit-prime-minister-narendra-modi-welcomes-rafale-fighter-jets-in-india/story-FvZnFFXHg7al5XxnVLvv4L.html
29-07-2020||India||Rajasthan governor spurns CM Gehlot for 3rd time over House session request||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday for the third time returned the state government’s proposal to convene an assembly session and asked for concrete reasons to call a session on short notice in this odd and difficult situation, referring to the coronavirus pandemic. He suggested calling a regular monsoon session on a 21-day notice. Soon after, CM Gehlot called for a cabinet meeting.The Rajasthan government wants to have an assembly session from July 31. The cabinet note sent earlier to the governor did not specify if the chief minister will seek a trust vote during the session. The opposition BJP has not called for a trust vote, neither have rebel leader Sachin Pilot and the MLAs supporting him. Earlier, Gehlot had said he wanted to seek a trust vote to end the political uncertainty in the state. In his last message on Monday, the governor said only a written request on the trust vote as an agenda of the session could form the basis for calling the House on a short notice. Before that, the governor had suggested a 21-day notice period to convene the House, sought clarity on the session’s agenda and advised live-streaming of the floor test, in case it was held and also asked about Covid-19 related precautions in the assembly.The Gehlot-led cabinet, which met on Tuesday, had claimed Governor Mishra did not have any locus standi in stipulating conditions to hold the session. The cabinet asked Mishra to abide by its proposal and claimed the failure to do so would be unconstitutional.It also asserted that the agenda of the session will be determined by the business advisory committee of the house. It was the speaker’s domain to decide on social distancing norms in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-spurns-cm-gehlot-for-3rd-time-over-house-session-request/story-UFAZXKAS2qWvw8xLNhzoII.html
29-07-2020||India||Delhi to get medium to heavy rains over next 24 hours, intensity to increase in night||Delhi is all set to receive medium to high rains over the next 24 hours with the intensity increasing overnight in a welcome relief from humidity to the residents. Several parts of the city have received moderate rains on Wednesday and this current spell is going to last till August 1, according to the weather department. The current bout of rains in the capital and adjoining areas has been brought by the monsoon trough passing close to the city.“Punjab, Haryana and Delhi will receive rains today and it will increase during the night. Delhi is likely to receive medium to high intensity rainfall,” RK Jenamani, a senior scientist with the Indian meteorological department was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Wednesday had been beneficent for the capital on the rain front, with parts of south and north Delhi receiving moderate rains. According to the New Delhi-Safdarjung weather forecasting station, the areas covered by the station will receive heavy rains on Wednesday and Thursday with the skies remaining cloudy. On Friday and Saturday, the weather will take a slight turn with the city witnessing thunderstorms with rain and on Sunday the residents can expect either rains or thunderstorms.Also Read: Several parts of Delhi receive monsoon showersA senior IMD official has explained the reason behind the current spell.“The monsoon trough is passing along Ferozepur, Hisar, Gurugram, Daltonganj, Dumka, and parts of Nagaland. Since the trough is passing very close to Delhi it is bringing a lot of rain in the national capital. There is moisture incursion both from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC).He added that during this period, southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal will reach Haryana, Delhi-NCR, west Uttar Pradesh and northeast Rajasthan.“Under the influence of these systems, heavy to very heavy rainfall will occur over these areas,” he saidAlso Read:Kerala to receive heavy rainfall; yellow, orange alert issued across several districtsThe national capital experienced humidity without any rain on Tuesday. The Safdarjung weather observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. Humidity levels shot up to 95 percent, causing inconvenience to residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-get-medium-to-heavy-rains-over-next-24-hours-intensity-to-increase-in-night/story-9D9RyACPNTlW4jbbFi7zAO.html
29-07-2020||India||Physically challenged man charred to death as car explodes after hitting truck in AP||A physically challenged bank employee was charred to death when the car in which he was travelling exploded in flames after ramming into a container truck from behind in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district early Wednesday, police said. The deceased was identified as Shiva Kumar (40), working as a clerk in State Bank of India, Nandyal branch and a native of Rythunagaram village. The accident happened near Chapireruvla toll plaza on the outskirts of Nandyal town. Nandyal sub-inspector of police Sudhakar Reddy said Shiva Kumar, along with his three friends – K Kasaiah, G S Kumar and C Surendra, was returning to Nandyal from Hyderabad in a car via Nandyal, after attending some personal work. “As the car was approaching Nandyal, one of them who was driving the vehicle lost control over the steering and rammed the car into a container truck from behind at a high speed. The front portion of the car was mangled badly and got stuck under the container,” the SI said. The truck driver, who apparently had not noticed the car stuck under the vehicle on the rear side, continued to drive for nearly three kilometres. “It was only after the car exploded in flames that the truck came to a halt,” the police official said. While the three friends managed to save their lives by quickly jumping out of the car, Shiva Kumar could not come out quickly because of his disability in the lower limbs. As the flames engulfed the entire car, he was charred to death, the SI said. Police officials from Nandyal rushed a fire tender to the spot and brought the flames under control. While the car was completely gutted, the container truck was partially damaged in the fire. “We have registered a case and are inquiring into the cause of the accident,” Sudhakar Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physically-challenged-man-charred-to-death-as-car-explodes-after-hitting-truck-in-ap/story-tf6yra3UaANR0BHfbFMsBN.html
29-07-2020||India||Hany Babu sent to NIA custody till August 4||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday remanded Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil (54), an associate professor in the Department of English of Delhi University (DU), to the central agency’s custody under August 4. Tharayil, who was arrested by the NIA on Tuesday in connection with the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case, was produced before the special NIA court on Wednesday morning. The special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty demanded his custody with NIA for 10 days for his custodial interrogation. The prosecution, while seeking his custody, argued that Tharayil had links with the outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI) (Maoist) and was one of the key conspirators in the case. The prosecution also pointed out that there were letters exchanged between the accused, which were recovered by Pune Police that initially investigated the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case, and later NIA took over it on January 24. The investigating agency allegedly found the mention of his name and role in those letters. The plea was opposed by his lawyer R. Sathyanarayan claiming that Tharayil was being interrogated for the last four-five days and as a result, his further custody is not needed. The court after hearing both the side, observed, “looking at the nature of the offence and the allegations levelled against the accused, the demand for his custody for 10 days is well-founded”.Later, the court remanded him to NIA custody until August 4. Earlier on April 14, the central agency had arrested academic and civil rights activists Dr. Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha for their alleged involvement in the same case. Tharayil is the third person, who has been arrested by NIA.The agency claimed that during further investigation, it was revealed that Tharayil was propagating Maoist ideology and was a “co-conspirator” with the other arrested accused in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hany-babu-send-to-nia-custody-till-august-4/story-HMbbeJL9tu1lQD7xJLn8fL.html
29-07-2020||India||Assembly polls in Bihar unlikely amid Covid-19, says Prashant Kishor||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor has scaled down the activities of I-PAC (Indian Political Action Committee) in Patna and has said that the prospects of assembly elections in Bihar have dimmed.Amid speculation that he could wind up from Bihar due to lack of takers, unlike 2015 elections when he was much in demand in the Grand Alliance (GA) and worked closely with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Kishor said he was not in Bihar with any short-term goal of fighting election and there was no question of winding up activities here, though it had been scaled down due to pandemic. “But yes, I do see a fast diminishing prospect of a timely assembly election in Bihar. I am of firm opinion that elections will not be held due to the worsening situation in the state. It should not be held and it would not be held, as the situation in Bihar mandates the entire focus to be on Covid-19 management and control,” he said. Kishor said it was just not feasible to ask seven crore voters to move out of their homes and vote when the Covid-19 situation would be at its peak in the state. The elections are scheduled in October-November.Bihar’s Covid-19 tally stands at 45,919. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 2,328 fresh cases. The state is also battling floods at many places.Kishor warned that the Covid pandemic could get worse in the days to come. “I have nothing to do with elections in Bihar this time, as I will not be participating in it, but any attempt to hold elections in the midst of a pandemic would have catastrophic consequences. Political parties have seen the result of virtual rallies,” he added. He said that when the Election Commission (EC) was finding it difficult even to hold by-elections for a few seats, expecting an assembly election involving the entire state was highly unlikely. “Since March, no election has been held in the country. The theory of postal ballot was also floated, but the EC has rejected that also,” he added. Kishor said that the I-PAC had enough work across the country and in Bihar it has a long-term vision. “We are engaged in the making of CMs in six states, but in Bihar we are with no political party or alliance. We have our set up of I-PAC in Patna and that will continue. The response of ‘Baat Bihar Ki’ is for anyone to see, but this is not the time to take the risk of virtual campaigning as BJP and JD-U risked,” he added. In February during his first interaction with the media in Patna after his expulsion from the JD-U, Kishor had said that he was not there to get any alliance win or lose elections. “I will work to prepare youth who could take Bihar forward, those who had dreamt to change it to be among the top-10 states in the next 10 years. I have a long-term and medium-term plan, starting with ‘Baat Bihar ki’ on February 20, a programme to involve 1,000 committed youth from across the state,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-polls-in-bihar-unlikely-amid-covid-19-says-prashant-kishor/story-XooW8MfdZsXGPbV8dlucEL.html
29-07-2020||India||PIL filed in Rajasthan HC against Guv’s decision to not convene Assembly session||A Jaipur-based lawyer filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Rajasthan high court (HC) on Wednesday over the imbroglio regarding convening the assembly session by Governor Kalraj Mishra. The PIL has not been listed for hearing yet. ​The petition stated that the Council of Ministers had requested Governor Mishra thrice to convene the assembly session, but the plea was turned down on one pretext or the other. “As per the settled law by the Supreme Court (SC) in the matter of Nabam Rebia and Bamang Felix versus Deputy Speaker case, it has been held by the apex court’s Constitution Bench that the Governor is under obligation as provided in the Constitution of India to accept the advice of the Council of the Ministers,” it said. The petitioner further stated that it cannot be contended that the Governor has the freedom to determine when and under what circumstances he should exercise his discretionary powers without aid and advice of Chief Minister and his Council of Ministers that is enshrined in Article 163(2) of the Constitution. The Governor is entitled to exercise discretionary powers under Article 163(1) of the Constitution., it added. The petitioner has moved HC, seeking direction be given to Governor Mishra to convene the assembly session and Speaker CP Joshi be directed to follow the due procedure for legislative proceedings in a bid to end the prevailing constitutional deadlock.Rajasthan has plunged into a political turmoil following an internal rebellion of 19 Congress lawmakers, headed by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, against the Ashok Gehlot-led government, which started over two weeks ago. The Raj Bhavan did not react to the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-filed-in-rajasthan-hc-against-guv-s-decision-to-not-convene-assembly-session/story-rGbpilLNsyctqpKD9NNGUL.html
29-07-2020||India||Watch: Rafale touches down on Indian land, Defence minister Rajnath Singh shares first visuals of landing||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday tweeted a video of the touchdown of one of the five Rafale fighter jets at the Indian Air Force’s airbase in Ambala city of Haryana.The 27-second video of the touchdown showed the jet looming in the horizon before landing safely after covering a distance of nearly 7,000km from the Merignac airbase in French port city of Bordeaux with air-to-air refuelling and a single stop in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).“The Touchdown of Rafale at Ambala,” Rajnath Singh tweeted along with the video.The Touchdown of Rafale at Ambala. pic.twitter.com/e3OFQa1bZY“The Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC,” Singh also posted.They are the first imported fighter jets to be inducted into the IAF in 22 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 fighters. The first Su-30 entered IAF service in June 1997.Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot and the commanding officer of the No 17 Squadron, headed the aircrew bringing the Rafales to India.“I congratulate the IAF on a professionally executed ferry. I am sure that 17 Squadron, the Golden Arrows, will continue to live upto their motto of “Udayam Ajasram”. I am extremely happy that IAF’s combat capability has got a timely boost,” he added.The first squadron of the aircraft will be stationed at Ambala air force station, considered one of the most strategically located bases of the IAF. The second squadron of Rafale will be stationed at Hasimara base in West Bengal. The new Rafale fighters jets will significantly enhance IAF’s offensive capabilities and prove to be a game-changer with their advanced weaponry, defence experts have said. The jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions — ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. Specially tailored for the IAF, the Rafale jets have cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases including Leh, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, low-band jammers, Israeli helmet-mounted displays and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.The Rafale jets are armed with Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, MICA multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles — weapons that will allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.Rafale, categorised as a 4.5 generation aircraft for its radar-evading stealth profile, is important for IAF since most of the aircraft in its fleet, including the Mirage 2000 and the Su-30 MkI, are classified as either third or fourth-generation fighters.A twin-jet fighter aircraft, Rafale able to operate from both an aircraft carrier and a shore base. The manufacturers describe it as a fully versatile aircraft which can carry out all combat aviation missions to achieve air superiority and air defence, in-depth strikes, reconnaissance, anti-ship strikes and nuclear deterrence.Out of the 36 Rafale aircraft, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. India had ordered 36 Rafale fighter jets from France in a deal worth about Rs 60,000 crore in September 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-rafale-touches-down-on-indian-land-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-first-visuals-of-landing/story-byVrpmQBqkLT9fzXT3xzyL.html
29-07-2020||India||Rafales, ‘beauty and beast’, are home. A look at their journey in pics||The Rafales, described as “beauty and beast” by the Indian envoy in France”, entered the Indian airspace and were escorted by two Sukhoi 30 MKIs, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted while welcoming them home.The 3 single-seater and 2 twin-seater aircraft have landed at the Ambala airbase and Air Force Chief RKS Bhadauria is there to receive the fleet. The jets will be given a customary water salute as part of the welcome ceremony. “Real beauty and beast!” Indian ambassador to France Jawed Ashraf said while the planes were being flagged off in Bordeaux. “First five Rafale to India – swift, nimble, versatile, advanced and lethal,” he added.The new fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the IAF, which has for long planned to update its fighter jet force.Acting on a special request by the IAF, France has accelerated the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India.The first Rafale’s RB-001 tail number denotes the initials of the IAF chief: Rakesh Bhadauria. He led the complex negotiations for the Rafale deal.Here a look at their journey:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafales-beauty-and-beast-are-home-a-look-at-their-journey-in-pics/story-Flj8XDsF6sBaBDoUsXjnqM.html
29-07-2020||India||‘Rafale jets will revolutionise capabilities of Indian Air Force’: Rajnath Singh||Shortly after the first batch of five Rafale jets landed in Haryana’s Ambala on Wednesday noon, defence minister Rajnath Singh took to Twitter and said that the moment “marks the beginning of a new era” in India’s military history. Singh added that the “multirole aircraft” will revolutionise the capabilities of the Indian Air Force. Singh said that Rafale’s arrival in India will bolster the Air Force and equip it to deter any threat that may be posed to the country’s security.“The Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC,” he tweeted. The defence minister thanked the French government, Dassault Aviation and other French companies for the timely delivery of the aircraft amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read: Indian Air Force with Rafale has plan to take the fight to ChinaThe Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC.Singh lauded prime minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and said that the planes were purchased because PM Modi “took the right decision to get these aircrafts through an Inter-Governmental Agreement with France”.“This aircraft has very good flying performance and its weapons, radar and other sensors and Electronic Warfare capabilities are amongst the best in the world,” he added.  I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity.With the touchdown of five Rafale jets on Indian soil, Singh said that all “baseless allegations” against its procurement have been answered and settled. Also read: Rafale is a game changer, Chinese J 20 does not even come close, says former air chief Dhanoa“I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity.” he said.  The Touchdown of Rafale at Ambala. pic.twitter.com/e3OFQa1bZYThe jets took off from France on Monday and arrived at Ambala’s Air Force station today noon after covering a distance of 7,000 kilometres. The fleet included three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft. The agreement for the biggest-ever defence deal by India was signed in 2016 for acquiring 36 Rafale jets worth over Rs 60,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/birds-have-landed-tweets-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-as-first-batch-of-rafale-jets-lands-in-india/story-PgYJVKt2Jm94fO8LYQy0CM.html
29-07-2020||India||Several parts of Delhi receive monsoon showers||Rains lashed several parts of the national capital on Wednesday afternoon. While parts of south and north Delhi reported moderate category rain, Faridabad in the national capital region (NCR) received heavy rainfall, according to initial assessments by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “The monsoon trough is passing along Ferozepur, Hisar, Gurugram, Daltonganj, Dumka, and parts of Nagaland. Since the trough is passing very close to Delhi it is bringing a lot of rain in the national capital. There is moisture incursion both from the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC). The western end of the monsoon trough has shifted southwards and lies near to its normal position its eastern end is north to its normal position, IMD said in its Wednesday bulletin. There is a cyclonic circulation over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, off southern Andhra Pradesh (AP) and northern Tamil Nadu (TN) coasts. A trough also runs from this cyclonic circulation to western Vidarbha. Under the influence of these meteorological conditions, widespread and heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand, Jammu, Uttar Pradesh (UP), Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan in the north; sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, north-eastern states (mainly over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya) in the east; Madhya Pradesh (MP), Chhattisgarh, south Gujarat, coastal AP, TN, Kerala, and Mahe on Wednesday and Thursday, IMD said. Kerala and Mahe are likely to receive extremely heavy rain, measuring over 20 centimetres (cm), on Wednesday. IMD has also issued a moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning warning for Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, UP, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Bihar, MP, Telangana, coastal AP, TN, Puducherry, Karaikal and Rayalaseema on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-parts-of-delhi-receive-monsoon-showers/story-pLEiBl14EhmN80RTDxGu9K.html
29-07-2020||India||‘New era in military history’: 5 Rafale jets land at IAF Ambala air base||Five Rafale jets, the first of the 36 contracted by India, landed at the Ambala air base on Wednesday afternoon. The fighter jet, to be inducted into the Indian Air Force’s ‘Golden Arrow’ squadron, is the first imported fighter jet to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 fighters. The first Su-30 entered IAF service in June 1997.The five jets touched down at the airbase amid unprecedented security; the district administration also issued a dawn-to-dusk ban on photography of any assets at the air force station under Section 144 of the criminal procedure code.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh described the touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India “the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC”.WATCH | Touchdown of Rafale jets in Ambala; IAF gives water saluteIAF chief RKS Bhaduria was at the airbase to receive the Rafales and the team of pilots led by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, the commanding officer of the No 17 Squadron, also known as the “Golden Arrows”.Also Read: ‘Birds have entered Indian airspace’: Rajnath Singh tweets his welcome to 5 RafalesThe first Rafale’s tail number, RB-001, denotes the initials of the IAF chief Rakesh Bhadauria who had led the complex negotiations for the Rafale deal.Former air chief Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, who had been one of the most vocal supporters of the 2016 deal to buy the fighter jets, called the induction of the Rafale into the air force a ‘game changer’. The retired IAF chief told Hindustan Times moments before the five jets landed at Ambala that the Rafale would decide the outcome of any conflict between India and China.The jets, specially tailored for the IAF, started their 7,000 km flight home from Mérignac in France on Monday. The Rafale jets were refueled mid-air by the French air force before it landed at the Al Dhafra air base near Abu Dhabi, a brief stopover before taking off for Ambala early on Wednesday.As it cruised over the Indian Ocean, it was warmly welcomed by the Navy’s warship INS Kolkata deployed in the Arabian Sea. “May you touch the sky with glory. Happy landing,” INS Kolkata said in a brief interaction released to news agency INS.Also Read: Indian Air Force with Rafale has plan to take the fight to ChinaIndia’s Sukhoi Su-30MKI joined them soon after when the five Rafales entered Indian airspace, escorting them through to Ambala. “The Birds have entered the Indian airspace,” tweeted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh with photographs and a short video of the seven fighter jets - 5 Rafales escorted by 2 Su-30MKI jets - flying in formation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-rafale-jets-touch-down-at-ambala-air-base-raise-iaf-s-ability-to-strike-back/story-BRPbyrNMIjk8zBmBVKDRQK.html
29-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan governor cancels ‘at home’ event on Independence Day||Jaipur: Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday cancelled the customary Independence Day “At Home” programme at the Raj Bhavan because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the state. The Governor also used pandemic as one of the reasons not to convene the assembly session, despite the Ashok Gehlot-led government’s insistence and three proposals sent to him. The Raj Bhavan hosts the “At Home” programme on the occasion of the Republic Day and the Independence Day on January 26 and February 15, respectively, every year. “The Governor has expressed deep concern about the severe Covid-19 outbreak in the state. The rising number of active Covid-19 cases in the state is a worrisome cause,” stated a communiqué from the Raj Bhavan. It quoted Governor Mishra, who said that when the Rajasthan assembly was adjourned sine die on March 13, there only two active Covid-19 cases in the state. “There were 3,381 active cases in Rajasthan on July 1, which has breached the 10,000-mark on July 28. The state needs to make serious efforts to check the spread of the viral infection,” it added. Rajasthan reported 38,964 Covid-19 cases until Wednesday morning, including 10,745 are active cases. In a separate move, Governor Mishra, who has been rebuffing the Gehlot government’s move to convene the assembly session, has returned its proposal for the third time, even though the reasons ascribed to it are not clear as of now.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot reached the Congress office in Jaipur with party legislators from the hotel, who have been holed up there along the Jaipur-Hotel highway since a bitter internal power struggle started over two weeks.The Congress infighting has been fuelled by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and backed by another 18 dissident party lawmakers. Though Gehlot had come to meet the new Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra, who has replaced a rebellious Pilot, he immediately drove to the Raj Bhawan, when he heard that Governor Mishra has returned the proposal for the third time to convene the crucial assembly session. Gehlot has been eager to prove his government’s majority on the floor of the 200-member House amid the Pilot faction’s bid to pull the rug beneath the ruling Congress dispensation’s feet that is allegedly being aided and abetted by the main opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party. The ongoing Rajasthan political drama appears to be an echo of what had unfolded in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh (MP) in March and had triggered Kamal Nath-led government’s collapse, paving the way for Shivraj Singh Chouhan taking oath as the MP CM for the fourth time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rajasthan-governor-cancels-at-home-event-on-independence-day/story-1J8GycXiXNB4LUXURP5QoM.html
29-07-2020||India||‘Ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 testing guidelines’: Kejriwal directs officials||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 testing guidelines. As per the existing guidelines, if a patient’s antigen test comes out negative but the person shows symptoms, the RT-PCR test must be done on the patient. Kejriwal tweeted out saying that some hotels that were attached to hospitals to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients are now being released.  Existing guidelines say that if any patient’s antigen test is negative but has symptoms, RT-PCR test must be done on him. I directed the officers today to ensure strict compliance of these guidelines.“In view of the improving situation and all hotel beds lying vacant for the last many days, these hotels are now being released.” Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister also hailed the new employment portal launched by the administration and said he is glad to learn that the “it is proving useful to both job-seekers and businesses looking for workforce”.Also read: Worms in food, complain doctors on Covid-19 duty at Uttar Pradesh hospital Some hotels were attached to hospitals to increase the number of COVID beds. In view of the improving situation and all hotel beds lying vacant for the last many days, these hotels are now being released.“On the jobs portal that we announced yesterday, 4294 employers have registered so far and have posted 1,00,903 vacancies. 1,89,879 job seekers have applied. I am so glad that so many employers are coming forward. I really hope many people get jobs thro this initiative,” Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday. On July 27, the Delhi Hight Court had asked the Kejriwal government why it was going with the Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT), which has a high rate of false negative results, as the primary test for Covid-19 infection.The court directed the Delhi government to “strictly” follow the guidelines on Covid-19 testing as issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and not according to its own interpretation.The chief minister has maintained that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been improving. For now, the national capital has reported nearly 11,000 active cases of Covid-19 while over one lakh patients have recovered or been discharged from hospitals. Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll stands at 3,881||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-strict-compliance-of-covid-19-testing-guidelines-kejriwal-directs-officials/story-L6OJfOcqfIKFNjZ0gbziLN.html
29-07-2020||India||Worms in food, complain doctors on Covid-19 duty at Uttar Pradesh hospital||Doctors, healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty at a Lucknow hospital have complained about the worms found in their food packets. They have also raised complaints against the poor lodging arrangements for them. “Complaining about worms in food has been done several times both by resident doctors and the non-clinical staff. Sometimes not even fan works in the place given to resident doctors to rest after working hours,” said Dr Neeraj Mishra, president of the Uttar Pradesh chapter of the Resident Doctors’ Welfare Association (RDWA).The pictures of worms in food at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) were also shared on social media by doctors. The body of resident doctors has written to the vice chancellor of the KGMU demanding better facilities for doctors on Covid-19 duty.A cleaning staff deployed in the emergency medicine wing of the KGMU, who is staying in the Rain Basera quarantine centre, got an insect in his food packet. A letter was written to the in charge of the quarantine centre.“I was surprised to see a worm in the food served to me. I wish to bring this to your notice,” Jangi Lal wrote to the in charge of the quarantine centre.President of nurses association, KGMU, Yadunandini Singh said, “Insects in food packets show carelessness and also pose a threat to the health of staff who after eating it may suffer illness. Our association will meet the vice chancellor and demand good food for the staff as they are not going home while on Covid-19 duty.”In Basti district, doctors shared pictures of poor quality food being served to them. The staff circulated photographs of the food served on social media. “Food is significant. As patients stay in hospital and depend upon food for proper nutrition so are doctors staying in hospitals for 14-day Covid-19 duty. Poor quality food means poor health,” said Dr Amit Singh, general secretary provincial medical services association (PMSA) the body of government doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worms-in-food-of-doctors-on-covid-19-duty-at-uttar-pradesh-hospital/story-bWAd3kLYVlOS85TZLzGlcP.html
29-07-2020||India||‘Birds have entered Indian airspace’: Rajnath Singh tweets his welcome to 5 Rafales||The five Rafale aircraft, on their way to the Indian Air Force base in Haryana’s Ambala, were on Wednesday escorted into the Indian air space by Sukhoi fighter jets.Defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted several photographs and a video of the Rafale jets entering Indian air space. “The Birds have entered the Indian airspace..Happy Landing in Ambala!” defence minister Rajnath Singh’s office tweeted. The five Rafales escorted by 02 SU30 MKIs as they enter the Indian air space.@IAF_MCC pic.twitter.com/djpt16OqVdAlso Read: Indian Air Force with Rafale has plan to take the fight to ChinaBefore this, the leader of the five-jet contingent of Rafale established contact with a warship of the Indian Navy deployed in the western Arabian Sea.“May you touch the sky with glory. Happy landings,” INS Kolkata welcomed the contingent, according to news agency ANI. To which the leader of the contingent said, “Wish you fair winds. Happy hunting. Over and out.”Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot and the commanding officer of the No 17 Squadron, is heading the aircrew bringing the Rafales to India.The fighter jets will be welcomed with a water salute and are scheduled to be inducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday, though a formal induction ceremony would be held later.The jets will be inducted into the IAF as part of its No 17 Squadron, also known as the ‘Golden Arrows’.Police have tightened security around the air force station ahead of the landing of the first batch of five Rafale jets at Ambala airbase. The squadron of Rafale jets will be stationed at the airbase.Also Read: Missile systems, cold-engine start make multi-role Rafales all the more deadlyThe jets, which took off from the Merignac airbase in French port city of Bordeaux on Monday, covered a distance of nearly 7,000km with air-to-air refuelling and a single stop in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).The fleet of five jets comprises three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft.Authorities have imposed prohibitory orders near the Ambala Air Force Station, banning shooting of videos and taking photographs of the boundary wall of the airbase and its adjoining areas. The district administration has also prohibited people from flying private drones within the three-km radius of the airbase.Section 144, which prohibits assembly of four or more people, has been imposed in the villages adjoining the airbase, including Dhulkot, Baldev Nagar, Garnala and PanjkhoraHaryana Police have also set up several check barricades and police officers were seen patrolling residential localities near the airbase, making announcements over loudspeakers warning people not to stand on the rooftop of their houses to click pictures or shoot videos.Violators would face punishment as per the law, they warned.Hoardings have been erected to welcome the arrival of the fighter jets with some of these mentioning that their induction will further boost IAF’s capabilities.Anil Vij, Haryana’s home minister, said on Wednesday said the people of Ambala are very enthusiastic about the arrival of the jets“This is a very proud and a historic moment for us that the Rafale jets will be stationed in Ambala Cantonment area. Rafales are IAF’s ‘Sikandar’, which will significantly boost our combat capabilities,” Vij said.Thousands would have gathered in the streets to welcome the jets if the threat of coronavirus pandemic had not been there.India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to purchase 36 Rafale jets under a Rs 59,000-crore deal to boost the IAF’s combat capabilities in 2016.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/touch-the-sky-with-glory-ins-kolkata-stationed-in-western-arabian-sea-welcomes-rafale-contingent/story-rcej1daQDsUFh4RNb1tLkO.html
29-07-2020||India||Sachin Pilot tweets birthday wish for Rajasthan speaker amid fight in court||Contesting a disqualification challenge from Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi in court, Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion has kept Rajasthan Congress on the edge, did not forget to wish the speaker on his birthday.“Birthday greetings and best wishes to Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi Ji. I pray for his good health and long life,” tweeted the rebel leader on Wednesday.  राजस्थान विधानसभा अध्यक्ष @drcpjoshi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।मैं ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वास्थ्य एवं दीर्घायु जीवन की कामना करता हूँ।Speaker Joshi is yet to respond or acknowledge the greeting.Pilot, who was sacked as deputy chief minister and as head of pradesh Congress unit, and his 18 MLA are awaiting the high court’s decision on their challenge to the speaker’s disqualification notice. The court has ordered status quo to be maintained on the notices issued to the Pilot camp, essentially meaning that team Pilot does not have to appear before the speaker or answer the notices. The court has also ordered that no action will be taken against in the interim period. The speaker had served the notices on July 15, asking the rebels why they should not be disqualified after they skipped two consecutive Congress legislature party meetings defying the party whip. Team Pilot has argued that a party whip applies when the House is in session, not outside it. Also, mere disagreement does not amount to defection, they added. Additionally, the team argued that notices were a violation of their freedom of speech right. Sachin Pilot has categorically denied that he joining the BJP.Speaker Joshi took the matter to the Supreme Court, arguing that the state court cannot interfere in the legislative business. Also, the court cannot intervene before a decision is made by the speaker. The apex court, refusing the speaker’s plea to stop the state court from deciding, said the “voice of dissent cannot be suppressed”.“Can a person elected by people not express his dissent? Voice of dissent cannot be suppressed. In a democracy, can somebody be shut down like this?” the court asked.The Speaker has thereafter dropped his case in the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-tweets-birthday-wish-for-rajasthan-speaker-amid-fight-in-court/story-x5cxTB1Cp3JuaF25n5WD2H.html
29-07-2020||India||‘Dirt on social media’: Babul Supriyo comes out in support of Alia Bhatt, slams trolls over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Minister of State (MoS) environment Babul Supriyo came in support of Bollywood actress Alia Bhatt who is being trolled over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. In a series of tweets, the Bharatiya Janata Party MP slammed Bollywood director Mahesh Bhatt for comparing Rajput to late actress Parveen Babi and said that because of such comments Alia Bhatt had to face “dirt on social media”.“Here’s the prob•If a super-matured senior personality like #MaheshBhatt met #SushanthSinghRajput just twice, what gave him the right to compare #SSR to Parveen Babijee?Its bcuz of Maheshji/Mukeshji’s comments that super-talented @aliaa08 had to face such ‘Dirt’ on SocialMedia,” Supriyo tweeted. He described the trolling against Alia Bhatt on social media as “criminal” and urged the Mumbai Police to arrest the culprits at the earliest.  Also read: From theft to cheating - Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea ChakrabortyWs appalled to see the kind of 'criminal' trolling @aliaa08 had to face•Wud expect @MumbaiPolice to identity&arrest the culprits soon•Yes, StarKids do get gr8 launches easily but it's only talent that defines if they meet success or failure & @aliaa08 hs proved she pure talent“Ws appalled to see the kind of ‘criminal’ trolling @aliaa08 had to face•Wud expect @MumbaiPolice to identity&arrest the culprits soon•Yes, StarKids do get gr8 launches easily but it’s only talent that defines if they meet success or failure & @aliaa08 hs proved she pure talent,” his tweet read. He also said that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death calls for a thorough investigation and that the matter is “completely different” from the nepotism debate in Bollywood. “Wil not allow Bollywood to be maligned & singled for Nepotism• It’s exits every Field•Finding the circumstances that led to #SSR’s death, probing all criminal aspects, if any, is completely different frm the Nepotism/Outsider/Insider debate,” he said.Meanwhile, Rajput’s death case takes a new twist with the actor’s father levelling a range of allegations against his rumoured girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and six others.Krishna Kumar Singh has alleged that Chakraborty had kept the actor from his family and completely in her possession. She was also handling his bank account. “It was also reported that crores of rupees were withdrawn from his bank account,” Sanjay Singh, inspector general of police (Patna Central Zone). “At one point of time, my son decided to give up films, settle down in Coorg and pursue farming. He was blackmailed by Chakraborty who threatened him that she would make his medical history public and let the world know that he was mentally unstable, putting his career in jeopardy,” the father stated in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dirt-on-social-media-babul-supriyo-comes-in-support-of-alia-bhatt-slams-trolls-over-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-XcgdCHAnl9lP3KqlHdRcjL.html
29-07-2020||India||HC restrains Godfrey Philips from infringing ITC’s FLAKE trademark||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday restrained Godfrey Philips (India) Limited from infringing copyright of ITC Limited in the rival cigarette manufacturers’ FLAKE packs and also from using any imitations of the artworks appearing on the latter’s best-selling tobacco products’ pack in West Bengal and north-east India. Justice BP Colabawalla issued the pro-tem order after coming to the prima facie conclusion that Godfrey Philips had substantially copied the patterns and colour scheme appearing on FLAKE REFINED TASTE pack of ITC on its (Godfrey’s) SELECT pack being sold in the same market --- West Bengal and north-east India. ITC moved HC after Godfrey Phillips adopted new design on its SELECT pack in December 2019. It alleged that the rival had infringed its trademark and sought an injunction, contending that Godfrey Philips had tried to encash the goodwill enjoyed by its FLAKE brand in West Bengal and north-eastern parts of the country. ITC argued that the trademark enjoyed a considerable reputation in these markets and pointed out that it had garnered Rs 50,475 crore in gross sales of the FLAKE brand since 1994. In 2018-19, the FLAEK’s gross sales stood at Rs 6,603.64 crore, including Rs. 3,675 crore earned from the sales of the FLAKE REFINED TASTE brand. Justice Colabawalla accepted the submissions made on behalf of ITC that the trademark adopted by Godfrey Philips on its SELECT pack was a substantial copy of the complainant’s FLAKE brand. “Prima facie, it appears that launch of the defendant’s (Godfrey Philips’) impugned (SELECT) pack in the same market with a strikingly similar artistic label is itself indicative of the defendant’s ill-intent,” said the judge. “Looking at the popularity of the FLAKE REFINED TASTE pack of the plaintiff in these markets (West Bengal and north-east India), where the defendant has also launched the impugned pack, prima facie, it appears that it wants to boost its sales by coming as close as possible to the FLAKE REFINED TASTE brand of the plaintiff,” he added. HC noted that the pack of the Godfrey Philips used boomerang-shaped devices comprising of concentric arcs in gold and red colour scheme on its SELECT pack, which, prima facie, appeared to be a substantial replication of the boomerang that appears on FLAKE REFINED TASTE pack. “It has the same white gold and red colour scheme as that of the plaintiff’s FLAKE REFINED TASTE pack,” said the judge. “It cannot be a matter of coincidence that the stylised “S” adopted (by Godfrey Philips) in the present case is a substantial copy of the boomerang appearing on the plaintiff’s (ITC’s) pack.” The judge also said that the colour combination and the brand name is written in red bold font against a white background, which follows the pattern on FLAKE REFINED TASTE pack, and even the adoption of the five-spiked crest device by Godfrey Philips, prima facie, appears to be a substantial copy of the five-spiked crest device used by ITC on its packs. “Looking at all this material, prima facie, I am of the opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to an injunction in terms of prayer for restraining the defendant from infringing the plaintiff’s copyright in its FLAKE REFINED TASTE pack,” the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-restrains-godfrey-philips-from-infringing-itc-s-flake-trademark/story-niwC1RZocYblzcS3jA5MSL.html
29-07-2020||India||Gehlot meets governor after he sends back proposal on assembly session again||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot met Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday after Raj Bhavan returned his proposal to convene the session of the state assembly for the third time, officials said. Gehlot, while addressing a programme at Congress’ state unit office, said a “prem patra” or love letter has come from the Rajasthan governor. This was the second time he referred to the governor’s rejection as a love letter. “The love letter has already come. Now, I am only going to have tea with him. You have sent the letter a third time. What do you want? Tell us, so that we work in that manner,” Gehlot said in his address at the Pradesh Congress Committee office, where Govind Singh Dotasra formally took over as the new chief of the state unit. Addressing the Congress workers, the chief minister asked them not to be worried and assured them that “the high command is with you all”.“For the first time in history, sit-in protests were staged across the country outside Raj Bhavans. The Speak Up Democracy campaign was successful and it will continue. After the campaign the workers are enthused and a message conveyed in the public,” he said. Gehlot said there will be a new turning point when victory will be achieved in Rajasthan. “We will win and those who have betrayed will be back after apologising the high command and their decision will be followed. People’s trust should not be broken by anyone,” he said. The state government had sent its third proposal to Mishra to reiterate its demand to convene an assembly session from July 31 without mentioning whether it will seek a trust vote in the House. Before that, the governor had suggested a 21-day notice period to convene the House, sought clarity on the session’s agenda and advised live-streaming of the floor test, in case it was held and also asked about Covid-19 related precautions in the assembly. The Gehlot-led cabinet, which met on Tuesday, had claimed Governor Mishra did not have any locus standi in stipulating conditions to hold the session. The cabinet asked Mishra to abide by its proposal and claimed the failure to do so would be unconstitutional. It also asserted that the agenda of the session will be determined by the business advisory committee of the house. It was the speaker’s domain to decide on social distancing norms in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-to-meet-governor-after-proposal-for-assembly-session-rejected-for-the-third-time-say-sources/story-1vXOEO8tN6kDv0LFKgc5zL.html
29-07-2020||India||Names of 20 Galwan Valley martyrs to be inscribed at National War Memorial as tribute||The names of the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the brutal clash at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 will be inscribed on the National War Memorial in Delhi, officials said on Wednesday. The soldiers fought off numerically superior Chinese troops in the remote sector amid a border standoff that has been marked by several skirmishes. Col B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar, was among the 20 soldiers killed in the seven-hour clash near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The names of all battle casualties are inscribed on the memorial, the officials said. During a recent visit to Ladakh, defence minister Rajnath Singh met and acknowledged the bravery of soldiers from 16 Bihar in the presence of the military’s top brass. Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered in the Galwan Valley clash but according to India’s assessment the PLA suffered twice as many casualties. Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly clash between Indian and Chinese troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades. The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/names-of-20-galwan-valley-martyrs-to-be-inscribed-at-national-war-memorial-as-tribute/story-FRmZtWW2DMQOJiMxKNX86H.html
29-07-2020||India||Indian Air Force with Rafale has plan to take the fight to China||While the Indian Air Force (IAF) plan against the threat of Chinese Air Force remains classified, the basic strategy against People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was put to test very successfully during 2018 Gagan Shakti pan-India air exercises. The strategy is simple: Disperse, Absorb, Recoup and Retaliate.Air warriors like Air Chief Marshal (Retd) Birender Singh Dhanoa know that the Chinese will launch a barrage of early long range missile strikes against Indian air bases to incapacitate them. However, according to a March 2020 Belfer Center Study of Harvard Kennedy School, this is easier said than done.Also read: Chinese bunkers at Lhasa airport, just 1,350 km from Delhi, worry IndiaThe study quotes a senior IAF officer saying that the Chinese need 220 ballistic missiles to keep one airfield shut for 24 hours.“This will not make any difference to IAF operations in the east or the west since the Force has a large number of other airfields (from Leh to Pasighat) to operate from. If the PLA air force attacks just three air bases, it will require 660 ballistic missiles per day for attacking the runway and taxi track alone. China’s stock of 1,000-1,200 medium range ballistic missiles or short range ballistic missiles will be over in three days with no other major target system like command and communication centres or air defence units being addressed,” the study says.While recognising the rocket threat from China, the IAF strategy has been fine tuned to an art form and put to practice through more than 6,000 sorties alone on the eastern front during Exercise Gagan Shakti. “The moment the red flag is up, we will disperse the aircraft from the designated fields to all along the border with China with sufficient ammunition in those bases to take care of the air operations,” said a serving Air Force commander.The next step in the Indian counter strategy is to absorb the attack at the air bases and quickly repair the runway and the taxiway. It is understood that the IAF has the capacity to repair the runway and get the air base operational within four to six hours. “We don’t have either the US Patriot anti missile system or the Israeli Iron Dome system. But have a proven capacity, tested under Gagan Shakti to repair the runways within six hours maximum,” said the IAF officer.Former Air Chief Dhanoa explains it by saying that even if Chabua, Tezpur, Leh, Adampur air bases are down, the dispersed aircraft will start operating from other bases like Bareilly, Dimapur, Kanpur and Gorakhpur and a dozen of other airfields. “The next steps are to recoup and then retaliate,” he said.During the 2018 Gagan Shakti exercise, then defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman and then air chief Dhanoa landed at Pasighat advanced landing ground with a Su-30 taking off from the new air strip.While the Chinese rocket attack will damage the Indian air bases, the inherent problem of rocket attack is that it is a one-time attack and there is a limitation on the warhead load.“Just as the Chinese have the missile ranges to reach any corner of India, the reverse is equally true with the Agni V missile ready and operational. To add to this the Indian manned fighters like Rafale and Sukhoi carry over 30 tons of ordnance to be delivered with pin-pointed accuracy. Compare this to a 100 kg warhead on a missile and you get an answer to what is more lethal,” said a senior IAF officer.Even though the Chinese military propaganda is on a full swing with so called use of powerful ammunition, the fact is that IAF has both the capacity and capability to bring the fight to Han China, way beyond occupied Tibet and Xinjiang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-with-rafale-has-plan-to-take-the-fight-to-china/story-LO180PXKHS3YyRO4vDYrpO.html
29-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Guv cancels Independence Day event over Covid-19 situation||Amid political turmoil in Rajasthan, Governor Kalraj Mishra has postponed the Independence Day ‘At Home’ event in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the statement issued by Mishra’s office, the annual event which takes place at Raj Bhawan stands cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 situation in the state. Mishra said when the assembly session was adjourned on March 13, the number of active cases in the state was two and the session was adjourned in view of the spread of the pandemic.The number of active cases on July 1 in the state stood at 3,381, which has gone beyond 10,000 as on July 28, the statement said.“Serious efforts will have to be made to control corona in the state,” the governor stated.Also read: Rajasthan impasse continues as Ashok Gehlot pushes for session  Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra cancels Independence Day 'At Home' event, due to COVID19 situation in the state: Raj Bhavan(file pic) pic.twitter.com/VfgTTKoBSMOn Tuesday, Mishra briefed President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on the coronavirus situation in Rajasthan. The governor said that in a bid to curb coronavirus infections, a door-to-door survey is being conducted across the state. Mishra also informed them about the various measures taken by the state government to tackle the Covid-19 crisis. Meanwhile, the Congress on Tuesday started an online campaign #GetWellSoonGovernor, urging the Governor to stop his “oppressive thinking” and call the state assembly session without any delay. In a series of tweets, AICC general secretary Avinash Pande accused the Governor of “bias” and “oppressive thinking”. “The political developments in Rajasthan reflect that our Governor is also influenced by the oppressive thinking of the BJP, and he does not seem healthy with his biased thinking,” he tweeted in Hindi with #GetWellSoonGovernor hashtag. “It is my appeal that the Governor may recover from the infection of biased thinking so that he can give his consent to convene an immediate assembly session to protect the Constitution and democracy without any partiality,” he said in another tweet.On Tuesday, the Gehlot government sent a revised proposal for an assembly session to the Governor, sticking to its demand that the sitting should begin on July 31 and refusing to mention if it would seek a trust vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-cancels-independence-day-event-over-covid-19-situiation-report/story-djmFfe4ejVjfxyqKxoezgP.html
29-07-2020||India||BSP moves Rajasthan HC, challenges merger of party MLAs with Congress||The Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) on Wednesday filed a petition in the Rajasthan high court (HC), seeking disqualification of six lawmakers, who had contested on BSP symbol in Rajasthan assembly polls in 2018, and later merged with the ruling Congress government last September. The six BSP members of Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs,) who had merged with the Ashok Gehlot–led government, are Sandeep Yadav, Tijara MLA, Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli), and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati). “The merger of these six MLAs is unconstitutional. The BSP didn’t merge with theCongress, either at the national level or the state level. As per law, parties merge, but not legislators. Besides, these MLAs didn’t submit their resignations and as a result, the BSP’s national secretary had issued a whip. They are liable to be disqualified under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India, which deals with anti-defection,” said Dinesh Garg, the BSP counsel. The BSP whip directed its party MLAs to vote against the Ashok Gehlot-led government in any assembly proceedings, including the no-confidence motion, amid the rebellion within the ruling Congress’s ranks led by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and supported by 18 other dissident lawmakers. On Tuesday, Madan Dilawar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, had also filed two petitions in the HC, seeking disqualification of the six BSP lawmakers, who had merged with the Gehlot-led government on September 18, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-moves-rajasthan-hc-challenges-merger-of-party-mlas-with-congress/story-ru7ZJIQh4oybL0xUqYh0uM.html
29-07-2020||India||BSP files writ petition in HC over defection of 6 MLAs to Cong in Rajasthan||Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Wednesday filed a writ petition in Rajasthan High Court against the merger of six of its MLAs with the Congress party in state. In a statement, the BSP chief called the merger of her MLAs with the Congress “unconstitutional”. The BSP had announced on Tuesday, it will move the Rajasthan high court against the merger. Mayawati said the BSP had extended an “unconditional” support to Congress to keep “communal forces” at bay after the 2018 assembly elections.She alleged that Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot merged the MLAs with the Congress out of “malicious intent”. Also read: Rajasthan impasse continues as Ashok Gehlot pushes for session“In Rajasthan, after elections results, the BSP gave unconditional support of all its six MLAs to Congress. Unfortunately, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, out of his malicious intent and to damage the BSP, merged them with Congress in an unconstitutional. He did the same even in his last tenure,” Mayawati said on Tuesday. She said the party is willing to even move the Supreme Court if the need arises.“The BSP could have gone to the court earlier too but we were looking for a time to teach Congress party and CM Ashok Gehlot a lesson. Now we have decided to go to the court. We will not let this matter alone. We will go even to the Supreme Court,” Mayawati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-files-writ-petition-in-hc-over-defection-of-6-bsp-mlas-to-congress-in-rajasthan/story-Fl70fydI4glfeWHfSBNCxL.html
29-07-2020||India||Kerala to receive heavy rainfall; yellow, orange alert issued across several districts||The India Meteorological Department has issued a yellow alert, indicating heavy rainfall, and an orange alert for very heavy rainfall, for several districts in Kerala. Districts like Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Thrissur have been put on yellow alert for today, while Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta are on an orange alert.For tomorrow, an orange alert has been issued for Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. The IMD has also predicted heavy rainfall, coupled with thundershowers, at most places over Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra and at few places over Marathwada this week.Widespread heavy rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls will also be very likely over Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and north-eastern states (mainly over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya) till July 30, the IMD said in its bulletin. Kerala: India Meteorological Department has issued a yellow alert for Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts for today. While, an Orange Alert has been issued for Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts for tomorrow.The MeT department has predicted moderate rainfall with occasionally intense spell likely to occur over the Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining north Coastal Odisha, north Coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining Telangana, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Konkan and Goa during next three-four hours.As per the weather department, Delhi-NCR is very likely to experience moderate rain with one or two spells of heavy rainfall during the evening of July 29 to July 30. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is predicted, with isolated heavy to very heavy showers, over Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala over the coming four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-yellow-orange-alert-issued-across-several-districts/story-76KRF0MP2beq6f7BItF6ZM.html
29-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1.53 million, recovery rate at 64.5%||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is now more than 1.53 million after 48,513 fresh cases and 768 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Wednesday.The country added 946,176 Covid-19 cases to its tally till Wednesday—there were 585,493 infections on July 1—and now has 1,531,669 infections to its count. The number of fatalities stands at 34,193 so far.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, India’s recovery rate has seen a sharp increase from around 53% in mid-June to more than 64.50% till date. With 35,286 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the recoveries stand at 988,029.There have been more than 30,000 recoveries daily for the sixth day in a row now.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe gap between the recovered and active cases has also been persistently increasing—there were 509,447 infections as of Wednesday—data showed.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 2.25%, the government has said.According to data analysed by HT, Karnataka’s trajectory of Covid-19 cases is on a path much worse than Tamil Nadu and Delhi’s and that Andhra Pradesh may cross the Capital’s tally soon.Karnataka, which on Monday crossed 100,000 total cases, in 74 days since its 1,000th case has 101,465 confirmed cases — 30,000 cases more than Delhi and Tamil Nadu in the same time period. Tamil Nadu and Delhi, the second and third worst-hit regions in the country after Maharashtra, had 67,468 and 66,602 cases respectively by Day 74.Andhra Pradesh, the state with the second-highest number of new cases in the past week after Maharashtra, has also seen a near-vertical rise in the last two weeks. Maharashtra could cross another grim landmark of four lakh cases on Wednesday based on the current trend of the daily increase in its caseload. India’s worst-hit state has reported 391,440 cases of the coronavirus disease till Tuesday.Mumbai reported its lowest tally in three months with 700 new cases, the lowest since around the first week of May, on Tuesday.Authorities in Delhi, which has seen a decrease in daily cases, will conduct another serological study in the city to determine how much closer the Capital is to achieving herd immunity to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.The survey will be conducted in the first five days of August to collect blood from around 20,000 people, health officials have said. The results are expected by mid-August.The first survey of this sort showed 22.86% of those tested had the antibodies.There are 16,682,030 infections and 659,374 deaths around the world, according to Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-53-million-recovery-rate-at-64-5/story-3EzxPPylZSptZ4ExTVwy1H.html
29-07-2020||India||From theft to cheating: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea Chakraborty||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has levelled several allegations, including abetment to suicide, against Rhea Chakraborty in connection with his son’s death in his police complaint against her and six others, including her family members.Krishna Kumar Singh lodged the first information report (FIR) at the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna against Rhea Chakraborty and her family under the various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), senior police officials said on Tuesday.The case was filed in Patna as Rajput’s 74-year-old father said he will not be able to go to Mumbai to fight the case due to his health issues. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14.Here are some of the allegations made by Rajput’s father:* The case has been lodged under various sections of IPC including 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 306 (abetment of suicide) and 120(B).* “Sushant’s father has made a serious charge against Rhea and her family. He has alleged that she had kept Sushant away from his family and completely in her possession. She was also handling his bank account. It was also reported that crores of rupees were withdrawn from his bank account,” Sanjay Singh, inspector general of police (Patna Central Zone).* Rajput’s father has said in his FIR that on June 8 when Rhea Chakraborty found that his son’s bank balance was going down, she left with cash, jewellery, laptop, credit card, its PIN number and password and important documents and doctors’ receipts.* “Sushant called his sister and told her that Rhea had threatened him to show doctor receipts to the media and would prove him mad. Thereafter, no person would give him work,” Singh said in the FIR.* “On June 8 night, Sushant’s secretary Disha committed suicide. Rhea had appointed her as Sushant’s secretary. Later, Rhea blocked Sushant’s number on her cell. Sushant was afraid that Rhea could have made him responsible for his manager’s suicide as she had threatened to frame him in the secretary’s suicide case.”* In his complaint, Rajput’s father has also sought to invoke the provisions of the Mental Health Care Act, alleging that the “machinations” of Chakraborty and her family members had caused his son to crack up, despite a successful career in films, and ultimately drove him to suicide.* KK Singh has accused Chakraborty of having befriended Rajput in May 2019 with a clear intent to use his good contacts for the advancement of her own career.* He has also alleged that the actress was aided by her family members, including her parents, since they all were looking to “purloin the assets of my son worth crores of rupees and started interfering in all aspects of his life.”* KK Singh also wants a police investigation to ascertain where the Rs 15 crore deposited in a bank account held by Rajput was transferred.* The complaint said Chakraborty and her family convinced Rajput to leave his own residence and stay at a resort in the vicinity of Mumbai claiming his house was “haunted”.* KK Singh has alleged that Chakraborty got Rajput treated by some “conniving” doctors for mental illness while keeping his family in the dark.* “At one point of time, my son decided to give up films, settle down in Coorg and pursue farming. He was blackmailed by Chakraborty who threatened him that she would make his medical history public and let the world know that he was mentally unstable, putting his career in jeopardy,” he alleged in the FIR.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-theft-cheating-to-breach-of-trust-sushant-singh-rajput-s-father-charges-against-rhea-chakraborty/story-DkKuZSXUmBsxhBip9piO3N.html
29-07-2020||India||Satellite tracking of trains improved efficiency in operations: Railway Board Chairman||Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav on Tuesday said satellite tracking of trains has improved efficiency in train operations amid coronavirus pandemic.“Satellite tracking of trains has improved efficiency in train operations: Around 6,500 locos (electric and diesel) are already equipped with Global Positioning System (GPS), about 6,000 locos to be equipped by December 2021,” Ministry of Railways tweeted.Amid the pandemic, the Railways has increased the freight loading traffic along with the average speed of freight trains. “The freight loading was 3.13 million tonnes on July 27, which is higher than last year for the same date,” the Railways stated in a release.The average speed of freight trains in July is 45.03 kilometre per hour which is around double in comparison to last year for the same month (23.22 kmph).Earlier in the day, Union Minister Piyush Goyal had said that Railways is making strides towards enhanced freight transportation.“In pursuance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiatives to make Railways ‘Growth Engine of Indian Economy’, Indian Railways becomes synonymous to prompt, efficient and economical freight transportation in India,” the Railways Minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-tracking-of-trains-improved-efficiency-in-operations-railway-board-chairman/story-tpC0aRqUmLecOCXLL9IMMN.html
29-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BMC’s sero-survey finds 57% slum residents of 3 wards have Covid-19 antibodies and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.’57% from slums in 3 wards have Covid antibodies, finds BMC’s sero surveyA total of 57% individuals from slums and 16% from other residential areas in three wards were exposed to Sars-CoV-2 and recovered silently owing to the antibodies produced, the sero survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, as part of the national study to understand the spread, has found. Read more here. Pro tennis restart: It’s love-all ladies in Palermo, once a Covid-19 hotspotAs professional tennis takes its first step in the restart process after a four-month hiatus with the 31st WTA Palermo Ladies Open starting on Monday (the qualifiers begin Saturday), it will seek to inject some much-needed positivity with a smooth and safe conduct of the week-long event. Read more here. Happy birthday Sanjay Dutt: Ahead of KGF 2’s Adheera, 5 times he embraced the dark sideActor Sanjay Dutt celebrates his 61st birthday on Wednesday and like last year, it will also be marked with a big movie announcement. The makers of his highly anticipated film KGF 2 will reportedly reveal his look from the movie. Read more here. South Indian actor Vijayalakshmi explains why she tried to commit suicideActor Vijayalakshmi alleged harassment by actor-turned-politician Seeman. Vijayalakshmi had attempted suicide on Sunday. Watch. Monsoon gloom: Let some colour pop and break your monotonyIt’s no secret that the colours around us have an impact on us. Even researches have shown that colours affect our mood, behaviour and stress levels. So if the monsoon is making you feel gloomy, surround yourself with vibrant hues and drive away the blues! Read more here. You won’t believe what is hidden behind a painting in this house. WatchIf you’re someone who has a passion for or is intrigued by hidden rooms, secret passages, and other cool discrete spaces, then here is a video you cannot afford to miss. Additionally, if you’re a bibliophile, then this clip may fill you up with a strange sense of calm. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bmc-s-sero-survey-finds-57-slum-residents-of-3-wards-have-covid-19-antibodies-and-all-the-latest-news/story-rUWf6UGRLFIzDJAUPPlIoM.html
29-07-2020||India||Another minister in Madhya Pradesh CM’s cabinet tests positive for Covid-19||Another minister of Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet has tested positive for coronavirus, as per the minister’s statement on his Twitter handle posted late Tuesday night. The minister’s wife has also contracted the infection. A senior state BJP leader too tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. The senior leader had accompanied the chief minister, state BJP president VD Sharma and a minister on a state government’s plane to Lucknow on July 21 to attend the funeral of MP governor Lalji Tandon. The minister who accompanied the CM to Lucknow was the first minister in the state cabinet to have tested positive for Covid-19 on July 22, the day he attended the state cabinet meeting along with other ministers. The meeting was chaired by the CM who tested positive for the virus on Saturday. CM Chouhan and the minister are being treated at a private medical college’s hospital in Bhopal. Also read: 57% from slums in 3 wards have Covid antibodies, finds BMC’s sero surveyThe minister who tested positive on Tuesday hails from Malwa region, thus, happens to be the second minister in Chouhan cabinet to have tested positive for the virus within a week. The minister said in his statement, “Despite having no symptoms, we underwent a Covid-19 test on the instructions of the chief minister. My wife’s and my reports have come back positive. I hope we will defeat Corona with good wishes of people and work for people with the same dedication. My appeal to my friends is they should undergo the test.” The minister said, “We are going to quarantine at home on doctors’ advice. Those who were in close contact too are going to quarantine at home.” Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, senior BJP leader, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, among other BJP leaders including ministers and several Congress leaders, wished the minister and his wife a speedy recovery. Notably, the minister has to face ensuing assembly bypolls in the state to retain his position as he happens to be one of the 14 ex-MLAs who have been inducted as a minister in the Chouhan cabinet. He had been canvassing for his election too in the constituency for months as he is expected to get the BJP ticket for the bypolls for the constituency. The dates of the bypolls are yet to be announced by the Election Commission. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, CM Chouhan chaired a virtual cabinet meeting from the hospital and shared that he reported no fever and his cough was also controlled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-minister-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-s-cabinet-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Rnx09cV0zvwy88KGtG3HTI.html
29-07-2020||India||Missile systems, cold-engine start make multi-role Rafales all the more deadly||The new Rafale fighters jets will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and prove to be a game-changer with their advanced weaponry, defence experts have said.The jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions — ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. Specially tailored for the IAF, the Rafale jets have cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases including Leh, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, low-band jammers, Israeli helmet-mounted displays and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.These Rafale jets will be armed with Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, MICA multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles — weapons that will allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.The Meteor’s no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium-range air-to-air missiles. The Meteor, with a range estimated to be well above 120 kilometres, outranges any other missile in aerial combat.The Meteor is the next generation of BVR air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. Also read: With Rafales’ induction, IAF will have an edge over neighbours. Here’s howIt is powered by a unique rocket-ramjet motor that gives it far more engine power for much longer than any other missile, said an official.The Scalp is a deep-strike cruise missile known for having pinpoint terminal accuracy through its highly accurate seeker and target recognition system.The twin-engine fighter jet’s ‘payload fraction’ or its maximum take-off weight vis-a-vis its overall empty weight is unmatched in aircraft of the same class. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons and five tonnes of fuel. Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha (retd), a former IAF chief, said the active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar on the Rafale and its weapons package make it a formidable platform.India is also looking at arming the Rafale fighter jets with an all-weather smart weapon of French origin that will allow combat pilots to engage ground targets from a standoff range of up to 60km. The IAF is likely to initiate the purchase of HAMMER (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) using the emergency financial powers granted to the military by the government at a time of border tensions with China.HAMMER is a precision-guided missile developed by French defence major Safran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missile-systems-cold-engine-start-make-multi-role-rafales-all-the-more-deadly/story-ljTLNh5wnvgqkdklfbFhSP.html
29-07-2020||India||Wildlife conservationists blame poaching for lack of rise in tiger numbers in Odisha||While several states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Karnataka, have shown a considerable surge in tiger numbers in the All India Tiger Census 2018, wildlife conservationists in Odisha have slammed lack of growth of tigers in Odisha. The conservationists have demanded the government explain spending crores of Rupees in the name of tiger conservation in the state.The final reports of the 2018 census conducted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority showed Odisha’s tigers numbers at 28, same as it was in the 2014 census. Tiger population in Similipal-Satkosia block is severely depressed, the report said, adding that only one tiger was recorded in the north part of the Satkosia tiger reserve while in Similipal reserve, the presence of 8 adult tigers (7 female and only one 2 male) could be identified.Also read: One in three tigers live outside reserves - ReportWildlife conservationist Biswajit Mohanty there were 28 tigers in 2014 in Odisha. He said the census counts tiger cubs that are more than 1-year-old and they should have been part of the final count too. “Tigers are good breeders. The state should have added at least 12 to 15 more tigers during the last four years if not more. The reason it did not happen is only due to rampant poaching which is taking a heavy toll in tigers of Odisha,” said Mohanty.Mohanty said, as per the state government’s own statistics, Odisha had reported 192 wild tigers including 60 cubs in 2002. “If the cubs are discounted then there were 132 wild tigers which has now fallen to only 28. Thus in 16 years, Odisha has lost 104 adult tigers in though at least Rs 60 crores has been spent on their protection and management by the state. Simlipal Tiger Reserve lost 75 wild tigers as per the state government census figures of 2006 and 2016. No accountability was fixed on the forest officials though we had spent crores on tiger protection till mid-2020,” Mohanty said.Dismissing the state government’s earlier claims of at least 100 tigers in Similipal, wildlife activist Aditya Panda said there is no point living in a dream. “No one is going to be fooled by the claims of government experts that Similipal had more than 100 tigers. The state needs to come clean. It should now set a target for the next 10 years so that the numbers can be revived,” said Panda.Commenting on the failed exercise of India’s first inter-state relocation to Satkosia that was abandoned in 2018 after the death of a relocated tiger from Madhya Pradesh, the tiger census report said the failure was due to the hostility among local communities and their intensive use of the tiger reserve resources for livelihoods. The tiger relocation exercise was suspended in November 2018 after a three-year-old tiger, that was shifted from Madhya Pradesh to Satkosia tiger reserve, died of the wounds it received from the snares laid by poachers earlier that year.“As parts of the tiger reserve and corridors are shared with people, it is also important to strengthen the social carrying capacity. Community participation, alternative livelihoods, and law enforcement are required before tigers can be supplemented in Satkosia,” it said.On Similipal tiger reserve, the census report said as it has a reasonably high prey base, it has the potential to sustain higher tiger densities. “However, consistently low density of tigers in the reserve over the years calls for active management intervention. The management has done a good job of relocating several human settlements from the Tiger Reserve and with good protection from poaching, the tiger population should recover in the near future,” the report said.It, however, said that the current strength of the tiger population in the reserve was facing extinction and it may be prudent to supplement a few tigers from Bandhavgarh tiger reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-conservationists-blame-poaching-for-lack-of-rise-in-tiger-numbers-in-odisha/story-PIM74DhhOLYbzvMpBXnaFJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Rafale is a game changer, Chinese J 20 does not even come close, says former air chief Dhanoa||With the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) concentrated and on the offensive on a barren Tibetan Plateau, the Indian Air Force with Rafale fighter as its spearhead weapon will decide the outcome of the battle in case the red flag goes up, says former Air Chief Marshal B. S Dhanoa. Five Rafale fighters will land at Ambala air base today from France for induction into IAF today .Talking to Hindustan Times, Dhanoa, the chief architect of February 26, 2019 air strikes on Balakot, said that Rafale with its top of the line electronic warfare suite, Meteor beyond visual range missile and SCALP air to ground weapon with its terrain following capability outguns any threat that the Chinese Air Force produces. Painting a wartime scenario, former top gun said : “ If the IAF is successful in destruction of enemy air defences and suppression of enemy air defences, then the Chinese fighters out in the open at Hotan air base and at Gonggar air base at Lhasa airport are fair targets. Some 70 Chinese aircraft are without protection at Hotan and some 26 aircraft may be parked inside a tunnel which the PLA were building at Lhasa air base,” the former air chief said.ALSO WATCH | Touchdown of Rafale jets in Ambala; IAF gives water saluteAlso Read: In China’s troop movements in Ladakh’s depth areas, a hint about its real planWhile Air Chief Marshal (Retd) Dhanoa recognises the threat presented by Chinese J-20 fifth generation fighter, he is very confident that the IAF with its latest Rafale and Su-30 MKI will be able to counter the best the Chinese throw at India in the worst case scenario. “Chinese Air Threat is mainly from their Surface to Air Missile Systems.”Also Read: Four sub-killer P-8I craft coming to India next year, then talks for six more“ If Chinese equipment was so good, then why did the Pakistanis only use F-16 aircraft to attack Nangi Tekri brigade in Rajouri sector on February 27, 2019 with Chinese JF-17 merely giving air defence cover to Mirage 3/5 bombers. The Mirage 3/5 dropped the H 2/4 bombs from a safe distance with the JF 17 in a supportive role providing Air Defence to these aircraft! Why does Pakistan use Swedish early air warning platforms up north and keep Chinese AWACS in the south? Why is Pakistan mounting European radar (Selex Gallelio) and Turkish targeting pod on Chinese JF-17 ? The answer is quite evident,” the former Chief said.Also Read: Twin naval exercises with US supercarriers signal QUAD has arrivedHowever, the brilliant air tactician recognizes the Chinese threat in form of surface to air missile batteries and artillery guns, which the PLA has packed in occupied Aksai Chin. But he also makes it very clear that with no tree line cover available to the Chinese platforms, they would be sitting ducks if the air defence cover is blown over. “ The Rafale with its advanced terrain following weapons and level II of Digital Terrain Elevation Data available to the Indian pilot, the error probability of the weapon is reduced to mere 10 metres. As I have said in the past, Rafale is a game changer,” former Air Chief Dhanoa said.Also Read: US UAV, Israeli loitering bombs as Indian infantry gets lethalWhile Dhanoa appreciates the enemy threat, his serving IAF officers make it very clear that the Chinese equipment is not only inferior to the US equipment but also the Russian equipment. “ Why does Chinese Air Force use Russian Su-30 and Su-35 fighters while facing the US threat in South China Sea? The fact is that the Chinese fighters are no match for the American equipment Majority of Chinese equipment is reverse engineering of Russian equipment and fighters have designs of either Su-27 or Su 30 platform. They are even powered by Russian AL 31 F (Su-30) and RD 33 (MiG-29) engines,” a serving air commander told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-is-a-game-changer-chinese-j-20-does-not-even-come-close-says-former-air-chief-dhanoa/story-3UJINQ1r8cuGputdMeQpOJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Supreme Court cold-shoulders top CBI officer for defying 18-month-old transfer order||A top officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) who played the victim card and refused to join his posting at Port Blair for more than 18 months now got cold-shouldered by the Supreme Court, which refused to tolerate such disobedience. Ajay Kumar Bassi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) with the CBI was ordered by the agency to go to Port Blair on January 11, 2019. However, he refused to go claiming that the transfer order was illegal. His lawyer, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, claimed that the first order transferring him to Andaman and Nicobar Island was passed by the CBI on October 24, 2018. Against this decision, he had approached the apex court complaining that the decision to transfer him was part of a conspiracy to influence the course of an investigation conducted by him against another senior officer of the CBI. Also read: Babri mosque case - Special CBI court completes recording of statementsOn January 9, Bassi’s transfer order was withdrawn after Alok Kumar Verma won the case in the Supreme Court and got reinstated as the CBI director. Two days later, M Nageshwar Rao took over as the acting director of the agency and gave effect to Bassi’s earlier transfer order. Since then, Bassi moved an application challenging his transfer in the Supreme Court, citing “personal domestic exigencies” to his employer. He has since then not being given any salary. The bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “How can you not join your place of posting… Even if an order is illegal, you cannot disobey it. You have to get it set aside by the Court.” Dhavan sought protection for one month citing that the agency had brought out a charge sheet against him, blaming him for approaching the Court without seeking permission from the CBI. Bassi planned to approach the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) against his transfer order. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “We can’t help you… Unless the order of transfer has been set aside or modified by this court, that order stands.” The Court allowed Bassi to withdraw the petition and pursue his legal remedies before any other appropriate forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-cold-shoulders-top-cbi-officer-for-defying-18-month-old-transfer-order/story-TaIR6raNNiquu88HOzE3YN.html
29-07-2020||India||2 Lashkar infiltrators killed, another injured in J-K’s Rajouri||Two Pakistani infiltrators from Lashkar-e-Taiba were killed and one of their injured associates fled back to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district late on Monday, officials said.Lt Col Devender Anand, the defence spokesperson, said the suspected terrorists had not entered Indian territory and the anti-personnel mine was planted by Pakistan on their side. “Around 11pm on Monday, three infiltrators were trying to infiltrate into our territory opposite Kalal area of Nowshera sector. One of them stepped over a landmine and as a result two of them got killed while the third one was injured,” Anand said.“During monsoon, these mines being light in weight drift away from their place and it seems infiltrators stepped on one such mine. The troops had seen the bodies lying in their territory,” said the officer.One of the killed terrorists has been identified as Abid Hussain, son of Khadim Hussain of Naali village in Bhaagsar area of Bhimber district in PoK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-lashkar-infiltrators-killed-another-injured-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-p5NFynfbMbN66RAQiaZdjK.html
29-07-2020||India||With Rafales’ induction, IAF will have an edge over neighbours. Here’s how||Five Rafale fighter jets of the 36 ordered by the Indian Air Force (IAF) from France will land at their home base in Haryana’s Ambala on Wednesday.The new aircraft will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of IAF, which has for long-planned to update its fighter jet force. Defence experts have said the induction of the controversial Rafale fighter jets will be a “game-changer” for India in regional politics of South Asia.France has expedited the deliveries of Rafale fighters to India and five jets are coming to Ambala instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch.Here’s how the Rafale fighter aircraft will add to IAF power:* Rafale, categorised as a 4.5 generation aircraft for its radar-evading stealth profile, is important for IAF since most of the aircraft in its fleet, including the Mirage 2000 and the Su-30 MkI, are classified as either third or fourth-generation fighters.* The Rafale is a twin-jet fighter aircraft able to operate from both an aircraft carrier and a shore base. The manufacturers describe it as a fully versatile aircraft which can carry out all combat aviation missions to achieve air superiority and air defence, in-depth strikes, reconnaissance, anti-ship strikes and nuclear deterrence.* The first Rafale combat aircraft manufactured for India bears the tail number RB-01, the initials of IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. The IAF chief had played a crucial role in the signing of India’s biggest-ever defence deal worth about Rs 60,000 crore.* India had ordered 36 Rafale fighter jets from France in a deal worth about Rs 60,000 crore in September 2016. Out of the 36 Rafale aircraft, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets.* The Rafale jets will be a crucial enhancement to India’s Medium Multi-role Combat Aircraft fleet.* The Rafale fighter jets have been tailor-made for the Indian Air Force. India-specific enhancements include helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with enough storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to lure incoming missiles away.* They will be the first imported fighter jet to be inducted into the IAF in 22 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 fighters. The first Su-30 entered IAF service in June 1997.* The Rafales will be a part of the IAF’s No 17 Squadron, which is also known as the “Golden Arrows”. The first squadron of the aircraft will be stationed at Ambala air force station, considered one of the most strategically located bases of the IAF. The second squadron of Rafale will be stationed at Hasimara base in West Bengal. * The IAF spent around Rs 400 crore to develop infrastructure like shelters, hangars and maintenance facilities at the two bases.* India will be the fourth country, after France, Egypt and Qatar, to fly the Rafale.* The Rafale fighter jet, however, cannot be compared with the J-20, an indigenously developed fifth-generation aircraft of China. The J-20 is soon set to be inducted in large numbers into the People’s Liberation Army Air Force of China after it was successfully developed and displayed.* The 2016 Rafale deal was an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the IAF’s combat capabilities. The count of the IAF’s fighter squadrons had been reduced to 31 compared to an optimum strength of 42-plus units required to fight a two-front war with China and Pakistan.* The first 18 jets, including the four in the first batch, were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected by April-May 2022, according to the original delivery schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-rafales-induction-iaf-will-have-an-edge-over-neighbours-here-s-how/story-DmZfI3d2MAV6wwQuzoxfjN.html
29-07-2020||India||Modi, Mauritius PM to inaugurate Port Louis SC built with Indian aid||New Delhi Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth will on Thursday jointly inaugurate the new Supreme Court built in Port Louis with Indian grant assistance, reflecting New Delhi’s sharpened focus on its “neighbourhood first” policy. The Supreme Court building is one of five projects implemented under a $353-million special economic package extended by India in 2016. The structure is the first India-assisted infrastructure project in the capital of Mauritius. India also announced the implementation of nine “high impact community development projects” (HICDP) in the Maldives on Tuesday. Indian envoy Sunjay Sudhir handed over a symbolic cheque to mark the implementation of projects worth $5.6 million during a ceremony at the foreign ministry in Male, which was attended by foreign minister Abdulla Shahid and members of Parliament. New Delhi has taken several steps in recent days to revive economic activity amid the Covid-19 crisis and to shore up relations with key neighbours amid the border standoff with China. On Monday, India handed over 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh. Over the weekend, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility under the SAARC framework for Sri Lanka. Another $400 million was provided through an extended currency swap arrangement to the Maldives and India will soon “announce another substantial financial assistance package” to help post-Covid-19 economic recovery. The inauguration of the new Supreme Court building in Port Louis will be done via video conference in the presence of senior members of the judiciary of Mauritius and other dignitaries. The building was completed within schedule and below the expected cost, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The building, spread over more than 4700 sq m with 10 floors and a built-up area of 25,000 sq m, has green features and high energy efficiency. It will house all divisions and offices of the Supreme Court. In October 2019, Modi and Jugnauth inaugurated the first phase of the Metro Express project and a new 100-bed ENT hospital in Mauritius, also built under the special economic package. Construction of 12 km of the metro line was completed till last September, and work on a 14-km line in the second phase is underway. “The successful and timely completion of India-assisted high quality infrastructure projects in Mauritius shall also create greater opportunities for Indian companies in Mauritius and in the region,” the statement said. India and the Maldives signed a MoU on HICDPs during the visit of late former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj in March 2019. A grant of $5.6 million was announced for these projects and there was another cash grant of $7 million for small projects. These projects, chosen by the Maldives, are meant to have a high level of community impact and participation in areas such as income generation, healthcare, education and sustainable development. The HICDPs include three fish processing plants in Addu city, the Addu Tourism Zone and a bottled water plant in Hoarafushi, which are being steered by local authorities. Contracts for building the fish processing plants were awarded on July 22 and contracts for five eco-tourism projects are expected to be awarded soon. Sudhir said India’s strategy for development cooperation with the Maldives includes big projects under a $800-million line of credit and a large number of smaller grant projects. He noted these projects are transparent and demand-driven, with full ownership for the Maldives government. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the standoff with China had clearly triggered a policy reappraisal by South Block. “India remains committed to its ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, which has led to many successes. South Asia is of immense importance to India’s national interests and it has to keep pursuing these goals,” he said. “Recent developments pertaining to Iran and Nepal underline the need to pursue the ‘neighbourhood first’ policy with greater commitment and perhaps greater generosity. We can expect more such initiatives, perhaps even for Myanmar,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-mauritius-pm-to-inaugurate-port-louis-sc-built-with-indian-aid/story-umE40MdQKDTLtccAQAiVuJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Watch: Security tightened in Ambala as Rafale jets arrive today, ban on photos and videos||As the first batch of five Rafale aircraft is all set to arrive in Ambala on Wednesday from France to join the Indian Air Force (IAF) fleet, the Ambala Police have tightened the security and prohibited people from taking photos or videos of the jet planes. People have been asked not to go to their terraces for taking videos or photographs of the aircraft.The violators will face an immediate arrest and an FIR against them, the police said. Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code, which prohibits congregation of four or more people in an area, has been imposed near the Ambala Air Force Station in Haryana and in adjoining areas like Dhulkot, Baldev Nagar, Garnala and Panjkhora.The jets took off from France on Monday and will arrive at the Ambala Air Force station after covering a distance of 7,000 kilometres with air-to-air refuelling and a single stop in the United Arab Emirates. The fleet comprises three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft, an IAF official said. Also read: With Rafales’ induction, IAF will have an edge over neighbours. Here’s howAir Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria would be visiting Ambala to receive the Rafale combat aircraft. The planes are expected to take off from Al Dhafra in UAE at around 11 am IST and reach Ambala by 2 pm, news agency ANI reported citing sources. A team of pilots led by Group Captain Harkirat Singh would meet the Air Chief and brief him about their flying and training in France after which the formal induction ceremony of the aircraft would take place. The agreement for the biggest-ever defence deal by India was signed in 2016 for acquiring 36 Rafale jets for over Rs 60,000 crore. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-arrive-today-security-tightened-in-ambala-ban-on-photos-and-videos/story-j2gUqQonezzh1Pl6j6buDK.html
29-07-2020||India||BJP workers told to scale up Covid relief, efforts on flood in Bihar||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has asked its functionaries in poll-bound Bihar to redouble efforts to offer relief to Covid-19 and flood-hit people as the party has begun preparations for the assembly elections in the country’s third most populous state, people aware of the matter said.The elections are crucial for the BJP, which is in alliance with the Janata Dal United (JDU) in Bihar, since it lost power in Maharashtra and Jharkhand last year. They are due later this year as the state needs to have a new assembly in place before November 26.The elections in the flood-hit state would be the first since the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted lives and triggered an exodus of migrant workers to their home states including Bihar.The BJP has also carried out a survey among the migrant workforce forced to return to the state after the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic left them jobless. The survey assessed the response to the aid offered by the state government. “Between July 1 and 10, a survey was conducted across districts to find out the response of the workers and there were no complaints,” said a person aware of the details.The BJP lost the last assembly elections in the state when JDU formed the government with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress. JDU returned to BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA)’s fold in Bihar in 2017.The BJP suffered electoral setbacks after retaining power at the Centre with a bigger majority in 2019. It was unable to form the government in Maharashtra despite emerging as the single largest party following disagreements with its oldest ally, Shiv Sena, over power-sharing. In Haryana too, it could form the government only after Jannayak Janata Party’s support. The BJP was voted out of power in Jharkhand in December 2019.At a recent meeting between state BJP and national leadership, the issue of reaching out to people with aid was underlined, said the people. Leaders of both the BJP and JDU maintain their response to the pandemic has been adequate even as it has had a severe impact on the economy and jobs. They insist it will not have any adverse impact on the electoral outcome.But the BJP is looking at ways to mitigate public anger. In recent weeks, there has been a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. On Sunday, the state’s count stood at 234 deaths and 36,604 active cases. Floods have also hit tens of thousands of people.“There were some complaints of medical negligence in some hospitals, but the government has stepped up efforts. State unit president Sanjay Jaiswal, who was himself infected with the virus recently, took the lead and went for inspections to hospitals to ensure proper treatment for all,” said the person quoted above.A second functionary said BJP chief JP Nadda interacted with the state unit functionaries this week and instructed them to scale up relief measures and ensure people in the flood-affected area are not left without food, shelter, and medical care. “Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we were distributing food parcels and other essentials but with the flooding now in several areas of the state, we will scale up our efforts,” said the functionary, requesting anonymity.Jaiswal rejected allegations that the state’s medical infrastructure is crumbling. “We have ensured that there are medical supplies such as oxygen concentrators and other equipment at all hospitals at the sub-division level. This has also helped ease the burden on AIIMS [All India Institute of Medical Sciences] and a few other hospitals. Medical colleges have also been equipped to handle the patient load and monitoring of the situation is being done on a real-time basis,” he said.Opposition RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has attacked the BJP and JDU for being preoccupied with poll preparations. He has said chief minister Nitish Kumar is wary of the President’s Rule if elections are not held as per schedule.BJP spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain rejected the opposition’s criticism as baseless and added the party or the government have no role in deciding the election schedule.Milind Awad, a professor at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, said the Bihar poll will be focused on Prime Minister Narendra Modi rather than NDA or Nitish Kumar. “It is important to understand that it is for the first time when most of the Bihari working class is home due to pandemic... [under] this situation, failure in handling workers crisis may have a negative impact on the NDA alliance. Also, it is important to understand the dominant agrarian castes sentiment about [RJD leader] Lalu Prasad Yadav; he is in jail. This fact may create insecurity and agony among OBC [other backward class] and most of the lower caste, which may... damage NDA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-workers-told-to-scale-up-covid-relief-efforts-on-flood-in-bihar/story-J3dn2opWqU6CGtOIP3Z8gJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Indore dog rescuer seeks protection on video; police say her credentials are dubious||A 29-year-old woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore has sought protection from the police against “local goons” who she has said have been harassing her for helping stray dogs and even killed a few of them.The police, on their part, said she is a habitual offender. The video clip of the woman crying and asking for help has gone viral on social media eliciting tremendous support for her. The woman introduces herself as Sakshi Sharma in the video and alleges that “local goons” have been threatening her. “They abuse me in an intoxicated state and also attack my dogs, who are like my children. I take care of about 40 street dogs on my own expenses,” she is heard saying in the video. “These goons take drugs near my house and terrorise me. They even killed some of my dogs. I lodged a complaint with Tilak Nagar police station but the police are not ready to take action against them,” she says.Dinesh Verma, Tilak Nagar police station in-charge, said the woman’s real name is Samreen Bano and not Sakshi Sharma. “In March, she had lodged an FIR against a 70-year-old herder when some dogs attacked her goat and later the herder hit the dogs with a stick. She alleged the herder had attacked her too and broken her mobile phone,” Verma said.“Later, she lodged another FIR against some local residents accusing them of drinking liquor in the open. We are investigating the matter. After she posted the video recently a police team approached her to know about her complaint. Then she said she was talking about the old complaints,” he added. Harinarayan Chari Mishra, the deputy inspector general (DIG) of police (Indore range) said they are looking into her complaints.“During the inquiry, it has come to be known that she used to live earlier on Aerodrum Road in Indore calling herself as Samreen Bano, where she fought with many people. An FIR was lodged against her by local people,” Mishra said.“We also found that she lived in Hyderabad and Delhi too with different names. She is also facing some criminal cases too in the two cities. Prima facie, she looks like a habitual offender. We are probing why she keeps changing her name,” he said. The woman has refuted all charges by the police. “A political leader, who is a woman and runs a social organisation, is after me. At her instance police are harassing me by calling me mentally unstable and criminal and not taking action against the goons who are harassing me,” she said.“That’s why I posted the video on social media for help. But the video has offended the police and they have started maligning my image. I changed my religion and that’s why I have two names,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-dog-rescuer-seeks-protection-on-video-police-say-her-credentials-are-dubious/story-dFwWEHjgrMZWqTPZ0nKN4I.html
29-07-2020||India||Flood situation remains grim in Assam and Bihar||Utpal Parashar/ Subhash PathakThe flood situation in Assam improved marginally on Tuesday with rainfall easing even as it threatened to worsen in Bihar with many rivers continuing to flow about the danger level. According to a bulletin by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the number of districts affected by floods dropped from 28 two weeks ago to 21. There has also been a significant drop in the number of people affected by floods in the state; the number, which had risen to 40 lakh ten days ago, is down to nearly 20 lakh people now. Meanwhile, one more death due to drowning was reported during the day, taking the season’s tally to 104. Over 42,000 people displaced by floods are taking shelter in 236 relief camps in 16 of the affected districts. Nearly 1 lakh hectare crop area continues to be inundated, said the ASDMA bulletin. Also read: With more rain forecast, Bihar’s flood situation set to worsenAccording to a bulletin by Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali and Kopili rivers continued to flow above the danger level at several places. The flood situation in Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) has also eased a bit with the submerged area coming down to nearly 75% of the park -- till a few days ago, 90% area of the park was submerged. A total of 137 park animals, including 14 rhinos, have died this season while 163 of them have been rescued, said a bulletin issued by the park.“Rainfall has eased in the past few days and flood waters are drying in most places. The situation is likely to improve further in the next few days as there is no prediction of heavy rainfall,” said Pankaj Chakraborty, state project coordinator, ASDMA.Bihar’s Darbhanga has been ravaged by Khiro and Bagmati rivers for the past week in the wake of rains in the foothills of the Himalayas in Nepal and a swollen Adhwara set a new highest flood level (HFL) of 48.5 metre after 35 years. The water resources department (WRD) has alerted the officials of Kishanganj, Purnia and Katihar districts after the river Mahananda witnessed an upsurge of almost two metres at Taiyabpur in Kishangan on Tuesday forenoon. “The spurt in water level of Mahananda was attributed to heavy rains in Nepal,” said WRD secretary Sanjiv Hans. Burhi Gandak has already flooded parts of Muzaffarpur, Khagaria and Samastipur and Kosi is also flowing above the danger mark. Flood situation in North Bihar region may deteriorate further as the meteorological department has forecast moderate to heavy rains in Nepal and the catchment areas of different rivers. The state has received 706.4 mm rain against normal rain of 484.6 mm between June 1 and July 28 which is 46% above the normal. Darbhanga has received 127 % surplus rain followed by east Champaran with 103% during the same time period. Meanwhile, floodwaters from Gandak, which had breached its embankment at three places in East Champaran and Gopalganj, have entered fresh areas.The disaster management department claimed that about 29.62 lakh people have been affected by the floods in 837 panchayats of 101 blocks of 12 districts across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-remains-grim-in-assam-and-bihar/story-NPeYp49CfxSHmGhqjfw3FK.html
29-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||When we do not know the answer to something we look to Google, so much so that the proper noun has become a verb (actually, it became one officially in 2006 when the Oxford English Dictionary included it).All of us, individuals, organisations, even administrations, should do that (look to Google) now — when planning for our uncertain short-term (the next one year) future.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAfter all, a vaccine won’t be available before the end of the year, and chances are the first vaccines will either not be very effective, or will require multiple booster shots. It is also clear that not everyone is going to get the vaccine immediately. And Google, perhaps aware of all of this (it should be; all the information is available on, er, Google) has decided that its 200,000 employees are not going to return to office before July 2021. This applies to those who work for Google around the world — at its head office in Mountain View, California, but also in countries such the US, UK, India, and Brazil, The Wall Street Journal, which broke the story, reported. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its holding company Alphabet, subsequently sent out a message to employees on the decision. “I hope this will offer the flexibility you need to balance work with taking care of yourselves and your loved ones over the next 12 months,” WSJ reported him as saying in his message.I am not suggesting that everyone and every company move to WFH (work from home). My views on that are known to regular readers of this column — it is a luxury (a sub-optimal one) that takes away more than it gives, although in the current context, the scales are tilted strongly in terms of the latter. Commuting by public transport — many of the journalists in the HT newsroom in Delhi, for instance, prefer the Metro, just like many of them in Mumbai depend on the suburban rail network; most of them are working from home currently — is unsafe. As are air-conditioning systems that do not have the right kind of filters or recommended air-circulation cycles. And the social act of sharing the workspace may well be life-threatening.The big takeaway for me from Google and Pichai’s decision is that it is actually more about stability than flexibility — and a gentle reminder to actually plan for the next year. We have all unconsciously moved to two default planning cycles during the pandemic: the now, and the when-this-is-over. The first helps us survive, get by; the second helps us put things off (and which of us doesn’t like to?). This, despite most of us being aware that the crisis isn’t going to pass anytime soon, perhaps not till a vaccine is discovered and most people have been administered it. And so, to repeat myself, all of us should plan for the next year.Also read: Working from home? Here are some tips to keep the lockdown pounds offAt one level, for instance, Google’s decision makes it clear to employees that they will not be returning to office for the next year (at the least). So, for the next 12 months, they can plan around the certainty that they will be working from home. That’s a big certainty at a time when nothing is really certain. WSJ reports that Pichai’s decision was made, in part, by “sympathy for employees with families to plan for uncertain school years” and by the desire to make it easier for employees to decide where they are going to live for the next year.It’s probably time for companies in India to also start thinking along these lines — provided they are in businesses that are conducive to remote working, however sub-optimal it may be (at least in the current context, safety is more important than efficiency). And it is definitely time for individuals whose plans for 2020 (and longer) were disrupted by the coronavirus disease to pick up the threads and move on and move ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-1jETlwFbDWMMyoKObwg2OL.html
29-07-2020||India||Maharashtra raises claim of ₹15,178 crore for lockdown losses||Although the last instalment of ₹1,644.16 crore towards the GST compensation for the losses in 2019-20 was released by the Centre to Maharashtra on Monday, the compensation of ₹15, 178 crore for the losses in April and May is still pending. The losses are expected to mount to ₹24,000 crore by the end of July. The Centre pays compensation to the state towards their losses in GST collection as part of the agreement between Centre and states when the regime was rolled out in July 2017. With the release of the last instalment accrued in February and March, the Maharashtra’s share in the compensation paid by the Centre in the last financial year touched ₹19,233.65 crore. Maharashtra tops the chart in GST compensation paid by the Centre in 2019-20, followed by Karnataka (which has received ₹18,628 crore) and Gujarat (₹14,801 crore). In the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, the state has sustained heavy losses in the new financial year. “Our targeted monthly collection from GST is ₹9,708 crore. In four months, till July 20, we have received ₹12,907 crore. The losses in GST collection are expected to mount to around ₹24,000 crore till July 31. We have raised the claim of ₹15,178 crore for April and May, as part of the process,” said an official from the finance department. Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance department, said, “What we have received from the Centre is the compensation meant for the previous financial year. The demand for compensation is raised every two months.” Another official from the state government said that as the Centre too was facing a drop in collection, the compensation instalments are released late. “The compensation is given to all states from a separate corpus generated from the taxes on six commodities, including tobacco, motor vehicles and toll taxes. As the corpus fund has dried up owing to the lockdown, the release of funds is delayed. As the claims in new financial year are high due to the lockdown, they are likely to take longer,” said the official. The state had criticised the Modi government for the delay in the release of GST compensation and share in the central tax. Leader of opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said on Tuesday the Centre has made special provision to pay the compensation to states. He said the leaders (from the state government) who were blaming the Modi government should now thank the Centre. The state has sustained a heavy drop in tax revenue collection from various sources, including GST, over the past four months. The accumulated losses between March and July are estimated to be ₹55,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-raises-claim-of-15-178-crore-for-lockdown-losses/story-8PzjQ97WIZ7PLISoJRL9VP.html
29-07-2020||India||Rajasthan impasse continues as Ashok Gehlot pushes for session||In a sign of the deepening rift between constitutional institutions in Rajasthan, the state government, in its third proposal to state governor Kalraj Mishra, has reiterated its demand to convene an assembly session from July 31 — but did not mention whether it will seek a trust vote in the house. The Ashok Gehlot-led cabinet, which met on Tuesday, also claimed that the governor did not have any locus stand in stipulating conditions to hold the session, asked him to abide by the proposal of the cabinet, claimed that the failure to do so would be unconstitutional, asserted that the agenda of the session will be determined by the business advisory committee of the house, and said that it was the Speaker’s domain to decide on social distancing norms in the assembly. Also read: ED summons Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s brother, asks him to appear within 24 hoursSeparately, the Congress accused the governor of acting under pressure of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), while leaders privately said they would wait for the governor’s response before determining their next step. The cabinet meeting followed Mishra’s response to an earlier request by Gehlot to convene the assembly session. The governor had suggested a 21-day notice period to convene the house; sought clarity on the agenda of the session and advised live-streaming of the floor test, if such a test was to be held; and asked about Covid-19 related precautions in the assembly.A senior official at the governor’s office, on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the government’s proposal has been received. The BJP has rejected the allegation and claimed that the entire crisis was purely a result of an internal clash within the Congress.The Rajasthan crisis has seen an open tussle between Gehlot, who claims to have a majority in the house, and his now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and a set of rebel Congress legislators, who allege that Gehlot’s government is in a minority. Gehlot, in recent days, has sought a quick assembly session based on the assessment that he has the numbers in the house, according to Congress strategists. In response to the governor’s queries, laying out the government’s position, state transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “He has no right to be raising queries. Yet we are giving a reply.”On the 21-day requirement — the first point mentioned by the governor — Khachariyawas said that 10 days had already passed since the government had asked for a session, and asked why the governor had not given a date himself. “The governor is the head of our family. Under Article 163 of the Constitution, it is clearly written that no governor of the country can reject the proposal by the cabinet.” Khachariyawas alleged that if the governor did not approve it, it would be a sign that there was “no Constitution”. The minister also asked what would happen if the central government sought to hold a session of Parliament and wrote to the President, who rejected the proposal. “The BJP is doing politics to weaken the Lok Sabha and state assembly.”A Congress functionary involved in political management in the state said that the Rajasthan government, in its reply, has also conveyed to the governor that the Supreme Court judgements Mishra had quoted in his letters restrict his role in convening the assembly sessions. “These judgements clearly state that he has to go by the aid and advice of the council of ministers and that he has no authority to set the agenda or decide the timing and the venue of the assembly sessions,” the functionary added. When asked about the agenda of the session — a point raised by the governor — Khachariyawas said that it was for the Business Advisory Committee of the assembly to decide the agenda. Regarding the social distancing norms in the assembly — the third point raised by the governor — the minister said that the speaker would decide the seating arrangements.Mahesh Menon who teaches law at Daksha Fellowship Programme said, “I do not subscribe to the view that the Governor can exercise his discretion when it comes to calling an assembly session. Even if the Governor can use his discretion, it should not be exercised whimsically.” The Congress, separately, also alleged that Mishra was acting “under pressure” from the BJP government at the Centre. Party general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, in a series of tweets, questioned the Governor for not calling the assembly session and said, “..In the context of the crisis in Rajasthan, the Governor of Rajasthan is adopting a biased approach to fulfil the interests of a particular party, which is violation of the rules mentioned in our Constitution.”BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the post of governor is constitutional, and BJP does not interfere in the work of the constitutional bodies. Claiming that the entire political struggle was an internal fight of the Congress, he said that BJP‘s politics was based on serving people and asked if any party lost its government because of its infighting, how could the BJP be held responsible for it. The Congress functionary quoted above said that the party will decide on its next course of action only after receiving the governor’s response. “We will go step by step and wait for the governor’s reply to decide our future strategy. We don’t want to pre-empt things,” the functionary quoted above said. Asked if the party will take the matter to the courts, he said, “All options are open. We want to make it political fight first and the legal option is always there.” A second Congress leader said there were two opinions in the party on accepting the governor’s conditions for convening the assembly session. One section was of the view that the state government should insist on a short session and stick to the July 31 date, he said. “Some of our leaders say that the state cabinet should clearly mention that it wants a floor test immediately since it had not done so in its earlier communications. The state government will decide its future strategy after the governor responds to its fresh proposals,” the leader added. He said the second view was that the Congress should accept all the governor’s conditions, including giving the 21-day notice for calling the session, and not rush to the court to get the floor test done. The leader further said the Congress will fight the Rajasthan battle politically by taking to streets and keeping its flock (legislators) together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-impasse-continues-as-ashok-gehlot-pushes-for-session/story-7kZ2XpDVjZvIvs28RYsL4I.html
29-07-2020||India||Reports about time capsule being placed underground at Ram temple site baseless: Champat Rai||Reports circulating in the media about a time capsule being placed beneath the site of the Ram temple, Ayodhya are baseless, said General Secretary, Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai on Tuesday.“All reports about placing of a time capsule under the ground at Ram Temple construction site on August 5 are false. Do not believe in any such rumour,” Rai said.His statement, however, comes after the trust president, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, on Monday had said that it is true and it will be done. But, he also said that he does not have much information about the time capsule.“It is 100 per cent correct that a time capsule, enlisting the history and facts related to the Ram Janmabhoomi, will be placed thousands of feet below the construction site. It will be done in order to ensure that there are no disputes in the future. A grand Ram Temple will be built here and all arrangements are in place for Bhoomi Pujan,” he said.“I do not have much information about time capsule, but it will be placed below the construction site,” he added.This comes after Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal on Sunday said that a time capsule, enlisting the history and facts related to the Ram Janmabhoomi, will be placed thousands of feet below the construction site to ensure that there are no disputes in the future.Chaupal, who is the lone Dalit member of the Trust, also said that soil from various teerths (pilgrimages) across the country and water from the sacred rivers is being brought to Ayodhya for ‘Abhisheka’ during the ‘bhoomi-pujan’ which is scheduled to be conducted on August 5 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.PM Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, according to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das.The construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone (bhoomi poojan) in which chief ministers of many states, ministers from the union cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are also likely to participate.According to sources, the ‘bhoomi poojan’ of the temple is to be celebrated on the lines of the festival of light -- Diwali -- with all temples and houses across the country to be lit up with diyas and candles.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, held its second meeting last week.In March this year, the ‘Ram Lalla’ idol was shifted to a temporary structure.The SC on November 9 last year had directed the central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-about-time-capsule-being-placed-underground-at-ram-temple-site-baseless-champat-rai/story-D8PoP8N20GJSaIKLZEPFtJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Indian Navy deepens watch to check China ambitions||The Indian Navy has stepped up surveillance and activities in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), which, it believes, China will “inevitably” try to enter in its quest to become a global power, just as it has laid claim to large portions of the disputed South China Sea, according to a top officer aware of the developments.It is to deal with this scenario that India reached out to neighbours in IOR — Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles and Madagascar, to prevent China from expanding its footprint in the region by creating more bases — and like-minded navies, such as those of the United States and Japan, over the last two months, he added.“It is inevitable that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army-Navy (PLAN) will come to IOR if China wants to become a global power. They are opening multiple routes to the Indian Ocean to overcome the Malacca Dilemma (China’s strategic weakness),” the officer said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The comments come at a time when there are heightened military tensions in eastern Ladakh — where Indian and Chinese forces are locked in a tense border confrontation and disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has turned out to be a challenging process — and China is militarising the South China Sea. Also read: How the cold will alter the India-China power equation next month in LadakhThe Malacca Dilemma refers to China’s apprehension of major naval powers controlling the Malacca Strait between Malaysia and Indonesia and interdicting vital supply lines. A significant volume (more than 80%) of China’s oil imports pass through the strait connecting the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. The multiple routes that China could be looking at to enter the Indian Ocean are further south of Malacca and include the Sunda, Lombok, Ombai and Wetar straits, said a second Indian Navy officer who asked not to be named.“It’s a reality that the PLAN will deploy in the Indian Ocean once its power crosses a certain threshold. Right now, it’s good enough for the South China Sea,” said Admiral Arun Prakash (retd), a former navy chief. India is keeping tabs on China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the Chinese navy doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity, said the first officer. Over the last one month, the navy has conducted joint drills with a US Navy carrier strike group, led by USS Nimitz, and Indian and Japanese warships have carried out exercises in the Indian Ocean, against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff in Ladakh. The India-US exercise involving eight Indian and US warships took place a week ago at a time when tensions have mounted over China’s activities in South China Sea, where the US Navy recently conducted a major exercise that involved two carrier strike groups. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the Indian Ocean region, the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean. “China is claiming almost 90% of the South China Sea. We don’t want that scenario unfolding in the Indian Ocean. We will not allow China to have it easy coming here,” said the second officer. China’s step-by-step inroads into “territorialising” the South China Sea find echoes in some parts of IOR, not by trumped up claims because that would be blatant neo-colonialism but with more sophistication, said naval affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd) “Its (China’s) diplomacy and economic influence when combined with port investments, logistics bases, all of which could be for dual-use and their sustained deployments in the IOR, are of serious concern,” Shrikhande said. The stage is also set for Australia to be part of the next Malabar naval exercise conducted by India with the US and Japan, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 17. The next edition of Malabar, already delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, is set to be held by the end of the year. China has also been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue, or Quad, that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. “We are already operating with these navies. We don’t need time to put the Quad into effect if the government gives us the go-ahead… It’s not that we are aligning with the US. Our actions are guided by national interest and what you see unfolding is issue-based convergence of interests,” said the first officer. China began deploying troops to its first overseas naval base at Djibouti in the Horn of Africa in July 2017, in what some global experts said was the outcome of Beijing’s ‘debt-trap diplomacy’. Mounting debts have led countries such as Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Pakistan to give control of territories, which are of strategic significance, to China. The base in Djibouti has shored up China’s capabilities to sustain naval units in the Indian Ocean. “In recent months, with much of the world preoccupied with the Covid-19 pandemic, China has sharply escalated its coercive activities. In early April, a Chinese Coast Guard vessel sank a Vietnamese fishing boat close to islands claimed by both China and Vietnam. A Chinese marine survey vessel harassed a Malaysian oil exploration vessel off Borneo. This month, the [US] department of defense voiced concern about the Chinese navy’s decision to seal off an area around the Paracel Islands to conduct naval exercises. In response, the United States increased its own naval activities, including joint exercises by two aircraft carrier groups,” the New York Times said in an editorial on Monday.The Indian Navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row. It has positioned warships along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points and the vessels could be diverted for any mission. Indian warships are deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa.While the Indian Navy is keeping a sharp eye on the Indian Ocean, it is also playing a key role in the Ladakh sector. The navy’s P-8I maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircraft, imported from the US, are being used for surveillance of the Ladakh sector and gathering intelligence on Chinese deployments across the contested LAC. The primary role of the P-8Is encompasses carrying out anti-submarine warfare, anti-surface warfare, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance of the oceans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-deepens-watch-to-check-china-ambitions/story-ZfnCd24w0qR4nRY8XzRyjM.html
29-07-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally reaches 391,440, toll is 14,165||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 7,717 new Covid-19 cases pushing the state’s tally to 391,440. The state could cross another grim landmark of 4 lakh cases on Wednesday, based on the current trend of the daily caseload increase. Mumbai reported its lowest tally in three months, with 700 new cases on Tuesday, which took the city’s tally to 110,882. For the second day in a row, the number of discharged/recovered patients in Maharashtra is more than the new cases reported. The state’s active case tally stood at 144,694, with 10,333 patients being discharged on Tuesday. So far, 232,277 people have recovered in the state. The active case count in Mumbai now stands at 19,990. Maharashtra also recorded 282 fatalities taking the toll to 14,165. Mumbai recorded 55 new fatalities, which pushed the toll to 6,187. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases and fatalities in the country, could become the state with the highest CFR, as the gap between CFR of Gujarat and Maharashtra – the top two states – is narrowing. As per the data of state Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) released on Tuesday, CFR of the state is 3.62%, while Gujarat’s CFR is 4.13%. On June 28, Gujarat’s CFR was 5.83%, while Maharashtra’s was 4.57%. On May 28, CFR in Maharashtra was 3.33%, while it was 6.17% in its bordering state. Till July 27, Gujarat has reported 2,348 fatalities and 56,874 cases. State health minister Rajesh Tope dismissed the comparison and said the Maharashtra government has been transparent in its data and dealing. “Gujarat must not be testing aggressively and therefore the numbers are low there. The Maharashtra government has always been transparent in its data. We have equipped districts with infrastructure, including ventilators, anti-viral drugs, and guidance from the task force, to bring down the fatality rate,” he said. The silver lining, according to state officials, is the CFR in Maharashtra is dropping. A health department official said the two states should not be compared as the protocol and processes followed in the two states would be different. The official, requesting anonymity, said, “There is a task force in each district and a uniform treatment protocol has been prepared. There are a few districts and semi-rural areas which have a higher death rate. For instance, Solapur city has a CFR of nearly 8%. It has reduced than a few days ago. Timely detection and hospitalisation is the key, which has been drilled into districts and city administration. Besides, coordination between the state task force and the district task force has been increased.” Tope said they are looking at measures to reduce fatalities. “The task at hand is to reduce CFR in the state. The chief minister also earlier has given his directions on the matter. We have given funds to the district administration to procure the anti-viral drugs, remdesivir and tocilizumab, based on their requirement. The companies will provide adequate stock and delivery,” Tope said. An official from the MEDD said, “On an average, a patient is hospitalised after five to six days of developing symptoms. This ratio needs to come down so that doctors get enough time to treat the patient.” As per latest MEDD data, 70% of the deaths that occurred are of people with co-morbidities, while the remaining 30% of victims did not have any co-morbidities. Meanwhile, the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, excluding Mumbai, to the daily caseload in the state reduced to 19.73% on Tuesday. MMR contributed to 40% of the total cases in June and during the first week of July. The lockdown in most of the municipal corporation areas in the MMR is showing results, officials said. The stabilising of figures from MMR would have a bearing on the restrictions for Mumbai as a lot of floating population comes from the adjoining areas of Mumbai. Thane city recorded 191 new cases, while Thane district that comprises of rural areas recorded 147 new cases on Tuesday. Kalyan-Dombvli saw 219 new cases, while Navi Mumbai recorded 335 new cases. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 1,182 and 673 cases, respectively. Pune city recorded 23 fatalities taking the city’s tally to 1,318. Aurangabad city recorded 576 new Covid-19 taking the city’s tally to 9,635. Jalgaon district recorded 312 new infections, while Pune district recorded 340 new infections. In the past 24 hours, Maharashtra conducted 43,160 tests and recorded 7,717 cases. The overall positivity rate in Maharashtra stood at 19.88%, with 19,68,559 samples so far. Currently, 885,545 people are in home quarantine and 42,733 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-reaches-391-440-toll-is-14-165/story-Cqnbw4pj2XjjisOFSwCflI.html
29-07-2020||India||Bhagirathi expert panel didn’t agree on zonal plan, reveal documents||Expert members of a National Green Tribunal (NGT) committee constituted to prepare the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone’s zonal master plan (ZMP) disagreed with its final draft finalised by the Uttarakhand government, citing concerns over issues such as cutting into the slopes for roads and change in land-use norms. The concerns have been highlighted in the annexures to ZMP published on the Union environment ministry’s website. A separate scrutiny committee constituted by the Union water resources ministry following a 2018 Supreme Court order also did not approve ZMP, the committee members noted.The eco-sensitive zone stretches from Gaumukh to Uttarkashi and covers an area of 4179.56 sq km across 88 villages.Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on July 17 said his ministry has approved ZMP, which will help expedite the Chaar Dhaam road project for four pilgrimage sites in Uttarakhand.ZMP allows for land-use change for civic amenities and other infrastructure development in “larger public interest and national security” paving the way for the road project.In a statement on July 17, the environment ministry said ZMP emphasises governance in the areas of forest and wildlife, watershed management, irrigation, energy, tourism, public health and sanitation, road infrastructure, etc. It added ZMP’s approval will boost conservation, the ecology of the area, and permitted developmental activities.Activists and experts have said the approval of ZMP could make the entire Bhagirathi region vulnerable to natural disasters.Professor Vinod Tare, an Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur professor who has been member of both committees, said no meeting was ever called of the NGT panel members. “We were asked to give our comments over email. When meetings were called, they were with Uttarakhand government officials, who were focused on presenting government schemes and projects. So, it is obvious that our comments have not been incorporated.”NGT constituted the committee in 2017 following activist Keshar Singh Panwar’s petition against a ZMP drafted for the eco-sensitive zone in 2016 because it was lax on protecting the region. The panel included geologists, engineers, hydrologists, and environmental experts, who were asked to prepare a fresh ZMP.As per the minutes of the NGT committee meetings, the members highlighted slope cutting as inappropriate as this could trigger landslides, soil erosion, and generate debris. They also cited a lack of clarity on initiatives like “Winter Chaar Dham” for winter tourism and noted road widening could lead to loss of deodar trees and a lack of livelihood opportunities for the local people.Ravi Chopra, an NGT committee member, in his submission on June 11, 2018, called the final ZMP draft a missed opportunity. “…the final draft thus deviates substantially from the letter and spirit of the guidelines given in the December 2012 Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone Gazette Notification (and amended in April 2018). It remains largely faithful to the rejected ZMP of October 2016. Based on the foregoing, it is not possible to accept the draft ZMP...”In 2018, Tare wrote to the Uttarakhand government, saying the most important suggestions could not be seriously considered. “…much of the committee time was used for the presentation of material prepared by various departments… I once again request that a meeting of only committee members be arranged and the present version of ZMP be reviewed and modified. Otherwise, it is not in order to state that the ZMP is endorsed by the committee,” Tare wrote, as per the annexures.“A final view on the draft ZMP was taken by the Uttarakhand government after seeking comments of the NGT committee. It was only then that the ZMP was forwarded to MoEFCC for approval,” said Arvind Singh Hyanki, who as secretary forests, Uttarakhand, sent the draft ZMP to the Union environment ministry for its approval in September 2018. Hyanki is presently Kumaon’s commissioner.Panwar moved the Supreme Court in 2017 asking that the NGT committee be changed because it is headed by the additional chief secretary, Uttarakhand, who has been involved in granting clearances to hydroelectric projects. Responding to the appeal, the court in July 2018 directed the Union water resources ministry to get the ZMP scrutinised by an 11-member independent committee before approving it.But there is no mention of the water resources ministry’s committee in the ZMP approved by the environment ministry. “We had shared the draft ZMP with all 11 expert members and received their comments on email. The summary of these comments [is] with the environment ministry but I am not sure if they have been incorporated. We did not participate in the meeting where the ZMP was approved,” said U P Singh, secretary, water resources.RP Singh, secretary, environment ministry, said the water ministry’s comments were also considered while approving ZMP.“The water ministry had mailed me ZMP and sought my comments. ZMP is a very good idea. It should be implemented for the entire Himalayas not just Bhagirathi. I sent the water ministry a number of comments on issues I had noticed because the zone is geologically very sensitive. But I was never communicated what happened to those comments, and how they are being used,” said Navin Juyal, a geologist at CSIR’s National Physical Laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhagirathi-expert-panel-didn-t-agree-on-zonal-plan-reveal-documents/story-VHirqpdrlshdJqJfMoHw0N.html
29-07-2020||India||ED summons Gehlot’s brother||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) issued summons to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s brother Agrasain Gehlot to appear at its headquarters in Delhi on Wednesday in connection with its probe into alleged money laundering in the export of fertilizers meant for Indian farmers, officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday. According to an official who asked not to be named, the agency is required to question Agrasain Gehlot since he, through his company, played a key role in the alleged violations. The official did not give details of what the allegations were about. ED’s probe is based on an investigation carried out by the customs department and the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) in 2009 in the export of Muriate of Potash or MOP, which is a restricted commodity for export under the foreign trade policy. According to the probe, it is suspected that Gehlot’s company diverted about 35,000 metric tonnes of MOP valued at Rs 130 crore in international market. The anti-money laundering probe agency had, on July 22, conducted raids at his premises apart from several companies and individuals in Rajasthan, Delhi and West Bengal. A Customs’ department investigation report, reviewed by HT, alleges that Agrasain Gehlot’s company – M/s Anupam Krishi –played a key role in the export of MOP to companies in Malaysia and Singapore. It added that Agrasain Gehlot “knowingly opted to become a part of the syndicate in the entire chain of conspiracy by facilitating the said consortium (of private companies) by supplying subsidized MOP, which was meant for sale to farmers only and forged documents for which he admittedly gained certain amount as his commission”. The Congress had, on July 22, termed the ED action against Ashok Gehlot’s brother a “raid raj” created by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership in Delhi. The party added that the Centre was using federal agencies to arm-twist lawmakers to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-gehlot-s-brother/story-lpzBgFIyFpqBOwbvUpuJBI.html
29-07-2020||India||Elgar Parishad case: NIA arrests DU professor Hany Babu||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested Delhi University professor Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, in which 11 other activists and intellectuals are accused of conspiring with Maoists to foment violence in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village two years ago. Two NIA officials, who didn’t wish to be named, said Babu, a 54-year-old associate professor of English, was arrested in Mumbai after four consecutive days of questioning. One of the officers said he was suspected to have close links with Maoist leaders and co-conspirators in the case -- including activist Gautam Navlakha, scholar Anand Teltumbde and poet-activist Varavara Rao -- and that the agency had irrefutable evidence in the matter. The NIA spokesperson said investigation revealed that senior leaders of CPI (Maoist), an organisation banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, were in contact with the organizers of Elgar Parishad -- an event held in Pune on December 31, 2017 and attended by hundreds of activists -- and Babu to “spread the ideology of Maoism“ and encourage “unlawful activities”. Babu will be produced before NIA special court in Mumbai on Wednesday. Investigators say that speeches made at the Elgar Parishad event, which was allegedly funded by Maoists, aggravated caste clashes that broke out near Bhima Koregaon village on January 1, 2018 during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war commemorated by Dalits. One person died in the clashes that also sparked widespread protests by Dalit groups that shut down Maharashtra later that month. Pune (city) police have filed two charge sheets, the first in November 2018 against several activists for their alleged Maoist links and a supplementary charge sheet in February last year. Apart from Rao, Navlakha, Babu and Teltumbde, those accused of helping Maoists include activist Sudha Bhardwaj, activist Arun Ferriera, lawyers Vernon Gonsalves and Surendra Gadling, activist Rona Wilson, former professor Shoma Sen, social entrepreneur Mahesh Raut and activist Sudhir Dhavale. Maoist leaders including Ganpathy, Kishan Da alias Prashant Bose and Prakash alias Rituparn Goswami are also named as accused in the charge sheets. On September 11 last year, Babu’s house in Noida was searched by Pune Police and material recovered from his laptop, phone and hard drives was shared with NIA when the latter took over the case in January this year. Babu’s Jenny Rowena, a professor at Miranda House college in Delhi, said she intended to approach the courts against the arrest. She said Babu was summoned by NIA earlier this month. “He wrote to the agency asking for an extension since he would not be able to travel during a pandemic. The extension was granted for one week and he went to Mumbai on July 24,” she said. Rowena added that the investigating agency was “just talking to him and asking questions” before his arrest on Monday. “They said that they have found a folder on his computer which has incriminating material against him. Other than that, they don’t have anything. These are letters written by some other people saying he is a Naxal leader etc. Why would somebody keep such a folder on his own laptop? These were not his documents but were shown as his. He said that he didn’t know about the documents and had nothing to do with him,” she said. Delhi University refused to officially comment. “University cannot interfere because this is a matter of national security and it is being investigated by the NIA,” said a senior DU official on condition of anonymity. A second official added, “Since we have not received any official information on this matter, we cannot comment on it for now.”DU teachers’ association president Rajib Ray, said, “We have known him as a fantastic teacher. He has been a great voice for the oppressed and he should not be harassed like this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-arrests-du-professor-hany-babu/story-OoNmpP7x6LiCinioZbi8dK.html
29-07-2020||India||Will move HC over defection of 6 BSP MLAs to Congress, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday hit out at Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot for the defection of her party’s six lawmakers in the state to the ruling Congress in 2019, saying they could have moved court against it earlier but were looking for the “right time” to teach them a lesson.In a statement, she called the merger of the six with Congress unconstitutional” as BSP announced it will move the Rajasthan high court against it. Mayawati said BSP supported the Congress to keep “communal forces” at bay after the 2018 assembly elections.BSP’s Rajasthan chief, Bhagwan Singh Baba, called the merger unconstitutional. “We are preparing a petition and will file it soon,” said Baba.The announcement came on the day Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Madan Dilawar filed two petitions in the high court seeking the disqualification of the six. The petitions were filed a day after speaker C P Joshi upheld the merger and the high court dismissed Dilawar plea that questioned it.“Joshi dismissed our plea without hearing our line of argument. This prompted us to move the high court against the speaker’s decision. We have prayed before the court to disqualify the six BSP MLAs and pass an order that upholds justice and equality,” said Ashish Sharma, Dilawar’s lawyer.The six are crucial to Gehlot, who commands a narrow majority in the 200-member assembly. He has the support of 101 legislators, excluding the speaker, amid the crisis he faces with the rebellion former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has 18 other Congress members. The BJP and has 72 members while another lawmaker, Bhanwarlal Meghal, is indisposed and considered close to Pilot. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said Mayawati was taking these steps due to “certain compulsions”. “If some leaders become helpless, they also tend to leave their ideology and also change their old stance. But nobody takes these helpless leaders seriously rather no one should,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-move-hc-over-defection-of-6-bsp-mlas-to-congress-says-mayawati/story-JFTZaTAZHcYLi3dciifO1M.html
29-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s youngest girl to scale Mt. Everest now starts 10-year mountaineering project for women from across country||In a novel bid, Uttarakhand’s youngest girl to scale Mt. Everest last year has now started a 10-year mountaineering project for women from across the country who do not get a platform to showcase their mountaineering skills. Sheetal Raj, who scaled Mt. Everest last year to become the youngest in the state to achieve the feat, said that after achieving her goal, she wanted to do something to bring more women in the field of mountaineering which is mostly a male dominated field. “After I had scaled Mt. Everest, my only wish was to see more women to come into this field. Many women have the potential to reach great heights but do not get a platform where they can be given training or the financial support. With this project, I aspire to train girls and women in mountaineering and help them go for expeditions in future,” said Raj. For the first year of training, around 30 women have been selected who have been trained in Darma Valley in Pithoragarh district at a height of 3000m under an organisation named ‘Climbing Beyond the Summit’ (CBTS). Raj and her coach Yogesh Garbiyal founded this organisation to promote mountaineering among women. She said that first these women are being given basic training and then they will be enrolled with Nehru Institute of Mountaineering for certification course before the final expedition. Girls and women from the age group 13-40 have been selected for the first expedition. Garbiyal, co-founder of CBTS said that the project not just aims to bring women into the field of mountaineering but also give exposure to women from local areas and train them with basic mountaineering skills which they can use to become trek and tour guides. “There are many places in the remote areas of Uttarakhand which have potential for tourism but not many people know about them. We are taking these women for training in the three valleys, Darma, Vyans and Chaudans. The women can use the exposure learnt from these training sessions to connect it to livelihood opportunities in tourism sector,” said Garbiyal. He further said that women selected from other areas like Mumbai and Pune have been selected from their online platform and those with basic certification in mountaineering were selected so that they can get a platform “to further polish their skills and join the expedition in future.” The selected women were supposed to go on their first expedition in September this year, but due to Covid-19 epidemic they have postponed it by a year and plan to take the women on expedition next year with better practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-youngest-girl-to-scale-mt-everest-now-starts-10-year-mountaineering-project-for-women-from-across-country/story-ldyKGMS5ODtjKvbruA5lIJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Support, sympathy for Sachin Pilot waning within the Congress||Sympathy for former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot within the Congress appears to be waning as he continues to lead the rebellion against chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Soon after Pilot rushed to Delhi along with 18 other legislators on July 11, a host of Congress leaders, including Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha, expressed concern over the developments in the grand old party. “Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?” Sibal tweeted on July 12. His views were echoed by Tankha. “Kapil ji your worry is every party member’s concern. It’s time to strengthen the party to fight forces, who have only 1 agenda -- weaken Congress and our democratic values and institutions,” he responded on Twitter. The sympathy factor increased after Pilot was removed as Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and the state Congress chief for twice skipping the legislature party meetings in Jaipur with several party leaders calling it unfortunate and sad. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, senior spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi, former union minister Salman Khurshid, Shashi Tharoor Jitin Prasada and Priya Dutt, all hoped that the situation would be salvaged and that a reconciliation was possible. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to Pilot as did former union finance minister P Chidambaram who advised Pilot to seize the opportunity and meet the party leadership to discuss and resolve all the issues. Both Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi were also keen to see an immediate end to the impasse and deputed some senior leaders to hold discussions with Pilot. All that happened before July 14. Hours before the Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party (CLP) met on July 14 morning, the emissaries reached out to Pilot to resolve the crisis. Prasada and Dinesh Gundu Rao apparently told Pilot that if he did not want to attend the CLP meeting, he should at least address the media in Delhi and clarify that he was a “loyal solder” of the Congress and would not do anything to bring down the state government. But Pilot turned the offer and insisted on his demand for immediate removal of Gehlot as the chief minister. For his part, Gehlot also hardened his stance. The same day, Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and the head of the state unit. On July 15, the speaker of the Rajasthan assembly sent a disqualification notice to Pilot and the 18 MLAs loyal to him. On July 16, Pilot and the dissident lawmakers challenged this notice in the Rajasthan High Court. Around the same time an audio tape surfaced, allegedly referring to a plot to overthrow the state government. All of this seem to have made it difficult for the Congress to attempt a reconciliation with Pilot. On July 20, much to the party central leadership’s discomfiture according to people familiar with the matter, Gehlot lashed out at Pilot, calling him useless and worthless. As the legal battle continued, Sibal, representing the Congress in it, seemed to suggest that Pilot was being over ambitious. “I want to know from my good friend, what is it you want now? You can’t be a chief minister with 20-25 people, in any case you can’t become chief minister. If there is any other grievance, let us know, at least tell the people of this country. What is this dissent that you are talking about, dissent about what? And if you are not happy with the way of functioning of a particular person, you should tell us, we will talk about it, and then why are you put up in another state, which does not belong to you or which you are not a member of the legislative assembly or why have you taken people there, whoever is supporting you?” he said while addressing a virtual press conference on July 24. “Is it just flexing muscles, what is it? You say, you don’t want to join BJP and we believe you. If that is the case and you are still a Congressman as you say then why don’t you attend Congress meetings and express your view, whatever you want to add or is it that you have already made up your mind and already have a deal with somebody on this. , I don’t know, but, at least you should make it open as I am asking these questions openly from you, nothing against you. As a person I am a little intrigued, and the party is a little intrigued at your acts,” he added. On Monday, Chidambaram questioned Pilot’s position and his silence. “I spoke to him many many days ago. I have not spoken to him in the last 10 days or so, he has not called me either. It seems to me that he is embracing the BJP. In fact, he should be the first to stand up and say, `Pplease call the assembly session and then we will know which party he belongs to and what he will do,” he said. He also questioned Pilot’s silence on calling the assembly session. “Mr Pilot has maintained that he belongs to the Congress party. He also maintains that Mr Gehlot has lost his majority. The BJP’s position is that it is not an occasion to call a session. Now, where is Mr Pilot’s stand? And why is Mr Pilot silent on calling a session? I think, the question should be put to Mr Pilot? It will be very useful to know what his answer is,” Chidambaram added. A Congress leader involved in attempts to manage the crisis said Rahul Gandhi was initially keen on doing whatever it took to retain Pilot but that this “sympathy too seems to be waning now.” While Pilot could not be reached for comments, his supporters said the Congress lawyers who represent Gehlot in courts will speak the chief minister’s tune. “One one hand, the Congress is saying doors are open for Pilot and on the other the chief minister hurls abuses on him and he is not even reprimanded. Isn’t this double speak?” a leader close to Pilot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-sympathy-for-pilot-waning-within-the-congress/story-hP8ADRrgXXADPwn3XkbcPK.html
29-07-2020||India||Railways freight traffic improves amid economy revival hopes||The ministry of railways on Tuesday said its freight traffic on July 27 was marginally more than that on the same day last year and also doubled the speed of its freight trains “in spite of Covid-19 related challenges.”The national carrier increased the average speed of its freight trains on July 27 was 46.16 kmph which is more than double, the 22.52 kmph of July 27 last year. According to the ministry, average speed in July was 45 kmph compared to 23.2 last year. The speed may be because of a clearer network. The suspension of passenger trains since March 22 has led to decongestion of a bulk of the national transporter’s network. At present only 230 special passengers are plying while cargo and parcel trains have continued to operate through the lockdown and after it. “In the month of July the average speed of freight trains is 45.03 kmph which is around double as compare to last year for the same month (23.22 kmph). West Central Railway with the average speed of 54.23 kmph, Northeast Frontier Railway with the speed of 51 kmph, East Central Railway 50.24 kmph, East Cost Railway 41.78 kmph, South East Central Railway 42.83 kmph, South Eastern Railway 43.24 kmph and Western Railway with the speed of 44.4 kmph are the leading Railway Zones in the average speed of freight train in Indian Railways,” the ministry said.Despite the higher freight loading on July 27, overall loading of freight trains remains 18.18% less than last year. Frieght loading is a proxy for the economy. In general, as the economy revives and grows, the volume of freight increases. On July 27, a total 1039 rakes loaded with freight were ferried by Indian Railways, including 76 rakes of foodgrain, 67 rakes of fertilizer, 49 rakes of steel, 113 rakes of cement, 113 rakes of iron ore and 363 rakes of coal. “Railways has achieved record loading of foodgrains this fiscal which is 80%more than last year, and has also introduced time-tabled (scheduled) parcel services , 4541 services and transported 2.41 lakh tonnes cargo generating a revenue of Rs 86.88 crore (From March 22 till July 27),” railway board chairman VK Yadav said at a press conference on Tuesday.Food grain distributions during the lockdown had more than doubled with Indian Railways transporting 5.2 million tonnes of foodgrains in the month of April since the country went under a lockdown on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, Hindustan Times reported on April 27.In our country the problem has been the sharing of tracks between passenger and freight trains. Hence speed was lower. In the post Covid period, due to lower frequency of passenger trains, speed and hence frequency of freight trains may have increased. The most important thing to note is that with the commissioning of dedicated freight corridors in the next 2 years, this is going to be the new normal. The effort to on-board private players to run passenger trains has also been timed accordingly,” said Arindam Guha, Deloitte India’s partner. Railways has set an ambitious target of achieving 50% more freight loading in the current financial year as compared with FY 2019-2020, Yadav said.“These improvements in freight movements will be institutionalized and incorporated in the upcoming zero based time table. These steps will lead to significantly higher freight traffic and earnings for Railways and cost competitive logistics for the entire country,¨ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-freight-traffic-improves-amid-economy-revival-hopes/story-zqPxZpC7Er6k6KUg6LIbUM.html
29-07-2020||India||India’s agriculture policy dilemma||In his speech at the CII National Council, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das spoke about five dynamic shifts which are underway in the Indian economy. One of the five themes in the speech was “fortunes shifting in favour of the farm sector”. The speech cites record production of food grains, fruits and vegetables, and all-time high buffer stocks as “the most vivid silver lining in the current environment”. The speech also gives a policy direction for the future. “Shifting the terms of trade in favour of agriculture is the key to sustaining this dynamic change and generating positive supply responses in agriculture. Experience shows that in periods when terms of trade remained favourable to agriculture, the annual average growth in agricultural gross value added (GVA) exceeds 3%. Hitherto, the main instrument has been minimum support prices, but the experience has been that price incentives have been costly, inefficient and even distortive. India has now reached a stage in which surplus management has become a major challenge. We need to move now to policy strategies that ensure a sustained increase in farmers’ income alongside reasonable food prices for consumers,” Das said. That might not always be possible. Favourable terms of trade along with reasonable food prices Terms of trade will be in favour of agriculture if prices of agricultural goods are rising at a faster pace than that of non-agricultural goods. This need not be consistent with reasonable food prices for consumers. The agriculture ministry has released terms of trade data up to 2018-19. This data is given for agricultural versus non-agricultural sectors and farmers versus non-farmers. When the value of the terms of trade index is less than 100, it means that the relative prices are against farmers. The data shows that both these indices were rising in the last decade and have stagnated or fallen since. The farmer versus non farmer terms of trade in 2018-19 was 96.4, while the agriculture versus non-agriculture index was at 106.8.  The trend is worse when it comes to the farmers versus non-farmers index. This is also the period when food price inflation growth has moderated. Food inflation shared the upward trajectory of terms of trade for agriculture when the latter was rising. This suggests that maintaining terms of trade in favour of agriculture and ensuring reasonable food prices for consumers might not be compatible. See Chart 1: Terms of trade and food price inflation Doing away with price support incentives The policy of government procurement at Minimum Support Prices (MSP) has been a key pillar of India’s food security. Guaranteed remunerative prices have encouraged farmers to grow more rice and wheat. Government’s food stocks, which are built through MSP procurement, come in handy during periods of crisis such as the current one. To be sure, the policy has created problems, especially regarding ecologically unsustainable farming practices in India’s original green revolution belt. The policy has also created a regional imbalance. According to latest procurement data from Food Corporation of India — 2018-19 for rice and 2019-20 for wheat — 47% of total procurement was from the states of Punjab and Haryana. The share of these states in total wheat and rice production in 2017-18, the latest period for which data is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database, was just 22%. These problems notwithstanding, the share of procurement in total rice and wheat production has been increasing continuously. Any sudden withdrawal of this policy is bound to create a huge disruption and possible disincentive for production. See Chart 2: Share of procurement in total production Surplus theory in Indian agriculture The argument that surplus management has become a major challenge in Indian agriculture, logically speaking, implies that agricultural production needs to be brought down. This is definitely not a desirable solution, especially when the policy objective is to double farmers’ incomes.How does one explain the anecdotal evidence of crash in prices with excess production. Two factors may be behind this. The first is the question of boosting food demand in India, which is still low, compared to international standards (see https://bit.ly/2X3XHAf for a detailed discussion). The second is what is referred to as the cobweb model effect. This pertains to production decisions based on limited information leading to wild swings in prices every year. For example, if onion prices crash this year, farmers sow lower quantities, leading to a surge in prices in the next season. This vicious cycle will repeat. The only way to break this is to improve dissemination of information regarding climatic conditions to farmers and make sure that the government does not create additional distortions in food markets. Resorting to imports on the pretext of controlling food inflation to prevent any spike in prices is an example of this kind of behaviour. As climate change increases the incidence of extreme weather events, affecting production, prices will probably become volatile. Exports may provide a way out, but increasing agricultural exports may not be possible in the near future. Agriculture in developed countries is heavily subsidized, which reduces export competitiveness of third world exports. The multilateral trade regime is almost in complete jeopardy, which has significantly reduced hopes of addressing these distortions. These difficulties notwithstanding, there are serious questions on whether such an approach is desirable. A 2016 article by this author highlighted how India was the biggest virtual exporter of water via its agricultural exports and also among the most water stressed regions in the world (see https://bit.ly/2Eiff59 for details). Even though it contributes less than 15% of the GDP, agriculture continues to provide livelihood to more than 40% of the country’s workers. This makes it critical for economic growth. However, to really shift the fortunes in favour of agriculture will require a demand driven sustainable policy trajectory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-agriculture-policy-dilemma/story-UvdtxBJqQMVFwt1QZ5PN5J.html
29-07-2020||India||Money-laundering probe: ED raids GVK group offices in Hyderabad||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided offices of Hyderabad-based GVK Group, and its promoters in connection with a money-laundering probe related to alleged irregularities crore in the Mumbai airport’s development and maintenance, two officials said. The Group runs the airport.The case pertains to the period from 2006 and deals with the diversion of money from Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), in which GVK Group has a 50.5% stake and the state-owned Airports Authority (AAI) of India 26%, to other companies of the company, causing a loss to AAI and the exchequer. The amount involved is 800 crore. The ED money laundering case is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case probing the alleged diversion of funds. The officials said the searches were primarily conducted at the company’s Mumbai and Hyderabad offices. The office of MIAL was also raided, they added. MIAL is a joint public-private partnership venture between AAI, GVK Group, and few other entities. ED registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act this month on the basis of CBI’s June 27 First Investigation Report (FIR) that named 13 people, including the Group’s chairman, G V K Reddy, MIAL, and several companies that were given airport contracts.According to the FIR, the promoters of the Group in MIAL allegedly siphoned off funds “fraudulently adopting various modus operandi” in connivance with their executives and unnamed AAI officials. CBI has alleged MIAL signed fake contracts in 2017-18 with at least nine companies on the pretext of real estate development. HT has seen a copy of the FIR.AAI signed an agreement with the Group in April 2006 for the airport’s operation, management, development, up gradation, and maintenance. MIAL was to share 38.7% of its revenue as an annual fee with AAI as per the agreement. The Group did not respond to an email query on the raids. In a June 27 statement, it assured the company will cooperate with CBI’s probe. “MIAL would have provided every assistance had the agency [CBI] sought explanation or any document even if a preliminary enquiry had been initiated. MIAL is a transparent and responsible corporate entity which is committed to cooperate with the agency in its investigation to arrive at the truth.”CBI and ED are probing GVK Group for alleged irregularities worth over Rs 800 in the Mumbai airport’s development and maintenance.They have named GVK Group, and 13 people including its chairman, G V K Reddy, his son, G V Sanjay Reddy, and several other companies as well as unknown public servants for alleged irregularities.The AAI signed an operation, management and development agreement with the Group in April 2006 for the airport’s modernization, up-gradation, operation, and maintenance.The company is accused of getting into contracts illegally to siphon off funds of the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-probe-ed-raids-gvk-group-offices-in-hyd/story-WsvLzNW95PwziuXtoDXHYN.html
29-07-2020||India||One in three tigers live outside reserves: Report||One in every three tigers in India lives outside reserves, according to a report, Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India (2018) released on Tuesday, highlighting the challenge of protecting India’s national animal and reducing instances of man-animal conflict. The proportion has increased from around the one in every four tigers living outside reserves according to a 2014 study. India recorded a 33% increase in tiger numbers from 2014 to 2018, according to the summary of the report, All India Tiger Estimation Results, released last year. There were 2,967 tigers in India in 2018, compared to 2,226 in 2014.Currently, the tiger population within reserves is 1,923, which means that 35% of the population is still outside tiger reserves.No tigers were recorded in Mizoram’s Dampa and West Bengal’s Buxa tiger reserves while they face the severe threat of local extinction in Jharkhand’s Palamau reserve, according to the report. Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is among reserves at or nearing capacity, had the largest population of tigers—about 231—in 2018, the report released by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar added. Madhya Pradesh had the most tigers (526), followed by 524 in Karnataka and 442 in Uttarakhand. Madhya Pradesh overtook Karnataka, which recorded the highest number of tigers in 2014—406 .Also read: First evidence of tiger breeding in Assam sanctuary brings cheerThe largest contiguous tiger population in the world—about 724—was found in the Western Ghats (Nagarhole-Bandipur-Wayanad-MudumalaiSatyamangalam-BRT block). The second largest— about 604—was found across Uttrakhand and western Uttar Pradesh (Rajaji-Corbett-Ramnagar-Pilibhit-Dudhwa block).Bandhavgarh, Bandipur, Nagarhole, Mudumalai, and Kaziranga had over 100 tigers each while Dudhwa, Kanha, Tadoba, Sathyamangalam, and Sundarban had over 80 each.Three tigers each were recorded in Dampa and Palamau and two in Buxa during the 2014 tiger estimation exercise.“Although, no tiger images were obtained during the sampling session but Dampa Tiger Reserve is one of the important cross-boundary tiger reserves important for the tiger and other wildlife conservation by providing connectivity to other protected and forested area,” the report said. “It may be possible to reintroduce tigers in this landscape from the only source in the North-Eastern Hills and Brahmaputra Landscape i.e. Kaziranga Tiger Reserve. However, a proper protection regime and control of insurgency is required before bringing back tigers is to be considered.”“Even in 2014 the estimate of three tigers was based on molecular work and not direct sightings or tiger signs. This time the entire park including core and buffer area was surveyed but no tigers were seen. My sense is that there were always a very low number of tigers in Dampa. To the west of Dampa there is an open border with Bangladesh. They may be moving there. But the habitat in Dampa is phenomenal and so is the diversity of felines-- marbled cats; golden cat, leopard cat etc. Forest guards are working in extremely difficult conditions but the reserve supports so much diversity possibly because of them,” said Priya Singh, an independent wildlife biologist who has focused her research on Dampa.No tiger was recorded in Palamau Tiger Reserve, which once had a healthy population of tigers, during the 2018 assessment, according to the report. One tiger was photo captured and evidence of tiger signs was recorded from the reserve between January and August 2019.Corbett, Kaziranga, Nagarhole, Ranthambore are among tiger reserves at or nearing capacity. Corbett has the highest density of tigers in the country— 14 per 100 sq km. This also is a challenge for habitat management, said National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) officials.“Some reserves reaching capacity is an issue. We have to see how we can maintain carrying capacity through habitat manipulation. For example, if grasslands are managed well, they can support a good number of herbivores which in turn can support a large number of tigers,” said NTCA member secretary SP Yadav.He emphasized the tiger estimation exercise is a snapshot and that the fact that no tigers were recorded in Dampa and Buxa mean that no tigers were seen in these reserves in 30 to 40 days when the camera trap-based estimations were carried out.“Most of the areas where tigers are occupying the area outside reserves are well connected with the source population through migratory corridors. This is the case in the Corbett-Ramnagar region, and in central India… tigers can take care of themselves; they do not require micromanagement if they get space. For example, tigers are occupying the Ramnagar-Terai east and west area which is contiguous to Nepal. You have to provide them corridors to move and river banks should be free of encroachment,” said Anup Kumar Nayak, who was NTCA member secretary when the 2018 estimation was conducted.Wildlife Institute of India scientist Qamar Qureshi said Palamau had its heyday when Project Tiger conservation programme was launched in the 70s. “But due to [Left-wing] insurgency, the area has not got good protection. There is too much disturbance. Buxa and Dampa had very few tigers always. But Assam and some parts of Arunachal Pradesh like the Dibang Valley have good numbers and the habitat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-three-tigers-live-outside-reserves-report/story-C6hYaEl5mmYjeHcLG2wDVO.html
29-07-2020||India||Delhi riots: AAP govt rejects lawyers proposed by police||The Delhi government appeared headed for another flashpoint with the Lieutenant Governor on Tuesday after it rejected a panel of lawyers proposed by the Delhi Police in cases linked to the deadly communal riots and the anti-CAA protests in the Capital earlier this year, citing the need for a “free and fair” trial over the violence.In February, 53 people died in communal riots triggered by violent clashes between the supporters and opponents of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA. Cases are currently being argued in the Supreme Court and the high court in cases related to the riots.The decision to reject the lawyers’ panel backed by LG Anil Baijal was taken at a meeting of the Delhi cabinet, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.The cabinet rejected the panel on the grounds that the courts have raised “serious questions” on the “fairness” of the riots investigation, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government said in a statement. “The cabinet also observed that in such a situation a free and fair trial of these cases would not be possible by a panel of lawyers selected by the Delhi Police itself,” it said. It directed the home department to constitute an “impartial panel of the best possible lawyers in the country” to fight the cases.Tuesday’s meeting was held on the direction of LG Baijal, who, in a letter to Kejriwal on July 16, gave the Delhi government a week’s time to decide on the panel of lawyers it wanted to appoint to fight the cases. On July 10, the Delhi Police sent a proposal to the Delhi government, recommending the names of six special public prosecutors, including solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi to fight 85 cases related to the riots and clashes during protests against CAA.LG Baijal’s office declined to comment on the matter. On July 18, the LG’s office, in a statement on the same matter, said the north-east riots and the anti-CAA protest cases are of “highly sensitive nature” as they involved large-scale communal violence and require careful handling in view of the gravity and deep impact on the society.The Delhi government later said that anyone who was guilty of causing communal violence in the Capital should be punished severely, but in no case should the innocent be harassed.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, while rejecting the idea of the panel proposed by the Delhi Police, earlier demanded that the Delhi government’s team of lawyers led by Rahul Mehra be assigned the task.Tuesday’s Cabinet note, seen by HT, rejected the LG’s view of going with the Delhi Police’s panel on three grounds: allegations against the Delhi Police that its investigation in these cases was biased; lawyers should be independent of the police; and the matter does not qualify as “rarest of the rare” case for the LG to interfere.“The judiciary has also made adverse remarks against Delhi Police’s investigations on several occasions… Therefore, in order to ensure that all facts are presented before the judges, it is extremely critical that the government advocates are independent of the Police. Therefore, the panel suggested by Delhi Police should be rejected,” the Cabinet note said.It observed that it is the “basic principle of criminal jurisprudence” that investigations should be completely independent of prosecution and the police should not be allowed to decide the lawyers in any case. The Cabinet also alleged “repeated interference” by the LG in appointing the panel of lawyers. It asserted the Delhi government has the right to appoint public prosecutors.“The Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, in its order dated July 4, 2018, has repeatedly mentioned that the LG should use this power in ‘rarest of rare cases’. Which lawyer should represent a case - this matter certainly cannot qualify as ‘rarest of rare case’,” the Cabinet note read. A senior government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that as per the procedure, the next step in the matter will be that the LG will send it to President Ram Nath Kovind.The latest run-in comes barely a month after the LG and the Delhi government disagreed over the appointment of 11 public prosecutors proposed by the Delhi Police in lower courts for over 750 riot cases. The LG then decided to refer the matter to the President, citing a “difference of opinion”. Following the move, then home minister Satyendar Jain had approved the Delhi Police’s panel.Responding to the government’s statement on Tuesday, the Delhi Police said it will leave no stone unturned to ensure successful prosecution in the riots cases. “Delhi Police has conducted the investigation of N-E riot cases in a fair and impartial manner and to improve the quality of prosecution it has recommended the panel of senior law officers for the post of special prosecutors under section 24(8) of CrPC for group of anti-CAA and N-E riot-related important cases,” said Delhi Police spokesperson MS Randhawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-aap-govt-rejects-lawyers-proposed-by-police/story-c3ZkStuOPZF6lC6ghy6qzJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Air pollution cuts Indians’ life expectancy by 5.2 years: Report||Pollution levels in India shave off 5.2 years from the life expectancy of the average Indian and it most acutely hits people living in the Indo-Gangetic plains, according to an assessment by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, which also showed that the situation had slightly improved between 2016 and 2018.India is the second most-polluted country globally after Bangladesh, while Nepal, Singapore and Pakistan are the other top countries with dirty air. The authors use an air quality life index (AQLI), which takes particulate air pollution and determines the hit it has on life expectancy.According to the AQLI, India’s yearly average particulate pollution concentration of 63.2 ug/m3 in 2018 reduced life expectancy of the average Indian by 5.2 years. The life expectancy lost in 2016 was 6.1 years when the particulate pollution – which is linked to diseases affecting the lungs and heart – was at 71ug/m3.Also read: The interplay between the pandemic and pollution | AnalysisIn 2018, Lucknow’s (the most polluted district in the country) residents were exposed to an average annual PM 2.5 concentrations of 114.6 micrograms per cubic metres which is likely to cut short life expectancy by 10.3 years compared. That makes Lucknow the most polluted district in the country followed by 13 other districts, all in Uttar Pradesh. The National Capital Territory of Delhi is the 15th most-polluted region in the country as per the analysis, which relies on satellite data. The average PM 2.5 concentration was 106 micrograms per cubic metres which can lead to loss of 9.4 life years compared to if Delhi had met the WHO guidelines for air quality. The analysis did not include figures from 2019 and 2020. The report, released in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh on Tuesday evening, showed air pollution problem that was severe in India in the late 90’s only worsened further in recent years with an estimated life expectancy loss of 3.4 years in 1998, 4.8 years in 2010 and 6.1 years in 2016.China, however, stands out as a success story as per the data. Singapore, China and India were the three most polluted countries in 1998 with the Chinese losing 3.6 years of life to pollution but by 2018, China was the seventh most polluted and had improved its life expectancy by 1.3 years. Singapore has also improved. China declared a “war against pollution” in 2013 with some aggressive reforms. Since then, three-quarters of the world’s reductions in pollution have come from China and it has reduced PM 2.5 pollution by nearly 40% during the period according to the analysis.“Though the threat of coronavirus is grave and deserves every bit of the attention it is receiving— perhaps more in some places—embracing the seriousness of air pollution with a similar vigour would allow billions of people around the world to lead longer and healthier lives,” said Michael Greenstone, the Milton Friedman distinguished service professor in Economics and creator of the AQLI along with colleagues at the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC). “The reality is, no shot in the arm will alleviate air pollution. The solution lies in robust public policy. The AQLI tells citizens and policymakers how particulate pollution is affecting them and their communities and can be used to measure the benefits of policies to reduce pollution.”Over 20 years, India’s annual PM 2.5 levels have increased by 42%, taking 1.8 years off the life of the average resident. A quarter of India’s population is exposed to air pollution concentrations not recorded in any other country, with 248 million people in north India on track to lose more than 8 years of life expectancy if the same pollution levels persist.There is also emerging evidence that air pollution aggravates Covid-19 complications and increases mortality.“In northern Italy which is highly polluted covid 19 mortality was 12% compared to southern Italy where it was 4.5 %. There was also a study published by Harvard University which said even with a 1 microgram per cubic metre increase in PM 2.5, covid 19 mortality goes up but it has to be long term exposure to air pollution. These two are landmark studies. Even during the SARS epidemic in 2003 mortality was higher in polluted areas, even during the Spanish Flu in 1918 mortality was higher around coal plants. So, there is a clear link between air pollution and covid 19 mortality and morbidity. This is to do with how air pollution affects the airways and immune system of the lungs,” said Dr GC Khilnani, PSRI institute of critical and pulmonary and critical and former and head of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-life-expectancy-cut-5-2-yrs-by-pollution/story-APQuckQGUHf1tPiod7fGcM.html
29-07-2020||India||Five Rafale jets to land today||Five Rafale fighter jets of the 36 ordered by the Indian Air Force (IAF) from France will land at their home base in Ambala on Wednesday afternoon, an IAF official said. The fighter jets took off from Mérignac in France on Monday and had a one-day stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi. The two-leg flight will see the Rafales covering a distance of nearly 7,000 km. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria is expected to be in Ambala to receive the Rafales and the pilots flying them home. The first Rafale’s RB-001 tail number denotes the initials of the IAF chief: Rakesh Bhadauria. He led the complex negotiations for the Rafale deal. Also read: Ahead of Rafale touchdown, Section 144 imposed in area around Ambala Air Force stationThe jets are being flown by Indian pilots who have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft. The Rafales will be a part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the “Golden Arrows”. The aircrew bringing the Rafales to India is headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the No. 17 Squadron. Also read: Rafale is a reminder | HT EditorialWhile the French air force refuelled the fighters — three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft — using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra, aerial refuelling support will be provided by the IAF’s Russian Ilyushin-78 refuellers for the second leg of the journey from Al Dhafra to Ambala. The new fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of IAF, which has for long planned to update its fighter jet force. The jets -- the first of the 36 Rafale jets purchased from French firm Dassault in a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 -- have been specially tailored for IAF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-rafale-jets-to-land-today/story-MlcYy5STLDIcVWMv55mtoK.html
29-07-2020||India||JNU student Sharjeel’s voice appears to match speech clips: Forensics||The central forensic science laboratory(CFSL) has concluded that Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam’s voice appears to match the one in video clips of allegedly seditious speeches delivered by him last year on the campuses of Jamia Millia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), according to the lab report seen by HT.The Delhi Police crime branch submitted a copy of the report, along with transcripts and video files of the speeches, to a city court on Saturday. The findings are a crucial piece of evidence in the cases against Imam, who has been accused of delivering inflammatory speeches on the campuses of Jamia and AMU campuses in the days leading to the violence outside the Jamia on December 13 and 15 last year.Police have charged Imam for sedition (Indian Penal Code 124A) and accused him of mobilising people to block roads and cut of essential supplies while protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “The voices marked exhibit Q-1(S) & Q-2(S) are the probable voices of the person (Sharjeel Imam), whose specimen voice is marked Q-1(s),” the report dated April 20 reads.According to the police, Imam refused to give a sample of his voice for examination but was ordered by the court on February 12 to do so.Though the report uses the word “probable”, Delhi Police wrote in their submission to the court that the result of CFSl is “conclusive enough” to establish that the speeches dated December 13 and 15 were indeed delivered by Imam.Former Delhi Police additional commissioner Ashok Chand said “probable” is a technical language that the scientific officers use. There must have been some ambient noises in the voice sample which is why the report says “probable match”, said Chand. “Had it not matched, the CFSL would have clearly mentioned that the samples did not match and the report is negative,” said Chand.But Imam’s lawyer, Ahmad Ibrahim, said, These things are insignificant. In February, Imam had given a hand-written application to the Patiala House court where he had informed the magistrate that his voice was modulated and he was asked to speak a few sentences from the speech. The court had taken the plea in cognisance and will consider it during trial. So these things will not matter to the case. We will file a bail application as soon as we get a copy of the charge sheet.” Imam, a student of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, was arrested on January 28 from his house in Bihar’s Jehanabad by a joint team of Delhi and Bihar police. After his arrest, police had said that they would probe Imam for the alleged violence in Jamia campus. Police have in the charge sheet said that Imam misrepresented facts of the new Citizenship Law, widely published it across different colonies and mosques in Delhi, and delivered inflammatory speeches to mobilise people. After Imam’s arrest, a tweet was posted from his handle, which said “he had surrendered and had full faith in the process of law.” Police have also attached copies of pamphlets about the new citizenship law recovered from Imam’s laptop (this, too, was confirmed by the forensic laboratory report), that, according to the police charge sheet, were later distributed across different mosques in Delhi while asking people to protest on the streets and block roads. A statement of a photocopy shop owner in south Delhi, where around 5,000 such pamphlets were photocopied has also been attached in the charge sheet. Police said the pamphlets had details of “non-existent detention camps” in different parts of the country. In the charge sheet, police attached at least 10 transcripts of Imam’s speeches, which, they said, were found in his Google drive.According to the transcripts, Sharjeel asked people not to believe in the Constitution and teach the courts a lesson. Another excerpt of speech attached is one allegedly delivered by Imam in Asansol on January 22, 2020, in Muslims were urged asked join the protest because they do not have adequate representation in Parliament, the courts, the army, or the police. In another transcript of a speech dated, December 13, police allege that Imam asked people to organise “chakka jam” and stop supply of milk and water in Delhi’s colonies.Imam, a resident of Kako in Bihar, was pursuing a doctorate degree from the Centre for Historical Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). He was one of the organisers of the anti-CAA protests in the national capital’s Shaheen Bagh. Imam is currently jailed in Assam. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act was passed by Parliament last year and opened a fast-track to citizenship for Hindu, Sikh, Parsi, Buddhist, Christian and Jain refugees who fled religious persecution in Bangladesh, Pakistan or Afghanistan and entered India on or before December 31, 2014. Soon after, violent protests broke out across India, beginning in the north-east, with activists and opposition parties saying the law violated constitutional provisions and was discriminatory towards Muslims. In response, the government said the law aimed to provide a safe haven for people fleeing persecution and was not meant to take away anyone’s rights or citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharjeel-s-voice-appears-to-match-speech-clips-forensics/story-cFuF1uJ8s0nm8x1YNqHUlJ.html
29-07-2020||India||Pakistan looks to mark J&K move anniversary with 18-point agenda||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan who counts the campaign against India over Jammu and Kashmir as his government’s key achievement has involved the country’s spy agency, Inter Services Intelligence, or ISI, in an 18-point plan to mark the August 5 anniversary of India scrapping Article 370 that extended special status to the erstwhile state, people familiar with the development said. The ISI is accused of nurturing terror groups, mostly directed at India and Afghanistan.The 18-point programme includes a visit by Imran Khan to occupied Kashmir where he is tentatively scheduled to address the assembly in a speech that will be beamed live. Before he reaches Muzaffarabad, Khan’s government intends a field trip for foreign journalists to the occupied territory, the people added,asking not to be identified. India tabled laws and resolutions in the Rajya Sabha to strip the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status under the constitution and split it into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, on August 5. These were passed by the Rajya Sabha the same day, the Lok Sabha the following day, and received presidential assent on August 9.The introduction of the law was preceded by a security and communication lockdown in Jammu and Kashmir and detention of its top political leaders. Most of them have since been released; PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti is among the exceptions.Pakistan, which like much of the country, was taken by surprise by New Delhi’s move soon launched an international campaign against the nullification of Article 370. Imran Khan was the face of this pitch on and off Twitter. Khan even focused his speech at the United Nations General Assembly, or UNGA, last September on Kashmir, warned of a “blood bath” in the region when restrictions were lifted, prophesied a genocide on the streets of the valley and frequently referred to Pakistab’s nuke weapons to blackmail the world to intervene.Only two other countries spoke of Kashmir at the UNGA: Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Turkey and Malaysia, then led by Mahathir Mohamad.China also did issue two statements on the scrapping of Article 370. One asked India and Pakistan to work together on the Kashmir issue. But its primary concern was over the change of Ladakh’s status to a federally-administered territory. “China is always opposed to India’s inclusion of the Chinese territory in the western sector of the China-India boundary into its administrative jurisdiction,” China’s foreign ministry said then.New Delhi underlined to Beijing that changing the status of an Indian territory was an “internal matter”.For Imran Khan’s elaborate plan for August 5, Islamabad has reached out to Kuala Lumpur, Ankara and Beijing to issue statements to commemorate the first anniversary of Jammu and Kashmir’s new status, the people cited in the first instance said. Or at least release tweets to the effect.Turkey’s Erdoğan is expected to oblige but New Delhi is watching how Malaysia responds. Kuala Lumpur has a new prime minister in Muhyiddin Yassin who took over on 1 March. A statement from China, a government official said, didn’t matter given , especially against the backdrop of its aggressive attempt expand its territory that led to the standoff and the bloody Galwan clash in east Ladakh, and the first casualties on both sides along the Line of Actual Control in 40 years.The Pakistani foreign ministry has been told to work closely with spy agency ISI on its diplomatic outreach to Organisation of Islamic Cooperation member countries and international human rights groups, organising commemorative events - even rallies - at missions abroad and drafting a fresh memorandum to be handed over to the UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan headquartered in Islamabad, the people added.Counter terror officials in New Delhi told Hindustan Times that the campaign was drawn up by the military for Imran Khan, right from documentaries, pamphlets and newspaper supplements to the tweets that would be put out. But Imran Khan will front the campaign.The ISI created the The Resistance Front after August 5, a terror group without the religious label that could be used by Pakistan’s propaganda machine to claim that terror was home-bred in Kashmir due to Article 370, the people pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-looks-to-mark-j-k-move-anniv-with-18-point-agenda/story-6AwZC9azUuq0XXNg1tNhjP.html
29-07-2020||India||Important to deal with non-performing assets: Viral Acharya||1. In his speech at the SBI Conclave, the RBI governor said that we are entering a phase where extant wisdom about capital requirement of banks and potential growth of economy might not be of much use. What do you make of his remarks? My interpretation of his remarks is that we might have to encounter scenarios of stress which far exceed the usual standards of Basel capital requirements. Implicitly what he was suggesting was that the hit of a prolonged lock down on bank loans of individual and MSMEs might far exceed traditional losses. The latest Financial Stability Report endorses his remarks. The Non Performing Assets (NPAs) to advances ratio is far in excess of what we have ever seen. With the GDP set to contract anywhere between 5% and 10%, some analysts believe that the NPA ratio could end up even higher. I think there is still time. I am hoping that the RBI will use some of these estimates to get both public sector and private sector banks to shore up their capital. The debt moratorium has still not expired. The RBI should use this time, so that we do not run the risk of questions being posed ex-post. 2. Financial sector stability isn’t like normal economic metrics such as growth rate. It is missed only when there is a crisis. How difficult does it make the job of preserving it? It is very difficult exactly for the reason you mentioned. When you succeed with it, nothing happens. It is just that the counter factual would have been very bad. However in some times the job is a bit easier. Look at our last decade. While there are many hits and misses, most would agree that our NPA problem on the banking and even non-banking sector are the two most important problems we have to deal with. These are the times when politics and economics have to align themselves, because you have a striking example of what has gone wrong. What I’ve tried to argue in my book is that somehow in spite of that collective movement having gained ground, within a short period of time we seem to have reversed the gains. This is the result of divergence between short-term horizons of governments and long-term horizons of central bank. It is this divergence of horizons which makes the central bank’s job more difficult. Also read: RBI faced ‘intense pressure’ on liquidity: Former deputy governor3. In a country like India, where a vast majority does not have any significant monetary savings, are political incentives heavily aligned against governments pursuing financial stability? I think that is a very deep question. If you look at our leverage boom and bust cycles, it has not happened with small borrowers. Think about the fiscal constraints that come about when the financial sector does not do well as result of bad loans. Bank bail-outs effectively mean tax-payer money going into the pockets of wealthier segments of the society. In my view, lack of financial stability in India has actually transferred taxpayer funds through the route of poor underwriting standards away from the re-distributive and developmental objectives for which fiscal policy should be working. 4. In his foreword to your book Dr Y V Reddy underlines the importance of government borrowing crowding out markets for private bonds. We have banks and stock markets to raise capital. Why are bond markets necessary and desirable? First and foremost they are desirable precisely because our bank underwriting standards are not up to scratch. Except a few well capitalised private banks and handful of public sector banks, the track record has not been very impressive. In an environment like this you would want to reduce reliance on banks. If banks are not keeping well, at many points of time they are actually very risk averse to lend. In such a time it is a boon to have a well-functioning bond market. It allows savings in the economy to get channeled through non-bank routes. Developing the corporate bond market is another step in the direction of developing more diversified sources of funding in India. I fully agree with Dr Reddy that until government borrowing does not become more manageable in size, it is going to be a herculean challenge to develop the corporate bond market in India.5. You’ve always warned against the wrath of financial markets. Today, when the real economy is doldrums, stock markets, where global finance is a big player, are doing relatively better. How should we reconcile the two? This has multiple potential explanations. One view is that the pandemic is going to be a one-two year slow growth scenario, while the stock market is really a very long term claim. The second view is that central banks all over the world have responded with massive rate cuts and flooded the system with liquidity. Some of this safe haven excess liquidity is chasing emerging markets. Deposit rates in markets like India are not offering much return. So it is natural that investors turn towards higher yielding assets. Historically Indian investors have gone towards real estate, but that was not in great condition even before Covid-19. A lot of it is now going towards equity markets. But some of the stock market rally could be just froth. When the conditions reverse and interest rates are increased, this could burst in a very short period of time. One has to always watch out for this kind of external sector scenario. 6. Your book discusses demonetisation’s shock to the financial sector. Had demonetisation not happened, do you think that the agenda of cleaning India’s financial sector mess, which brought you to the RBI would have gone further? I wasn’t at the RBI when that phase happened. Even in the post-demonetisation phase, post the normalisation of liquidity, the government was very much on board in some of the critical moves in getting the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code to be applied on stressed assets. In my view demonetisation was not the critical event, although it did trigger a complex process of liquidity flowing into shadow banks and Non Banking Financial Companies. The glut of liquidity led to them underwriting very poor quality loans.The critical issue vis-a-vis financial sector stability in my view was political pressures that were coming up in 2018-19. The government wanted to go for liquidity and credit led short run boost to growth, not much unlike the kind of push that we saw for generating higher growth in the last decade. We felt that we could not allow the system to repeat its mistakes while we were still trying to clean up the previous leverage boom and bust cycle. 7. You describe financial stability as a necessary condition for sustainable growth. This means you don’t see this as a sufficient condition. What role do you see for fiscal policy in a country like India? Fiscal policy should really be focused on infrastructure, health and education. If we had a superior health infrastructure, that would have been a tremendous advantage at the current juncture. This is not to take away from the excellent work our medical workers are doing. Similarly, if we need to benefit from the anti-China sentiment in developed countries, we need seamless infrastructure zones to facilitate companies to execute their projects on time. Reliance on revenue spending in fiscal policy, which is what we do, gives short term growth benefits. But it does not generate high multiplier effects, the way infrastructure, health or education would. Some reorientation of fiscal policy is absolutely necessary. Fiscal stretch is most worrisome when it is only going to generate a short term benefit. It is not worrisome when it puts the economy on a long-term growth path. 8. Two policies have been discussed a lot in connection with India: bad banks and universal basic income (UBI). At the current juncture what do you think about both of them? If government is required to put up capital for a genuine fast-track resolution of stressed assets, it will be seen as credit positive for the financial sector and growth and credit positive for the economy as a whole. Recapitalisation of banks, not so much of weaker banks, is a fiscal stretch which puts the economy on a high growth path. If UBI is a replacement for all kinds of other subsidies we have, it is a win-win for everyone. This could be a good time to introduce it, but it would be a big-big mistake to layer it on top of the subsidies we are already giving. 10. What is your reading of the global economy? Some people are warning that a premature withdrawal of the stimulus could make things worse. I think the developed economy stimulus has been very-very large. But the key focus has to be on the health curve. The US is still not doing that great. Things are not looking great in Brazil and India. If big parts of the world are still facing the pandemic, an economic recovery is going to be hard. This is as much a behavioural challenge, as it is an economic policy challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-deal-with-non-performing-assets-viral-acharya/story-57kw7013mg8v5csAZKZ9XM.html
29-07-2020||India||Karnataka Covid-19 trajectory worse than Tamil Nadu’s||Karnataka’s trajectory of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases is on a path much worse than Tamil Nadu and Delhi’s, two of the countries hot spots, while Andhra Pradesh seems set to soar past the Capital’s tally soon, according to data analysed by HT.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTo analyse the pace of the outbreak in states, HT looked at Covid-19 case data from 15 states that have over 25,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases as of Monday. In order to keep the starting point of each state uniform, Day 1 was taken as the day the state reported its 1,000th Covid-19 case (see chart). This allows a comparison of the case trajectory in different states which saw outbreaks expand over varying time periods.The most dangerous path traversed appears to be that of Karnataka, which on Monday crossed 100,000 total cases. In 74 days since its 1,000th case, the state has 101,465 confirmed cases — 30,000 cases more than Delhi and Tamil Nadu in the same time period. Tamil Nadu and Delhi, the second and third worst-hit regions in the country after Maharashtra, had 67,468 and 66,602 cases respectively by Day 74.Andhra Pradesh, the state with the second highest number of new cases in the past week (after Maharashtra), is also charting a trajectory that has seen a near-vertical rise in the last two weeks. Among the states analysed, only one state (Telangana with 4,737 cases) had fewer cases than Andhra Pradesh (5,636) on Day 50. By Day 94, the state had become the fourth worst-hit region in the country after the Big Three – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.Also read: Indian startup develops Covid 19 detecting mobile app, takes 5 minutesThe trajectory of Assam also comes as a surprise. Although the total numbers remain relatively low (32,228 cases), the state has reached this level in only two months since the day it reported its first thousand cases. Only Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have had more cases by Day 60. Even Delhi had only 31,309 cases at this point.West Bengal is another state with a fast-increasing caseload. It has over 60,000 cases in 85 days since its 1000th case. Only the big three and Karnataka have had more cases in that time.Delhi, meanwhile, is the only state that has a relatively flat curve compared to others. While the Capital was very close to Tamil Nadu’s trajectory by Day 75 (70,977 cases against Tamil Nadu’s 70,390), since then, it has managed to break apart – there’s a 90,000-case gap between the two as of Day 107.Gujarat also has a relatively flat curve in the past two months, but its numbers should be noted with a caveat about its low testing rate – 9,447 samples tested per million against the national average of 13,007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-trajectory-worse-than-tn-s/story-FtFPP0zNrHpGq6Tp0aoIPI.html
29-07-2020||India||EC objects to L-G’s remark over elections in Kashmir||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday took exception to Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor G C Murmu’s statements on the conduct of elections in the Union Territory, saying issues such as poll timings solely fall within its remit.“It would be proper for authorities other than Election Commission to refrain from making such statements which are virtually tantamount to interfering with the Constitutional mandate of Election Commission,” the poll watchdog said it a statement. It cited a report in The Tribune on Monday that quoted Murmu saying polls would be held after the ongoing delimitation exercise. The statement referred to Murmu’s similar statements in other newspapers, including HT dated June 26. “Election Commission takes exception to such statements and would like to state that in the Constitutional scheme of things, the timings etc of elections are the sole remit of Election Commission of India.”Murmu’s office did not respond to HT’s email seeking a comment.The Centre in March set up a Delimitation Commission to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies in Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland.The statement said EC takes into account factors such as topography, weather, sensitivities, and local festivities before deciding the election timing. “For example, in the current times, Covid-19 has introduced a new dynamic, which has to be and shall be taken into consideration at the due time.”The statement said the outcome of delimitation is also germane to the decision related to polls in Jammu & Kashmir. “Similarly, the availability of central forces and railway coaches, etc. for the transportation of CPFs [central paramilitary forces] are important factors. All this is done after meticulous homework by the senior officials of the Commission and a detailed assessment in due consultation with concerned authorities.”People’s Democratic Party (PDP) spokesman, Waheed Ur Rehman Para, called EC’s statement a classic example of “Delhi talking to Delhi”. He said EC has mentioned all sorts of festivals but has not taken into account the feelings of the people. “The polls are important, but they are not a priority for the people of Kashmir,” said Para, whose party led the government in the erstwhile state until June 2018.National Conference spokesman Tanvir Sadiq said the people of Jammu & Kashmir were disenfranchised the moment EC decided not to hold assembly elections after the PDP government fell.“Of course, it is the EC’s job and not the lieutenant governor’s to decide the right time for elections. That said, has EC really done its job since the governor’s rule was imposed in June 2018?”He asked why Jammu & Kashmir’s people were “consciously disenfranchised” by not holding the assembly elections with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls or immediately after that. “Who is to be blamed for that? Did they not find the topography, weather, sensitivities for the one year from 2018? Had they done their job in time, we would not have been in the mess that we are in right now.” INDEPENDENT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-objects-to-l-g-s-remark-over-elections-in-kashmir/story-Wueo2p0mcSrOmnmzMpfLsL.html
29-07-2020||India||4G restoration in J&K: Govt to verify reports on L-G GC Murmu’s comment||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court it will verify media reports that said Jammu & Kashmir’s lieutenant governor, G C Murmu, has advocated the restoration of high-speed 4G internet services in the Union Territory.“We will verify,” attorney general K K Venugopal said even as solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for Jammu & Kashmir, sought more time to file a response.In an affidavit, the Centre on July 21 told the apex court that a special panel constituted as per the latter’s May 11 order to review restrictions on high-speed internet has decided against any relaxations for now. The affidavit was filed in response to a plea from NGO Foundation of Media Professionals seeking contempt of court proceedings against the Centre and Jammu & Kashmir on the grounds that no action was taken to comply with the May 11 order.Venugopal made the submission on Tuesday when the NGO referred to Murmu’s statement to the media that 4G services should be restored. The Centre told the Supreme Court on July 21 that the internet restrictions would continue for two more months before they were reviewed again.“In our affidavit, we have attached a news report showing LG [Murmu] has made a statement that 4G should be restored. It is also in line with the statements by J&K interlocutor Ram Madhav. I have submitted those media reports,” senior counsel Huzefa Ahmadi, who appeared for the NGO, told the court.A three-judge bench, which is hearing the matter, posted the case for hearing next on August 7.In the July 21 affidavit, the Centre said the panel on June 10 considered all aspects of the matter, including terror strikes, before deciding to continue the restrictions on 4G services.The May 11 order was passed after the NGO in April challenged restrictions on mobile internet speed to 2G. The NGO sought restoration of 4G services saying patients, doctors, and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 pandemic because of the restrictions. It pointed out that slow internet speeds make telemedicine, or online consultation, impossible.The Supreme Court on May 11 refrained from passing directions to restore 4G services and instead ordered a constitution of a panel comprising high-level government officers, including the Union home secretary, to take a call on the matter.The NGO in June filed the contempt petition saying there was no information available whether the constitution of the panel was notified and whether it has conducted any meetings or passed any orders.The Centre told the court the panel was constituted by virtue of the May 11 order and no separate notification was required. The panel met on May 15 and sought further inputs before taking any decision. It again met on June 10 and decided not to relax the restrictions, the Centre said.A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in Jammu & Kashmir in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest the region of its special status. Most of the restrictions have since been eased even as mobile internet remains restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-restoration-in-j-k-govt-to-verify-reports-on-j-k-l-g-comment/story-mW2i5VSCvelnVoYm14YabL.html
29-07-2020||India||Delhi sero surveillance round 2 in first week of August, results by week 3||More than a hundred teams of the three-four members will fan out across the Capital in the first five days of August to collect blood from around 20,000 people, health officials in Delhi said on Tuesday, giving new details on an upcoming survey that could help determine how much closer Delhi is to achieving herd immunity to Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe results of the second such serological study in the city are expected by mid-August.The blood will be used to check for antibodies that indicate a person was once infected and has since recovered and now possibly immune. If more than 40-65% of the population has such antibodies, Delhi will have, possibly, reached the herd immunity threshold. This is when an infectious diseases peters out as vulnerable people dwindle.The first citywide survey of this sort, covering close to 21,800 people between June 27 and July 10, showed 22.86% of those tested had the antibodies. Like that exercise, the one next month will draw on samples that are representative of the city’s population – by age, gender and regional distribution. “For the second round of the survey, the number of samples to be collected from each ward and each district will be decided by the researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College, just like it was done by scientists from NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) for the last round. We are yet to receive the break-up,” said a district official, asking not to be named. Also read: Least active cases since June 1 in Delhi, 42% more beds than a month agoTo illustrate what some of the yardsticks could be, this person said around 30% of the samples collected in the first round were from those between the ages of one and 18 and all of those tested must have resided in Delhi for the last six months.“The numbers of how many samples will be collected from each district and ward is collected based on the population in the area and the percentage of people who need to be surveyed – the highest are to be collected by North West district and the least by New Delhi district,” this person added, citing the previous survey design.People who were covered in the previous survey will not be part of the sampling, according to the official. The collection of samples will be done by grassroots health workers, who will draw 3-5ml of blood from each member of a selected household. The teams will each consist of ASHA workers, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), a phlebotomist or a lab technician, and a community volunteer. One team will be able to draw 25 to 40 samples a day. “Our teams are ready, we are yet to get the guidelines for the survey. We can start collecting the samples as soon as we get the details. A meeting regarding the same is likely to happen by the end of the week,” said a district health official from another one of Delhi’s 11 districts, asking not to be named. When results of the first citywide serological survey was held, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it represented the situation that existed around the end of June and the number of people who would have silently had the infection may now have grown. How close, or far, Delhi is from the herd immunity threshold can have an impact on the precautionary curbs on some activities that have been in place to minimise spread of the disease. It could also determine whether some of the infrastructure preparedness –such as the number of beds reserved for Covid patients – is tweaked.Also read: No death reported on Monday at Delhi’s biggest Covid hospital, Lok NayakAccording to the Delhi government, the preparedness is likely to be maintained at current levels, even as current hospitalisations hover around their lowest in nearly two months. “As of now there is no plan to reduce the number of beds even post the sero survey. No such directions have been issued or discussion taken place. The Covid situation in Delhi is still being monitored very carefully by the chief minister and he has advised all officers not to be complacent and continue with all the Covid management activities as it is,” the Delhi government said in a statement on Tuesday.“The repeated sero surveillance will help us understand how many people have developed antibodies against the infection and whether that is the reason for declining prevalence. Also, it would be helpful in studying how long antibodies last,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. “When a statistical sample is selected, it is done on the basis of a presumed prevalence. In this case, it as the prevalence as per the ICMR survey. Now, if you have to properly observe something that occurs in less than 1 of 100 people, you would need a large sample size to see it. Now that we know the prevalence is about 23% -- and I expect it has gone up -- a smaller sample size will be good enough to observe. I believe 5 to 6 thousand samples will be enough for the second round of surveillance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sero-surveillance-round-2-in-august-first-week-results-by-week-3/story-KMa90IIUoCUvWl21L4OJdN.html
29-07-2020||India||Disengagement complete at most locations, claims China||Indian and Chinese front-line troops have completed disengagement at most locations on the border, China said on Tuesday -- a statement Indian Army officers described as a play of words that did not reflect the full picture on the ground.The Chinese foreign ministry was giving an update on the disengagement of border troops following last Friday’s three-hour meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which met to review the situation in the border areas and the disengagement process in the western sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also read | How the cold will alter the India-China power equation next month in LadakhResponding to a specific query on whether Indian and Chinese soldiers had completed disengagement at Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra areas, foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said disengagement was completed in most areas. India’s external affairs ministry did not comment on the matter . “The front-line frontier defence forces of the two countries have disengaged in most locations, and the current situation continues to develop in the direction of easing and cooling,” he said. But Indian Army officers said the locations did not really cover the key areas of conflict.“Completed disengagement at “most locations” reveals there are locations where the process hasn’t made significant progress. Disengagement at Pangong Tso and Patrolling Point-17 (Gogra) hasn’t been up to the desired level,” an Indian Army officer aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity. Also read | Indian Navy’s clear message to Beijing following escalation of border tension ‘registered’ by China: ReportDifferences between India and China on the disengagement process along the LAC emerged following the meeting last Friday, with New Delhi calling on Beijing to “sincerely implement” the understandings on troop withdrawals reached by senior military commanders of the two sides.“Recently China and India have conducted intensive communication through military and diplomatic channels. We have held four rounds of commander level talks and three meetings of WMCC,” Wang said on Tuesday.“Now we are preparing for the fifth round of commander level talks to study the settlement of the remaining issue. We hope India will work with China to implement our consensus and uphold peace and stability along our border areas,” he added.The commander-level talks are likely to be held later this week.Following last Friday’s WMCC meeting, a statement from the Indian external affairs ministry said the two sides agreed “it was necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understandings reached between senior [military] commanders in their meetings till date”.India at the WMCC meeting focused on the need for China to completely withdraw its forces from key friction points in Ladakh sector in keeping with commitments made at the meetings of the corps commanders and the July 5 phone conversation between the two Special Representatives on the border issue, people aware of the matter told HT in New Delhi.It is still not clear whether Beijing is looking at the disengagement of troops in the same way.The Chinese statement on the same WMCC meeting, issued in Beijing in Mandarin, referred to “positive progress made by the front-line border defence forces of the two countries to disengage and ease the situation on the ground”.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi last week said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was a “complex and intricate process” that required “diligent execution”. Joshi said disengagement was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” He said de-escalation of the border conflict would begin after complete disengagement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-complete-at-most-locations-claims-china/story-8BO8Qt2WOoalznWnWz86JL.html
29-07-2020||India||Congress to bring no-confidence motion against BJP-led Manipur govt||The Opposition Congress party on Tuesday issued notice for a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led coalition government ahead of the monsoon session of Manipur assembly which begins on August 10.“We filed a no confidence motion against the council of ministers led by the Chief Minister,” Congress MLA Keisham Meghachandra told reporters after the party served the notice in the state assembly.Another Congress MLA Th Lokeshwar also went with Meghachandra to submit the notice.Meghachandra said the Congress was bringing in the no-confidence motion for the government’s alleged failure to hand over a 2018 drugs haul case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He alleged that the ‘high profile’ of the ruling front interferes with the ongoing investigation.The 60-member House currently has a strength of 52 after eight lawmakers were disqualified. The BJP has 18 members and the support of four MLAs each from the NPP and the NPF,one LJP member besides an Independent.On July 10,court suspended disqualification of AITC MLA.The Congress has 24 members.Since July 15, the Congress has been demanding that the 2018 drugs case be transferred to the CBI.The Congress first made the demand after chief minister N Biren Singh told reporters that his government’s “war against drugs” would continue, and that it would not spare anyone found involved in drug smuggling.The chief minister’s statement came following media reports on an affidavit filed by Manipur Police Additional SP Th Brinda, alleging that politicians and top police officers were involved in the said drug case of 2018.Brinda is also facing a suo motu contempt case for her remarks on Facebook, allegedly undermining the judiciary after the alleged drug smuggler (Lhukhosei Zou, the then Chairman of the Autonomous District Council of Chandel) in the case was granted bail.In June 2018, a Manipur Police team including Brinda, seized 4.595 kg of heroin and 2.80 lakh ‘World is Yours’ (WY) amphetamine tablets worth around Rs 27.79 crore in the international market, from eight persons including Lhukhosei Zou during an operation in and around Imphal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-bring-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-led-manipur-govt/story-621eOBvccOiZ8upYm6k7CK.html
29-07-2020||India||Covid-19: West Bengal withdraws complete lockdown announcement for August 2 and 9||West Bengal government withdrew complete lockdown announcement for August 2 and 9 on Tuesday, in view of the upcoming festival in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Respecting the sentiments of the people we are withdrawing complete lockdown announcement for 2 August and 9 August,” the state department said on Twitter. Respecting the sentiments of the people we are withdrawing complete lockdown announcement for 2 August and 9 August(2/2)“After announcing the state-wide complete lockdown dates in the state the government has been receiving request and appeal from different quarters not to observe state-wide lockdown on certain dates coinciding with festivals and important community occasions,” it also said.The announcement came hours after the state government announced a state-wide complete lockdown on weekends till August 31.After revised order, the lockdown will be observed now on August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-withdraws-complete-lockdown-announcement-for-august-2-and-9/story-ZxGBvaMbWc46IA6H6f5o9O.html
29-07-2020||India||ED summons Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s brother, asks him to appear within 24 hours||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s brother Agrasain Gehlot to appear before it at its headquarters in Delhi on Wednesday in connection with its probe into alleged money laundering in the export of fertilizer meant for Indian farmers, officials familiar with the development said. Without divulging further details, officials cited above said they need to question Agrasain Gehlot as he, through his company, played a key role in the alleged violations. ED’s probe is based on an investigation carried out by the customs department and the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) in 2009 in the export of Muriate of Potash or MOP, which is a restricted commodity for export under the foreign trade policy. It is suspected that Gehlot’s company diverted total 35,000 metric tonnes of MOP, having value of Rs 130 crore in international market, against the laws. The anti-money laundering probe agency had, on July 22, conducted raids at his premises apart from several companies and individuals in Rajasthan, Delhi and West Bengal. Also read: ED raids CM’s brother on money laundering charge, Congress hits outA Customs’ department investigation report, reviewed by HT, alleges that Agrasain Gehlot’s company – M/s Anupam Krishi –played a key role in the export of MOP to companies in Malaysia and Singapore. It added that Agrasain Gehlot “knowingly opted to become a part of the syndicate in the entire chain of conspiracy by facilitating the said consortium (of private companies) by supplying subsidized MOP, which was meant for sale to farmers only and forged documents for which he admittedly gained certain amount as his commission”. ED and the income tax department are also investigating Ashok Gehlot’s son Vaibhav Gehlot in connection with his links with a hotelier. The Income Tax department, had on July 13, conducted raids at several places in Rajasthan and Delhi belonging to three business groups on charges of tax evasion and had recovered around Rs 12 crore in cash. The Congress had, on July 22, termed the ED action against Ashok Gehlot’s brother a “raid raj” created by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership in Delhi. The party added that the Centre was using federal agencies to arm-twist lawmakers to bring down the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-issues-summons-to-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-s-brother/story-L4OU7nKw0hBcy9dNbatSyH.html
29-07-2020||India||Tune into Harshit’s ‘Yaari’ on Friendship Day||Singer-composer Harshit Saxena is coming up with a ‘Yaari’ song that will be released on International Friendship Day on August 2. The ‘Haal-e-Dil’ singer asked his fans to send in their pictures and get featured in the song. ‘Mujhko Teri Yaari’ will feature these pictures. “When we decided to make song celebrating friendship, an idea came that why not feature people and their friendships? So, on my social media account I asked people to mail us pictures of their best friendship moments. I promised to use best pictures in the songs and trust me we really had tough time selecting them as they were so many of them,” said the Lucknowite. In three days, he received around 4,500 pictures on mail. “We closed the entries on July 15 but till date we are getting mails. After a lot of brainstorming around we shortlisted 80-90 pictures that will feature in the song as the duration of the song is less than 3 minutes.” Despite being his single venture, Harshit won’t feature in the song. “I decided not to feature in the video and give the entire screen space to the audience. Even if I have tried to put a 40 second clip of mine then I would have to reduce few pictures which I did not want to happen.” The song will be released on Friendship Day, this week. “We have tried to make it as a friendship anthem so that every friend can dedicate the song to their friend and even sing for them.” Telling more about the song he said, “When lyricist Soumya gave me the lines they were very simple for all to understand and connect with. Listeners want simple lyrics as the love to sing along. So to keep up with the trend we kept it easy and hummable.” In the song he did not use any high pitch and kept it on a simple scale. “My song ‘Haal-e-Dil’ is a big hit but it’s not an easy song to sing for a layman. Best is when you listen to lines which stay in mind your mind and you like to hum it. It was not about showcasing my ‘gayaki’ (singing ability). We used simple instruments and recorded at my own studio.” Earlier in May, Harshit has released a song ‘Bas Kuch Dino Ki Baat Hai’ that was penned by Sameer Anjaan and showcased the plight of migrant labourers during the lockdown phase. “Besides, before the lockdown, I have sung, composed and featured in two music videos. I was supposed to shoot more but then everything was brought to a standstill due to ongoing pandemic. Also, I have composed songs for film ‘Utawle Bawle’. I have an update that my songs have been filmed but some little work is left for the completion of film. I hope things improve and the film gets a good release,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/harshit-s-friendship-anthem-belong-to-the-audience/story-ja1OVjnoomWLlAiOduCKtN.html
29-07-2020||India||Disclosing names of Covid-19 patients involves risk of victimisation: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Tuesday observed that there was risk of ostracising Covid-19 patients if their names were disclosed as demanded by two public interest litigants.“What purpose will be served by disclosing the names? This will lead to the risk of ostracisation,” the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Sarang Kotwal said during the hearing on the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by law student Vaishnavi Gholave and farmer Mahesh Gadekar.The bench said it all depends on how careful the individual is. “Try to avoid congregations, wear face mask and head shield... This is what is advocated to stay safe from the infection,” it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.In the PIL filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, the two petitioners contended that on several occasions Covid-19 patients are unable to recognise and give complete information about the people, who had come into their contact, because of which contact tracing becomes an arduous task and many suspect cases fall through the cracks.They have cited an example of a meat seller from Muraji Peth in Solapur who was found to be Covid-19 positive, and later it came to be known that about 1,000 people had unwittingly come in contact with him.“However, the meat-seller didn’t know all his customers or their whereabouts,” the plea stated.It added that there are about 25 meat sellers in Muraji Peth and since the name of the infected meat seller was not disclosed, people did not know whether they had exposed themselves to SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and as a result, take precautionary measures.The plea expressed serious concerns about the growing risk of community transmission and argued that it is necessary to disclose the names of Covid-19 patients in a bid to make contact tracing easier and also appropriate precautionary measures be taken such as self-isolation and early treatment for the viral infection.The PIL cited that Maharashtra has been reporting a surge in Covid-19 positive cases even though the state government is maintaining that community transmission has not set in yet.Arguing on behalf of the central government, additional solicitor general Anil Singh opposed the PIL. He pointed out that four high courts have dismissed petitions containing similar prayers, and therefore the HC should not entertain the PIL.The bench, however, posted the PIL for further hearing on Friday after Sangvikar sought time to go through the judgments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disclosing-names-of-covid-19-patients-involves-risk-of-victimisation-bombay-hc/story-6E6pkhLUUe8EpGrHLWc6eL.html
