30-07-2020||India||Pompeo cites LAC tension, says tide turning on China||American efforts to lead an “international awakening” against the Chinese government is working and the “tide is turning”, US secretary of state Michael Pompeo said on Thursday, citing India’s ban on China-origin mobile apps, closer interactions of the Quad countries and actions by several other nations that have been seen as aimed at Beijing. Testifying at a US senate hearing on the 2021 budget for the state department, Pompeo also said he is not yet certain about the shape or form of the “new grouping of like-minded nations — an alliance of democracies” that he recently mooted to confront the global threat from China in a major policy speech. The reference was to his remarks last week at a California library named after former President Richard Nixon, whose 1972 visit led to the thaw in US-China relations. Pompeo had then called for a global compact arguing US policy of “blind engagement” with China had failed.The top US diplomat was pressed repeatedly by Republican as well as Democratic senators on China, more than on any other foreign issue, reflecting the urgency among American policy makers on ties with Beijing.Calling the Chinese Communist Party — US officials insist on treating the Chinese government as an entity separate from the people — “the central threat of our times” as he has before, Pompeo told senators that the “incursion” against India and the “real-estate claim” against Bhutan and other conflicts around the world were indicative of Chinese intentions to expand their reach and to bring “socialism with Chinese characteristics” to the world.“Our vigorous diplomacy has helped lead an international awakening to the threat of the CCP,” he said, adding, “Senators, the tide is turning.”The secretary of state listed some of the global developments he said were the result of the American lead on international awakening against China: the growing ostracism of Chinese firms from the rollout of 5G networks, increasing rejection of Chinese claims in the disputed South China Sea, and the condemnation of the new laws in Hong Kong.“We’re proud to have stepped up maritime manoeuvres in that body of water (the South China Sea) alongside friends like Australia, India, Japan, and the UK,” Pompeo said in his full and prepared remarks, which were different from the brief summary he read out as his opening statement.He added: “India has banned 106 Chinese apps, including TikTok, that threatened its citizens’ privacy and security.” The secretary of state had earlier indicated the United States had played an “assist” role in the first round of bans of 59 apps, without providing details. The US has since said it was considering a ban on TikTok and other Chinese apps, devices and companies that threaten the security of the country.Pompeo said the US, Australia, India, and Japan have “reinvigorated” the “Quad” as part of an effort to confront China through multilateral bodies. He went on to say this “grouping is stronger than it has ever been and maybe we were gifted by General Secretary Xi (Jinping).”“He took actions that caused each of the leaders of those countries to recognise the value of this group,” he added. The secretary was answering a question about India’s invitation to Australia to join the upcoming military exercises with the United States and Japan.The top US diplomat went on to specify the many actions the Trump administration has taken against China in recent months: sanctions against Chinese officials for the mistreatment of Uighur muslims in Xinjiang; imposition of export controls on companies supporting it; termination of trade benefits for Hong Kong and the closure of the Chinese consulate in Houston, which, he said, had become a “den of spies”.As further indication of the Trump administration’s intentions for the region, Pompeo said the state department was seeking $1.49 billion for foreign assistance to the Indo-Pacific region, a 20% increase from the FY 2020 request. “We want that part of the world to be free, open, and prosperous,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pompeo-cites-lac-tension-says-tide-turning-on-china/story-roUS11IzTVyR6mOMvcHduI.html
30-07-2020||India||India rejects China’s claims on completion of disengagement||New Delhi/Beijing: India on Thursday rejected China’s contention that disengagement has been completed at most locations along their disputed border, with New Delhi calling on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava acknowledged there has been “some progress” towards disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC, though the process is far from complete. Senior military commanders from the two sides are set to meet for the fifth time to work out steps to complete the process, he said.India’s stance is markedly different from the position taken by China, which said on Tuesday frontline troops had “completed disengagement in most locations and the situation on the ground is easing”.“There has been some progress made towards this objective but the disengagement process has as yet not been completed,” Srivastava said during the weekly virtual media briefing.“As we have stated earlier, the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is the basis of our bilateral relationship. Therefore, we expect that the Chinese side will sincerely work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest, as agreed to by the Special Representatives,” he said.People familiar with developments said the sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains a concern. The people, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Chinese side is yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.The people said the next meeting of the corps commanders is expected to be held before the end of the week though a date is yet to be finalised.Srivastava referred to the July 24 meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which reviewed the situation in Ladakh sector, and said the two sides had agreed that “early and complete disengagement” of troops and de-escalation in line with bilateral agreements and protocols is essential for the smooth development of bilateral ties.In Beijing, Chinese defence ministry spokesperson Ren Guoqiang stuck to the line that troops from both sides were disengaging at friction points on the LAC.“At present, the situation on the ground is tending to ease, and the border guards of the two countries are gradually disengaging from contact,” Ren was quoted as saying in a statement.Since the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley, the two countries have had “effective communication and coordination through diplomatic and military channels”, Ren said.He added: “We hope the Indian side and the Chinese side will meet each other halfway, in accordance with the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, and always proceed from the overall situation of maintaining...China-India relations and regional peace and stability.”The two sides should focus on “cooperation and properly addressing differences”, he said.Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong, speaking at a webinar on the theme “India-China relations: The way forward”, sought to blame India for both the standoff and the June 15 clash that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties.He repeatedly accused Indian troops of crossing to the Chinese side of the LAC and of building infrastructure such as roads and bridges in the Galwan Valley since April. “The right and wrong of the Galwan Valley incident is very clear and I must make it very clear that the responsibility is not on the Chinese side,” he said.Sun also accused Indian troops of breaking consensus reached by the corps commanders during their June 6 meeting and provoking the clash in the Galwan Valley. In response to a question on China not providing details of its casualties, he indicated this was part of goodwill from the Chinese side not to increase tensions.The envoy also sought to imply that India’s position on interpreting the LAC could lead to new disputes. Noting the purpose of clarifying the LAC was to maintain peace in border areas, he said: “However, if one side unilaterally delimits the LAC as per its own understanding during the negotiations, that could create some new disputes and that will be a departure from the original purpose.”Sun sidestepped most questions during the seminar, answered a query on why the Galwan Valley was in focus, even though both sides didn’t have a dispute in the area for decades, by giving details on Pangong Lake and made vague generalisations about “win-win cooperation”, consensus developed through the informal summits and civilisational contacts dating back thousands of years.Strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney believes Beijing is trying to impose a new status quo along the LAC. “China’s intentionally false claim that ‘disengagement is complete in most places’ is part of its effort to impose the new status quo its aggression has created in five Ladakh hotspots: Pangong Lake, Gogra, Hot Springs, Galwan Valley and Depsang. The ball is in India’s court now,” Chellaney tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-china-s-claims-on-completion-of-disengagement/story-GjJGQaZ2nRVMFah4QwfxrM.html
30-07-2020||India||Final-year exams vital: UGC||New Delhi: The July 6 directive asking universities to hold final year and terminal semester exams by September-end is intended to protect the academic future of students that will be irreparably damaged if these tests are not held, the University Grants Commission (UGC) told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the students’ health and safety and courts should not normally intervene in academic decisions and policies concerning standards and quality of education, the higher education regulator added.“All universities/institutions in the country are obliged to conduct terminal semester/final year examination by the end of September 2020. The UGC took the decision to protect the academic future of students across the country while also keeping in mind their health and safety,” UGC said in an affidavit.The affidavit was filed in response to a batch of petitions challenging the July 6 directive. A Covid-19 positive student is among the petitioners who have sought cancellation of the examinations in view of the pandemic. The Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena, is also one of the petitioners.The petitioners have sought directions for UGC to consider scrapping the tests and to declare results by July 31 based on past performance or internal assessment of students.A Supreme Court bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah issued a notice to UGC on Monday.UGC on July 6 said universities and colleges will have to hold their final-year or final-semester examinations by September 30 after the Union home ministry approved the holding of these tests. It said the examinations can be held either online, or offline , or using a combination of both. For other students, UGC allowed universities and colleges to choose their own method to close the academic session. Students missing the exams in September will get another chance, and universities will conduct special exams “as and when feasible”, UGC said on July 6.The UGC said its directive adequately takes into account the evolving situation of the pandemic as sufficient time is being provided to conduct the examinations after following the prescribed procedures and protocols related to Covid-19. “It gives sufficient flexibility to universities to conduct exams online offline or blended (online and offline) mode and provide for examination through special chance for students who are unable to appear for the examinations by September 2020. Concerns of the petitioners have been more than adequately addressed by UGC,” the affidavit said.Prof Atul Khosla, Pro Vice Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh based Shoolini University, which has already competed the semester after holding online examinations, said it was important for the students to move on.“For many Indian universities that have a continuous assessment system, performance in midterm examinations and assignments can be used to calculate grades in times like today. For others, if end semester exams are not feasible, assignments or project work can also be used as an alternative to calculate grades,” he said.“Many new age universities like ours have used proctoring and AI based Technology for conducting online examinations”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-year-exams-vital-ugc/story-S5dQaGju4IugRMf0bKePHN.html
30-07-2020||India||Raj HC issues notices to speaker, six BSP MLAs||Jaipur: The Rajasthan high court (HC) on Thursday issued notices to the assembly speaker, secretary of assembly secretariat and six legislators, who won the 2018 elections on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) tickets but later merged with the Congress, on two petitions” seeking the disqualification of the MLAs. “The arguments took place on the maintainability of the petitions after which show cause notices were issued to the Vidhan Sabha speaker, the secretary of the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, and the six MLAs,” said Dinesh Kumar Garg, lawyer for the BSP, which filed a petition on Wednesday. BSP national general secretary Satish Mishra and BJP lawmaker Madan Dilawar filed a separate petition in the HC against the merger on Tuesday, saying the move by the MLAs was unconstitutional as neither the state BSP nor the party at the national level had merged with the Congress — a contention the Congress has rejected. Garg said the next hearing in the case would take place on August 11 by when the six BSP MLAs — Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kisangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati) — assembly speaker CP Joshi and secretary of assembly secretariat have been asked to submit their replies. While BSP national general secretary Satish Mishra Garg appeared for the BSP, Harish Salve attended the hearing for the BJP MLA. Both appeared through video conferencing. The Congress argues that two thirds of the members of a legislature party are eligible to join another political party or form a separate party. It says that since all six BSP MLAs in the assembly changed camps, the move is not illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-hc-issues-notices-to-speaker-six-bsp-mlas/story-4lEsUIVpQB4h7Jq2TPcqNL.html
30-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand Congress MLA slips and falls into flooded rivulet, video goes viral||Uttarakhand Congress MLA Harish Dhami had a narrow escape on Thursday in Dharchula area of Pithoragarh district when he slipped into a flooded rivulet due to a sudden rise in its water level. The water was filled with debris, due to which the MLA from Dharchula received minor injuries. Those accompanying him managed to get him out of the flowing rivulet. When contacted over phone, Dhami said he had gone to Lumti and Mori village affected by heavy rainfall. “While I was returning and crossing a rivulet, there was a sudden rise in the water level. The water was filled with heavy muck and flowing debris. I lost control and fell. I got carried away for some distance, but over a dozen people who were accompanying me, managed to save me and get me out of the rivulet,” he said. Dhami said he was given first aid by army personnel deputed nearby. “I have injured my leg. Now I am moving to Dharchula town where I will get myself checked by doctors,” he said. “The situation in these affected areas is very serious. Water and muck is flowing down the hillside in huge quantities. The villagers have taken shelter in a nearby area and want to be shifted. I have been demanding chopper service for the last three years to help people in this affected area,” he said. Due to heavy rainfall in some areas and higher reaches of the state, the water level has risen and connectivity to many villages has been affected. In hilly areas, the mountain rivulets are flowing with more water along with muck and debris like rocks and branches of trees, making it dangerous for locals to cross them. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) media in-charge Praveen Alok said SDRF teams shifted 50 people from Pithoragarh’s Byula village, a landslide prone area to a safer area six km away. The SDRF personnel also built a temporary bridge in Lumti village in Pithoragarh and helped around 40 villagers to cross the swollen rivulet, he said. In Chamoli district’s Trikhola village, five cows were buried under the debris after a landslide. On getting information about the incident, a SDRF team left for the area One vehicle also fell into a river in Dehradun district near Laldhang. There were two people in the vehicle. One swam back to the bank on his own while the other person got washed away. His body was fished out by a SDRF team. He has been identified as Ajay Kumta, 24 from Shimla, Alok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-congress-mla-slips-and-falls-into-flooded-rivulet-video-goes-viral/story-MB1Q6BdtTkUQ540ntY7S0J.html
30-07-2020||India||Odisha minor dies by suicide as cops allegedly sit on complaint against stalker||A minor girl in Odisha ended her life by consuming poison after police allegedly did not take any action on her complaint filed against a youth who had molested her and was repeatedly harassing her, the family said Thursday.The family of the girl in Bhapur area of Dhenkanal district alleged that she took poison on Wednesday night.Sources said the youth in the village was sexually harassing the minor girl while her farmer parents would be working in the fields. Though the family had lodged a complaint with Bhapur police outpost on July 1, the police allegedly did not take any action.The family claimed that police inaction emboldened the stalker who kept on harassing the girl. “The youth used to harass my daughter in our absence. He had also made it impossible for my daughter to walk on the road. She was very upset over repeated harassment,” the victim’s mother alleged. Dhenkanal’s superintendent of police Anupama James said a case has been registered and efforts are on to nab the accused youth. “The allegations levelled by the family against the police will be probed and anyone responsible will face action,” said the SP.The assistant sub inspector in-charge of the police outpost has been suspended||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-minor-dies-by-suicide-as-cops-allegedly-sit-on-complaint-against-stalker/story-xZvwNqD2qyemfE0NQqbedO.html
30-07-2020||India||As Odisha’s Covid-19 tally crosses 30k-mark, BJP tells state govt to seek Centre’s help||As the Covid-19 cases in Odisha crossed the 30,000-mark on Thursday, opposition BJP said that the ruling-Biju Janata Dal should rise above politics and seek Centre’s help to fight the coronavirus pandemic.The state reported 1,203 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking its tally to 30,378 while 10 deaths in the same period took the toll to 169. With 9,857 active cases, Odisha now has more active cases than MP, J&K, Haryana, Assam and Punjab. Ganjam, its hotspot district, now has close to 10, 000 cases. Advocating the need to seek Centre’s help in tackling the pandemic, BJP state general secretary Bhrugu Buxipatra said that when Delhi lost its grip on Covid crisis management, the Aam Aadmi Party approached Union home minister Amit Shah for help. “Maharashtra also sought Centre’s help. Similarly, the Odisha government should now seek Centre’s help in managing the crisis and curb the spread of virus in the state. In the last four months, BJP has extended its help in containing the situation in Ganjam. However the state has completely mismanaged (the situation),” alleged Buxipatra. “Even though the situation remains grim in Ganjam, the BJD government is not paying any heed to our demands.”The BJP leader said that after demands grew louder, the state government announced setting up of a 100-bed hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Ganjam. “Fifteen days later, the hospital is only on paper. Moreover, we have demanded to increase testing in the district; that is also falling on deaf ears. The state government has failed in all aspects to put a brake on the spread of the virus,” said Buxipatra.The BJD did not comment on the BJP’s demands. However, a health official said that the state’s Covid fatality ratio is the lowest in the country and the state has the capability of conducting around 20,000 tests a day.“Odisha has all necessary infrastructure in adequate quantity. Today, Odisha has 54 labs in all 30 districts where samples can be tested for novel Coronavirus. Out of these, 35 are government labs while nine are private. We have sufficiently increased our testing capacity. So come forward for testing. Our case positivity rate is low, the testing rate is increasing and Covid fatality ratio of our state is the lowest in the country. All our labs have been approved by the ICMR and their reports are very much authentic. I request people not to suspect the labs based on the results of Covid tests,” said NHM mission director Shalini Pandit.Pandit said in Ganjam district, the state government is carrying out 1,500 to 2,000 tests per day. “We could test more people and isolate them. Due to this, over the last three to four days, the positivity rate in Ganjam has reduced,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-odisha-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-30k-mark-bjp-tells-state-govt-to-seek-centre-s-help/story-SQBb8mhtVf7g8RQveLcepM.html
30-07-2020||India||Delhi youth arrested in Bhopal for defamatory videos against CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||A young man from New Delhi was arrested from a hospital in Bhopal by the crime branch of Bhopal Police on Thursday for allegedly spreading rumours related to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Crime Branch, Bhopal said. Rajan Singh called a press conference in Bhopal around noon on Thursday but he was arrested by the crime branch in the morning. Earlier, the police had registered an FIR on Tuesday against Rajan Singh, 21, under Sections 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 (making statements conducing to public mischief) and 188 (punishment for disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). ASP, crime branch, Gopal Dhakad said, “Since CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared on Twitter on Saturday that he had tested Covid-19 positive, Rajan Singh has been spreading rumours on social media by showing some fake reports and claiming that the CM is lying.” “We arrested him from a hospital on Thursday. Singh is presently residing in Bhopal to carry out some research on malnutrition as he claims but his credentials are doubtful. Initially, he claimed to be a medico and later he said he was conferred a doctorate degree by a private university. We are interrogating him to know as to why he is spreading rumours. Is this a part of a publicity stunt or is there someone else who is using him to malign the image of the CM.” Rajan Singh on Tuesday released a video questioning the Covid-19 reports of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and also the credibility of a hospital administration where the CM is taking treatment. In another video released on Wednesday from a private hospital, Rajan Singh said, “I have just requested the CM to show his reports but police registered an FIR against me. What kind of democratic state is this where we are sent behind bars for asking a question?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-youth-arrested-in-bhopal-for-defamatory-videos-against-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-MvMsWw7ZzcXXghhORSKG0O.html
30-07-2020||India||Deliberations being held to identify first group of people to receive Covid-19 vaccine: Officials||Policymakers are actively holding deliberations to identify groups of people who will first receive the Covid-19 vaccine when it is developed, officials said. Speaking at an international symposium on Novel Ideas in Science and Ethics of Vaccines against Covid-19 pandemic, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Bhushan said prioritising who should get the vaccine first is a topic being discussed both within and outside the government. “There is an emerging consensus that frontline workers are the people who have the best claim over who should get the vaccine first. But while that question engages us and there is no finality on the question, the issue of who will be on priority list and who comes after frontline healthcare workers and that is if they come first, then who are the people that would follow them,” he said. He said deliberations are on whether it will be the elderly or it will be people with co-morbidities or whether it will be people placed in socio-economic disadvantage whose immunity has been weakened because of prolonged exposure to poverty and malnutrition. “So these are the questions presently engaging the policymakers within Government of India,” he said. NITI Aayog member V K Paul who is also part of the Covid-19 national taskforce said policymakers are actively deliberating to prioritise the groups of people who will first receive the Covid-19 vaccine once it is developed. “India’s journey for a safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccine shall be driven by the best scientific and ethical principles and for that our regulatory and scientific mechanisms are already in place,” he said at the symposium. He said India’s journey to scale up and access to vaccines by all will be in full compliance with the high principles of equity and human rights. “We cannot accept a situation where the rich have the vaccine and not the poor. This is simply unacceptable. We will ensure that pathways are created. We are also working actively to prioritise the groups that should receive the vaccine before the other group and those decisions are in the active stage of being deliberated upon,” he added. Paul said India visualises its capabilities against Covid-19, including the vaccines, not just for the country and its citizens but for the world and humanity. “The Indian government values and welcomes international partnerships, technical exchange, knowledge sharing and collective discourse in this journey,” Paul said. Indian Medical Research Institute (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava said once a safe and effective vaccine is developed there will be four major challenges. “One is prioritisation and fair distribution to vulnerable groups, second is logistics of vaccine rollout, including cold chain, and third is stockpiling and fourth is training people who will administer this vaccine,” he said. “In context of these four points, India will have to play a significant role and I can assure you that it is a part India will play with great care and responsibility. It will require immense collaboration across borders keeping in mind the noblest principles of science and humanity,” he added. Underlining that the need for a vaccine is both great and urgent, Bhargava said a dilemma is that the pandemic is going at a devastating pace and to develop a vaccine one needs time and it is not only for science part of it, but ethics and the regulatory and social considerations that need to be kept in mind. “We need to crystallize a mix and match of these ideas which may run in parallel with the right balance of the speed and safety. A balance between speed and safety has to be maintained once we crystallize novel ideas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliberations-being-held-to-identify-first-group-of-people-to-receive-covid-19-vaccine-officials/story-E3gJDbc9RgR9o2KTUGkOHO.html
30-07-2020||India||Battle only half won says CM, as Kerala completes 6 months since detection of 1st Covid-19 case||On January 30, when a China-returned medical student tested positive for coronavirus, the first in the country, Kerala was literally in the dark without a single testing lab and bare minimum facilities but it rose to the occasion by chalking out its own protocol to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday.With the state completing six months today since the first coronavirus case was reported, statistics show it has managed the pandemic well with the lowest mortality and highest recovery rates in the country despite pitfalls like low testing rates. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has dedicated this ‘achievement’ to good planning of the government and the hard work of health officials and asked people to continue the vigil as the battle has only been half won.“The state’s mortality rate in 0.3 per cent whereas the national average is 2.21 per cent. With good planning and vigil we have contained the spread to an extent. In 6 months our total cases are 22,302 but in some states this is the daily number,” said the CM. He said the state had formulated its disease-control protocol even before the Indian Council of Medical Research formulated its guidelines. He added there were many attempts to “belittle the state’s track record and portray its achievements in bad light” but the government continued its work without any distraction and results are there to see. “Our effective management and planning have helped contain the spread. Our contract tracing method and route maps of the infected were the first in the country,” said the CM.However, the opposition accused the state of fudging data to maintain its records. “The CM is taking credit for everything including people’s general awareness and the state’s grassroot health system. Many deaths fail to appear in the government’s list these days. And its testing rates are the lowest in the country, 212 in 10 lakh population,” opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said.Kerala has reported 506 fresh cases today taking the total to 22,302. Out of this, active cases are 10,060 and 12,618 patients have recovered. With two more casualties, the death toll has gone up to 72 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-only-half-won-says-cm-as-kerala-completes-6-months-since-detection-of-1st-covid-19-case/story-iOsnYVUS6ZpLvG9k30fWJL.html
30-07-2020||India||Manipur police officer who leveled allegations against CM detained for violating lockdown||A woman police officer in Manipur who hit the headlines few days back for accusing Chief Minister N Biren Singh of “pressuring” her to release a drug lord was detained by police on Monday night for violating lockdown guidelines, officials said on Thursday. Thounaojam Brinda, an additional superintendent of police, was travelling with two other persons in a car during the ongoing total lockdown in the state when she was detained by police at Imphal’s Kwakeithel. “Brinda along with two others were detained for violating the Covid-19 regulations issued by the state government. She was fined Rs 1000 and allowed to leave,” said Imphal West district police superintendent K Meghachandra Singh.Manipur is at present under total lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic and only essential services are allowed to operate. The lockdown was extended to August 6 on Thursday. “It is unfortunate that despite being a police officer she refused to follow the guidelines and didn’t cooperate with us when we questioned her about where she was going during complete lockdown,” said Singh. He added that Brinda and the two other persons went to five districts in the state and also visited containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-police-officer-who-labeled-allegations-against-cm-detained-for-violating-lockdown/story-PWmI5YyURzwHQ92g7UyKSP.html
30-07-2020||India||A dose of comedy is the need of the hour, says Yogesh Tripathi||Shooting back-to-back for two daily soaps during ongoing Covid 19 crisis is nowhere an easy task. But, for actor Yogesh Tripathi — best known as ‘daroga’ Happu Singh — it was his calling and passion that made him one of the first few actors who resumed shooting and today he is glad to be back to work. “When we commenced shooting, we had no bank of episodes left with us. So we had to start from square one. During the initial days of the shoot for the show ‘Happu Ki Ultan Pultan’ I was literally in every frame. Kids were not there and as some were joining from different cities so they were quarantined for 15 days. Ultimately, the pressure was on me. Thankfully, now, it’s better and we have started building a bank of new episodes,” said the UPite over the phone. The actor is shooting six days a week. “In this ‘coronakaal’ people need light entertainment and stories that they can connect with and something that can make them laugh. During the lockdown, audience was just watching repeat shows and intense OTT series so a daily dose of laughter was a miss. The repeat of our previous shows came as a big relief when everything was on hold,” he said. Giving an insight about the safety measures he is taking, Yogesh said, “We are talking lot of safety precautions right from the entry point. It starts with sanitation, check-ups with health machines and then rooms are sanitised multiple times. Besides, you can’t write scenes which attracts many people close-by and scheduling is also done in a way that artistes don’t have to be together for long time. Hope vaccines are out soon and we go back to the old normal.” The versatile actor prefers to carry home-cooked food and warm water to the sets. “Now, everyone eat separately in their own corners and no luncheons are happening so home-cooked food is the best for now. Everyone in the team has got their medical tests done. Besides safety measures, I am working on my immunity as that is the only thing we can take care of at present.” Since the sets of ‘Bhabiji Ghar Par Hain’ and ‘Happu…’ are on walking distance it’s easier for him. “When I was doing both ‘Bhabiji…’ and ‘Jajaji Chhat Per Hain’ then it was little tough but now with these two shows I play the same character it’s much easier. I have been shooting for them for years now. I started with playing ‘atrangi’ (different characters) in the hit show ‘F.I.R.’ with same producer and director so when you work with same team for 12 years then the comfort level is high.” Coming from district Rath near Jhansi, Yogesh has a close connection with the state capital. “Lucknow se to ‘gehra rangmanch ka naata hai’ (I have deep theatrical connect with the city). I have done theatre here for four years. I was living in Indira Nagar and have done NSD workshop that were held in Lucknow. I was closely working with Bhartendu Natya Academy (BNA) mainly with Urmil Kumar Thapliyalji. I am looking forward to come to the city again.” His UP background helped him in developing his character for the ongoing shows, “The unique speaking style of my character was my own idea where I thought to combine Bundelkhandi and Brijbhasha to create an interesting lingo. The writer Manoj Santoshi also hails from Lucknow so he too added a lot of local flavour to my character,” he shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/a-dose-of-comedy-is-the-need-of-the-hour-says-yogesh-tripathi/story-6R5RCRBPaq1Jhn4dAOqH6O.html
30-07-2020||India||11 dead, 40 lakh affected as flood situation worsens in Bihar||The flood situation in north Bihar has worsened following incessant rains in the catchment areas of all major rivers of the region, including Gandak, Budhi Gandak, Bagmati, Lakhandei, Kamala Balan and their tributaries. Over 39.6 lakh people in 972 panchayats in 108 blocks of 14 districts have been affected by floods while 11 people have lost their lives.Most of the rivers are flowing above danger marks at several places while others are showing a rising trend, an official of the water resource department of north Bihar said on Thursday.The Burhi Gandak was flowing nearly 1.5 meter above the danger mark at Sikandapur in Muzaffarpur town while the Bagmati had touched 56 meter at Kataujha, nearly 0.75 meter above the danger mark. Gandak was flowing at 54.31 meter near Rewaghat, barely 10 cm below the danger mark.A Darbhanga-based lawyer Sudhir Kumar Choudhary, who is stranded in his native village under Hanuman Nagar block for a week due to floods, said, “The power supply was snapped in the entire area after inundation of Poariya sub-station over a week ago.”The state-highway between Darbhanga and Samastipur was flooded at several places between Taralahi village to Bishunpur. The district administration has enforced restrictions on plying of heavy vehicles through the marooned region.A bulletin issued by the Central Flood Control Room stated that extreme flood situation continued even as the Adhwara river at Bishunpur was flowing at 48.71 metre, 1.31 metre above the danger level on Thursday morning.The flood situation in Kusheshwar Asthan block continues to remain grim even as swollen Kosi, Kamla Balan and Kareh rivers inundate villages. Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM said district administration was taking all measures to mitigate the miseries of flood-hit people by setting up community kitchens, providing boats and medical assistance.Muzaffarpur district disaster management officer Atul Kumar Verma said all precautionary measures were being taken to save the town from Budhi Gandak as its water had entered into six places around the town periphery and breached the safety and ring bunds.“We are focusing to save the national highway 77 apart from the railway track along the Muzaffarpur-Sitamarhi sections of NHAI and East Centeral Railway,” he said, apprehending that the flood water would enter in Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital if any breach will occur along NH 77.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-dead-40-lakh-affected-as-flood-situation-worsens-in-bihar/story-MxrrSu1cjwOY5F0c1OyP6L.html
30-07-2020||India||Complete lockdown extended till August 6 in Manipur||Manipur authorities on Thursday extended the complete lockdown in the entire state for another seven days till August 6 or until further orders whoever is earlier.The state had been witnessing complete lockdown from 2pm of July 23 after the report of detecting infection of Covid-19 amongst a few people who have no history of travel outside the state.State Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu who is the chairperson of state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued an order in connection with the extension of complete lockdown on Thursday.“There shall be complete lockdown and Deputy Commissioners will issue an order imposing curfew in their districts,” says the order.The activities which were permitted during the complete lockdown were also issued along with the order.Meanwhile three more deaths were reported “due to co-morbid health conditions and Covid-19” in the state,taking the total Covid-19 related death tally to four on Thursday,according to officials.On Wednesday, the state reported its first death related to Covid-19 at RIMS hospital.The 56 year old patient was from Khongjom.The 2nd,3rd and 4th death cases related to Covid-19 were reported from RIMS and JNIMS hospitals ,official sources said. The 2nd case is a 48 year old male resident of Leimakhong while the 3rd case is a 47 year old male inhabitant of Langol.The 60 year old patient who is the 4th case is from Moijing.After the state recorded its biggest single-day spike of 141 Covid-19 cases on wednesday, as many as 47 persons including 10 females were confirmed as new cases of Covid 19 on Thursday,officials said.On the other hand,19 persons were discharged from the Covid care facilities and centres,the source said.Total number of Covid-19 positive in the state increases to 2506 while the active and recovereds cases are 829 and 1,672 respectively. The recovery rate is 66.90 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complete-lockdown-extended-till-august-6-in-manipur/story-fGWatFeqwyyNxNkUhuddlO.html
30-07-2020||India||Bihar engages ex-AG Mukul Rohatgi to oppose Rhea Chakraborty’s plea in SC||In a major development on Thursday in the case of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Bihar government has hired India’s former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi to oppose Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty’s interim prayer that the probe by the state’s police be stayed till the Supreme Court decides her plea on transfer of investigation from Bihar to Mumbai. Principal additional advocate general, Bihar, Lalit Kishore confirmed that Nitish Kumar’s government is set to oppose Rhea Chakraborty’s plea before the top court and support Sushant’s family in the case. “The caveat has already been filed,” he said. Soon after Rhea moved the Supreme Court, Sushant Singh’s family filed a caveat seeking that her petition not be allowed to be heard “ex-parte” in their counter-petition. The family’s lawyer Vikas Singh will be present in the court for the proceedings. Caveat is a type of petition filed to pre-empt any ex-parte order on the plea filed by opposite side.Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting Sushant’s suicide, moved the apex court on Wednesday pleading for the transfer of the investigation from Bihar to Mumbai, as the investigation in Mumbai was still pending. Following pressure by Sushant’s family members, the Bihar government is also likely to recommend a CBI probe into the ‘’mysterious’’ suicide of the actor.Officials at the state police headquarters said he police was already investigating the case, but the government might recommend a CBI inquiry into the matter in following the demand of the bereaved family members.Officials said a four-member Patna police team has made progress in the case and had extensively interrogated six members including cook of the actor. The official said that Bihar government had the right to recommend a CBI probe. The government is waiting for the return of police team from Mumbai after collecting evidences. The Patna police team also visited Kotak Bank’s Bandra West branch in Mumbai where the late actor had an account.The visit of the Patna police team has caused friction with Maharastra with the state’s minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai alleging that Bihar policemen did not follow protocol.“Whenever a police team from a state visits another state for investigation, there are some protocols which are to be followed. These were not followed,” Desai told a news channel.But Central Range IG (Bihar) Sanjay Singh told HT that the Patna police team left Bihar following his order and informed Mumbai police when team arrived there.Y V Giri, a senior advocate in the Patna high court said that if Sushant’s family moves the SC for a CBI probe, court will hear the plea and recommend the probe. He said if state government wants to transfer the matter to the CBI, it can also do so legally.Another senior advocate Yogesh Chandra Verma told reporters said that Bihar government is well within the right to recommend a CBI probe. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked Bihar police to give the copy of the FIR registered by it. The ED is likely to probe into the alleged money laundering angle in the sensational case.Reports had claimed that the actor’s father in his complaint had mentioned that around Rs 15 crore was transferred to various unknown accounts from Sushant’s bank account. The central probe agency has stepped in to probe the alleged financial irregularities in the late Bollywood actor’s two companies Vividrage Rheality and Front India for World Foundation. Rhea and her brother Showik are the directors in the first company. Showik is also a director in the second one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-engages-ex-ag-mukul-rohatgi-to-oppose-rhea-chakraborty-s-plea-in-sc/story-Uk2wPjHeeSbM84RvkLG99O.html
30-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi vacates Delhi bungalow, will be residing in temporary accommodation says Congress||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra vacated her government allocated Lodhi Estate house on Thursday, a day before the deadline for the eviction notice issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, officials aware of the development confirmed. Gandhi on July 1 was asked to vacate her bungalow, 35 Lodhi Estate in Delhi, within a month on the ground that she is ineligible for the entitlement, as she no longer enjoys the security cover of the Special Protection Group (SPG).She will be residing in a temporary accommodation until a more permanent accommodation in Delhi rented by her is ready for use, Congress said in a statement on Thursday.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra handed over the possession of 35 Lodhi Estate, previously allotted to her on Security Grounds, to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) today. JE of CPWD Shri. P Senthil Kumar in the presence of Shri. Vikas Rana, CE (NDZ-I) CPWD, Shri. Yogesh Kumar Kardam, AE (PAWD-I, CPWD), Shri. Manoj Kumar Chauhan, AE, CPWD Services, Shri B.S. Rana, JE (PAWD-I, CPWD) accepted the keys to the bungalow on behalf of the CPWD after a full inspection establishing that the house was handed over in good condition. They have issued her a “Vacation Report” for the premises on behalf of the CPWD,” Congress said in a statement on Thursday.Hindustan Times has reviewed a copy of the vacation report issued on Thursday. The department of estate confirmed the development to HT. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs did not comment on the matter when contacted by HT.“Smt. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also passed on to the CPWD and the Directorate of Estates, a full inventory of privately installed fittings, fixtures etc. She has paid all electricity, water and previous dues and is awaiting the final assessment for the licence fee of the month of July from the Directorate of Estates due to her on the 31st July to close all accounts with reference to the allotment and subsequent cancellation of the lease of the government bungalow,” Congress said.She was allotted the Lodhi Estate bungalow on February 21, 1997, as an SPG protectee.Priyanka Gandhi on July 14 had rubbished claims that she had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an extension of the tenure beyond August 1.“This is FAKE NEWS. I have not made any such request to the government. As per the eviction letter handed to me on July 1, I will be vacating the government accommodation at 35 Lodhi Estate by August 1,” she had tweeted.Urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri had alleged that a “powerful Congress leader” had requested him to let her stay on at 35 Lodhi Estate on July 4, three days after the eviction notice was served on her.“Facts speak for themselves! A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the party called me on July 4 at 12.05 pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another Congress MP so that Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra can stay on. Let’s not sensationalise everything please,” Puri had tweeted.In the order issued by the department of estate, the ministry had stated that any stay longer than August 1, the government order said, will attract “damage charges and penal rent” as per rules.Hours after the notice was served to her on July 1, she paid off all her pending dues, amounting to Rs 3,46,677, until June 30, the ministry had said.“Upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover my ministry of home affairs, which does not have provision for allotment/retention of government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of Type 6B house No 35, Lodhi estate is cancelled,” the notice had said.The allotment of Central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Rules, 2017, of the directorate of estates.The ministry has already allotted the bungalow to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson, Anil Baluni. Officials familiar with the development told HT that the ministry has allotted the type 6B bungalow to Baluni.“Talked to Mr Anil Baluni and his wife today. I pray to God for his good health and happiness. I give my best wishes to them for the new house and hope that they too get as much happiness in the house as I and my family got,” Gandhi had tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vacates-delhi-bungalow-will-be-residing-in-temporary-accommodation-says-congress/story-cvgSVttHQXlh6AxGRjvjVO.html
30-07-2020||India||Meet 95-year-old ‘Rani of Jhansi’ who beat coronavirus||When 95-year-old Maan Kunwar walked out of the Rani Laxmi Bai Medical College, Jhansi, having been victorious in her battle against the coronavirus disease there were cheers and applause from the medical fraternity and the public. “She is the ‘Rani of Jhansi’. She battled coronavirus for seven days and defeated the disease despite being 95,” said a person from the crowd.Maan Kunwar, who seemed ‘anxious’ on July 19 when she was admitted to the Covid ward of the medical college, is now undergoing the mandatory seven-day home quarantine. “This (her cure) has happened because of her indomitable spirit and the medical staff’s dedication, who did not mind her occasional flare-ups,” said Dr Anshul Jain, superintendent in-charge of the Covid-19 hospital. “She was worried at first as it was the first time she was in a hospital and away from her family members. She was asymptomatic but the RT-PCR test had found her Covid positive,” said her son Chote Lal living in Talpura, Jhansi. She largely remained inside the ward and had no medical condition but episodic blood pressure, the son added. On day one, she was scared of the doctors and medical staff in their protective gears around her. She called them ‘Betaal’, a ghost, and thereafter struggled to beat her fears and eventually the coronavirus. Jain said the patients at this age take time to adapt to the hospital environment. “She gelled in well, the junior doctors made her talk with her family members on the phone and arranged video calls too,” he said. “She was given a turmeric (haldi) mixed milk and food on her bed, the staff grew fond of her. She was comfortable from the second day,” he said. After recovery, she was discharged on July 25 but advised seven-day home quarantine in accordance with the Covid protocol. While leaving the ward, a woman medical staff member joked with her: “Ammaji ham log ‘Betaal’ nahin hain (we are not ghosts).”Maan Kunwar chuckled and said ‘Tu toh pari hai beti (you are a fairy)” while walking out of the ward, giving hope to others who continue to fight the virus. District magistrate, Jhansi, Andhra Vamsi said whoever has good immunity and does not lead a sedentary lifestyle, has a fairly good chance of overcoming this infection.“Healthy diet, physical exercise and boosting immunity through a balanced lifestyle and diet improves lymphatic activity,” he said. In Jhansi, 2,166 people have tested positive so far and 1,180 people recovered in the last 57 days with the recovery rate being at 54.57%. Whilethere are 921 active cases, 65 people have died in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-95-year-old-rani-of-jhansi-who-beat-coronavirus/story-caLeDvwVDe4kYCokrP6AlI.html
30-07-2020||India||Ban on passenger flights from 6 cities to Kolkata extended till August 15||The restriction on passenger flights to Kolkata from six cities, most of which are Covid-19 hotspots, with a large number of coronavirus cases—has been extended till August 15, after West Bengal recorded a surge in patients in the state, NSCBI Airport authorities said on Thursday. The West Bengal Additional Chief Secretary (Home) also wrote to the Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation to extend the ban on passenger flights to Kolkata till August 15.“The restriction on arriving flights to Kolkata Airport from 6 cities i.e Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad has been extended up to August 15, 2020,” the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) Airport authorities said in a tweet. Earlier today, the NSCBI airport in Kolkata had announced that there would be no flight operations on lockdown days. Earlier, the ban on passenger flights from these six cities to Kolkata had been in place till July 31.Over the last few weeks, West Bengal has recorded a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases it has added daily. On Thursday, the state’s Covid-19 case count shot up to 67,692 with a record 2,434 fresh cases, the state health department said.With 46 new fatalities reported on Thursday, Bengal logged the highest number of single-day deaths till date, pushing the death toll to 1,536.The number of active coronavirus cases currently stands at 19,900.In the last 24 hours, 2,140 patients have recovered from the viral disease, improving the discharge rate to 68.33 per cent, according to the health department’s data. To curb the spread of coronavirus in the state, the West Bengal government had a day earlier announced complete state-wide lockdown for seven days in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-passenger-flights-from-6-cities-to-kolkata-extended-till-august-15/story-YXbF3GtuqMTyDKq1U9flRL.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Hike in horse trading rates after Assembly session announced’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday claimed that the “rates of horse trading” in the state have increased after it was announced that the Assembly session would begin from August 14.“After the assembly session was announced last night, the rates of horse trading have increased. Earlier, the first instalment was of Rs 10 crore and second was of Rs 15 crore. Now it has become unlimited and all know who is doing horse trading,” Gehlot told reporters. Targeting Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati for her statements against him, Gehlot accused the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister of acting at the behest of the BJP.Her complaining is not justified, Gehlot said. The deadlock over convening the Rajasthan Assembly ended on Wednesday with Governor Kalraj Mishra agreeing to call a session from August 14.The Raj Bhawan announcement came a couple of hours after the Ashok Gehlot Cabinet sent a fourth proposal to the Governor for summoning the Rajasthan Assembly, mentioning August 14 as the new date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hike-in-horse-trading-rates-after-assembly-session-announced-rajasthan-cm-gehlot/story-4VO71FuWvvqqWu7n5gX8lK.html
30-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Mayawati creating unnecessary fuss over 6 BSP MLAs merging with Cong, says Ashok Gehlot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mayawati targeting Congress under BJP’s pressure, says Ashok GehlotRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday accused Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) of creating unnecessary fuss over its six MLAs merging with the Congress in the state and claimed that BSP boss Mayawati was acting under pressure from the BJP. Read more‘Want those unhappy MLAs to attend assembly session’: Gehlot on rebel legislators camping with PilotRajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday reached out indirectly to the rebel legislators supporting his erstwhile deputy Sachin Pilot, claiming that he still wanted the MLAs to attend the upcoming assembly session as they had been elected on the Congress party’s symbol. Read moreMalaika Arora channels her inner ‘patta gobi’ as she dolls up for reality show following coronavirus safety protocolsMalaika Arora is easily one of the hottest mommies in Bollywood. The 46-year-old’s physique is to die for and her bold and sultry fashion sense is incomparable. Before the lockdown, Malaika’s Instagram had hundreds of posts of her serving looks, and thankfully she dropped another one on Thursday evening . Read moreWhatsApp’s top features that every user must know aboutWhatsApp is one of the most popular messaging apps in the world. It has dozens of features that not only give users multiple ways to express their thoughts and emotions but also the flexibility to reply in a way that they would prefer. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says death ‘case has nothing to do with what Kangana Ranaut has suggested’Lawyer Vikas Singh, who has been hired to represent Sushant Singh Rajput’s family in the case against Rhea Chakraborty and her family, has said that the matter has nothing to do with what Kangana Ranaut has been suggesting. Read more5 hilarious things by Lootcase cast while in conversation with RJ Stutee. WatchLootcase’s cast, a drama/comedy movie releasing on July 31 on Disney+ Hotstar, joined RJ Stutee for an interview in the most recent episode of ‘Aur Batao’, a chat show. The film, which looks like a real chuckle fest, revolves around the discovery of a suitcase filled with cash. Expectedly, shenanigans ensue. Now, the film’s cast Gajraj Rao, Rasika Dugall, Ranvir Shorey and director Rajesh Krishnan are making netizens giggle in real-life by engaging in this hilarious conversation with RJ Stutee. Read moreWatch: Car, with men inside, washed away in over-flowing streamA car with two men inside was seen getting washed away in flood waters in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur. The incident was recorded by onlookers. The driver tried crossing an over-flowing river body but got stuck in the strong current. The driver could not get past the strong current and the car was seen getting washed away. It was reported that the car continued to go downstream for about 100 meters before the locals intervened and helped. Reportedly, locals ventured in the neck-deep water and rescued the two men trapped inside the car. Water bodies in Andhra Pradesh are overflowing due to monsoon rain. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-mayawati-creating-unnecessary-fuss-over-6-bsp-mlas-merging-with-cong-says-ashok-gehlot/story-FdECkuJ0IgEHXpjzBOtqBI.html
30-07-2020||India||Bihar extends lockdown to combat rising cases of Covid-19||Failing to arrest the surge of Covid-19 cases, the Bihar government on Thursday decided to extend lockdown till August 16. The state government had reimposed lockdown from July 16 till July 31. Bihar has reported 48,001 Covid-19 cases to date, including 2,082 on Thursday. In fact from July 25 till July 30, cases have jumped from 36,314 to 48,001. A notification issued by the state home department said that restrictions will remain in force in State headquarter, district headquarter, sub-divisonal headquarter, blocks and all municipal areas in the state of Bihar with effect from August 1 till August 16. No public transport would be allowed to ply in areas falling under fresh lockdown norms, but there would be no bar on construction activities, state officials said. Also read: India’s Covid-19 recovery now over 64%, 16 states have higher ratesAir and rail travel have been allowed to continue and offices, banks, and other offices would function with minimal staff strength, they added. Restaurants would not be allowed to operate, except for takeaway and home deliveries. Thursday’s order said that “all offices of the Government of India and the State Government and their autonomous/subordinate offices and public corporations shall work with 50% of staff”.Exemptions have been made for defence, central armed police forces, treasury, public utilities (including Petroleum, CNG, LPG, PNG), power generation and transmission units, etc., which can work with full strength. “All commercial and private establishments will be allowed to function normally with exceptions of shopping malls, restaurants while restaurants/ dhabas/eateries will be allowed to open with home delivery / take away services only.” Shops and markets will also be allowed to operate subject to restrictions imposed by district administration. Medical shops, grocery shops, and other essential services would remain open like the previous lockdown norms. Last month, a three-member Central team, which visited Patna and Gaya on a two-day trip , had warned the state government that the “very low” testing ratio, as compared to the national average, might impact its case fatality rate (CFR) of the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-extends-lockdown-to-combat-rising-cases-of-covid-19/story-Y4DoYiHgPQzF2P4iOTmn6N.html
30-07-2020||India||Tax on auto fuel in India is fifth highest after UK, Italy, France and Germany: EY Report||Taxes on petrol and diesel in India is about 66% of their pump rates, which is the fifth highest after the United Kingdom, Italy, France and Germany, an EY India’s report said.Taxes on auto fuels in Spain, Japan, Canada and the US are; however, lower than India, the consultancy firm said in its latest edition of Economy Watch.“According to our estimate, the share of petroleum taxes in India in the case of petrol and diesel accounted for 66.4% and 65.8% respectively in June 2020. These rates indicate the average share for the month in Delhi which is taken as representative of the Indian situation,” it said on Thursday.While the UK had the highest tax rates among the nine countries – 71.1% of the retail rate of petrol and 68.1% of diesel in June -- the levy was the lowest in the US at 23.1% on petrol and 23.3% on diesel, it said.“Since retail prices of petroleum products have a potential inflationary impact through transport and energy costs, this matter needs to be carefully monitored as the fiscal year progresses,” the report said. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) data released on July 13 recorded an inflation rate of 6.1% in June 2020.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor of EY India said the CPI inflation rate was in excess of the prescribed upper tolerance limit of 6% in December 2019, January 2020 and February 2020 at 7.4%, 7.6% and 6.6%, respectively, indicating that the monetary policy framework has been breached in the Covid-19 period and some months preceding it.“The Centre’s Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBMA) threshold for fiscal deficit is also likely to be breached in FY21 with the Centre’s estimated fiscal deficit at 5.6% or above of the estimated GDP [gross domestic product]. These exceptions may well be justified given the extraordinary situation created by the global pandemic. These also point to weaknesses in the monetary and fiscal policy frameworks since these were not designed to cope with such structural economic breaks as posed by a calamity like Covid-19,” he said.Srivastava said as petroleum products still remain outside the Goods and Services Tax (GST) both central and state governments have been increasing the non-GST taxes on them leading to high retail prices even as global crude prices remain low.Anupam Manur, assistant professor at the think-tank Takshashila Institution, said, “While it is understandable for the government to find any means of raising taxes and revenue at this point, it is unwise to further squeeze the consumers. By imposing higher taxes on an inelastic product such as fuel, the government might get additional revenue, but at the risk of shrinking disposable income and dampening consumer expenditure, which is vital to the revival of the economy, which will ultimately lead to higher tax collection.”“Apart from choking consumer spending, higher taxes on fuel will also have a cascading effect on prices of commodities, which can be severe when combined with the ongoing supply shock. It would end up exacerbating the cost of production to industries which are reeling at the moment,” he said.SC Sharma, an energy expert and former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said that some developed countries deliberately impose high taxes on petrol and diesel on the grounds of protecting environment.“There are large number of developed and developing countries which have been levying high taxes on petrol and diesel as a source of revenue. India is not an exception. Also current rationalization of excise on both MS [motor spirit or petrol] and HSD [high speed diesel or diesel] has been able to bring price parity of both diesel and petrol like many other countries, which is a good sign,” he said. While, diesel is costlier than petrol in most of the countries, in India diesel rates were lower than petrol due to duty differential. Pump prices of diesel crossed petrol for the first time on June 24, 2020, when petrol was sold at Rs 79.76 per litre and diesel at Rs 79.88 a litre in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tax-on-auto-fuel-in-india-is-fifth-highest-after-uk-italy-france-and-germany-ey-report/story-o1udDvZdXeyAfvyXtzFZuK.html
30-07-2020||India||BJP bets big on Somu Veerraju to resurrect party in Andhra Pradesh||The appointment of senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Somu Veerraju as president of BJP Andhra Pradesh unit is believed to be part of a well-laid out strategy of the saffron party to emerge as a powerful political force in the state.The BJP, in 2019 failed to win a single Lok Sabha or state assembly seat and got just 0.84 of the total vote share, is aiming at replacing the Telugu Desam Party as a potential alternative to the ruling YSR Congress Party in the next four years.It is for this reason that the party is learnt to have chosen Veerraju as the state BJP president. Unlike his predecessor Kanna Lakshminarayana, who defected to the BJP after enjoying several positions in the Congress party till 2014, Veerraju is a hardcore loyalist of the party with strong Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh background. He has been with the party for quite a long time, holding several positions in the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, later in the state BJP and in the national council of the party.Importantly Veerraju has been the hardest critic of the TDP, with which the BJP had an alliance in the 2014 elections. “Politically, I have been opposing TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu because he had not allowed the BJP to grow independently in Andhra Pradesh, before or after the bifurcation,” he said.He pointed out that it was Naidu who always benefited from the BJP by forging an alliance to suit his party’s interests. “He had allied with the BJP in 1999 elections to take advantage of the image of Vajpayee in the post-Kargil war scenario. He conveniently dumped the BJP after losing the elections in 2004. He again returned to the BJP fold after realising that there was a Narendra Modi wave in the country,” Veerraju told a local television channel after taking over as the state BJP president on Tuesday.In the 2019 elections, the TDP faced a humiliating defeat winning only 23 seats in the 175-member state assembly and only three out of 25 Lok Sabha seats in the state. The TDP party has been facing a series of desertions since then – three of its MLAs and a large number of powerful party leaders defected to the YSRCP, while three of his Rajya Sabha members switched loyalties to the BJP. Many others are also said to be looking towards greener pastures.“That is precisely why the BJP sees an opportunity to grow independently in Andhra. While the YSRCP is too powerful, the TDP is weakening gradually. Naidu is ageing and one does not know whether he will have the energy to defeat the YSRCP in 2024. And there is no second rung leadership in the TDP. So, the BJP is hoping to fill the vacuum with the support of Jana Sena Party floated by actor Pawan Kalyan,” political analyst S Rama Krishna said.Second, like Lakshminarayana, Veerraju also represents Kapu community, a powerful and politically strong caste group in the state. Since Pawan Kalyan is also from the same community, the BJP wants to consolidate this Kapu vote bank which accounts for nearly 15.2 per cent of the population in the state.“As the YSRCP led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is going all out to decimate the TDP, we may see a largescale exodus of the TDP leaders and cadre into the BJP. At the same time, the BJP will aggressively take up the fight on issues concerning the people so that it would be seen as a powerful opposition party,” Rama Krishna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-bets-big-on-somu-veerraju-to-resurrect-party-in-andhra-pradesh/story-U04LAaEzzVoslBhhJJ8MjK.html
30-07-2020||India||Gujarat IAS officer Hardik Satishchandra Shah is PM Modi’s top aide||Hardik Satishchandra Shah, a 2010 batch IAS officer has been appointed private secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah’s appointment was cleared by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Thursday, an order by the department of personnel and training said.Shah, a Gujarat cadre IAS officer, is serving as deputy secretary in the PMO.Hardik Satishchandra Shah will take over from Rajeev Topno.Topno, a 1996 batch IAS officer, was appointed as senior advisor to the World Bank Executive Director in June. He is expected to proceed to Washington for his new assignment after 15 August.Topno, also a Gujarat cadre officer, had spent 11 years in the Prime Minister’s Office, first as a deputy secretary in 2009 when Manmohan Singh had just started his second term. PM Modi continued with him, appointing him to his personal staff.Hardik Satishchandra Shah’s first assignment at the Centre was in 2017 when he joined as private secretary to environment minister Anil Madhav Dave. He continued in the environment minister’s personal office after Prakash Javadekar came in before finally moving to the PMO in 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-ias-officer-hardik-satishchandra-shah-is-pm-modi-s-top-aide/story-Mi7GBlOBLzJfgsfAYh0eqN.html
30-07-2020||India||Mayawati targeting Congress under BJP’s pressure, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday accused Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) of creating unnecessary fuss over its six MLAs merging with the Congress in the state and claimed that BSP boss Mayawati was acting under pressure from the BJP.His statement came hours after the Rajasthan high court issued notices to the Speaker, assembly secretary and the six MLAs, who had joined the Congress from BSP in September 2019. The court issued the notices on a petition by the BSP seeking disqualification of these MLAs.“With two-third majority, a party can merge and defect, here all six merged into Congress…Mayawati’s complaint is not justified as all six MLAs joined the Congress. I believe she is making statements on directions of the BJP. The way BJP is misusing CBI, ED, IT to threaten all has never been seen. Mayawati is also fearful and is making statements under pressure,” Gehlot said outside the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur, where MLAs loyal to him have been camping. The BSP said Gehlot’s comments were baseless. BSP state president Bhagwan Singh Baba said the merger of six MLAs was illegal as a national party cannot be merged at state level without the approval of the party chief. “The CM allegations are baseless. The BSP chief had conveyed her annoyance twice as Gehlot poached our MLAs. It’s not the first time but in 2008 when they first poached, we had approached court and the Speaker. Then, the BSP was supporting the Congress at the Centre and there was no BJP at the Centre. Mayawati had stated that Gehlot wants to wipe out BSP in Rajasthan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-targeting-congress-under-bjp-s-pressure-says-ashok-gehlot/story-08sDkHD0F5s9mCa8RCLu2H.html
30-07-2020||India||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi hospital; stable, say doctors||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi was admitted to Ganga Ram hospital on Thursday evening for what the doctors called “routine tests and investigations”.“Congress President , Mrs Sonia Gandhi has been admitted today evening at 7 p.m to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. She has been admitted for routine tests and investigations . Her condition is currently stable,” said Dr D S Rana , Chairman(Board of Management) , Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.The Congress president was admitted to the same hospital in February after she complained of stomach ache.Earlier in the day, Sonia Gandhi held a meeting with party’s Rajya Sabha members and discussed the current political situation with them.The meeting was organised through video conference in which its top leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh, participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-in-delhi-hospital-stable-say-doctors/story-PA1ZPaYsOaKynqjvhFY46L.html
30-07-2020||India||Eid-ul-Adha to be low key affair in south India due to Covid-19 pandemic||Eid-ul-Adha is likely to be a low-key affair in most southern states in view of the steep surge in Covid-19 cases. In Telangana, it will be celebrated on August 1 but in Kerala and parts of Karnataka, Eid it will be on Friday (July 31).In Telangana, the government has said that there will be no mass congregation prayers nor will there be open slaughtering of cattle, goats, and sheep for distribution of meat among the poor, which is an integral part of the festival. Muslims normally sacrifice an animal on Eid-ul-Adha.In Karnataka too the government has said that only 50 people would be allowed at a time in mosques for prayers and there will be no mass congregations due to the pandemic.The historic Mecca Masjid near Charminar in the old city of Hyderabad will not open for the general public to offer Eid namaz. It was a similar case for Eid-ul-Fitr on May 24 due to Covid-19 pandemic.Maulana Hafeez Mohd Rizwan Qureshi, Imam of Mecca Masjid said the mosque would not be opened for namaz because of the alarming situation prevailing in Hyderabad. “In fact, even after the lifting of the lockdown for places of worship, we have not been allowing the general public regular as well as Friday prayers. Only five persons are being allowed for prayers every Friday,” he said.The Maulana appealed to the people to visit mosques in their respective areas and attend the prayers following guidelines like social distancing and wearing masks. “Stay at your homes after prayers,” he said.Telangana State Wakf Board chairman Mohd Saleem said no congregations for mass prayers would be allowed in any Eidgahs across Telangana for Eid-ul-Adha on August 1. “Namaz-e-Eid will not be held at Eidgah or the open grounds which see large congregations of Muslims. We shall, however, allow prayers in local mosques for a limited number of people,” he said.The Wakf Board chairman said not more than 50 people should offer prayers at each mosque, that too by following the social distancing norms and other precautions to contain the possible spread of the virus. “If necessary, the prayers may be held twice during the day to allow more worshippers,” Saleem said.The mosque committees have been asked to advise senior citizens and children below 10 years not to come to mosques for Eid prayers. Those suffering from cold, fever, cough and comorbidities like diabetes and blood pressure have also been urged to pray at home. The Wakf Board also advised imams to keep their Eid sermons brief.The authorities have also imposed restrictions on sale of cattle, sheep or goats in view of the possibility of spread of Covid-19 at the markets.The Telangana high court on Thursday directed the municipal authorities to see that the slaughtering of cattle, sheep or goats should be done only according to the prescribed norms and there shall be no indiscriminate slaughtering of animals, including camels.The high court pointed out that there were reports of diseases being spread through meat as well. “We know how coronavirus has spread from bat meat in China. So, we need to take all precautions,” the court observed.The municipal authorities have appealed to the people to avoid visiting public places to buy sheep or goats and instead avail the facility provided by officials in every town by earmarking a place on the outskirts for sale and purchase of the animals. “For slaughtering, they should visit the slaughterhouses instead of doing it in public places,” a GHMC official said.In Kerala, Muslim religious leaders during a video conference with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan last week pledged support to the state government’s fight against the pandemic and decided to limit Eid celebrations this time.The maximum number of devotees at a time in all mosques in Kerala on Friday will be limited to 100 and respective mahal committees will keep an eye on them. There won’t be mass prayers at public places and Covid tests will be conducted on those who are involved in animal sacrifices. Religious leaders said there will be no mass slaughtering of animals and their number will be limited just for the sake of ritual and asked believers to go by the protocol of the government.Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and the CM greeted people on the eve of Edi-ul-Adha which will be celebrated on Friday in Kerala.“Bakrid which glorifies sacrifice and eternal faith in the almighty inspires us to remain united through love, compassion, and mutual support, both in our daily lives and in our fight against the Covid-19,” Khan said in his greetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-ul-adha-to-be-low-key-affair-in-south-india-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-o2uSnxhtAuoPsizmwUKTIP.html
30-07-2020||India||Houses, shops damaged due to landslide in Mussoorie, MeT issues orange warning for three districts||With heavy rainfall across the state, landslides and increase in water level of rivers have been reported from many areas in Uttarakhand in the past 24 hours. In Mussoorie, a makeshift residential dwelling and two temporary shops got damaged completely due a landslide that was triggered by overnight rains near Tehri bus stand. One whole sidewall of the dwelling caved and all stocks of the shops were buried under debris. Kavita, a slum dweller who lost her home due to the landslide said, “We have been living here since the past fifty years and have not seen such landslide earlier”. Officials from district administration rushed to the spot and helped those affected and shifted them to safer places. The India Meteorological Department on Thursday afternoon predicted that heavy rainfall with intense spells is likely to occur at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Chamoli districts of Uttarakhand on Friday. The MeT department has issued an orange alert for Friday urging district administrations to be prepared. It has further issued a yellow warning watch of heavy rainfall in different districts across the state from August 1-3. The water level of Ganga was flowing just near the warning level of 293 metre in Haridwar on Wednesday evening. As precautionary measure district administration cautioned villagers and slum-dwellers residing nearby Ganga river, directing them not to go near the river bed for the next 24 hours. As per Central Water Commission observatory at Neel Dhara at 5:30 pm the water level of Ganga reached 292.90 metre -which is just below the warning level (293 metre).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/houses-shops-damaged-due-to-landslide-in-mussoorie-met-issues-orange-warning-for-three-districts/story-B9JitlPsfGm1rjBd1JCKzH.html
30-07-2020||India||Red flags in Delhi over Erdogan’s Turkey funding anti-India activities: Official||Islamist radical organisations in parts of the country including Kerala and Kashmir are being supported and funded by Turkish outfits backed by Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government in Ankara, people familiar with the development have told Hindustan Times.“There is an effort to radicalise Indian muslims and recruit fundamentalists coordinated from Turkey,” a senior government official said, underlining that a recent assessment in New Delhi had noted the emergence of Turkey as “the hub of anti-India activities” next only to Pakistan.Ankara’s attempt to expand its influence among South Asian muslims comes against the backdrop of President Erdogan’s continuing pitch to challenge Saudi Arabia’s dominance in the Islamic world at a global level and offering a reshaped, conservative Turkey with Ottoman traditions as the model for other Islamic nations to follow.The reconversion of the Byzantine cathedral Hagia Sophia to a mosque last week was a giant step in this direction, counted by commentators as a milestone in Turkey’s rebirth as a powerful, muslim nation. The church had been converted into a mosque after the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople, now Istanbul - and from mosque to museum in 1934.The change fits in with Erdogan’s long-term plan to project himself as a global protector of muslims, much like the Ottoman Caliphs. He had last year taken baby steps to build an alliance of non-Arab Islamic countries along with a handful of countries including Pakistan’s Imran Khan and Malaysia’s Mahathir Mohamad. Iran and Qatar were also roped in.Pakistan watchers say Islamabad latched on to Turkey’s Erdogan after India deepened its ties with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.Imran Khan, however, backed out of the meeting at the last minute due to pressure from Riyadh but has made up by feting Erdogan - called Sultan by some supporters - at home, even emulating some of his policies back home.Officials believe that Erdogan’s political agenda has driven his government to expand its influence with South Asian muslims, particularly those in India.Indian officials said the Turkish government had funded Kashmir’s hardline separatist leader such as Syed Ali Shah Geelani for years. But it is the rapidly expanding scale of the effort that recently nudged security agencies to carry out an extensive review.The Erdogan government has been funding religious seminars in India, recruiting fundamentalists to radicalise people and even take freshly-minted radicals on all-expense trips to Turkey to reinforce their learnings.The security review also referred to a Kerala-based Islamist radical organisation that had been funds from Turkey for some time.“We are also aware of some people from this group travelling to Qatar to meet some people from Turkey to seek funding for their activities,” a government official said. “That amounts as high as Rs 40 lakh are being offered to preach radical Islam in Kerala”. Besides, officials said Turkey, along with Pakistan, have also been funding Zakir Naik, the controversial Islamic preacher accused of radicalising muslims, via Qatar, a senior official said.Turkey has become Pakistan’s “new Dubai” at a smaller scale, the official added, a reference to the United Arab Emirate’s city that used to be a second home to Pakistan’s ISI between 2000 and 2010 and the epicenter of anti-India activities in west Asia.During this decade, Pakistan’s ISI was able to radicalise some Indians and turn them against their own country. It is also here that the founders of terror group Indian Mujahideen were first radicalised. Since 2014, however, the United Arab Emirates has turned into one of India’s closest partners with no protection or sanctuary for anyone indulging in anti-India activities.Turkey also stepped in early this year when protests broke out over India’s amendment to the citizenship laws, not just to criticise the change that was perceived to potentially hurt the interests of muslims but also with money to keep the protests going, according to an intelligence assessment accessed by HT.Indian security officials believe that much of this radicalisation effort being bankrolled by Ankara was being carried out in coordination with Pakistan’s deep state. To be sure, Erdogan was the only world leader to speak out against India in the UN general assembly over Kashmir.On a visit to Pakistan earlier this year, he went on to assert that Kashmir is as important to Turkey as it is to Pakistan. “Kashmir is and will be the same for us. It was Çanakkale yesterday and it is Kashmir today, he said in February.Turkey is the only country that actively backs Pakistan’s Kashmir agenda in OIC and is also forging close economic ties with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erdogan-s-turkey-doesn-t-stop-at-kashmir-barbs-funds-radicalisation-too-official/story-Ct1HpX1q0WLW0exZx8Hv5N.html
30-07-2020||India||Odisha: 78% of poor households about to exhaust PDS rice: Survey||A survey of pension beneficiaries from the four migration- prone districts of Odisha by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) has found that 78% of the households have either exhausted the rice that they had received from the state-run public distribution system (PDS), or about to exhaust their stock over the next fortnight. The dire projections of an acute food shortage came to the fore on the completion of four months of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March in a bid to prevent the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the despite the largesse from the state government for 94 lakh beneficiaries between April and June. The telephonic survey of 63 pension beneficiaries in the four migration-prone districts of Bargarh, Balangir, Kalahandi, and Nuapada was conducted by Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan, an NGO, between July 1 and 15. The survey found that 16% of the families reported that rice from the PDS was exhausted. While 24% of the families said that the stock of rice would last between two and seven days. Another 38% of the families had a quota that would see them through between eight and 15 days. An overwhelming 73% of the families reported that they had run out of cash to buy rice. The survey also found that 54% of the households had consciously reduced their daily food intake during the lockdown restrictions in a bid to ensure that the ration could last longer amid the pandemic. Out of the 35 families, who had reported eating less during the lockdown restrictions, 37% of them had either no rice at home or the stock could last between two and seven days. On March 21, at the cusp of the viral outbreak in the state, the Naveen Patnaik-led Odisha government had announced largesse for 94 lakh beneficiaries for the next three months. It had pledged to distribute five kilograms (kg) of rice/wheat per head at Re 1 a kg and two litres of kerosene oil for free to ride out the pandemic-triggered lockdown restrictions. The government had also announced Rs 1,000 one-time cash assistance to each of the 94 lakh ration cardholders. It had distributed five and three kg of rice and arhar dal, respectively, to each of the cardholders under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, an initiative under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana. The government had also announced Rs 2,000 as an advance for an old-age pension for all the beneficiaries between March and June. However, the NGO, in its survey, found that many of the families spent the pension money on medical and food expenses for their household members. “We found that 57% of the families are worried about food scarcity because of an acute cash crunch. Similarly, 69% of the households reported that they had to borrow money and/or buy food on credit from a local grocer,” said Sameet Panda, who had conducted the survey along with Vipul Kumar. Another telephonic survey, conducted by the Delhi-based National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), a non-profit economic think-tank, in Bargarh and Dhenkanal districts of Odisha in June, has revealed that 81% of the households experienced a drastic dip in their monthly income. Around 27% of the households in these two districts had no income during the lockdown, while 59.3% had to fall back on their savings or sale assets to tide over the unexpected economic crisis due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-78-of-poor-households-about-to-exhaust-pds-rice-survey/story-kdzLifUMQmNzHcrmLomAxK.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Want those unhappy MLAs to attend assembly session’: Gehlot on rebel legislators camping with Pilot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday reached out indirectly to the rebel legislators supporting his erstwhile deputy Sachin Pilot, claiming that he still wanted the MLAs to attend the upcoming assembly session as they had been elected on the Congress party’s symbol.“I still want those unhappy MLAs to attend the assembly session as they’ve been elected on Congress symbol. It’s my responsibility to ensure that they are seen standing with the government in front of the public,” Gehlot said amid a bitter power struggle with rebel leader Sachin Pilot.After turning down a Cabinet proposal three times, Governor Kalraj Mishra has finally agreed to convene a session of the legislative assembly next month on August 14.ALSO READ | Haryana hotel, resort say Rajasthan MLAs weren’t their guestsAmong the 107 Congress MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, Pilot and 18 other dissident legislators have openly defied the party whip and refused to attend Congress party meetings despite being asked to do so.Expressing confidence in his government and MLAs who are supporting him, Gehlot further said, “I’m happy that the Governor finally accepted my request to call the Assembly session sooner as any more delay could have resulted in further horse-trading. Everyone knows horse-trading took place but that won’t affect us, we will complete our full term.” The Congress numbers include six Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs who merged with the ruling party after the 2018 assembly polls. The merger is now being challenged in the high court by the BSP and a BJP MLA.Amid the political turmoil continuing in the state, the Rajasthan high court on Thursday issued notices to the Speaker of the assembly, secretary of assembly secretariat and the six MLAs who had contested elections on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) tickets and then merged with the Congress later.The court issued the notices while hearing a petition filed by the BSP against the merger of the MLAs into the Congress.The six BSP members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) who had merged with the Ashok Gehlot–led Congress government are Sandeep Yadav, Tijara MLA, Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), Lakhan Meena (Karauli), and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati).The Bharatiya Janata Party has 72 MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-those-unhappy-mlas-to-attend-assembly-session-gehlot-on-rebel-legislators-camping-with-pilot/story-IAdbvDpuMJ5MkEdErudb0K.html
30-07-2020||India||Alwar locality locked down after surge in Covid-19 cases, Barmer still under 15-hour curfew||Authorities in Rajasthan’s Alwar announced a lockdown on Thursday morning in areas under the Kotwali police station area after a surge in Covid-19 cases. The lockdown will be in place until August 12. The lockdown which came into force at 4 am caught most people unawares and even those involved related to essential services were stopped at various places.“There was some confusion in the morning but the administration will consider the issues and smoothen things,” Alwar collector Anadi said Superintendent of police Tejeswani Gautam said that 38 points have been made by the police and 400 police personnel have been deployed in the area to maintain law and order. Barricades have been set up in all areas under the Kotwali police station. According to the lockdown guidelines, there will be relaxation from 7 am to 11 am for essential items such as groceries and milk, but on Thursday this was not followed. The district collector said the lockdown will be a smooth affair from Friday.The business community of the city said that the partial lockdown was unfair to some. They said they requested the district collector for complete lockdown. Alwar has 3,662 Covid-19 cases, out of which 2,157 are active. Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally stands at over 40,000 cases out of which 11,097 are active cases. The number of deaths in the state is 663. In Udaipur, district collector Chetan Devra extended night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 and also restricted some commercial activities in the city on the weekend. Devra issued the order on July 27. The restrictions don’t apply to the police officials, medical stores and other essential services. Businessmen, shopkeepers and hoteliers of the city are unhappy with the decision. Some of them met the collector on Wednesday and requested him to allow commercial activities until 11pm. Members of chamber of commerce also had a meeting with the administration and said the community had already suffered losses during the three months of statewide lockdown. In Jodhpur, a night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am is still in force. In Barmer, after a 7-day lockdown in the first week of July, the city is now under a 15-hour curfew between 5pm and 9am. The restrictions are only in the city area; elsewhere in the districts there are no restrictions. Barmer has so far recorded 1,343 Covid-19 cases out of which 555 are active..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alwar-locality-locked-down-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases-barmer-still-under-15-hour-curfew/story-0i3Lo4Gdkpy2SVbwfVET5H.html
30-07-2020||India||Australia opposes unilateral actions to change status quo along LAC||India’s position on the border standoff with China was backed on Thursday by Australia, which said it opposed attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as that could increase the risk of instability. Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell conveyed his country’s position to external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a meeting, at which the two sides discussed developments across the Indo-Pacific region amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Australian side urges restraint along the LAC and supports continued moves towards de-escalation, said a statement from the Australian high commission. “As I told the external affairs minister of India today, Australia opposes any attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, which only serve to increase tension and the risk of instability,” O’Farrell was quoted as saying in the statement. “It is important that the bilaterally-agreed principles and norms that have helped prevent escalation or miscalculation in the border areas over many decades continue to be observed,” the statement added. India has repeatedly said in recent weeks that it is opposed to any unilateral efforts to change the status quo along the LAC, along which tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops continue to be deployed. There has been growing convergence between India and Australia on security issues and the role of China in the Indo-Pacific in recent months. The two sides elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics during a virtual summit last month. Australia, which is set to be invited to join the Malabar naval exercise conducted by India, Japan and the US, has also backed India’s calls for reform of international bodies such as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and sought a probe into the origins of the pandemic. During a meeting of the US and Australian defence and foreign ministers in Washington on Tuesday, the two countries envisaged a key role for India in defence cooperation and post-Covid-19 recovery efforts in the Indo-Pacific. The Australian mission’s statement further said that “Australia remains vigilant about strategic trends inimical to our vision of the region” even as it focuses on the health and economic impacts of the Covid-19 crisis. Australia envisages an Indo-Pacific that is an open, free, rules-based region that is “resilient to coercion” and supported by inclusive institutions, the statement said. “Territorial disputes and competing claims should be resolved peacefully by the claimant countries, and in ways consistent with international law,” it added. Australia also continues to be deeply concerned by China’s actions in the South China Sea that are “destabilising and could provoke escalation”, the statement said. On July 23, Australia lodged a note with the UN Secretary General refuting China’s “unlawful maritime claims in the South China Sea”. It added: “It rejects China’s claim to historic rights and internal waters, its assertion of certain maritime zones, and its contention there is wide international recognition of its South China Sea sovereignty claims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-opposes-unilateral-actions-to-change-status-quo-along-lac/story-cf8iYjXX2yA7XhZBgbNmAM.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Disengagement process along LAC not yet complete’: India rebuts China||Just two days after China claimed that frontline border troops have completed the disengagement process in most locations and the situation on the ground is easing, India on Thursday rebutted it, adding the exercise is not complete yet. “There has been some progress made towards this objective but the disengagement process has as yet not been completed. The Senior Commanders of the two sides will be meeting in the near future to work out steps in this regard,” said Anurag Sriavastava, spokesperson, the ministry of external affairs. The spokesperson underlined that “maintenance of peace and tranquility in the border areas” is the basis of the India-China bilateral relationship. “Therefore, we expect that the Chinese side will sincerely work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas at the earliest as agreed to by the Special Representatives,” he added. Earlier, responding to a specific query on whether Indian and Chinese soldiers had completed disengagement at Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra areas, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said disengagement was completed in most areas. “The front-line frontier defence forces of the two countries have disengaged in most locations, and the current situation continues to develop in the direction of easing and cooling,” said Wenbin.Differences between India and China on the disengagement process along the LAC emerged following the meeting last Friday, with New Delhi calling on Beijing to “sincerely implement” the understandings on troop withdrawals reached by senior military commanders of the two sides.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi last week said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was a “complex and intricate process” that required “diligent execution”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-process-along-lac-not-yet-complete-india-rebuts-china/story-NpYy0IRVdhMBg11OANuNJJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Covid-19 herd immunity can’t be a strategic option for country of India’s size: Govt||Given the size of India’s population, herd immunity “cannot be a strategic choice or option”, the health ministry said on Thursday as it urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour till a vaccine is developed.At a press briefing, when asked whether India was approaching herd immunity against the coronavirus infection, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Ministry Rajesh Bhushan replied that herd immunity is a kind of indirect protection from an infectious disease like Covid-19.It happens only when a population becomes immune either through vaccination or immunity is developed through a previous infection, he said.“In a country with the size of the population like India, herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or option. It can only be an outcome, and that too at a very high cost as it means lakhs of people would have to be infected, get hospitalised and many would die in the process,” Bhushan said.He said herd immunity can be achieved through immunisation but that is in the future.“Are we approaching herd immunity? The health ministry believes it still far away and in the future. For now, we have to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, avoiding gatherings, following hand hygiene and maintaining ‘do gaz ki doori (maintaining distance of two yards),” the OSD said.“Till a vaccine comes up, following COVID-appropriate behaviour is the social vaccine against the disease.” The officer also said phase 1 and 2 human clinical trials of two indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidates have started.Bhushan also said the government has so far received 131 claims under the Rs 50 lakh Covid-19 insurance scheme for healthcare providers and payments have already been made in 20 cases.“Under the scheme, we have received 131 claims. The claims are a bit slow in coming as the families are initially in a state of shock and therefore it takes time to sign and fill up the necessary paperwork. “Out of these 131 claims, in 20 cases payments have already been made. In Sixty-four cases payment has been processed and would be made in the coming few days while 47 cases are with different state governments,” he said.About the spread of coronavirus infection in the country, Bhushan said Maharashtra, Delhi and Telangana have reported the maximum number of cases.Due to enhanced testing infrastructure, on an average 4,68,263 Covid-19 tests have been conducted daily from July 26 to 30. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients too has increased from 7.85 per cent in April to 64.44 per cent on Thursday, the officer said.“Recoveries are now 1.9 times the number of active coronavirus cases. Bhushan further said that 21 states and Union Territories have case positivity rate less than 10 per cent, while in four it is less than five per cent. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Rajasthan is 3.5 per cent, Punjab 3.9 per cent, Madhya Pradesh 4 per cent, and Jammu and Kashmir 4.7 per cent, he said.The OSD also stressed that effective clinical management has led to a decline in Covid-19 case fatality rate from 3.33 per cent on June 18 to 2.21 per cent on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-herd-immunity-can-t-be-a-strategic-option-for-india-govt/story-mcC9daX3QMFIMVFwflPZ0H.html
30-07-2020||India||Tripura: Covid-19 positive woman delivers baby in an ambulance||A pregnant coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient (23) delivered a male baby in an ambulance while on her way to a hospital in Agartala from Tripura’s Unakoti district in the dead of night on Wednesday. The mother and the baby have been admitted to the state-run Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, in Agartala. The mother, who belongs to Unakoti district, had tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday evening and was referred to GBP Hospital, located about 130 kilometres (km) from her native place after the district hospital authorities had refused to admit her because of the complications of her health condition.The ambulance, which was ferrying her to GBP Hospital, was also entrusted with the responsibility to drop a Covid-19 patient at Kumarghat Hospital in Unakoti district. However, she went into labour, when the ambulance was crossing Atharamura range in Khowai district, 50 km away from Agartala, and she gave birth to a male baby in the vehicle. The ambulance reached the hospital in the intervening night between Tuesday and Wednesday before 2 pm. “The mother and the child are doing fine. The baby has been kept with the mother in the Covid-19 isolation ward since he requires to be breastfed,” said Dr. Bidhan Goswami, resident medical officer (RMO), GBP Hospital. Tripura Directorate of Health Services has served a show-cause notice to the Unakoti district hospital seeking a reply within 24 hours, ascribing reasons for refusing admission and referring the patient to GBP Hospital. “There is a complaint against the on-duty doctor of the hospital, who refused to admit her after she had tested Covid-19 positive. Action will be taken against him, if he is found guilty,” said Dr. Subhasish Debbarma, director of health services, Tripura. Dr. Samarendra Debbarma, medical superintendent, Unakoti district hospital, cited infrastructure inadequacy that prompted the referral to GBP Hospital. “The district hospital has only one labour room and an operation theatre (OT) and a Covid care ward. We refer serious pregnancy and Covid-19 cases to GBP Hospital, as per the instructions. She, too, was referred following discussion with senior health authorities,” Dr. Debbarma said. Earlier on July 22, another woman (23) had delivered a baby daughter at GBP Hospital three days after she had tested Covid-19 positive. Tripura has recorded 4,287 Covid-19 cases to date, including 2,621 patients have recovered from their viral infection and 21 have died. A woman Covid-19 patient had died by suicide, according to the state health department. The Biplab Kumar Deb-led government has extended the lockdown restrictions in the state from 5 am on Thursday (July 30) until August 4 owing to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The lockdown that was re-imposed on Monday (July 27) from 5 am was slated to be lifted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-baby-in-an-ambulance/story-C2Y9BwnN9dnqazzmqLePgL.html
30-07-2020||India||In Madhya Pradesh, woman sets herself on fire protesting crop destruction||A woman farmer set herself ablaze to protest an anti-encroachment action taken by the administration in Dewas district, 153 kilometres west of Bhopal, as per police. Shabra Bi, 45, a resident of Atwas village under Satwas police station, about 55 kilometres from the district headquarters received 20% burns. She was referred to a hospital in Indore where her condition is stated to be stable, said police. The incident, which took place on Tuesday, came to light on Thursday after a video went viral on social media in which the woman is seen setting herself ablaze in front of a team of government personnel while a JCB machine is seen destroying the crop in her farm field. Former chief minister Kamal Nath tweeted the video, attacking CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and urging the government to conduct an investigation into the case.CM Chouhan is currently undergoing treatment for coronavirus in a hospital. “A sister is setting herself afire under the rule of who calls himself Mama (maternal uncle). A hapless woman had to resort to setting herself on fire to protest her crop being destroyed with a JCB machine,” Kamal Nath tweeted. The woman’s husband, Ramzan Khan, alleged that the authorities ignored their pleas to stop. “A joint team of revenue and police departments came with a JCB machine and wanted to destroy our soybean crop. They refused to hear our pleas for not destroying the crop.“We are very poor and solely depend upon this crop which was sown in 2 bigha land. The team of government personnel beat us up and pushed Shabra Bi. I don’t know from where Shabra got kerosene and poured it on herself. Before we could understand what had happened she set herself afire,” said Khan. However, Dewas superintendent of police (SP), Shivdayal Singh said, “Shabra Bi and 10 other members of her family attacked the team of police and revenue departments personnel resulting in injuries to two patwaris, Kishor Chawre and Dileep Jat and a revenue inspector Rajendra Dhurve.” The Satwas police station registered an FIR against Shabra Bi and 10 others under section 147 (rioting), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant,), 294 (using obscene language), 506 (criminal intimidation) and under a section SC/ST Act.The SP said, “There was a complaint that Shabra bi and her family had encroached upon government land. The matter was settled in the revenue court last week and the revenue team had gone to the village to remove the encroachment with the help of police when Shabra Bi and her family members pelted stones and hurled abuses on the team. Later she set her dupatta afire that caused burn injuries to her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-madhya-pradesh-woman-sets-herself-on-fire-protesting-crop-destruction/story-CLWcx2GntERrDHRr9OQbFO.html
30-07-2020||India||Manipur scientist brews Ginger Tea, says beverage may defend against Covid-19 infection||After successfully producing the ‘hottest hybrid chilli’ a scientist in Manipur has formulated an immune booster health drink- Ginger Tea and non-alcoholic beer called 3Gingers to build a defence system against Covid-19 and also to provide relief to patients infected with the virus.3Gingers was formulated by blending, in proportion, three species of Zingiber (ginger) each of which have been used traditionally for treatment of cold, cough, flu and many other ailments.Dr Rajkumar Kishor, Managing Director and Chief Scientist, Kwaklei and Khonggunmelei Orchids Pvt. Ltd., Imphal said, “With no effective therapeutic drugs or vaccine available at the moment to treat this dreaded viral disease, mankind has to resort to herbal medicines which are time tested through civilizations. These concept health drinks will act as immunity boosters as well as concoctions for respiratory infections including cold, cough, and flu.”“Therapeutic use of the blend of these (three) gingers for treatment of Covid-19 can only be verified after a systematic scientific investigation along with proper clinical trials,” Dr Kishor, a Cancer survivor himself said.The scientist who conceptualized the beverages solely for prevention of cancer because of their inherent anti-cancer properties, while he was undergoing treatment for AML-a type of blood cancer in Mumbai, was inspired by the research work on gingers at the laboratory of Prof GJ Sharma of the Department of Life Sciences, Manipur University.Stating that all three gingers including the common ginger (Zingiber officinale) have been investigated scientifically for their rich antioxidant properties and contains many health beneficial bioactive molecules - phenolic compounds, polyphenols, flavanoids, etc, he said, “A teabag of 3Gingers tea may be brewed in boiled water for five or more minutes and the infusion served. Anybody having flu can have 2 servings a day, while a healthy individual can have a cup a day.”In 2018, Dr Kishor had successfully produced the ‘hottest hybrid chilli derived from capsicum frutescens cultivar, capsicum chinense cv, and the hybrid of the two. Bhut Jolokia, or U-morok in Manipur, is currently India’s hottest chilli, after being certified by the Guinness Book World Records as the world’s hottest chilli in 2007.The average pungency of the hybrid chilli is 287,400 heat units (SHU) on the Scoville scale with capsaicin (spicy chemical compound in the chillies) content of 1.80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-scientist-brews-ginger-tea-says-beverage-may-defend-against-covid-19-infection/story-wiMJwlLc7dnEp0Sk2ta2qL.html
30-07-2020||India||Nepal tells India not to restrict movement of its people in contested areas in Uttarakhand||Nepalese authorities have insisted that Limpiyadhura, Kalapani, Lipulekh in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district fall under Nepal’s territory where their citizens can move in and said that “no hindrances should be put in their movement by Indian authorities”. Nepalese authorities claimed that they wrote the letter after officials on the Indian side raised the matter of ‘illegal’ entry of Nepalese citizens into the Indian territories of Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Gunji under the sub-division of Pithoragarh through a communiqué. The letter of July 28 written by Darchula district administration of Nepal is said to be in reply to a letter purportedly sent by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dharchula sub-division of Pithoragarh in which he had apprised his Nepalese counterparts to look into the ‘illegal’ entry of Nepalese citizens into the Indian territories of Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Gunji under the sub-division of Pithoragarh. The letter from the Nepalese stated that “the movement of Nepalese people in those areas (disputed areas) is natural. No hindrances should be put in their movement by Indian authorities.” Hindustan Times has copies of both the letters.Tek Singh Kunwar, assistant chief district officer of Neoal’s Darchula district said after Indian officials raised the issue of illegal movement of “our people in Kalapani, Gunji and Limpiyadhura and asked us to stop it, we immediately apprised our higher authorities in Kathmandu on this and later wrote a letter from our side two days ago as per their directions”. In the letter written on the official letterhead of Home Ministry, Government of Nepal which also carries the name of the Darchula District administration office, Kunwar stated that “As per the Treaty of Sugauli signed between Nepal and erstwhile British East India Company in 1815, the areas east to Kali (Mahakali) river which includes Limpiyadhura, Kalapani, Lipulekh, Gunji, Nabi and Kuti fall under Nepal’s territory. Hence, the movement of Nepalese people in those areas is natural. No hindrances should be put in their movement by Indian authorities.” The Treaty of Sugauli between the British and Nepal was signed in December 1815 and ratified in March 1816. It defined river Kali as the western border of Nepal. India asserts that the river begins in Kalapani as this is where all its tributaries merge, but Nepal claims that the river begins from Lipulekh Pass. Kunwar said “as per the new map released by our government, these areas fall under Nepal’s territory. However, as far as the question of our people going there is not possible because of the existing lockdown.” “There is a battalion of Nepal’s armed forces deployed near it in our area who are also carrying out the survey work for construction of a road in our Tinker village near Lipulekh. Indian officials might have got to know about it only,” said Kunwar. Meanwhile, AK Shukla sub divisional magistrate of Dharchula in Pithoragarh district denied writing any letter to the Nepalese authorities. “I have not written any sort of letter to them,” said Shukla when contacted on the issue. District magistrate Pithoragarh Vijay Jogdande also said he was not aware of any letter sent by Nepalese officials. Relations between India and Nepal have soured recently after the former inaugurated a road connecting Dharchula to Lipulekh near border with the Tibet Autonomous Region in China on May 8 to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar.Following the development, Nepal’s Parliament on June 18 passed a constitutional amendment under which it unanimously voted to endorse the new political map that shows the areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-tells-india-not-to-restrict-movement-of-its-people-in-contested-areas-in-uttarakhand/story-sK1rC6mIF3uhfaPZbwLoEM.html
30-07-2020||India||Hit by Covid, out-of-work Varanasi weavers selling fruits and vegetables||Reverberating with the sound of powerlooms till four months ago, the lanes of Kazaakpura - in Lallapura of Varanasi - are eerily quiet. The weavers are jobless, sans any orders for sarees. Many have even started selling fruits and vegetables to make ends meet. Shailesh Kumar Patel, a weaver from Korhuwan village, who used to be busy preparing sarees and stoles, is now selling vegetables. “What to do, there have been no orders for the last three months,” he said. Ramesh Patel, a master weaver of the same village, owns five powerlooms. All are silent. “I haven’t received any order for weaving sarees, brocade, angavastram for the last three months. It’s a livelihood crisis before weavers like me. We are now selling vegetables in the village to meet our daily household expenses,” Patel said. “This pandemic has crippled us,” he added. In normal days, a weaver would earn Rs 250 to Rs 350 daily. There are around 3 lakh weavers associated with the famous Banarasi saree and textile sector in Varanasi. After wholesalers or big shop owners place orders, the weavers purchase silk yarn and weave saree on handloom or powerloom installed at their homes. Once the saree is ready it’s sold to wholesalers who sell the same to retailers from where the Baranasi sarees reach the customers. “There are no orders. No one knows how long this situation would last. Therefore, I started selling fruits to make an earning for meeting daily expenses,” says Shailesh. Ramesh said that powerlooms owned by Ashok Kumar Rai, Sheetla Prasad Rajbhar too have gone silent and which is why they have now taken to farming or some other work to sustain themselves. Master weaver Matin Kaifi works for the welfare of weavers. “Till four months ago, the lanes in Lallapura, Madanpura, Kazzakpura, Bunkar colony used to reverberate with the sound of powerlooms and handloom. At present, silence prevails here as wholesalers are not placing the orders due to general slump in demand,” Kaifi said. He demanded the government should provide relief to the weavers devastated by the pandemic. “Banarasi Vastras, including sarees traders, have decided to keep their shops closed till August 6 due to no orders and no customers in the market. Situation will improve only when fresh orders pour in,” Banarasi Vastra Udyog Association general secretary Rajan Bahal said. “Banarasi Vastra Udyog has a chain which connects the weavers, wholesalers, retailers, and silk yarn sellers. When there are customers in the market, the sale is good and retailers place new orders for Banarasi saris, brocades and other clothes. As soon as we get fresh orders, we place orders to the weavers and they get work. But at the moment this chain is broken,” he said. “Due to the pandemic, marriages and other auspicious events aren’t happening and this has further compounded our miseries. In these functions, people would gift sarees and dress up nicely. Now, I think the situation would improve only after the pandemic dies out,” he said. “This is the toughest period of my three-decade long business career. With each passing day, the situation is worsening. We are managing the show, somehow. Now, we have received some orders for exports and this has offered a ray of hope,” Mukund Agarwal, former president of eastern UP Exporters Association. Assistant Commissioner Handloom and Textile, Varanasi region, Nitesh Dhawan said steps have been taken to mitigate the problems of the weavers. “A number of steps with a holistic approach have been taken to generate work for the weavers and improve their condition. The steps include capacity building and training to the weavers on designs, export promotion and marketing of different handloom and textile products,” he said. Dhawan said the efforts made by his department would start showing results over the next couple of months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-covid-out-of-work-varanasi-weavers-selling-fruits-and-vegetables/story-CDEr42pypiLP02srMZsvxJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Rajasthan HC sends notices to Speaker, 6 BSP MLAs who joined Congress||The Rajasthan high court on Thursday issued notices to the Speaker of the state assembly, secretary of assembly secretariat and six MLAs who contested elections on Bahujan Samaj Party tickets and then merged with the Congress last year.The court issued the notices while hearing a petition filed by the BSP against the merger of the MLAs into the Congress which is the ruling party in Rajasthan.“The arguments took place on the maintainability of the petition after which show cause notices were to the Speaker of the assembly, secretary of the assembly secretariat and six MLAs. During arguments, examples from the previous Supreme Court rulings were cited,” said Dinesh Kumar Garg, counsel for BSP.They have to submit their replies by August 11 which is the next date of hearing, Garg said.The six BSP members of Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) who had merged with the Ashok Gehlot–led Congress government are Sandeep Yadav, Tijara MLA, Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli), and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati).The petition is being heard by single-judge bench of justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal. Garg told the bench that the merger was unconstitutional. The BSP did not merge with the party neither at the national level nor state level. As per law, parties merge, not legislators.The BSP had earlier issued a whip to the six MLAs to vote against the Ashok Gehlot government in any proceedings of the House, including a no-confidence motion. A session of the assembly has been convened on August 14.“Also, these six MLAs did not submit their resignations and so the whip was issued by the national secretary of BSP. Hence, they are liable to be disqualified under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution of India,” said Garg.On Wednesday, BJP legislator Madan Dilawar had also filed two petitions in the high court requesting disqualification of the BSP lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-sends-notices-to-speaker-6-bsp-mlas-who-joined-congress/story-UC5CJU0WXJWpH8xpssaLHK.html
30-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s recovery rate rising continuously, over 64% now and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s Covid-19 recovery now over 64%, 16 states have higher ratesThe recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in India has been rising continuously and in the past week recoveries clocked more than 34,000, the health ministry said. Read MoreIndo-Pacific encouraged by India standing up to China: US NSC officialIndia showed “will and capability to stand up to China” in the recent border conflict, said Lisa Curtis, senior director for South and Central Asia, US National Security Council. The rest of the Indo-Pacific countries are “watching this carefully” and have been “encouraged by India’s resolve.” Read More‘BJP reducing Parliament to…’: TMC after new education policy announcementIn a withering attack on the BJP, Trinamool’s Mahua Moitra accused the ruling party of bypassing Parliament by not discussing the “vital” education policy in the House and making a formal declaration on the same. Read MoreHardik Pandya and Natasa Stankovic welcome baby boy, share photoCricketer Hardik Pandya and his partner, former Bigg Boss contestant and actor-dancer Natasa Stankovic, have welcomed their first child, a baby boy. Hardik took to Instagram to share the happy news. “We are blessed with our baby boy,” he wrote on Instagram. Read MoreSmith at No.3, Kohli at 4; three quicks: Josh Hazlewood picks his India-Australia combined Test XIThe India-Australia series may still be about five months away but the build up for it has started well in advance. Ahead of the series, Josh Hazlewood who is expected to play a crucial role in Australia’s pace attack in the four Tests in December this year, decided to pick his combined India-Australia Test XI. Read MoreAnti-China sentiments helped global companies more than Indian onesGlobal firms have benefited more than Indian companies following the government ban on Chinese applications as well as the anti-China sentiments in the country. Read More6-year-old boy helps builder, gets a note. Tale of kindness will make you smileThe Internet is a treasure trove of such wholesome content which may not only bring a smile on your face, but can also help make your day brighter. The story of this kid and the letter he got from a builder perfectly fits the bill. Read MorePrincepal Singh becomes first NBA India Academy graduate to sign Pro contractNBA India Academy graduate Princepal Singh, a forward of six feet and 10 inches from Punjab, has signed to play in its ‘G’ League next season. Singh is the first academy graduate to sign a professional contract. Watch the full video for more details||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-recovery-rate-rising-continuously-over-64-now-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YD7mVwIux2tOKAC2j4bTbN.html
30-07-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery now over 64%, 16 states have higher rates||The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in India has been rising continuously and in the past week recoveries clocked more than 34,000, the health ministry said. “There has been more than 34,000 recoveries a day in the past week. The recovery rate has shown positive trends. It was 7.85% in April and today it is 64.4%,” Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health said at a briefing on Thursday.Sixteen states of the country have a recovery rate that is more than the national average. “Delhi has recovery rate of 88%, Ladakh 80%, Haryana 78%, Assam 76%, Telangana 74%, Tamil Nadu & Gujarat 73%, Rajasthan 70%, MP 69% and Goa 68%,” Bhushan said.Click here for full Covid-19 covergae.He said that on June 4 the number of recoveries stood at one lakh which rose to 3,47,978 on June 25 before it crossed the 10 lakh mark on July 29.. “As of today the total number of recoveries is 10.20 lakh. Whatever efforts have been put in by Centre and states, they are showing results,” he said.He also applauded the medical fraternity and health workers who have helped in the large number of recoveries.“More than 1 million people have recovered from Covid-19 in the country. This landmark recovery has been achieved because of the selfless work and dedication of our doctors, nurses and frontline workers,” Bhushan said.He also said that Indian case fatality rate (CFR) for Covid-19 has been falling. “CFR was 3.33% in June. Today it is 2.21%,” he said.“Other than Russia with 1.6 % India’s CFR is much lower than other developed countries and other countries in the neighbourhood. Twenty-four states and Union Territories have a lesser fatality rate than that of the country,” Bhushan said.India has also boosted the testing arte of the population. Over 1.81 crore tests have been conducted in the country including RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. There has been a week on week increase in average tests per day. India is conducting 324 tests per 10 lakh population per day,” he said.Bhushan said that India’s testing rate is now more than the WHO’s standard of a minimum of 140 tests per million of population. Indian conducted five lakh tests for three successive days on July 25, 26, 27. Many states also have a testing rate of more than 140 tests per million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-now-over-64-16-states-have-higher-rates/story-8UECwvRAnMq8t5Z6RZBjNP.html
30-07-2020||India||Arresting accused posing challenge for police in Covid-19 outbreak areas of Uttarakhand||In Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, the arrested accused are turning out to be one of the prime carriers of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, much to the inconvenience of the police personnel. In two separate cases, two arrested accused have tested Covid-19 positive in the past week, leading to the quarantine of at least 15 police personnel. On Tuesday evening, an alleged drug dealer (26), who was busted at Jaspur in the district, tested Covid-19 positive, leading to the quarantine of 15 police personnel, including an inspector, an official said. “The accused was apprehended with contraband on Tuesday evening. Later, he tested Covid-19 positive,” said Rajesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur. “Eight police personnel, who came in direct contact with the accused, are under institutional quarantine at a hotel-turned-Covid Care Centre in Kashipur. While seven others have quarantined themselves at the police station itself,” Bhatt added. Last Thursday, a youth (23), a resident of Transit Camp, Rudrapur, was nabbed at Rampur border for allegedly eloping with a minor girl from the same colony. He also tested Covid-19 positive and was later quarantined by the police, the official said. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Udham Singh Nagar, had a word of caution for the police personnel. “Police personnel has been urged to take precautionary measures such as wearing masks, gloves, etc, while interacting with criminals and wanted persons,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arresting-accused-posing-challenge-for-police-in-covid-19-outbreak-areas-of-uttarakhand/story-26RpaWzwUwEdk5Whriw7ZI.html
30-07-2020||India||ED writes to Bihar Police, wants copy of FIR against actress Rhea Chakraborty in Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked for a copy of the FIR registered against actress Rhea Chakraborty and some others in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, from the Bihar Police, officials said on Thursday.The agency will study the police FIR to assess if it merits a probe under money laundering. Sushant Singh Rajput’s father Krishna Kumar Singh has alleged in his complaint to the Bihar Police that there was a transaction of Rs 15 crore from one of the accounts of his son.The agency has written to the Bihar Police for a copy of the complaint since it is looking into the case for a potential probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). If the case merits an investigation, the ED, will probe if anyone used the actor’s income for money laundering and creating illegal assets.ALSO READ | Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin file caveat in SC, seek hearing on Rhea’s plea to transfer probe to MumbaiOn Tuesday, the actor’s father had lodged an FIR against Chakraborty, her family members and six others on charges of alleged abetment to suicide.The Bihar Police lodged a case under various IPC sections including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide).The Supreme Court, earlier on Thursday dismissed a PIL seeking transfer of the probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death from Mumbai police to the CBI. ALSO READ | Mayawati wades into row over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Congress is her targetA bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that the Mumbai Police should be allowed to complete the investigation and if something was found, then a plea should be filed before the Bombay High Court.The actress had moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a stay on the investigation by the Bihar Police on the FIR filed against her by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father for allegedly abetting the suicide of his son.The Mumbai Police is already investigating the actor’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-writes-to-bihar-police-wants-copy-of-fir-against-actress-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-tzR4IwPXJIeMlRGeFTZu8N.html
30-07-2020||India||Indo-Pacific encouraged by India standing up to China: US NSC official||India showed “will and capability to stand up to China” in the recent border conflict, said Lisa Curtis, senior director for South and Central Asia, US National Security Council. The rest of the Indo-Pacific countries are “watching this carefully” and have been “encouraged by India’s resolve.” Curtis said this during a Brookings Institution webinar on Wednesday assessing China’s growing regional influence. India, she noted, had “played the economic card” by banning Chinese apps and putting a hold on Chinese investments.“Thankfully,” she said, we are “beginning to see disengagement of forces” and “hoped it continues.” But the “pressure that China put on India on the Line of Actual Control” will have a long-term impact on how India views China and will “change the dynamics between the two.” An experienced South Asia hand who has served the US government in both India and Pakistan, Curtis said, “Few countries are more familiar with China’s malign influence than India.”China’s “recent aggressive stance [in Ladakh] fits with the larger pattern of Chinese aggressiveness in other parts of the world.” Strengthening the US-India defence and security relationship has been a major element of Washington’s response and seeks to make India a “net security provider.” The relationship is more than just defence, she said, and cited the highlights of US President Donald Trump’s state visit to India in areas like economics and the present scientific collaboration in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Twenty-five years ago China did not take India seriously, she said. India was seen as “inward-looking and lagging in its economic indicators.” Fifteen years ago, as India’s growth and military capabilities began taking off, there was a line of thinking that India and China would work together and “usher in a new Asian century.” From about 2010 or so differences over the long standing border dispute reemerged and each side became “uncomfortable” with the rise of the other. China’s influence in India’s neighbourhood, such as in Sri Lanka and Nepal, moved from economic to “more and more interference in domestic politics.” Curtis said China’s influence in South Asia had grown significantly over the past 20 years. And Beijing’s actions were causing blowback. The Maldivian people had “pushed back” attempts by former president, Mohammed Yameen, to make his country dependent on Chinese debt by voting him out of office. Yameen had “awarded construction contracts to Chinese companies at inflated prices and without transparent bidding, leaving the Maldivian people with enormous debt.” While the US had provided counterterrorism help to Sri Lanka after the 2019 Easter terrorist bombings, Beijing had “tried to obstruct Sri Lanka’s investigations and spread disinformation about US assistance.” Bangladesh was “carefully balancing” between China and the rest, but praised their acceptance of one million Rohingya refugees.Nepal and Bhutan were examples of China disregarding the sovereignty of its neighbours. Chinese official media in May had claiming the the entirety of Mount Everest for China and, more recently, Beijing claiming a natural park in eastern Bhutan. After discussing US attempts to roll back Chinese influence in Central Asia, Curtis mentioned Pakistan at the end of her written comments. “Nowhere in South and Central Asia has Chinese influence been more invasive than in Pakistan.” The $ 60 billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor was neither aid nor an equity investment of the kind that had propelled China’s own growth. CPEC is being financed through sovereign debt which means the “risks are borne by the Pakistani people and the benefits accrue to China.” However, she cited Beijing and Washington’s common support for an end to violence in Afghanistan as evidence the two countries could work together and stressed the US had “deep and abiding respect for the Chinese people.”India had been a sceptic of China’s Belt Road Initiative “from the beginning” and proven “very prescient” and its scepticism “was bearing out.” Countries in the region recovering from the pandemic should turn to international financial institutions to help their recovery or new US agencies like the Development Finance Corporation. It was “disappointing” that Muslim majority countries like Pakistan and Bangladesh were not speaking out about China’s mass imprisonment of its Muslim Uighur and Kazakh minorities. The goal of US engagement in South and Central Asia, she said, was to allow them to “maintain their sovereignty and be able to make choices” in economic and other spheres. Early in his presidency, she said, Trump had asked the NSC staff to reevaluate the assumptions behind the US’s China policy. She said, one assumption that was discarded was that greater engagement with China would lead to greater liberalisation. It was also concluded that China was exporting its coercive model to other parts of the world. The US reappraised its policy towards China and decided a “more competitive” relationship would test the resilience of US allies and partners and help resist Chinese actions that undermined US interests. “The US is more willing to risk in its relations with China,” Curtis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-pacific-encouraged-by-india-standing-up-to-china-us-nsc-official/story-AH9Fcvgn2K7SUR1bKsJt8I.html
30-07-2020||India||‘BJP reducing Parliament to…’: TMC after new education policy announcement||In a withering attack on the BJP, Trinamool’s Mahua Moitra accused the ruling party of bypassing Parliament by not discussing the “vital” education policy in the House and making a formal declaration on the same. She questioned the tearing hurry behind the move when the monsoon session was just weeks away.“BJP reducing Parliament from RubberStamp to NoStamp. How is something as vital as comprehensive new education policy for India not discussed in Parliament before announcing it? If monsoon session in Aug why not wait few more weeks?” the leader posted on Twitter.The cabinet on Tuesday approved National Education Policy 2020 bringing major reforms in higher education, including a target of 50 per cent Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) by 2035 and provision for multiple entry and exits.Amit Khare, Higher Education Secretary, said the country has got a new education policy after 34 years.Congress leader and former HRD minister Shashi Tharoor welcomed the new policy, but questioned the government for not introducing it in Parliament first.Making board exams easy, reduction of curriculum to core concepts, replacement of 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 structure and teaching up to at least class 5 in the mother tongue or a regional language, are among the many school education reforms outlined in the new National Education Policy.CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also accused the Centre of “bypassing Parliament” while announcing the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-reducing-parliament-to-tmc-after-new-education-policy-announcement/story-6rKBZ1dzhlzytA1GwSMK4M.html
30-07-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths top 150,000 in worst-hit US as it deals with renewed surge in infections||Southern and western regions of the United States were grappling Thursday with a renewed surge of coronavirus infections as the death toll in the world’s worst-affected nation passed 150,000.Brazil is second to the US in terms of cases and fatalities, and also reported a sobering figure as it surpassed 90,000 deaths.Exactly six months after the World Health Organization declared an international emergency over the deadly pathogen, countries around the globe are seeing rises in infections that are damaging economies and forcing disruptive protection measures.Even nations that believed they had largely curbed the disease are being gripped by worrying second and third-wave resurgences, with Australia on Thursday reporting a record number of new infections and its deadliest day of the pandemic so far.Despite efforts in place to contain the virus, Covid19 has killed more than 666,000 people around the world and total infections have passed 17 million, according to an AFP tally.Global daily cases are now approaching the 300,000 mark, with the curve showing no sign of flattening -- it took just 100 hours for one million new cases to be recorded.Surge in AustraliaDays after Australian authorities expressed hope that a Melbourne lockdown -- now in its third week -- was bringing persistent outbreaks under control, the surge is a potent warning that initial successes in managing Covid-19 can quickly unravel.Thirteen deaths and 723 positive tests were reported in the southeastern state of Victoria alone, well beyond the previous nationwide record of 549 cases set on Monday.Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the steep rise in numbers was “very concerning”.In Hong Kong, where authorities fear a worrying third-wave of infections could cripple the healthcare system, the government reversed a day-old ban on restaurants serving dine-in customers following widespread public anger.All restaurants in the city of 7.5 million were ordered to only serve takeaways as part of a raft of ramped-up social distancing measures aimed at combating the fresh wave of virus cases.But social media was quickly swamped by photos of primarily blue-collar workers forced to eat on pavements and in parks -- and even inside public toilets to escape a torrential downpour.The United States, however, is still battling its first wave, having never taken control of the virus, and on Wednesday alone the country recorded 1,267 new deaths in the past 24 hours and notched more than 68,000 new daily cases.Southern and western states have been particularly hard-hit -- especially Florida, where more than 6,300 people have died.EU travel list The EU is due Thursday to update its list of countries approved for travel to the European bloc, which it reviews every two weeks. The United States was not on the list and is not expected to be included.The EU’s safe list does, however, include Australia, Canada, Georgia, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Rwanda, South Korea, Thailand, Tunisia and Uruguay.The bloc is expected to announce that Algeria is being removed from the list after a resurgence of coronavirus.Meanwhile several countries in Europe have slapped restrictions on travel to and from Spain, while officials elsewhere bicker over the seriousness of the current outbreak. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, fresh from announcing quarantine for travelers returning from Spain, suggested the rest of Europe could be facing a second wave -- despite his own country’s dismal figures.France’s health minister hit back on Wednesday, saying his country was categorically not in a second wave. Spain, one of the countries hit hardest by the pandemic, insists it is a safe destination and was critical of Britain’s blanket quarantine, which includes islands without significant outbreaks.Brazil also wants visitors back, and on Wednesday reopened travel to foreigners arriving by plane, hoping to revive its lockdown-devastated tourism industry. The country closed its air borders to non-residents on March 30, at a time when the virus was just taking hold in South America.Neighbouring Peru on Wednesday passed 400,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, the health ministry said, after the largest daily increase in infections for more than six weeks. Nearly 19,000 people have died as a result of the disease nationwide, and the country has recorded more Covid-19 cases than anywhere in Latin America except for Brazil and Mexico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-top-150-000-in-worst-hit-us-as-it-deals-with-renewed-surge-in-infections/story-eWphrrycUCE8snOFp8RaKN.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Sanjeevani booti for reviving economy’: Raghav Chadha hails Kejriwal for VAT cut on diesel||Aam Aadmi Party MLA and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday welcomed the Delhi government’s move to slash Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel in the national capital. He described the move as “Sanjeevani booti” that would revive the economy.“Diesel is the lifeblood of Indian economy, the driver of economic growth. Reduction in diesel prices by Delhi CM @ArvindKejriwal will act as “sanjeevani booti” in reviving an unconscious economy,” Chadha tweeted. Chadha slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government, accusing it of adopting “an extortionist approach” and increasing the excise duty on diesel and petrol.“On the other hand, BJP led Central Government adopted an extortionist approach and increased Excise Duty on Diesel and Petrol 22 times over 22 continuous days from June 7th 2020 to June 29th 2020. They should take a leaf out of CM Kejriwal’s book and rollback,” he tweeted. Diesel is the lifeblood of Indian economy, the driver of economic growth.Reduction in diesel prices by Delhi CM @ArvindKejriwal will act as "sanjeevani booti" in reviving an unconscious economy.Chadha said that in June, the central government had increased the excise duty on diesel by Rs 11.14 per litre and on petrol by Rs 9.17 per litre. “We demand that at the very least this increase should be rolled back immediately,” he said.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that his cabinet has decided to reduce VAT on diesel from 30% to 16.75% . The move will reduce the price of diesel in Delhi by Rs 8.36 per litre. Diesel will now be sold for Rs 73.64 instead of Rs 82 across the national capital. On the other hand, BJP led Central Government adopted an extortionist approach and increased Excise Duty on Diesel and Petrol 22times over 22 continuous days from June 7th 2020 to June 29th 2020.They should take a leaf out of CM Kejriwal's book and rollback.“This is one of the several measures taken by our government to revive Delhi’s economy. Earlier this week, we had launched a portal to connect job seekers with potential employers,” Kejriwal said. The Delhi government had increased VAT on petrol and diesel to 30% from 27% and 16.75%, respectively in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjeevani-booti-for-reviving-economy-raghav-chadha-hails-kejriwal-for-diesel-vat-cut-move/story-lzbYE9cYvhy4jK3DagvmIP.html
30-07-2020||India||Plan to increase Covid-19 tests to 10 lakh per day in 1-2 months: Harsh Vardhan||India is currently conducting around five lakh Covid-19 tests every day and the plan is to double the number in next one-two months, Union Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday.During the launch of a compendium on ‘Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Technologies for Covid-19 Mitigation’, Vardhan, who is also the Union health minister, said the country’s recovery rate of over 64 per cent is the best in the world while the fatality rate is nearly 2.2 per cent.He also hailed the scientific community for fighting alongside the medical community in the battle against the virus.The first Covid-19 case in India was detected on January 30 and it has been six months since then but the fight against the virus is still on. Despite the vastness of the country and its population, the war against the virus has been successfully taken up in every corner, Vardhan said.About ramping up health infrastructure in the country, the minister said six months ago India was importing ventilators, but it has now developed a capacity to manufacture three lakh ventilators.“Most of the ventilators are being made within the country now. India is supplying hydroxychloroquine drug to nearly 150 countries,” he said.“In April, we used to conduct 6,000 tests daily. Today, we are conducting over five lakh tests every day. Our plan is to take it to 10 lakh tests daily in 1-2 months and we are working towards it,” Vardhan said.There was a time when exports related to Covid-19 were stopped to meet the requirements within the country. However, on Friday, in the Group of Ministers, there will be a presentation on what can be again opened up for the exports, he said.“This is possible because of the efforts undertaken by the country to ramp up production of critical equipment.” Vardhan asserted that while global efforts are on to find a vaccine against the novel coronavirus, India is not behind.“We have been able to do detailed sequencing of over 1,000 coronavirus genomes,” Vardhan said, adding that India was among the five nations who could isolate the virus.Referring to human trials of vaccine candidates being conducted by Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila, he said India is among the very few countries to reach that stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-increase-covid-19-tests-to-10-lakh-per-day-in-1-2-months-harsh-vardhan/story-RnEf3EhmCXSHAoEOwLA5cO.html
30-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin file caveat in SC, seek hearing on Rhea’s plea to transfer probe to Mumbai||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family filed a caveat before the Supreme Court on Thursday, seeking to be heard in connection with actress Rhea Chakraborty’s petition in the apex court, pleading for the transfer of the investigation to Mumbai. The Supreme Court, earlier on Thursday dismissed a PIL seeking transfer of the probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death from Mumbai police to the CBI. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that the Mumbai Police should be allowed to complete the investigation and if something was found, then a plea should be filed before the Bombay High Court, news agency PTI reported.“Go to Bombay High Court if you have anything concrete to show,” the bench said when the counsel for PIL petitioner Alka Priya sought the CBI probe into the death of the actor.ALSO READ | Mayawati wades into row over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Congress is her targetThe actress had moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a stay on the investigation by the Bihar Police on the FIR filed against her by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father for allegedly abetting the suicide of his son.An FIR was registered on the basis of the complaint by Krishna Kumar Singh against Rhea Chakraborty, the deceased actor’s friend, and six others on July 25, under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including abetment of suicide and fraud, the police said.The actress, in her petition, had sought the transfer of the FIR lodged by Sushant’s father from Patna to Mumbai. Earlier, a four-member Bihar Police team arrived in Mumbai to probe the abetment to suicide charge against her and six others.The actor (34), died by suicide in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then the Mumbai police has been investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-kin-file-caveat-in-sc-seek-hearing-on-rhea-s-plea-to-transfer-probe-to-mumbai/story-Ds0Smk25kjpn5J9d88uBkO.html
30-07-2020||India||2 minor sisters gang-raped by 8, including 3 minors, in Chhattisgarh||Two minor sisters were allegedly gang-raped by eight people, which included three minors, in Balodabazar district in Chhattisgarh two months back, police said on Thursday.Superintendent of Police (SP), Balodabazar, Indira Kalyan Elesela told HT that five accused were arrested and three minors were detained by police on Wednesday night and a case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act.“We have booked a total of 11 people, including eight people who raped the minors and three others,” said the SP. “The incident took place on May 31. On Wednesday evening, one of the victims reached a wing of the Women and Child Development department and said that two months back eight people had raped her. The father of the girl was then called who repeated the same charge. The victim also told police that two days back, a person called her and claimed that he has a video of the rape in his possession and blackmailed her,” said the SP. Subsequently, the girl understood that it was not the one time incident and now they will trouble her in future as well, said the officer. “We found that these two girls had two friends, and the day the incident took place, the girls were out with them. On their way back, these eight accused approached them and scared away the friends. Then, they raped these two minor girls,” said the SP. The officer said the two who went with the girls were booked for kidnapping since the girls were minor.The police have registered a case of rape attempt against one accused for calling the girl and threatening to make the video viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-minor-sisters-gang-raped-by-8-including-3-minors-in-chhattisgarh/story-8ka75VcEVnpoU74b38jtgI.html
30-07-2020||India||Islamabad high court forms special bench to hear Kulbhushan Jadhav’s case||The Islamabad high court has formed a special bench to hear the case of former Indian navy commander Kulbushan Jadhav from next week, Geo News reported on Thursday. Jadhav, a former Indian navy commander, has been sentenced to death for alleged involvement in a spying caseIslamabad high court chief justice Athar Minallah will be heading the bench. A lawyer will also be appointed for Jadhav on Monday. Earlier this week, the Pakistan government presented the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, 2020, in Parliament for approval. This legislation will pave the way for Jadhav to appeal his death sentence handed to him by a military court in 2017.The ordinance will have an overriding effect as its provisions shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, including the Pakistan Army Act 1952.On July 22, the Pakistan government had approached the Islamabad high court to appoint a legal representative for the Indian spy.The move was made in the light of the International Court of Justice’s July 17, 2019 decision, following which the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, 2020 was enacted to implement the court’s verdict.According to the government’s petition, Jadhav refused to file a petition against his sentence. Jadhav cannot appoint a lawyer in Pakistan without India’s assistance. The petition claimed that New Delhi is also reluctant to avail the facility under the ordinance. The government, in the petition, has asked the court to appoint a legal representative for Jadhav so that Pakistan can fulfil its responsibility to see to the implementation of the ICJ’s decision.On July 17, Pakistan had offered Jadhav consular access for a third time, after the second opportunity was not “fully availed”.Last week, India had accused Pakistan of blocking all avenues for an effective review of Jadhav’s case and said it reserved its rights to avail of further remedies.The external affairs ministry had accused Islamabad of systematically blocking access to the former naval officer, not providing documents related to his case and violating the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) order for a review of his conviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamabad-high-court-forms-special-bench-to-hear-kulbhushan-jadhav-case/story-8QGm3udJ88IZibOTtYnAcP.html
30-07-2020||India||Delhi HC stays ex-Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly’s 4 yrs jail term in corruption case||The Delhi High Court Thursday stayed the 4-year jail term awarded to ex-Samata Party president Jaya Jaitly in a corruption case related to a purported defence deal, her lawyer said.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also sought the CBI response on Jaitly’s appeal challenging her conviction and sentence, advocate Abhijat said.Jaitly, represented through senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and P P Malhotra, challenged the July 21 order of the trial court convicting her in the case.Jaitly and two others were held guilty of corruption in a 2000-01 case related to a purported defence deal, the lawyer said.They were sentenced to 4-year imprisonment on Thursday by the trial court which has directed them to surrender by 5 pm.The other convicts in the case are Jaitley’s former party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and Major General (rtd) S.P. Murgai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-samata-party-chief-jaya-jaitley-2-others-awarded-4-yr-jail-term-in-corruption-case/story-qEbSAtw1HEVQnaJXz1pAfO.html
30-07-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi vacates govt bungalow in Delhi’s Lutyens’ zone||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi has vacated the bungalow allotted to her by the central government in New Delhi’s Lutyens’ zone, news agency ANI reported.The Congress general secretary had earlier this month cleared her pending dues after the government announced it has cancelled the accommodation at 35, Lodhi Estate. The government order had said that Gandhi is no longer protected by the Special Protection Group (SPG) and hence not eligible anymore.The directorate of estate department of the ministry of housing and urban affairs had issued a notice to her on July 1 to vacate her house within a month.“Any stay beyond 01.08.2020 will attract damage charges/penal rent as per rules,” the department had said in its order.Days later, the same bungalow was allotted to BJP MP and party spokesperson Anil Baluni.According to the current norms, there are no provisions for allotment or retention of government accommodation to those with Z+ security unless exceptions are made based on recommendations given by the home ministry.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Act under the administrative control of the directorate of estates.Priyanka Gandhi was allotted the 35, Lodhi Estate bungalow in New Delhi in 1997.News reports quoted some Congress leaders as saying that she is now expected to shift to her relative’s house ‘Kaul Niwas’ in Uttar Pradesh’s capital Lucknow.It is being called her political base camp as Gandhi is expected to spend most of her time in UP in the coming days in view of Assembly elections in the state in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vacates-govt-bungalow-in-delhi-s-lutyens-zone/story-yS2zXpDuIPjqjkHOkaNDQK.html
30-07-2020||India||Lockdown extended till August 31 in Tamil Nadu||The lockdown has been extended in Tamil Nadu till August 31 as part of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government announced on Thursday.There will be complete lockdown on all Sundays (August 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30), according to a release issued by the government of Tamil Nadu.Earlier yesterday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E Palaniswamy said that more than 500 medical camps had been set up in Chennai to test the Covid-19 cases in the city, and have benefitted close to 1,45,000 people.“Over 500 medical camps operating in Chennai, due to which 1,45,000 people being benefited,” the CM said after his meeting with district collectors.Speaking out about mobile hospitals in Chennai and several parts of the state, he added, “As many as 70 mobile hospitals have been started in Chennai, while there are 1,126 mobile hospitals in other parts of the state.”The CM further said that the door-to-door check-up drive has been boosted in Chennai to check Covid-19 cases in the city.A total of 6,426 new Covid-19 cases and 82 deaths were reported in Tamil Nadu as of Wednesday, the state’s health department informed.The state’s tally of positive cases stands at 2,34,114, including 57,490 active cases and 1,72,883 recoveries. So far, 3,741 coronavirus deaths have been reported from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-till-august-31-in-tamil-nadu/story-ldwoK4kpF2KNL344S44bcK.html
30-07-2020||India||India’s development aid comes without conditions, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held up India’s track record of providing developmental aid to neighbours without any conditions and in line with their priorities as he and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth inaugurated the new Supreme Court building in Port Louis. Modi didn’t refer to other countries involved in development cooperation in the neighbourhood, though he appeared to be making a distinction between Indian aid and Chinese-backed projects that have led to several countries in the region falling into a debt trap. India’s approach to development is human-centric and its development partnerships are marked by respect, diversity, care for the future and sustainable development, he said in his speech during the virtual inauguration ceremony. “For India, the most fundamental principle in development cooperation is respecting our partners. This sharing of development lessons is our only motivation,” Modi said. “That is why our development cooperation does not come with any conditions. It is not influenced by political or commercial considerations.” In the Indian Ocean region, Sri Lanka leased the strategic Hambantota port to a Chinese firm for 99 years in 2017 after the country was unable to repay Chinese loans for developing the facility. The current government of the Maldives has sought India’s assistance to cope with massive loans taken from China by the previous regime. Modi highlighted his government’s vision of “Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR)” for the Indian Ocean region and said: “Our development partnerships reflect the development priorities of our partner nations.” India is not only providing help for the present but is also trying to create a better future, for which training and skilling is an important part of development cooperation, he said. This will ensure future generations in India’s partner nations are self-reliant and more confident, he added. Modi also outlined the projects taken up and completed in diverse fields through India’s development partnerships, including the Parliament building in Afghanistan, the Mahatma Gandhi Convention Centre in Niger, an emergency and trauma hospital in Nepal, and emergency ambulance services in all nine provinces of Sri Lanka. An oil pipeline project being implemented with Nepal will help ensure the availability of petroleum products while another project will provide drinking water and sanitation in 34 islands of the Maldives. “We have tried to make cricket popular in countries as diverse as Afghanistan and Guyana by helping build stadiums and other facilities,” he said. India is also focusing on sustainable development through institutions such as the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. “Both initiatives are of special relevance to island countries,” he said. The new Supreme Court building in Port Louis, built with grant assistance of $28.12 million, is part of a special economic package of $353 million provided by India. Other infrastructure schemes taken up under this package are the Metro Express project worth $275 million, the first phase of which has been completed, a $14-million ENT Hospital, which too has been completed, and a social housing project with nearly 1,000 units. India is the largest development partner for Mauritius, for which it has also provided lines of credit worth $600 million at concessional terms. India is assisting in the building of healthcare facilities such as a renal unit, four medical clinics and two health centres. In his speech, Jugnauth thanked the government and people for their solidarity in trying times amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said Mauritius had benefited from medicines and medical equipment supplied by India and the three-week-long deployment of a medical team on board the Indian warship INS Kesari. He described the new Supreme Court building as a milestone in the modernisation of the infrastructure of Mauritius that will enable the judiciary to use new technologies to make justice more accessible to all. Judges often had to wait to use the limited number of courtrooms at the old building to hear cases, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-development-aid-comes-without-conditions-says-pm-modi/story-0DoslDXk3zE7R81PLZAV0O.html
30-07-2020||India||SC dismisses plea seeking CBI enquiry into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, has dismissed a petition seeking a CBI enquiry in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The petition, filed by one Alka Priya, demanded a CBI probe into the incident. Priya, in her petition, claimed that Rajput was a good person,adding that the actor had sponsored several children to NASA. The bench said it does not know whether the person was good or bad and stated that the matter is being investigated by Mumbai Police. “We are not on whether the person was good or bad. The matter is being investigated by Mumbai Police. We are dismissing it,” the bench said.Also read: Mayawati wades into row over Sushant Singh Rajput’s deathThe case of actor’s death took a new turn after his father, Krishna Kumar Singh, filed a complaint with Bihar police earlier this week accusing his rumoured girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty, and six others, for the actor’s alleged suicide. The Bollywood actor died by suicide on June 14. KK Singh alleged that Chakraborty had kept the actor from his family and completely in her possession. She was also handling his bank account, he alleged.“At one point of time, my son decided to give up films, settle down in Coorg and pursue farming. He was blackmailed by Chakraborty who threatened him that she would make his medical history public and let the world know that he was mentally unstable, putting his career in jeopardy,” the father stated in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-cbi-enquiry-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-2SJ1dGJ57SCoXruGIy9uPM.html
30-07-2020||India||AIIA to provide free testing, treatment to patients at Covid-19 health centre||The All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) here has started providing free testing and treatment to patients in its Covid-19 Health Centre, the AYUSH ministry said on Thursday.AYUSH Minister Sripad Yesso Naik had visited the centre on July 28 to review the arrangements for treatment of Covid-19 patients.  During the visit, the minister announced that CHC will provide free testing and treatment facilities to all the patients, the AYUSH ministry said in a statement He also inaugurated the Intensive Care Unit of CHC which has been equipped with ventilator facility and all other standard provisions of ICU.AIIA has also been designated as Covid-19 testing centre (RT-PCR and Rapid antigen testing) by the Government of Delhi. A Covid Call Centre has been established at AIIA for handling public queries related to coronavirus telephonically.The Institute has an important role in preventive and curative health care and research areas under the aegis of Ministry of AYUSH.The minister also had praised prophylactic program ‘AYURAKSHA’ going on for 80,000 Delhi Police personnel under the directions of the Ministry of AYUSH.“Delhi Police being the frontline warriors of Covid -19 are being given AYURAKSHA kit for boosting the immunity and increasing quality of life against Covid 19. The AYURAKSHA kit contains Sanshamani Vati (prepared from Giloy), AYUSH kadha and Anu Taila for nasal application.  “Till date 1,58,454 Ayuraksha kits has been distributed in two phases with overall compliance of more than 90 per cent,” the ministry said.  Feedback of the Delhi police personnel is being analysed with the help of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). Positive feedback is being reported from the personnel with decreased anxiety levels, feeling of general well-being and reduction in minor symptoms like cold and cough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiia-to-provide-free-testing-treatment-to-patients-at-covid-19-health-centre/story-TmZASM2s479ZGzyyZxx91O.html
30-07-2020||India||Mayawati wades into row over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Congress is her target||Bahujan Samaj Party boss Mayawati on Thursday waded into the row over the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, saying that it would be better that the Central Bureau of Investigation takes up the probe rather than police officers of Bihar or Maharashtra. She also attacked the Congress for speaking in two voices in Maharashtra and Bihar, accusing the party of using the case to serve its political interests.Mayawati’s remark came days after the 34-year-old actor’s father KK Singh filed a complaint with Bihar police accusing actor Rhea Chakraborty and six others of abetting the actor’s alleged suicide. A team of Bihar police was also sent to Mumbai.This line of investigation appeared to be a contrast to the probe by Mumbai police that was seen to be focused at exploring the professional rivalry angle.Rajput was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in Mumbai suburb Bandra on June 14. In two tweets, Mayawati referred to the mystery around Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.“The mystery around the death of a young actor of Bihar origin Sushant Singh Rajput is deepening following new facts emerging every day and his father filing an FIR with Patna police. Now it would be better if the case was investigated by the CBI instead of Maharashtra and Bihar police,” Mayawati said in a tweet.Rhea Chakraborty has already moved a petition in the Supreme Court to request that the Bihar police probe be transferred to Mumbai police which was already investigating Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Maharashtra home minister and Congress leader Anil Deshmukh has rejected demands for a CBI probe into the actor’s death on more than one occasion, insisting that the Mumbai police is doing a fine job.Congress leaders in Bihar, like most other state politicians, have supported demands for a CBI inquiry.Mayawati referred to this difference in the stand taken by Congress leaders in Maharashtra and Bihar, asserting that this implied that their real objective was not to get justice for Sushant Singh Rajput’s family but use it to serve their political interests. “This is not appropriate. Maharashtra government should get serious (about the case),” she said.Mayawati’s pointed attack that aimed at Congress leaders comes against the backdrop of worsening ties between the two opposition parties that had, ahead of the 2019 elections, considered having some kind of an agreement. The BSP had an alliance with Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party for the general election but it collapsed after the elections.Mayawati has been particularly upset with the Congress last year after the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan lured the BSP’s 6 lawmakers in the state to join the Congress rather than support the state government from outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-mayawati-backs-cbi-probe-in-suicide-probe-slams-congress/story-qQJiKdBHfD6q6pEhHIAbgP.html
30-07-2020||India||Maoists threat to public representatives and journalist in Dantewada: Police||Dantewada police claimed there is a threat from Maoists to a few public representatives and a journalist . “Through our sources and interrogation of arrested and surrendered Maoists, there is credible intelligence regarding a threat to a few contractors and a media personnel of Kirandul area. Maoists are holding them responsible for supporting new private mining parties in the area,” Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Pallava told HT.“I have been informed by the senior police officials about the threat from the Maoists... I have always reported facts..” said the journalist who preferred not to be named.Also read: NIA arrests 3 in murder of Chhattisgarh MLA Bhima Mandavi“Maoists have incurred severe casualties in the past few years in Kirandul area and many local boys and girls have been recruited from the region in the police. Therefore, Maoists are fast losing grip over the villagers in the area and as a result, there is growing frustration across all ranks of Maoists. Thus, senior Maoists are trying to find scapegoats, turning blame to them for their failures,” the SP added.Meanwhile, Prabhat Singh, a journalist based in Dantewada district alleged that police launched a surveillance against him and his family for unknown reasons.“For last one week, the police and surrendered Maoists of Barsoor police station are collecting information about my family from other family members and neighbours. The police are asking for the bank account number and information related to my seven-year-old daughter’s education,” said Singh.Also read: Chhattisgarh registers 314 more Covid-19 cases, state tally mounts to 8,600He further claimed that he has written a letter to the chief minister and provided all the details about his assets.“I urge the chief minister to stop this surveillance because my family is in fear,” said Singh. Reacting to the allegation, SP Dantewada said that Prabhat’s allegations are baseless.“Neither Prabhat Singh nor his family members have been questioned by police officers. No discomfort has ever been caused to him. Barsoor is a hypersensitive Maoists affected area, police, therefore, keeps collecting sensitive information to strengthen human intelligence. Allegations of keeping Singh and his family members under surveillance is wrong and without substance,” Pallava said.In 2016, four journalists — Santosh Yadav, Somaru Nag, Prabhat Singh and Deepak Jaiswal — were arrested on politically motivated charges by Bastar Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-threat-to-public-representatives-and-journalist-in-dantewada-police/story-9XJPh8fyVFokcpEpn2QJeO.html
30-07-2020||India||Customs dept busts agarbatti smuggling racket from Vietnam that misused FTA||The Customs department on Wednesday caught illegal imports of restricted items – agarbattis (incense sticks) and its powder – from Vietnam in large quantities in blatant violation of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)-India Free Trade Agreement (FTA), a finance ministry official said. “In a major drive against the smuggling of agarrbattis from Vietnam, Customs officials on Wednesday arrested Bharat H. Shah and his son, Ronik Shah in Chennai after seizing 161.94 MT [metric tonnes] of agarbattis and 68.36 MT of agarbatti powder, which were found concealed in containers imported by Indian Agarbatti Manufacturers (IAM), Bengaluru. This is one of the biggest seizures of restricted items in recent times at the port,” the official said requesting anonymity. IAM did not respond to HT’s queries. While Bharat H Shah and his son Ronik could not be contacted. The official said the importer had declared to the Customs that these containers contained joss powder and premix powder for making incense sticks. “Joss powder is normally attracts a 15% Customs duty. However, the duty is ‘nil’ under the FTA with ASEAN, which includes Vietnam,” he said. Joss powder is a herbal substance used for manufacturing mosquito coils and incense sticks. “The importer was trying to take advantage of the FTA as well as smuggle restricted agarbattis,” he said. Agarbattis are placed in the restricted category since August 2019 to protect domestic manufacturers and cannot be imported without a licence. Acting on inputs that some unscrupulous importers were clandestinely smuggling agarbattis from Vietnam after the item was restricted for import last year, the Customs used data analytics to identify the suspect importer, IAM, the official said. “A strict vigil was kept on its six imported containers that had landed at Chennai port. The containers said to contain joss powder and premix powder for making incense sticks revealed huge quantities of undeclared agarbatttis and agarbatti powder concealed behind the declared goods,” he said. The Customs officers searched the office and residential premises of the importer at Bengaluru and apprehended the Shahs, both of whom had planned the smuggling, he said. “Upon enquiry they disclosed that they had ordered two more containers from Vietnam, which were in the pipeline. At Chennai port, these two containers were identified and searched, which again revealed concealed agarbattis in huge quantities,” he added. The seizures and arrests are part of a nationwide drive by Customs officials to stop the smuggling of agarbattis, which are on the restricted list of import, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-dept-busts-agarbatti-smuggling-racket-from-vietnam-that-misused-fta/story-EH4ZZ21M61is08oath3obO.html
30-07-2020||India||Polls to two Rajya Sabha seats to be held on Aug 24, announces Election Commission||The Election Commission on Thursday announced that by-elections to two Rajya Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala will be held on August 24. These seats fell vacant due to the demise of the members.“The Commission has decided to hold by-elections to the Council of States from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala to fill up the vacancies,” the poll panel said. The late Samajwadi Party MP, Beni Prasad Verma, and LDF-backed independent MP, MP Veerendra Kumar, formerly represented the states in the Upper House. The seats fell vacant in March and May, respectively. “Commission has also directed the Chief Secretaries concerned to depute a senior officer from the State to ensure that the extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections,” the EC said. PPE suits and ambulances were part of EC’s guidelines for conducting the elections to the 24 vacant Rajya Sabha seats across eight states in June, which was the first major voting exercise since the pandemic prompted sweeping measures in March to ensure social distancing to check its spread. The polls were earlier scheduled for March.Nearly 1,000 legislators participated in the polling in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Rajasthan.The MPs were sworn in earlier this month, with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) winning 11 of the 24 seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led ruling alliance at present has 101 seats in the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-to-two-rajya-sabha-seats-to-be-held-on-august-24-announces-election-commission/story-Mn0usUzu8vT8lOTyKnyJAJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Ayodhya priest, 15 policemen test Covid-19 +ve ahead of Ram temple event||A priest and 15 policemen on duty at the Ram temple site in Ayodhya, where the bhoomi pujan (groundbreaking ceremony) for the temple will take place next week, have tested positive for coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to attend the ceremony on August 5, for which Diwali-like preparations are in full swing.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust has issued an appeal to all saints across the country to perform puja in their respective temples and Maths from 11.30 am to 12.30 pm on August 5. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, requested people to watch the live telecast of bhoomi pujan on television and light earthen lamps at home in the evening.Last week, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the Ram Janmabhoomi complex to review preparations for the mega event.For the ceremony on August 5, 11 priests from Varanasi and Ayodhya will perform the puja. Pradeep Das, priest who tested positive, is not part of this group of 11. The Trust has decided to get the entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus sanitised on a daily basis. “There is nothing to worry about. One of the priests who performs daily rituals at the temple site has tested positive. The entire campus will be sanitised on a routine basis,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Trust. Some 200 people have been invited for the programme. All chief ministers from different states will be invited as well, said swami Govind Dev Giri, treasurer of the Trust. Veteran BJP leader and former deputy prime minister LK Advani and other leaders of the Ram Janmabhoomi agitation will also be invited to the ceremony, said a Trust member.In Ayodhya, elaborate preparations are being planned for the three-day Vedic rituals at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. The rituals will begin on August 3 and end with a bhoomi pujan on August 5 before the construction of the much awaited temple begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priest-15-policemen-involved-in-mega-ram-temple-event-in-ayodhya-test-covid-19-positive/story-ULihQTezt3Z6Gps9JrMBWJ.html
30-07-2020||India||3 Assam Rifles soldiers killed, 5 injured in attack by Manipur terror group||Three personnel of Assam Rifles were killed and five others injured in an ambush in Manipur’s Chandel district near the Indo-Myanmar border, police officials said on Thursday.The incident took place when suspected terrorists ambushed a patrol party of 4 Assam Rifles by exploding what is believed to be an Improvised Explosive Device (IED). They then opened fire at the personnel of the security force. The incident took place at Khongchal area under Chakpikarong police station around 6.30 pm on Wednesday evening, people aware of the developments said.Though police officials confirmed the incident, the Assam Rifles is yet to issue an official statement till the filing of the report.The three Assam Rifles personnel who were reportedly killed at the ambush site have been identified as Havildar Pranay Kalita, Rifleman Methna Konyak and Rifleman Ratan Sapam, the police said. Their bodies have been sent to the mortuary of Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal for necessary formalities while the injured personnel have been taken to a military hospital, the people cited above said.The five injured personnel are Sub Ngulkhotil Haokip, NK Sikander Singh, Havildar Nitul Sarman, Rifleman Anish Kumar Singh and Rifleman Sandeep Kumar, they added.Most of the personnel sustained injury at their hands, legs and shoulder, the police said.No armed group operating in the state has claimed responsibility for Wednesday’s ambush till the filing of the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-assam-rifles-soldiers-killed-6-injured-in-attack-by-manipur-terror-group/story-MAYZ7rc7L5b5AcYpyP6wEM.html
30-07-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh BJP president VD Sharma tests positive for Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh (MP) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president VD Sharma tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Wednesday evening, hours after he wished a minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet speedy recovery from the viral infection, the leader revealed. Sharma, a Member of Parliament (MP) from Khajuraho parliamentary seat, tweeted on Wednesday night that he has tested Covid-19 positive. Sharma posted a statement on his Twitter handle. “My third Covid-19 test report has come positive. I request all my colleagues and party workers, who came in contact with me in the past few days, to undergo Covid-19 tests. I shall quarantine myself for the next few days, as per the doctors’ advice.” Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sharma had travelled to Lucknow along with CM Chouhan, a state minister and a state BJP general secretary, all of whom have tested Covid-19 positive since then, on July 21 to attend the funeral of MP governor Lalji Tandon, who had passed away at a hospital in his hometown on that day. CM Chouhan, who had tested Covid-19 positive last Saturday, is undergoing treatment at a private medical college-run hospital in Bhopal. At present, the CM, his three ministerial colleagues, Sharma and a state BJP general secretary have been found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. The minister, who accompanied Chouhan and the state BJP president to Lucknow, was the first person from Chouhan’s cabinet to have been struck by the viral infection on July 22 and is undergoing treatment along with the CM at Chirayu Medical College-run hospital in Bhopal. The third cabinet member, who tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday is a minster of state (MoS) from MP’s Vindhya region. Meanwhile, CM Chouhan has been put in a spot of bother by his party colleague and a member of the MP legislative assembly (MLA) from Jabalpur, Ajya Vishnoi. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The MLA sought a response from the CM about the reason behind political dignitaries checking into a private hospital for treatment. “I wish CM Shivraj Singh Chouhanji, who is being treated at Chirayu hospital, a speedy recovery. But, I’d like to know what can Chirayu hospital offer that is not available in a government-run medical college and hospital in the state that has been treating Covid-19 patients for the past four months, Why does all dignitaries of MP are making a beeline for Chirayu?” Vishnoi asked CM Chouhan via a tweet. The main opposition, the Congress, was quick to seize the opportunity and sought to put the ruling BJP on the mat. “The CM must respond to the question raised by a senior BJP leader. This is not a question of only four months. The CM must tell the public about the BJP government’s failure not to upgrade a single government-run medical college and hospital, despite being in power for 15 long years. Why can’t these hospitals treat dignitaries? The state’s healthcare services are in shambles,” alleged Narendra Saluja, state Congress president’s media coordinator. State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai tried to play down the political slanging match. “I have not seen the BJP MLA’s (Vishnoi) tweet. But, if the question indeed arises, then the Congress has a lot to answer for it because the party was in power, when the Covid-19 outbreak was first reported in MP. It was the then Congress CM Kamal Nath’s failure that not a single government-run hospital was equipped to treat Covid-19 patients,” Bajpai said as a counter-point to the Congress’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bjp-president-vd-sharma-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-iML7Yu5dUmfEY8POr3G81O.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Two Indian companies in clinical trial phase for Covid-19 vaccine’: Health minister||India has put up a strong fight against Covid-19 and continues to battle the pandemic with determination, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said during the launch of the Compendium on ‘CSIR Technologies for Covid-19 Mitigation’ on Thursday. Dr Vardhan hailed the technological advancements and innovations by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) against Covid-19 and lauded the hard work put in by the country’s scientists and experts.“The Compendium covers a wide range of technologies and products for fighting Covid-19, spanning diagnostics, drugs, ventilators and PPEs using more than 100 technologies and 93 industry partners. Over 60 of these technologies have been transferred for commercial production,” he said.Also read: Record 52,123 cases, 775 fatalities push India’s Covid-19 tally to over 1.58 millionTalking about the Covid-19 situation in the country, he said India is not behind in fighting the virus. “We have fought the pandemic in full force. Two Indian companies have reached the clinical trial phase for Covid-19 vaccine. It is a matter of pride,” the minister said. He also said that India is among five such nations that could isolate the Covid-19 virus.Dr Vardhan lauded healthcare professionals, doctors, paramedics, among other ‘corona warriors’ of the country for their selfless fight against Covid-19.The minister said that as a result of the country’s collective fight against the virus, India has one of the best Covid-19 recovery rates, around 64%, in the world while the fatality rate is also quite low. The health minister emphasised the improving rate of Covid-19 recovery in the country and said that over 10 lakh patients have beaten the virus across India. “Others are on a road to recovery as well,” Vardhan stated. Also read: Serum Institute asked to revise protocol for Covid-19 vaccine clinical trialDr Vardhan said that India has been supplying hydroxychloroquine to around 150 nations. “The virus is unpredictable, but we have been making strong effort to battle it,” he said.The minister said that in the coming months, India plans to ramp-up the number of Covid-19 tests to 10 lakh daily. “In April, we were conducting just 6,000 tests on a daily basis, today, the figure has gone up to 5 lakh tests daily,” the minister noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-companies-in-clinical-trial-phase-for-covid-19-vaccine-health-minister-lauds-india-s-effort-in-fighting-covid-19/story-7koR67m6hQzErtduKqfqNP.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Much to welcome in National Education Policy but...’: Shashi Tharoor highlights some challenges||Congress leader and former HRD minister Shashi Tharoor has welcomed the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, but questioned the government for not introducing it in Parliament first.In a series of tweets, he also said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government has chosen unrealistic targets in the education sector through the NEP.“There is much to welcome in what we have seen of the #NewEducationPolicy2020 announced by @DrRPNishank. A number of suggestions made by some of us seem to have been taken into account. However, the question remains why this was not brought before Parliament first for discussion,” Tharoor said in his first tweet. There is much to welcome in what we have seen of the #NewEducationPolicy2020 announced by @DrRPNishank. A number of suggestions made by some of us seem to have been taken into account. However,the question remains why this was not brought before Parliament first for discussion.He then went on to highlight the features of the policy, which he said present tangible and realisable targets. He said that the government should ensure that aspiration is matched by implementation.“I’ve advocated revision of the 1986 National Education Policy since my days in MHRD, to bring it into the 21st century. I am glad the Modi Govt has finally grasped the nettle, even if it took them six years to do so. Challenge is to ensure aspiration is matched by implementation,” Tharoor said.“For instance, the goal of 6% of GDP to be spent on education was first articulated in 1948! Every Govt articulates this target& then comes up against its own Finance Ministry. In the last 6 years, ModiGovt expenditure in education has declined in real terms. How will it reach 6%?” he added.Talking about the spend of the government in education sector, he said, “The goals of 50% Gross Enrolment Ratio in higher education and 100% in secondary school are laudable, but when you realise it’s currently 25.8% in Higher Edn & 68% in Class 9, you wonder if such targets are any more realistic than the Govt’s solar-energy commitments at Paris.”“The NEP should have offered more tangible&realisable targets for research. Total investment on research& innovation in India declined from 0.84% of GDP in 2008 to 0.6% in 2018. There are currently only 15 researchers in India per 100,000 of population, compared with 111 in China,” Tharoor said in his final tweet on the issue.The Union Cabinet on Wednesday passed India’s first new National Education Policy in at least 28 years, recommending primary education in local languages, facilitating the possible entry of foreign universities in India, creating a single higher-education regulator, and easier board examinations.These wide-ranging reforms are aimed at making the Indian education system more contemporary and skill-oriented. The NEP also renamed the HRD (human resource development) ministry as the education ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/much-to-welcome-in-national-education-policy-but-shashi-tharoor-highlights-some-challenges/story-W86DVZPz0adXwrcs0SaUMO.html
30-07-2020||India||Mumbai: 36-year-old Gawli gang member found dead inside Taloja jail||Mumbai: An alleged member (36) of underworld don Arun Gawli’s gang, who was arrested for assaulting his wife earlier in July, died by suicide in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Jail on Wednesday night. Inspector-General of police (prisons), Maharashtra, Deepak Pandey confirmed the accused’s death. “The incident occurred at around 9 pm on Wednesday, when a prison guard found him dead inside a toilet,” said Kaustubh Kurlekar, superintendent, Taloja Jail. The deceased has been identified as Dinesh Laxman Narkar alias Dinya, who was arrested on July 10 under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code by NM Joshi Marg police station, after he had attacked his wife with a sharp object. Narkar, a resident of Sanjivani Prasad building at Prabhadevi, was arrested with Gawli and other gang members for the murder of Shiva Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar in March 2007. Later, he was acquitted in the murder case. He was also booked in November 2018 for attacking police personnel in an inebriated state. “He was sent to Taloja Jail on July 20 after he tested Covid-19 negative. The prison guard, who found him in the toilet, took him to the jail hospital, but he was declared brought dead on arrival at around 9:20 pm on Wednesday,” said inspector Nilesh Jagtap of Kharghar police station. Narkar’s brother and NM Joshi police station authorities were informed about the incident. His body would be handed over to his family members after the post-mortem examination is conducted, Jagtap added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-36-year-old-gawli-gang-member-found-dead-inside-taloja-jail/story-qyuOVi9eBWxMQTtkUqzlpN.html
30-07-2020||India||Flight operations to be suspended in Kolkata during lockdown days||Flight operations at Kolkata’s Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport have been suspended on days that West Bengal would observe a sporadic seven-day lockdown in August, airport officials said on Thursday. The Mamata Banerjee-led Bengal government has imposed seven-day lockdown restrictions – mostly on weekends – in August in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here“Flight operations at #KolkataAirport will remain suspended on following lockdown days as announced by West Bengal government: August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. Passengers are requested to contact the airline concerned for changes in flight schedule,” the Kolkata airport tweeted on Thursday. Earlier on request of the Bengal government, the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation had cancelled incoming flights to Kolkata from six Covid-19-hit cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad until Friday (July 31). Click here for complete coronavirus coverage West Bengal has registered 65,258 Covid-19 cases to date, including 1,490 deaths. Besides, the seven-day lockdown spaced out through August, the state government has announced that all restrictions would be strictly enforced in the containment zones until August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-operations-to-be-suspended-in-kolkata-during-lockdown-days/story-ARM0lL5MlT0g2RsOzk2P5M.html
30-07-2020||India||Maharashtra Unlock 3: Retailers demand permission to keep shops open on all days||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, a coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, is gradually relaxing lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, in phases as part of the Maharashtra’s Mission Begin Again campaign that was unveiled on May 31, from next week. The campaign seeks to open up commercial activities in a bid to revive economic activities that have been battered by the pandemic. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereHowever, Mumbai-based retailers have written to CM Thackeray, urging him to let all shops in the city open after lockdown 3:0 ends on Friday (July 31). Shops in Mumbai, the epicentre of Covid-19 in the state and the country as well, have been allowed to open on alternative days. Salons and hotels, too, are operating under strict protocols, including maintaining social distancing norms to keep the contagion at bay. Viren Shah, president, Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA), said the current arrangement is economically unviable for retailers. “Shops are allowed to open for only around 12 days a month. This doesn’t help our cause, as we can’t even pay our monthly rents or salaries to staff due to restricted economic activities,” Shah said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage However, in a recent interview to Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, the CM had made it clear that the lockdown wouldn’t be abruptly lifted in a bid to guard against a second wave of viral infection in Maharashtra, a trend that has been reported from other countries that have been in the grip of the pandemic. He explained that a gradual easing of lockdown restrictions is the only way forward to flatten the viral curve. On Wednesday, the state extended the lockdown until August 31, albeit with a few more relaxations. Markets and shopping malls have been allowed to re-open from August 5, but movie halls, theatres, food courts, restaurants and gymnasiums are still off-limits. Eateries, operating out of shopping malls, have been allowed to operate as takeaway services. The spike in Covid-19 cases in the densely-congested Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and other cities such as Pune have derailed the state government’s plan to allow more transport facilities and additional workforce in offices. State government officials said that the easing of lockdown restrictions have also taken into account the upcoming religious festivals such as Bakr Eid, or Eid-al-Adha, on Saturday (August 1) and the 11-day Ganeshotsav that starts from August 22. On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 9,211 new Covid-19 cases, as it breached the unenviable 400,000 mark. At present, the state has 1,46,129 active cases and the recovery rate is at 59.84%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-unlockdown-retailers-demand-permission-to-keep-shops-open-on-all-days/story-We79MieN9pT0XYOuuz3qJO.html
30-07-2020||India||18,190,382 samples tested for Covid-19 till July 29 in India, says ICMR||A total of 1,81,90,382 samples for Covid-19 were tested across the country as of Wednesday, said the Indian Council of Medical Research.“The total number of COVID-19 samples tested up to July 29 is 1,81,90,382 including 4,46,642 samples tested yesterday,” said the ICMR in a bulletin shared on Twitter.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India witnessed a single-day spike of 52,123 Covid-19 positive cases as the total cases in the country reached 15,83,792, the ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The including 5,28,242 active cases and 10,20,582 cured/discharged cases, the health ministry added. A total of 775 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 34,968.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-190-382-samples-tested-for-covid-19-till-july-29-in-india-says-icmr/story-e3jnNb3THibVqeTZm9lXJM.html
30-07-2020||India||TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee takes on Amit Shah over 2019 vandalism on Vidyasagar’s death anniversary||A year after a bust of 19th-century educationist and social reformer Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was vandalised in Kolkata during a poll rally led by Amit Shah, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday raised the issue to target the Union home minister after he paid homage to Vidyasagar on his death anniversary.“I bow to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji on his punyatithi. A distinguished social reformer and one of the pillars of Bengal Renaissance, who played a major role towards women empowerment. His relentless efforts eradicated many social evils and made Widows’ Remarriage Act possible,” Shah tweeted on Wednesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee took on Shah on Twitter. Also read: West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra dies, cremation today; leaders pay tributeIshwar Chandra Vidyasagar was a great social reformer who still stands tall as an inspiration for secular, free-thinking society. Ironic how @AmitShah ji had scant regard for Vidyasagar's values when his men vandalised the latter's bust. Please drop this facade of petty tokenism! https://t.co/9hDynW6i9y“Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was a great social reformer who still stands tall as an inspiration for secular, free-thinking society. Ironic how @AmitShah ji had scant regard for Vidyasagar’s values when his men vandalised the latter’s bust. Please drop this facade of petty tokenism!” tweeted Banerjee who heads the TMC’s youth wing. He also quoted Shah’s tweet. The TMC too targeted Shah in a tweet written in Bengali. CM Mamata Banerjee, however, did not join the war. “Tribute to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, social reformer and educationist, on his death anniversary. He is one of the tallest figures of the Bengal Renaissance. His contribution in women’s education and legalising widow-remarriage is undeniable,” she tweeted. Vidyasagar’s bust was vandalised inside Vidyasagar College in central Kolkata during a Lok Sabha campaign rally led by Shah in May 2019. The TMC alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party workers stormed into the college and damaged the bust. The opposition party alleged that TMC workers damaged the bust and attacked the rally by pelting stones from the college and adjacent buildings. This became a raging issue in the Lok Sabha polls but the BJP managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats, marking its best-ever performance in Bengal. Though police started an investigation, the real culprits are yet to be named by the government. “It is the state’s responsibility to probe the incident. The government has failed there. Mamata Banerjee never showed respect to the great sons of Bengal. She only used their names for political gain,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told the media on Wednesday afternoon. This is the second time the vandalism issue has been raised by the TMC in less than a month. In the second week of July, a BJP worker was arrested in Purulia district in connection with the breaking of a statue of Kanhu Murmu, one of the four leaders of the 1855 Santhal rebellion against the British and local landlords. The incident triggered political tension. The alleged vandalism on July 7 took place at the village of Sandhya Rani Tudu, a TMC tribal leader and minister of state for backward classes welfare. The village is located in the Manbazar assembly constituency that Tudu represents.“@BJP4Bengal has sworn to attack and destroy every grain of Bengal’s cultural heritage. First, they vandalized Vidyasagar’s statue and now they have vandalized the statue of revered tribal hero Kanho Murmu in Purulia. We strongly condemn such acts of iconoclasm,” TMC tweeted after the incident. The BJP has alleged that the vandalism in Purulia is a conspiracy to malign it as TMC is fast losing ground in the state’s tribal belts before the 2021 assembly polls.The BJP won the Lok Sabha seats of Purulia, Bishnupur and Midnapore where tribals constitute a sizeable section of the vote bank because local people have lost faith in the TMC, said Khagen Murmu, BJP Lok Sabha member from the Malda North seat and president of the party’s scheduled tribe front in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-abhishek-banerjee-takes-on-amit-shah-over-2019-vandalism-on-vidyasagar-s-death-anniversary/story-HC2isukXpTeZO2L3pKJYdJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Lobbying intensifies in Karnataka BJP amidst talks of cabinet reshuffle||Just two days after 24 legislators of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were named to head various boards and corporations run by the Karnataka government, there is mounting speculation that changes are in the offing for the saffron party-led government, including a cabinet expansion and reshuffle.Eight term legislator and ministerial aspirant Umesh Katti, speaking to reporters in Chikkodi on Wednesday, said that the time is not far off when he and G H Thippa Reddy would-be ministers. Thippa Reddy is a BJP MLA from Chitradurga and was amongst the 24 nominated to head various boards and corporations. He had, however, rejected the offer to head the Devraj Urs Backward Classes Corporation saying ‘the offer was an insult to him’ as he was a senior MLA and a ministerial aspirant.Subsequently, four names, including him, that had been announced were withdrawn by the government. Katti hinted that he and Thippa Reddy would be amongst those who would join the cabinet during the upcoming reshuffle. “It is the prerogative of the CM to decide on the cabinet. I am confident that both Thippa Reddy and I, who are senior MLA’s, will be in the cabinet shortly.”Also read: HD Kumaraswamy’s Rajasthan comment sparks Twitter war with CongressMeanwhile, a couple of cabinet ministers in the Yediyurappa ministry rushed to Delhi to meet the leaders of the BJP high command. Deputy CM Lakshman Savadi, who is camping in Delhi for the last three days, speaking to reporters said that he was not an aspirant for the CM’s post and Yediyurappa would continue in that position for the next three years.He also claimed that he was not in the national capital to lobby for any position but to meet union ministers regarding pending works of his department. Savadi handles the transport portfolio. Shashikalla Jolle, minister of women and child development also rushed to Delhi to meet party leaders. Several loyalist MLAs of the party are also upset at being offered ‘insignificant’ and ‘non-lucrative’ chairmanships of boards and corporations while defectors from Congress and JDS have been made ministers.Apart from Thippa Reddy, Mudigere MLA MP Kumaraswamy too had publicly expressed his unhappiness. Kumaraswamy refused to become the Chairman of Karnataka Marketing and Consulting Agencies Ltd saying he does not want the position and had even boycotted the first expansion of the Yediyurappa cabinet after being denied a berth.A senior cabinet minister speaking to HT on condition of anonymity said, “Four to six minister may be dropped and others were given an opportunity. Talk of the CM himself being replaced is all hogwash. At least immediately it will not happen.”Noted political analyst professor Harish Ramaswamy said that the BJP in Karnataka had a task on its hands in finding a successor to Yediyurappa as well as in keeping MLAs who have been with the party for a long time happy. “To form the government, the defectors were rewarded with ministerships and now there is a backlash from the loyalists. The party has to do a delicate balancing act even as in the mid to long term it has to find a successor to replace Yediyurappa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lobbying-intensifies-in-karnataka-bjp-amidst-talks-of-cabinet-reshuffle/story-BZza0aR59ap1WF1QKmMMMJ.html
30-07-2020||India||West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra dies, cremation today; leaders pay tribute||West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra died of kidney and heart ailments at a private hospital in the early hours of Thursday. Mitra was 78 and is survived by his son Rohan Mitra, state youth Congress leader, and wife Sikha Mitra, a former legislator. “Saddened to hear about the passing away of veteran leader, former MP and West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra. My deepest condolences to his family, followers and well-wishers,” tweeted chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Mitra was admitted to the hospital a week ago and underwent dialysis twice. He will be cremated later in the day, said members of the family. “All my love and support to family and friends of Somen Mitra at this difficult time. We will remember him with love, fondness and respect,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.Mitra was elected legislator from the Sealdah constituency in central Kolkata seven times. He was also elected to the Lok Sabha as a Trinamool Congress candidate in 2009 when he left the Congress for a few years only to return to the party again.Mitra was state Congress president twice. During his first stint between 1992 and 1998, Mamata Banerjee left the party and formed the Trinamool Congress, alleging that Congress had become a weak Opposition against the Left Front government.Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha and former president of the party’s West Bengal unit Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said he has lost a guardian. “I started my career under his leadership. He helped me become a people’s representative for the first time.” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “Mitra was the face of the old political culture that was marked by decency and courtesy.”CPI(M) politburo member and former Lok Sabha MP Md Salim said, “Mitra was one of those old timers who stayed in touch with people and knew individuals by their names and faces. He knew constituencies like the palm of his hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-congress-president-somen-mitra-dies-cremation-today-leaders-pay-tribute/story-ACeO9DGqRvQnw7eCO03LaN.html
30-07-2020||India||Record 52,123 cases, 775 fatalities push India’s Covid-19 tally to over 1.58 million||India reported 52,123 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry dashboard showed on Thursday, which took its tally to 15,83,792.The number of active cases in the country stand at 5,28,242, while 10,20,582 patients have been cured or discharged. Seven hundred seventy five people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours, the health ministry figure showed.The gap between recovered patients and the number of active cases has been a key statistic that offers hope in the country’s long-drawn battle against Sars-Cov-2. On Thursday, there were 4,92,340 more patients who have recovered than those who are infected as the number of recoveries in the country crossed one million-mark.While the first 2,50,000 recoveries came in 114 days, the latest quarter million recoveries have taken just eight days, according to analysis of data done by Hindustan Times.Click here for Full Covid-19 CoverageThe government, meanwhile, announced guidelines for opening up more activities outside the containment zones from August 1, when the third phase of relaxations kick in.For the first time since a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease came into force on March 25, the government has allowed opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5 (under Unlock 3) for which separate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the health ministry.Restrictions on movement of individuals during night (night curfew) have also been removed, according to the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on Wednesday.However, schools, colleges, metro rail service, cinema halls along with bars will continue to remain shut till August 31 and political and religious gatherings too will remain prohibited.The Unlock 3 guidelines will come into force from August 1 and strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones will continue till August 31.Meanwhile, the health ministry said on Wednesday that India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.23 per cent - lower than what it is globally.The CFR has been falling progressively due to coordinated implementation of the ‘test track treat’ strategy by the Centre, states and union territories, the ministry said. It stood at 3.3 per cent on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-52-123-cases-775-fatalities-push-india-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-1-58-million/story-GHFF7nevZ0DOFZj2gD2IWL.html
30-07-2020||India||Haryana hotel, resort say Rajasthan MLAs weren’t their guests||The administration of hotel Best Western Country club, Manesar and Heritage Village, Manesar - where Sachin Pilot and his supporting MLAs were allegedly camping - told the special operation group (SOG) that the legislators were not their guests.Teams of SOG are camping in National Capital Region from July 17 to record the statements of Congress legislator from Sardarshahar Bhanwarlal Sharma, who has been booked in connection with an audio-tape related to an alleged plan to topple the Rajasthan government and other MLAs who were allegedly camping at these hotels.“On July 23, the SOG issued notice to the hotels where the MLAs were allegedly staying. In the reply, the administration of Best Western Country club, Manesar, informed us that their hotel is a Covid-19 care center and the MLAs didn’t stay in their hotel,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general of police (ADGP), ATS-SOG.Rathore added that the administration of Heritage Village, Manesar also gave a reply on similar lines. “The administration of Heritage Village, Manesar told us that the MLAs didn’t stay at their hotel,” the ADGP added. Also read: Rajasthan crisis - Why Cong avoided mention of floor test in its proposalsIn the past 12 days, the teams of SOG went to both the resorts where it suspects the rebel Congress MLAs were staying but were not allowed to enter the premises by the hotel management, said an SOG official.“Our teams tried at least five times to go inside the hotels in the past 12 days during which sometimes teams were stopped from 1 kilometre away at the barricading or the main gate by the Haryana police,” said a senior police official familiar with the developments.The SOG has registered three FIRs on complaints related to horse-trading to allegedly dislodge the Congress government in the state. The first FIR number 47 was registered on July 10, in which two accused Ashok Jain from Banswara and Bharat Malani were arrested and are presently in judicial custody.The second FIR 48 and third FIR 49 were registered on July 17. In the FIR number 48, three accused including Sardarshahar MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and one Gajendra Singh were booked. The FIRs were registered based on the complaint filed by Mahesh Joshi, Congress chief whip of the Rajasthan assembly, after audiotapes surfaced on Thursday evening and went viral on social media amid the uncertain fate of the Gehlot government.The FIRs were filed under Section 124A (sedition) and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-hotel-resort-say-rajasthan-mlas-weren-t-their-guests/story-f43AihbfNWnp9fd6rwAOxI.html
30-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Focus on Indian culture highlights RSS influence on New Education Policy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Emphasis on Indian culture reflects RSS sway on New Education PolicyThe renaming of human resource development (HRD) ministry as education ministry, and the emphasis on Indian arts, languages, and culture reflect the Rashtriya Syawamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s influence on the New Education Policy (NEP). Read more here. ‘Maintaining fitness levels at this time is the most important thing’: India Hockey captain Manpreet Singh | ExclusiveIn an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times, Manpreet speaks on the life amid lockdown at SAI Center in Bengaluru, and the plans to prepare for Tokyo 2020. Read more here. Antitrust hearing: Amazon, Facebook, Google grilled, Apple gets away a little easyCompared to the Apple CEO, all the other three CEOs spent at least three times longer being questioned. While that’s great for Apple and Cook, it’s not that great for the businesses that build on Apple platforms. Read more here. Raksha Bandhan 2020: Rakhi Post, Rakhi mailbox, online orders surge amid Covid-19Ahead of Raksha Bandhan this year, Karnataka postal circle has introduced an online portal called Rakhi Post to deliver rakhis across the country amid the Covid-19 outbreak. This year Raksha Bandhan will be celebrated on Monday, August 3. Read more here. On The Record | Matchmaking in India: Regressive or reality?In the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to filmmaker Smriti Mundhra on her latest Netflix release Indian Matchmaking. Watch here. Abhishek Banerjee feels blessed to be an outsider: ‘Even the smallest of success becomes glory for me’Paatal Lok actor Abhishek Banerjee says if he was a star kid, the pressure would have been 200% higher than it is now. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-focus-on-indian-culture-highlights-rss-influence-on-new-education-policy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VfLhDJ8UpjF2PBeVUnS3uJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Somen Mitra: Master organiser who failed to stop spilt in Bengal Congress||West Bengal Congress chief Somen Mitra will go down in the history as a master strategist of his time who failed to stop the spilt in the party, leading to the formation of TMC and the decline of the Congress as a political force in the state. Known as a bête noire of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, it was during Mitra’s second term as Congress president in late ‘90s that the Congress lost its status as the principal opposition of the then mighty Left Front regime to the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Mitra passed away at a city hospital in the early hours of Thursday at the age of 78. He was in the hospital for 17 days due to heart and kidney-related problems. He died following a cardiac arrest, hospital sources said. Born on December 31, 1941 in Jessore district of erstwhile East Bengal (now Bangladesh), Mitra was the eldest of five siblings. A stalwart in Bengal politics, Mitra’s political career began during the tumultuous ‘60s as a student leader and spanned over five decades. After being baptized in politics as a student leader in 1967, when Bengal had its first non-Congress government, Mitra, through his organisational and oratory skills, quickly rose through the ranks and became one of the most popular leaders of the party along with late union minister Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi.Also read|  ‘Will remember him with love, fondness and respect’: Rahul condoles Somen Mitra’s death Mentored by Congress stalwarts such as A B A Ghani Khan Chowdhury, Mitra’s first brush with electoral politics came in 1972 when he became the youngest MLA in the West Bengal Assembly from the Sealdah seat at the age of 26. Except 1977, Mitra continued to win the Sealdah assembly segment, which now ceases to exist after delimitation, for six consecutive terms from 1982-2006. Commonly known as ‘Chhorada’ (younger brother), Mitra was one of the most firebrand politicians of the 1960s and ‘70s and played a crucial role in the fight against the Naxals in Kolkata during that period. He was considered as “favourite” of the Congress high command, who enjoyed an excellent rapport with the Gandhi family. But that did not stop him from defeating Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s handpicked candidate D P Roy during the 2000 Rajya Sabha poll by pitting a rival candidate. Mitra, who went on to become three-time president of the Congress’ West Bengal unit from 1992-1996, 1996-1998 and then again from September 2018, was instrumental in clocking the best tally of 82 seats against the Left Front in the 1996 assembly polls. But with Congress and the Left Front coming together at the Centre to support the United Front government, its credibility as the principal opposition to the CPI(M) in Bengal reached a nadir. It was then Mamata Banerjee, then West Bengal Youth Congress president, was emerging as the main opposition force who had an uncompromising approach against the Left Front. Mitra and Banerjee got involved in an inner-party struggle within the Bengal Congress unit. The relations between the two hit rock bottom when Banerjee pitted herself against Mitra for the post of state Congress president. Mitra, a veteran of Congress politics, managed to win the internal party election by 22 votes, following dramatic scenes at the Maharashtra Niwas in South Kolkata. It is alleged that he along with the then Congress national president Sitaram Kesari cornered Banerjee in the party, following which she broke away to form the Trinamool Congress in 1998. With the TMC aligning with the BJP and replacing Congress as the main opposition of the Left Front in Bengal by bagging seven seats in the 1998 parliamentary polls, Mitra resigned as state Congress president. He left the Congress in 2008 to form his political outfit Pragatisheel (Progressive) Indira Congress. But as the saying goes there are no permanent enemies or friends in politics, Mitra merged his outfit with the Banerjee’s TMC ahead of the 2009 Lok Sabha polls and won the election on a TMC ticket from the Diamond Harbour parliamentary seat that year. Following differences with Banerjee, Mitra quit the TMC in 2014 to rejoin the Congress. Battered by infighting and defections to the TMC, Mitra was again made Congress president in 2018, to revive the fortunes of the party. He was one of the chief architects behind the CPI (M)-led Left Front and Congress alliance in West Bengal during the 2016 assembly polls. He was keen on having an alliance with the Left during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but after the talks failed and both the parties faced a drubbing, he was instrumental in bringing them together after the elections. Mitra, along with Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, was a strong advocate against any form of alliance with the TMC in Bengal, as they felt, “The TMC lacks credentials as a force against the BJP and it was due to TMC that the saffron camp had gained ground in the state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/somen-mitra-master-organiser-who-failed-to-stop-spilt-in-bengal-congress/story-WL1g8V9nlCZjy1MguMxPBL.html
30-07-2020||India||Tribute to ‘corona warriors’ at Red Fort: India gears up for Independence Day amid Covid-19 crisis||The Covid-19 pandemic has been the biggest spoiler of the year, affecting economies, crores of industries and businesses along with dampening spirits. The crisis is likely to affect this year’s Independence Day celebrations as well. The ramparts of the Red Fort will not be the same as on August 15 every year. The government has made many amends to this year’s celebrations and plans to make arrangements keeping preventive measures in mind in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of guests attending the ceremony will be limited this year while children, who are the centre of attraction of Independence Day celebrations every year, will also be absent.Many agencies are involved in the preparation of the Independence Day event at Red Fort, including the Archaeological Survey of India, Jal Board, Municipal Corporation, Public Works Department (PWD), Delhi Police, among others.As per a report by HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan, the following are some of the measures taken to ensure that this year’s Independence Day celebrations take place keeping the coronavirus situation in mind. Social distancing will be the most important aspect kept in mind while organising the event. A minimum distance of six-feet will be kept while making seating arrangements for the guests. The guests will not be seated where the Tricolor flag is hoisted from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Arrangements are being made for guests to sit at the lower level of the ramparts with limited seats. It is likely that the authorities give a miss to children’s participation during this year’s Independence Day celebrations in the national capital. Nation’s ‘corona warriors’, from healthcare professionals like nurses, doctors, paramedical staff to policemen, among others, are likely to be invited to the Red Fort ceremony in limited numbers. Apart from this, the guests may also be able to watch the ceremony on an LED screen. This year’s Independence Day celebrations in the national capital shall consist of the ceremony at the Red Fort which will include the presentation of a Guard of Honour by the Armed Forces and the Delhi Police to the Prime Minister, unfurling of the National Flag accompanied by playing of the National Anthem and firing of 21-gun salute. The prime minister’s speech shall be followed by the singing of the National Anthem and the release of tricoloured balloons at the end. “At Home” reception at Rashtrapati Bhawan will take place.In an advisory issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs last week, the government pressed for the use of technology “in the best possible manner” for Independence Day events across the country. The government has strictly directed to avoid large gatherings and congregation of people in large numbers.“The events organized could be web-cast in order to reach out people at large, who are not able to participate,” the release issued by Ministry of Home Affairs stated.“Performance of Police/Military bands may be recorded at places of historic importance associated with the Independence movement; and recorded versions thereof may be displayed through large screens/digital media, during public functions and on social media,” the release noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribute-to-corona-warriors-at-red-fort-india-gears-up-for-independence-day-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-L21JIjYUK8RZs2gpU3o7yH.html
30-07-2020||India||NIA arrests 3 in murder of Chhattisgarh MLA Bhima Mandavi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested three persons in its probe related to killing of Chhattisgarh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Bhima Mandavi in April last year allegedly by CPI (Maoist) cadres, the agency said in a statement. The arrested persons have been identified as Laxman Jaiswal, Ramesh Kumar Kashyap and Kumari Linge Tati, all residents of Dantewada, for allegedly providing logistical support to the Maoists for carrying out the attack in which Mandavi and four of his security personnel were killed, the NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said on Wednesday in the statement. The arms and ammunition of the slain police personnel were also looted by the CPI (Maoist) cadres, she said. The attack was earlier investigated by Chhattisgarh Police. The central agency took over the probe in May last year after which it arrested two persons - Bhima Tati and Madka Ram Tati – in April this year. Sonia Narang said “Investigation has revealed that arrested accused Laxman Jaiswal alias Laxman Sao, who runs a grocery shop in Nakulnar, provided electric wires, explosive substances and other items for the IED blast carried out by CPI (Maoist) cadres. Accused Ramesh Kumar Kashyap alias Ramesh Hemla (ex-sarpanch of Kakadi village) and Kumari Linge Tati were instrumental in providing logistic support to the Naxalites and were part of the conspiracy which led to the killing of Mandavi and four security personnel”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-3-in-murder-of-chhattisgarh-mla-bhima-mandavi/story-ukEzexpr2M4M2kX9X5yU9N.html
30-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot to chair CLP meet today||Amid an ongoing political crisis in the Rajasthan, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) is set to meet under the chairmanship of chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday at Hotel Fairmont in Jaipur.Earlier yesterday, governor Kalraj Mishra issued an order to convene the Assembly session from August 14.The governor, in his order, has also directed that all measures should be taken during the session, as per the guidelines issued to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Also read: Why Congress avoided mention of floor test in its proposalsThe order for convening the Assembly was issued after repeated requests by chief minister Gehlot whose government is facing a crisis due to differences in the ruling Congress.The political crisis in Rajasthan triggered by simmering differences between Gehlot and his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot that surfaced. Pilot was removed as the deputy chief minister and the state unit chief of Congress.The Congress has accused the BJP of indulging in horse-trading to bring down the Gehlot government. The BJP has rejected the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-political-crisis-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-to-chair-clp-meet-today/story-6VD9eh9yKjsNtZXYFensqN.html
30-07-2020||India||Chhattisgarh registers 314 more Covid-19 cases, state tally mounts to 8,600||Chhattisgarh reported 314 new Covid-19 positive cases and four deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 8,600, said State Health Department.The total number of Covid-19 cases include 2914 active cases, 5636 discharges and 50 deaths, according to the state health department. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Meanwhile, India breached the 15-lakh mark on Wednesday, with a total of 15.31 lakh positive cases.As many as 768 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 34,193, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-registers-314-more-covid-19-cases-state-tally-mounts-to-8-600/story-kKRyX8fRurNBWch74W6MTL.html
30-07-2020||India||House panel seeks inclusion of migrants in social security code||The Parliamentary labour committee asked for the universalization of social security to cover migrant workers and the unorganized domestic workers even as it adopted a report on the much-awaited Social Security Code on Wednesday. The parliamentary committee, led by Biju Janata Dal leader Bhartruhari Mahtab, demanded the creation of an unemployment insurance or social security fund which can come handy for workers at the time of job losses—which has also happened because of the coronavirus disease pandemic—and special social security numbers for migrant workers so they can avail the benefits of government schemes. The panel has also sought an expansion in the definition of migrant workers, adding that the proposed social security fund must cover all workers who are not covered under provident fund or Employees’ State Insurance. While there are social support measures such as MGNREGA for rural workers, the social security fund can provide immediate financial help if an unorganized sector worker loses job. The panel has also expanded unorganized sector to include workers who are hired through contractors, those who join a factory directly and the self-employed workers. According to two members of the panel, the social security fund or the unemployment fund can be created with contribution from employers and employees, through donations and even using CSR funds. “This fund can be helpful for workers in case of job losses and in situation arising out Covid-like situations,” a panel member said. Meanwhile, the code, one of the four key measures of labour sector reforms, face opposition from CPI(M)’s Elamaram Kareem and a DMK member, who are also likely to push a dissent note to register their protest. According to a senior leader, DMK’s D Ravikumar, K Subbarayan of CPI and a Congress leader demanded that the meeting on Wednesday should be deferred as many people could not attend due to Covid-related reasons. According to government estimates, 1.09 crore migrant workers have returned home in the past three months after the pandemic swept India. A portable social security number for India’s unorganized workforce is a key issue for the labour committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-seeks-inclusion-of-migrants-in-social-security-code/story-wZscNiNcdLWmhQmIqDfh8I.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Transformative’: Leaders, academicians welcome National Education Policy||The new National Education Policy (NEP), approved by the government, has been welcomed by ministers, other political leaders and academicians. They welcome the transformative restructuring in the education sector and say that the NEP will bring new opportunities for students.“Under National Education Policy 2020, cash-rich content will be reduced to its core essentials, and make space for critical thinking, holistic, enquiry-based, discovery-based, discussion-based, and analysis-based learning,” said Union HRD minister Ramesh Pohkriyal Nishank. The NEP also renamed the HRD (human resource development) ministry as the education ministry.“Welcome PM @NarendraModi ji’s decision to approve National Education Policy, paving way for vibrant, accessible, equitable & quality education. Ensuring a bright future for leaders of tomorrow, #NEP2020 encourages & nurtures each child’s unique talent,” tweeted Union minister Piyush Goyal. Welcome PM @NarendraModi ji's decision to approve National Education Policy, paving way for vibrant, accessible, equitable & quality education.Ensuring a bright future for leaders of tomorrow, #NEP2020 encourages & nurtures each child's unique talent.📖https://t.co/4AVjBhuPHd pic.twitter.com/aS7Sn018VoUnion minister Smriti Irani, who handled the HRD portfolio in BJP government’s previous tenure, called the NEP “a transformative restructuring of education in India”.“Grateful to PM @narendramodi Ji & Cabinet for approving National Education Policy 2020 - a transformative restructuring of Education in India encompassing every stage of learning from early education to higher education with greater emphasis on technology & digitisation,” she tweeted. Grateful to PM @narendramodi Ji & Cabinet for approving National Education Policy 2020 - a transformative restructuring of Education in India encompassing every stage of learning from early education to higher education with greater emphasis on technology & digitisation. #NEP2020Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader N Chandrababu Naidu hailed the emphasis on mother tongue or regional language as medium of instruction in the new policy.“I welcome the approval of National Education Policy 2020 by the Union Cabinet chaired by @narendramodi Ji. I am sure that this reform will boost the education sector and pave way for our youth to compete with the best from across the world,” he said on Twitter.Also Read | Over 2 crore children will be brought back to schools, says HRD secretary Amit Khare“The policy emphasizes mother tongue/local language/regional language as the medium of instruction until Grade 5 which is certainly a welcome move. This is crucial for children to develop critical thinking & literacy skills leading to better academic performance,” Naidu further tweeted.Jamia Millia Islamia Vice-Chancellor Professor Najma Akhtar said the students will be able to pursue education with greater flexibility in a seamless learning-environment.“The NEP is groundbreaking! The higher education in India will now be holistic and multidisciplinary with a shared focus on Science, Arts and Humanities,” said Akhtar.Also Read | Highlights of National Education Policy 2020The policy is based on the recommendations of a committee chaired by former Isro chief K Kasturirangan. The government said that it was after 34 years that India’s education policy was being overhauled. While the last policy was announced in 1992, it was essentially a rehash of a 1986 one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transformative-leaders-and-academicians-welcome-national-education-policy/story-0mtvLVr8QQPUG3F9ftR11O.html
30-07-2020||India||‘Will remember him with love, fondness and respect’: Rahul condoles Bengal Cong prez Somen Mitra’s death||Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Thursday condoled the passing away of West Bengal party chief Somen Mitra and said that he will be remembered with “love, fondness and respect”. Gandhi took to Twitter and said that his love and support is with Mitra’s family and friends amid such time of difficulty. “All my love and support to family and friends of Somen Mitra at this difficult time. We will remember him with love, fondness and respect,” Gandhi said. Leaders and politicians from West Bengal and across the country also expressed sadness over Mitra’s demise. He was 78 and passed away at a hospital in Kolkata on Thursday. He was suffering from kidney and heart ailments. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she was saddened to hear about the passing away of Mitra.“Saddened to hear about the passing away of veteran leader, former MP and INC West Bengal president Somen Mitra,” Banerjee said in a message. “My deepest condolences to his family, followers and well-wishers,” she tweeted.Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said he was “enormously benefitted” by Mitra’s counsel on several occasions.  Saddened at the death of veteran Congress Leader Somen Mitra. As constitutional head was enormously benefited by his wise counsel on several occasions. Bengal will always recall his sagacious contributions in public life. Pray ALMIGHTY to bestow eternal on the departed soul.“Saddened at the death of veteran Congress Leader Somen Mitra. As constitutional head was enormously benefited by his wise counsel on several occasions. Bengal will always recall his sagacious contributions in public life. Pray ALMIGHTY to bestow eternal on the departed soul,” Dhankhar tweeted.  All my love and support to family and friends of Somen Mitra at this difficult time. We will remember him with love, fondness and respect. pic.twitter.com/k1muPvycgT“WBPCC President Somen Mitra has breathed his last, a short while ago. As we struggle to come to terms with this immense loss, all our prayers and thoughts are with Dada’s family. May his soul rest in peace,” West Bengal Youth Congress said in a tweet. “WBPCC President Somen Mitra has breathed his last, a short while ago. As we struggle to come to terms with this immense loss, all our prayers and thoughts are with Dada’s family. May his soul rest in peace,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-remember-him-with-love-fondness-and-respect-rahul-gandhi-condoles-west-bengal-congress-president-somen-mitra-death/story-NZW5i8k5VyFee1J4xBmUPM.html
30-07-2020||India||CBI takes over probe into Kerala violinist, daughter death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over probe into the suspicious road accident death of famous violinist from Thiruvananthapuram - Balabhaskar and his one and a half year old daughter Tejashwini in September 2018, in which his father has alleged that there were links with gold smuggling racket. The agency has registered an FIR in the matter on Wednesday late night, seven months after it received a reference from Kerala government (in December 2019) to investigate the deaths. Balabhaskar, his wife Lakshmi and daughter Tejaswini were returning from Thrissur to Thiruvananthapuram on September 25, 2018 in their Innova car, which was being driver by their driver Arjun K Narayan, when the car hit a tree on NH-66. The daughter died on the spot while Balabhaskar died a week later in hospital. Lakshmi survived the incident. His father C C Unni wasn’t convinced with Kerala police probe and alleged that the suspects in the case had connections with gold smuggling racket and that there were transactions in the account of Balabhaskar after his death. The DRI had also arrested few persons in 2018 in gold smuggling cases who knew Balabhaskar. The Centre issued a notification on June 12 this year for a CBI probe after which the FIR has been registered by the central agency. Several agencies including NIA, Customs and DRI are already investigating a larger conspiracy in Kerala gold smuggling scandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-kerala-violinist-daughter-death-case/story-QReV8bYHxLGbyY9y9FwaVL.html
30-07-2020||India||Serum Institute asked to revise protocol for Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial||The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has advised the Serum Institute of India (SII) to submit a revised protocol to perform the clinical trials in India for potential Covid-19 vaccine.The move comes when the Subject Expert Committee evaluated the submitted protocol by SII and it has recommended several observations to the pharma giant to furnish revised protocol.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The domestic pharma giant has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate for highly infectious disease Covid-19“Our Subject Experts Committee reviewed the Serum Institute thoroughly and it has observed several recommendations like--assessment and statistical analysis, drop-out rate, immunity analysis etc. It is a comprehensive scientific analysis,” a senior health ministry official informed ANI.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn July 25, ANI reported that SII had submitted its application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission to perform the phase 2/3 human clinical trials of the potential vaccine.The pharmaceutical company will perform an observer-blind, randomised controlled study enrolling at least 1,600 participants to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ‘Covishield’.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageA Lancet medical journal report has stated that a vaccine candidate developed at the University of Oxford has shown encouraging results and it appears to be “safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic.Last week, Oxford University announced the satisfactory progress with the vaccine, making it one of the leading ones among the dozens of vaccine candidates being developed around the world. The clinical trials of a potential Covid-19 vaccine on humans began in April.Also read: India logs 1 million recoveries in 150 days, 53% from 3 statesThere was no immediate response from SII when ANI contacted them to take their version.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-asked-to-revise-protocol-for-covid-19-vaccine-clinical-trial/story-etC5FRuLLZitcGT0TgyuTI.html
30-07-2020||India||Over 300 migrant workers in Kandhamal dig canal through hills to bring water to their land||Amid the distress of pandemic-triggered lockdown, more than 300 migrant workers in two Maoist-affected blocks in Odisha’s Kandhamal district have brought cheer to hundreds of farmers, digging nearly 8-kilometre-long canal through hilly terrain to bring water to the parched farmlands.As the hilly terrain of Kotgarh and Daringibadi blocks in Kandhamal district have little irrigation in comparison with other district due to high hills and dense forests, there have been mass migrations to southern states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh for jobs. More than 15,000 migrant workers of the district who have returned were troubled with the thought of an uncertain future, but a local NGO Kandhamal Zilla Sabuja Baidya Sangathan exhorted them to think about ways to irrigate their farmland.One of the workers Tusharkant Pradhan of Guhibadi village in Daringibadi block was sitting idle when local NGO Kandhamal Zilla Sabuju Baidya Sangathan called a meeting to do something for the village during lockdown. “The primary reason we all migrated out was lack of work during non-monsoon days. After monsoon, there was no water in our farmlands. Though there was a stream flowing at the nearby hill, the water was of no use to us due to lack of canal. We were sitting idle during lockdown. So when the NGO proposed digging up a 750-metre long canal from Patangi hill in lieu of clothes and food. We decided to give it a try,” said Pradhan.Like him, several migrant workers as well as other non-migrant people in Ranipanga village of neighbouring Kotgarh block too followed suit by digging canals from the nearby stream. Armed with crowbars, hoes and shovels, people from 77 tribal families in the village led by sarpanch Johan Pradhan would gather in the morning and work till evening.“As there was no explosive to smash the huge boulders, we would heat up the boulders for the entire night by lighting fires then let it cool in the morning by dew. The stress caused in the rocks by the expansion and contraction made it easy for us to break them with shovels,” said Pradhan. It took about a month before the one-kilometre-long canal with depth of about four feet to Ranipanga from the nearby stream could be completed.The first phase of bringing water to the village was completed early this month. Now the villagers are building smaller canals to get the water to individual fields.Like Guhibadi and Ranipanga, people in Kangadaka, Jidingmala, Ladangi, Lambabanda, Gadapakali and Gududi too have dug up around one-kilometre-long canal each in their villages that would irrigate over 1,000 acres of farmlands which otherwise remained parched.Dinabandhu Maharana, secretary of the NGO Kandhamal Zilla Sabuju Baidya Sangathan, which provided food and clothes to the tribals working on the project, said the whole work was done without expenditure of a single government rupee. “No NREGA money was spent. People saw that they stand to gain if they slog hard for a canal. We just motivated them through some food and clothes. The people deserve all the credit,” said Maharana.Now that the villagers have built rudimentary canals, the district administration plans to pitch in. Daringbadi block development officer Abhimanyu Behera said the administration would try to use the government resources to turn the canal into a concrete, permanent structures. “The villagers have shown exemplary spirit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-300-migrant-workers-in-kandhamal-dig-canal-through-hills-to-bring-water-to-their-land/story-mXJHFifapX4fkjVQMSkKSL.html
30-07-2020||India||ICMR to hold International Symposium on ethics of vaccines against Covid-19 pandemic||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct the International Symposium on Novel Ideas in Science and Ethics of Vaccines Against Covid-19 Pandemic on July 30.The symposium will have leading medical experts and scientists as speakers. The event would be conducted from 4:30 pm to 6:45 pm today.During the event, Dr Anthony S Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, USA would be speaking on “Confronting the pandemic”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Prof Adrian Hill, Director, Jenner Institute & Professor of Human Genetics at the University of Oxford, UK and Prof Walter Orenstein, Professor and Associate Director, Emory Vaccine Center, Emory University School of Medicine, USA will hold a discussion on--Novel Ideas in Vaccine Development, rollout, and adopting emerging evidence in pandemic situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-to-hold-international-symposium-on-ethics-of-vaccines-against-covid-19-pandemic/story-evtkE5rZWy5MjBZ3KJqJPL.html
30-07-2020||India||Assam floods: Death toll rises to 107, 16.5 lakh people still affected||The number of fatalities due to flood reached 107 in Assam on Wednesday after three more people died due to drowning.According to a bulletin by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), one person each died at Barpeta, Kokrajhar and Kamrup. Besides the deaths due to drowning, 26 more people have been killed in landslides induced by heavy rains in the state since May. Around 16.5 lakh people in 1,536 villages in 21 of the state’s 33 districts are still affected by floods, said the ASDMA bulletin. Over 37,000 people displaced by flooding are still taking shelter in 208 relief camps. Nearly 93,000 hectares of crop area in the state is still inundated. According to a Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, Brahmaputra, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali and Kopili rivers continued to flow over the danger mark at several places. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal visited the flood hit areas in the state on Wednesday. He inspected an embankment on Charikoria river in Lakhimpur’s Dhakuakhana. Sonowal also visited the Jiadhal river site, a tributary of the Brahmaputra, where floods have caused huge damage.“The Jiadhal river, a tributary of Brahmaputra has caused huge damage during the present spate of floods. Visited Bhujgaon in Dhemaji district distributed relief materials among the affected people with colleagues,” the chief minister said on Twitter.Goalpara is the worst-hit district with over 4.19 lakh people affected, followed by Morigaon with more than 2.63 lakh people and South Salmara with around 2.50 lakh people hit by the deluge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-floods-death-toll-rises-to-107-16-5-lakh-still-affected/story-Y41HHwfKUWedAxF8uMqV9O.html
30-07-2020||India||Bihar Police team in Mumbai records Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister’s statement||A team of Bihar Police that arrived in Mumbai on Tuesday, recorded statements of two persons, including actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister on Wednesday in connection with Rajput’s death case.An FIR was filed by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father against actor Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on Tuesday. A petition has been filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty in the Supreme Court seeking transfer of investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case to Mumbai, said her lawyer Satish Maneshinde.Maneshinde has filed the plea on Chakraborty’s behalf.This comes a day after an FIR was filed by Rajput’s father against Chakraborty in Bihar’s Patna.An FIR had been registered against Chakraborty at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna under various sections, including abetment to suicide on the complaint of Rajput’s father Krishna Kishor Singh.Amid demands for the transfer of the case to CBI, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said Mumbai Police are investigating the case and it will not be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Earlier, Chakraborty had demanded CBI probe in the case.Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai residence on June 14.According to the Maharashtra police, statements of 41 people, including filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, film critic Rajeev Masand, director-producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali, and filmmaker Aditya Chopra have been recorded in the investigation so far. Meanwhile, Bihar Police inspector Kaisar Alam, who is probing the FIR registered by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father in the late actor’s suicide case, on Wednesday said that the Mumbai Police is extending their assistance in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-team-in-mumbai-records-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-s-statement/story-gAVgowQ30AyUSIpZWjx8YN.html
30-07-2020||India||Supreme Court clears hurdle in highway connecting India, Thailand||The Supreme Court has cleared a major roadblock in the completion of a Trilateral Highway Connectivity project between India, Myanmar and Thailand by staying the litigation initiated by the defaulting contractor before the Manipur high court. The order passed on Tuesday came on a petition filed by the ministry of external affairs. India had signed an agreement with Myanmar on August 29, 2016 for construction and upgrading of 69 bridges of Second World War vintage as part of the ambitious road project beginning from Manipur till Thailand. But ever since the project was awarded to a joint venture of Mumbai-based Niraj Cement Structurals Limited and Manipur Tribal Development Corporation Limited in November 2017, delays lagged the project, as a result of which India acting through project consultant IRCON Infrastructure and Services Limited terminated the contract on December 24, 2018. The challenge to the termination order filed by the contractor is pending before a division bench of Manipur high court since April 2019. Earlier, the contractor’s petition was dismissed by a single judge citing lack of territorial jurisdiction to hear the case. The Centre has throughout claimed that Manipur HC lacks jurisdiction to hear the case. Moreover, the contractor has recourse to arbitration under the agreement. The MEA in its plea said that further pendency of litigation before Manipur HC will harm India’s bilateral relations with friendly neighbours and cast the country in a bad light jeopardizing other “trans-nationally significant development and connectivity initiatives”. Attorney General KK Venugopal appeared for Centre. The apex bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice on the Centre’s petition, directed stay of the writ appeal proceedings, and listed the matter after two weeks. The project was to complete by November 27 this year. Till date, not one bridge out of the 69 bridges is ready. The Indian Ambassador to Myanmar wrote to the Centre on June 24, 2020 apprising the Indian government of Myanmar’s expectation of early completion of the project. The project is a grant-in-aid initiative by India as part of its “Act East Policy” and will benefit Myanmar as the dilapidated bridges pose a danger to human life and property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-clears-hurdle-in-highway-connecting-india-thailand/story-m4KcK0PypzswHb4xNanEAP.html
30-07-2020||India||West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra dies at 78||West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra passed away at a hospital in Kolkata on Thursday.Taking to Twitter, West Bengal Youth Congress condoled the demise of Somen Mitra.  WBPCC President Somen Mitra has breathed his last, a short while ago. As we struggle to come to terms with this immense loss, all our prayers and thoughts are with Dada’s family. May his soul rest in peace 🙏 pic.twitter.com/lkDW8Q8f3q“WBPCC President Somen Mitra has breathed his last, a short while ago. As we struggle to come to terms with this immense loss, all our prayers and thoughts are with Dada’s family. May his soul rest in peace,” West Bengal Youth Congress tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-congress-president-somen-mitra-dies-78/story-UwuP88ZYeQrAsMi0V0en7J.html
30-07-2020||India||Indian envoy to US, Wisconsin governor discuss trade, investment||Indian ambassador to US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and Wisconsin governor Tony Evers held a virtual meeting on Wednesday (local time) wherein the two discussed trade and investment as well as people-to-people relations between Wisconsin and India.“Both discussed strategies to tap the potential in the agriculture, infrastructure and manufacturing sectors common to India and Wisconsin that would lead to win-win outcomes for both. The Ambassador briefed the Governor about the initiatives India has taken in healthcare and education and discussed collaboration in these sectors,” Indian Embassy said in a release.While asserting that India and Wisconsin share a robust trade and investment relationship, the release said the total trade between India and Wisconsin is over US$ 1 billion.“Many Indian companies in the IT, engineering services, medical equipment, and manufacturing sectors have invested in Wisconsin. These companies have invested close to $185 million in Wisconsin, creating over 2,460 jobs in the state,” the release stated.“They also add value to local economies and communities through their CSR initiatives. Similarly, Wisconsin-based companies in the automobile, electrical equipment, financial services and technology sectors have established a strong presence in India. They include Harley Davidson, Rockwell Automation Inc., ManPower Group, etc.,” it added.It underlined that the Indian community has a vibrant presence in Wisconsin, which is also an important destination for Indian students with close to 1,500 Indian students studying in educational institutions in Wisconsin.“India has a strong education connection with Wisconsin. The tradition of Indian studies started on the University of Wisconsin campus in the mid-1880s, when a Professorship of Sanskrit was established,” said the Indian Embassy release.Sandhu underscored the need to revive and strengthen the university-to-university linkages between India and the U.S., including in the fields of R&D and bio-health.“Ambassador Sandhu and Governor Evers agreed to further strengthen the multifaceted engagement between India and the state of Wisconsin,” the Indian Embassy said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-envoy-to-us-wisconsin-governor-discuss-trade-investment/story-KdlyYvtpaEdOBKI8KUAMlK.html
30-07-2020||India||Stolen in 1998, rare Shiva statue on way from London to India||An exquisite 9th century statue of Natesh Shiva stolen from the Ghateshwar temple in Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan in February 1998 and recovered in London will be on its way to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Thursday.Indian officials here said that British authorities were alerted in 2003 when it emerged that the statue had been smuggled into the United Kingdom. They interacted with a private collector, who had it in his possession and later voluntarily returned it to the Indian high commission in 2005.Since then the statue has been displayed prominently in India House. In August 2017 a team of the ASI experts examined the idol and confirmed that it is the same ‘murti’ that was stolen from the Ghateshwar temple in Baroli village.The statue’s return to India is the latest in recent such priceless items recovered in the UK and handed over to the Indian mission, which has been working with British law enforcement authorities to trace, seize and retrieve several stolen artefacts.Recent items recovered and repatriated to India include a 17th century bronze idol of Navanitha Krishna and a 2nd century limestone carved pillar motif returned by the US embassy on August 15, 2019; a 12th century bronze statue of Buddha handed over by Scotland Yard on August 15, 2018; and a Bramha- Brahmani sculpture, which was stolen from the world heritage site Rani Ki Vav in Gujarat, returned to ASI in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stolen-in-1998-rare-shiva-statue-on-way-from-london-to-india/story-Kre1LI6auXY5ayLqVSX5vN.html
30-07-2020||India||Supreme Court extends scope of Central Vista hearings||The Supreme Court on Wednesday expanded the scope of its hearing in the challenge to the Central Vista redevelopment project and will now also examine the validity of the June 17 environmental clearance (EC) given to it. This will be in addition to the issue surrounding the legality of the change in land use which is already under the consideration of the top court through two petitions pending before it.The court decided this after a former IAS officer and two environmentalists sought intervention in the matter and sought a recall of the apex court’s June 21 order which said that any petition or proceeding concerning the Central Vista project will have to be heard by the Supreme Court.The interveners, former secretary of Ministry of Environment and Forests, Meena Gupta, and environmentalists Pradip Krishen and Ashish Kothari in their intervention application filed through advocate Anshuman Srivastava on July 7, pointed out that the project involves other issues like grant of environmental clearance which can be challenged before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), but that the top court’s earlier order posed a hindrance to take recourse to other legal remedies.A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar then asked the interveners to file a fresh petition before the apex court challenging the EC for the project on June 17.The Central Vista houses iconic buildings like the Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, the North and South Block buildings, which house important ministries, other buildings around Rajpath, and India Gate. The union government plans to redevelop the Central Vista by constructing a new Parliament house, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the Vice President besides several new office buildings.The petitions already pending before the SC challenge a notification issued by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on December 21, 2019 regarding changes in land use for the redevelopment.One of the petitioners in that case, Rajeev Suri has challenged the alterations envisaged by the central government on the ground that it involves changes to land use and standards of population density and that the DDA is not vested with the requisite power to bring about such changes. He submitted that the power, if at all, for bringing about such changes lies with the central government. Another petitioner, Lt. Colonel (Retd. ) Anuj Srivastava, challenged the public hearings held to raise objections to the exercise, arguing that the hearings were a mere formality .“This is a huge project involving many clearances. Other legal remedies available should not be put in one bucket due to this case,” senior counsel Shyam Divan, appearing for the interveners, said on Wednesday. The court, however, suggested that interveners should withdraw their application and file a fresh petition before the Supreme Court challenging the EC. Divan and advocate Shikhil Suri and senior counsel Sanjay Hegde who were appearing for the two petitioners agreed to the proposal.“In deference to the observations made by the Court, Mr. Shyam Divan submits that he would commend to the applicant(s) to file a substantive writ petition challenging the environmental clearance dated June 17 by way of writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution (before the Supreme Court)… As assured by Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel, the substantive writ petition will be filed within one week from today,” the court recorded in its order.The case will be heard again in the third week of August.The central government has maintained that the redevelopment is in conformity with the existing laws and will not harm any heritage buildings. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, on Wednesday, said the proposed new buildings belong to the nation and public and disapproved the language used by petitioners while making arguments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-extends-scope-of-central-vista-hearings/story-L4a612plY5vvUiv0RhXqPJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Tuesday, there were 10,887 active cases of the coronavirus disease in Delhi; the corresponding number for Kerala was 10,103. The difference is narrowing — Kerala, once touted as a global role model on how to manage the disease, saw more daily cases than Delhi, once criticised for its poor record in managing Covid-19, on Tuesday (1.167 to 1,056).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt’s important to look at active cases. According to the HT dashboard, India recorded 1.53 million coronavirus disease cases cumulatively till Tuesday evening, but almost a million of these (986,061) have recovered. Another 34,200 people have succumbed to the virus. That leaves 510,063 active cases. From helping identify new clusters of infections (or hot spots) to highlighting where health care efforts need to be focused, this is the relevant number (and it doesn’t get enough attention, including in this column).Interestingly, the number of recovered patients is certain to cross a million as I write this on Wednesday afternoon [Editor’s note: According to the HT dashboard, India ended Wednesday with 1,019,297 recovered patients]. That’s definitely a number worth celebrating.As is the Mumbai sero survey (antibody test) data that was released on Tuesday and showed that around 40% of the around 7,000 people surveyed in the city have Sars-CoV-2 antibodies — indicating that they have been exposed to the disease. Of this, 57% of the roughly 4,200 people tested from the city’s slums and 16% of the approximately 2,800 from residential societies showed antibodies. The sample was much smaller (a third) of a similar sero survey in Delhi, which showed that 23% of those surveyed were exposed to the disease; and unlike the Delhi survey, the Mumbai one was conducted in only three of the city’s 24 wards (the Delhi one covered all 11 districts). Still, the Mumbai survey is good news for two reasons: one, it means the death rate (as measured by the case fatality rate) in Mumbai is much lower than what it is on paper; and two, these people are probably immune to the disease now (at least in the short-term). The results of the sero survey in Mumbai come even as the city seems to have seen off the worst of the pandemic. As HT reported on Tuesday, the positivity rate in the city is finally nudging 10% (on the way down), and there is no shortage of hospital beds (about 48% of Covid-19 hospital beds in Mumbai are free).But Mumbai still had 19,990 active cases (as of Tuesday; the number is down from 28,924 at the end of June, showing the significant turnaround the city has achieved), and Maharashtra, with 144,998, the most in the country (the national aggregate is 510,063). The list of states by active cases is illuminating: the top three have around 50%, the top five, around 70%, and the top 10, 83%. This list (reproduced along with this column) merits watching.As does the number of daily deaths, which has been inching up steadily. Sure, it hasn’t grown at the same pace as cases, but barring spikes (caused typically by states reconciling their death data; Tamil Nadu, for instance, did this last week), the number has continued to rise. Through July, it has traversed the 400s, the 500s, and the 600s, and is now in the 700s. Between July 23 and 28, it was in the 700s five times. And the seven-day average of daily deaths has continued to inch up. India’s case fatality rate remains low when compared to that of other countries, but in absolute terms, only those worst affected by Covid-19 have seen deaths in excess of 700 a day. That isn’t a number we should forget even as we (justifiably) cheer our low case fatality rate and the high number of recovered patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-rASacRxcpwmM3jtXMZrRlM.html
30-07-2020||India||Man falls into river after UP police officer kicks him, video goes viral||A video, showing an Uttar Pradesh police personnel kicking a bystander watching an ongoing search operation at a Ganga ghat in Mirzapur resulting in the man falling into the river, has gone viral with netizens raising questions on the conduct of police personnel in the state.An embarrassed police department had to order a departmental inquiry into the incident involving the station house officer of Vindhyachal Kotwali police station in Mirzapur. The officer’s name is reported to be Sheshdhar Pandey.The inquiry was ordered after the incident invited condemnation from political fronts including the Bahujan Jagriti Manch of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). “This is how Mirzapur Police kicks the helpless from behind. A man standing near Ganga was kicked by the Kotwal (station incharge). The youth fell into river Ganga,” a tweet from the organisation’s official handle said. मिर्ज़ापुर-पुलिस ऐसे ही निरीह जनता को पीछे से दुलत्ती मारती है।विंध्याचल में गंगा के किनारे खड़े युवक को नवागत कोतवाल ने मारी पीछे से लात।युवक गिरा नीचे गंगा में। @myogiadityanath @Uppolice @adgzonevaranasi @digmirzapur @mirzapurpolice pic.twitter.com/vwkLw9IwmSA statement released by the Mirzapur police, however, defended Pandey’s behavior and claimed that he was only trying to enforce social distancing at the river bank, where a crowd had gathered to watch an ongoing search operation for the body of a man who had drowned in the river some time ago, according to a news report in the Print.It added that Pandey was only trying to nudge the man, which threw him off balance, resulting in the fall.A tweet by the Mirzapur police later claimed that the SHO had been served a warning and an initial inquiry in the incident has been ordered.“The station house officer of Vindhyachal was served a warning over the incident and a senior police officer has been asked to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter,” a tweet from Mirzapur Police’s official handle claimed.Uttar Pradesh police has recently been under scrutiny in Vikas Dubey encounter case and also in the murder case of a scribe in Ghaziabad. While it is accused of human rights violations by allegedly conducting a fake encounter in the first case, in the latter, it is under the spotlight for alleged inaction against local goons leading to murder of a journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-falls-into-river-after-up-police-officer-kicks-him-video-goes-viral/story-r407BmSSCQ7CIHu5eQ42mJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Soldiers killed in Galwan will be honoured at war memorial||The names of the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the brutal Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh on June 15 will be inscribed on the National War Memorial in Delhi, officials said on Wednesday. The soldiers fought off numerically superior Chinese troops in the remote sector. Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar, was among the 20 soldiers killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The names of all battle casualties are inscribed on the memorial, the officials said.During a recent visit to Ladakh, defence minister Rajnath Singh met and acknowledged the bravery of the soldiers from 16 Bihar in the presence of the military’s top brass.Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered in the Galwan Valley clash but according to India’s assessment, the PLA suffered twice as many casualties.Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades.The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldiers-killed-in-galwan-will-be-honoured-at-war-memorial/story-NVfPvHQOYzF4DaNWPw7vNJ.html
30-07-2020||India||Govt unveils sweeping changes for education||The Union Cabinet passed India’s first new National Education Policy in at least 28 years, recommending primary education in local languages, facilitating the possible entry of foreign universities in India, creating a single higher-education regulator, and easier board examinations -- wide-ranging reforms aimed at making the Indian education system more contemporary and skill-oriented. NEP also renamed the HRD (human resource development) ministry as the education ministry. Also read | Over 2 crore children will be brought back to schools: Amit KhareThe policy also sets ambitious targets: increasing the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) to 50% from the current 26%, creating an additional 35 million seats in colleges, and increasing the education budget to 6% of the GDP from the present 4%. The NEP lays down that by 2040, all higher education institutions (HEIs) shall aim to become multidisciplinary. It also says that by 2030 there will be at least one large multidisciplinary institution in or near every district. It also moots Special Education Zones (SEZ) in backward districts.Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, flanked by HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and HRD secretaries Amit Khare and Anita Karwal, said it was after 34 years that India’s education policy was being overhauled. Indeed, while the last policy was announced in 1992, it was essentially a rehash of a 1986 one. The policy, drafted by a committee headed by former Isro chief K Kasturirangan submitted its report last year.The new policy brings with it a range of initiatives that touch every aspect of teaching and learning from the pre-school level to higher education including research.Some, like the recommendation on local languages or mother-tongues may be controversial. An early draft was criticised for this very issue, with allegations that the government was using it as a way to impose Hindi on people in non-Hindi speaking parts of the country. It is not clear whether the recommendation will be a rule or a guideline. SchoolsThe policy has emphasised that the mother tongue, local language or the regional language should be the medium of instruction at least till Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond. It also said that Sanskrit will be offered at all levels of school and higher education as an option for students, including in the three-language formula.“The policy makes it clear that mother tongue should be the preferable medium of instruction wherever possible. However, there is going to be no imposition of any language. It will be for the states to decide,” said a senior HRD ministry official who asked not to be named. Several foreign languages will also be offered at the secondary level. Indian Sign Language (ISL) will be standardised across the country, and National and State curriculum materials developed, for use by students with hearing impairment.The 10+2 structure of school curricula is to be replaced by a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure corresponding to ages 3-8, 8-11, 11-14, and 14-18 years, respectively. This will bring the hitherto uncovered age group of 3-6 years under school curriculum.The National Council for Education, Research and Training (NCERT) will develop a National Curricular and Pedagogical Framework for Early Childhood Care and Education (NCPFECCE) for children up to the age of 8. The NEP 2020 also calls for setting up of a National Mission on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy. A National Book Promotion Policy will also be formulated.Every state or district will be encouraged to establish “Bal Bhavans” as a special daytime boarding school, to participate in art-related, career-related, and play-related activities. Free school infrastructure can be used as Samajik Chetna Kendras.A common National Professional Standards for Teachers (NPST) will be developed by the National Council for Teacher Education by 2022, in consultation with NCERT, SCERTs, teachers and expert organisations from across levels and regions. Children with disabilities will be enabled to fully participate in the regular schooling process, it says.The NEP also envisages exams for students from Class 3 onwards. All students will take school examinations in Grades 3, 5, and 8, which will be conducted by the appropriate authority. Board exams for grades 10 and 12 will be continued, but redesigned with holistic development as the aim. A new National Assessment Centre, PARAKH (Performance Assessment, Review, and Analysis of Knowledge for Holistic Development), will be set up as a standards-setting body .The policy also suggests options to make exams stress-free. For instance, school boards could provide options to students on whether they want to take a tough maths exam or the comparatively easier version. It could be done for other subjects as well, secretary, school education, Anita Karwal, said at the press conference.Meanwhile, assessment reports will present a more holistic picture of the child’s development.Special emphasis will be laid on socially and economically disadvantaged Groups (SEDGs) which include gender, socio-cultural, and geographical identities and disabilities. This includes the setting up of a Gender Inclusion Fund and also Special Education Zones.For governance, the policy states schools can be organised into complexes or clusters which will be the basic unit of governance and ensure availability of all resources including infrastructure. The policy proposes that states and UTs set up independent State School Standards Authority (SSSA).Self-disclosure of all the basic regulatory information will be used extensively for public oversight and accountability. Higher educationIn higher education, NEP once again hopes to improve enrolment numbers, from a Gross Enrolment Ratio of 26.3% (2018) to 50% by 2035. It plans to add 35 million seats to higher education institutions.The policy also aims at encouraging top Indian institutions to establish campuses abroad and also pave way for the best foreign universities to come to India. This will be done through a separate legislation.The policy aims at breaking disciplinary barriers. Institutions, including the IITs, will become multi-disciplinary; degrees will have more flexibility; and students will get more choice in terms of subjects. Graduation can be in three or four years with multiple exit options and appropriate certification. For example, a certificate after 1 year, advanced diploma after 2 years, Bachelor’s Degree after 3 years and Bachelor’s degree with Research after 4 years.An Academic Bank of Credit is to be established for digitally storing academic credits. Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities (MERUs), at par with the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) will be set up as models of best multidisciplinary education. A National Research Foundation will also be created.Regulatory bodies University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) will pave way for a Higher Education Commission of India (HECI). HECI will be an overarching umbrella body for the entire higher education sector, excluding medical and legal education.The definition of university will allow a spectrum of institutions that range from research-intensive universities to teaching-intensive universities and autonomous degree-granting colleges. Affiliation of colleges is to be phased out in 15 years and a stage-wise mechanism is to be established for granting graded autonomy to colleges.The policy aims at making “India a global knowledge superpower”.The Indian way One of the stated aims of the policy is to instil a “deep-rooted pride” in being Indian, not only in thought, but also in spirit, intellect, and deeds, as well as to develop knowledge, skills, values, and dispositions that support responsible commitment to human rights, sustainable development and living, and global well-being.The policy also aims at “light but tight” regulation by a single regulator for higher education as well as increased access, equity, and inclusion.A National Mission for Mentoring will be established, with a large pool of outstanding senior/retired faculty – including those with the ability to teach in Indian languages.Efforts will be made to incentivise the merit of students belonging to SC, ST, OBC, and other socially or educationally disadvantaged groups. Private institutions will be encouraged to offer larger numbers of scholarships to their students.Online The policy, which comes at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is raging, also suggests the creation of a dedicated unit for the purpose of orchestrating the building of digital infrastructure and digital content in the HRD ministry. An autonomous body, the National Educational Technology Forum (NETF), is to be created to provide a platform for the free exchange of ideas.To ensure the preservation, growth, and vibrancy of all Indian languages, NEP recommends setting an Indian Institute of Translation and Interpretation (IITI), National Institute (or Institutes) for Pali, Persian and Prakrit, strengthening of Sanskrit and all language departments in HEIs, and use mother tongue/local language as a medium of instruction in more HEI programmes .The policy also says that the Centre and the states will work together to increase public investment in Education sector to reach 6% of GDP.“The NEP 2020 advocates major reforms in higher education -- holistic and multidisciplinary education, flexibility of subject choices and programme durations, etc. The concept of a Multidisciplinary Education & Research University (MERU) will find resonance in our young campus. We welcome the creation of the National Research Foundation (NRF). With freedom comes responsibility. I am particularly appreciative of the forward-looking “common norm for public and private HEIs” -- every institution should be held accountable, in a progressive and fair way,” said Rupamanjari Ghosh, vice-chancellor, Shiv Nadar University, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-unveils-sweeping-changes-for-education/story-zSewHWq7IiCaOOLNXUiRcK.html
30-07-2020||India||GST compensation: ₹1.88L-cr needed to recoup states’ shortfall||The amount of compensation required to be paid to states for their revenue shortfall in the current financial year is expected to be at least Rs 1.88 lakh crore even if the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection remains at the same level as last year, around Rs 12 lakh crore, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said. In 2019-20, the Centre paid a compensation of Rs 1,65,302 crore to the states; the last instalment of this was paid on this month. On Wednesday, The Hindu reported that revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance on Tuesday that the government may not be in a position to pay compensation to states this year. The people cited in the first instance sad that this is likely given sluggish economic activity on account of the Covid-19 pandemic , the national lockdown that ended on May 31, and localised lockdowns that are still ongoing in some parts of the country. As per GST law, states have been assured a 14% increase in their annual GST revenue, but GST collection in 2020-21 is unlikely see any growth, they added. “There is virtually no money left to pay compensation to states from April 2020,” one of the three said. The states were paid Rs 1,65,302 crore GST compensation in 2019-20, even as total cess collection for the fiscal year was a mere Rs 95,444 crore. The gap was met from the balance in the compensation cess account of previous years and some money was transferred from the consolidated fund of India, he added.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to July 1, 2020) and the Centre committed to meet any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco products.According to a note circulated in the 40th GST Council meeting held on June 12, compensation cess collected in 2017-18 was Rs 62,612 crore, rose to Rs 95,081 crore in 2018-19 and further to Rs 95,444 crore in 2019-20. Compensation paid in 2017-18 was however, less than the total collection at Rs 41,146 crore and Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19.The second person, who is a legal expert, said the law provides that the compensation will be paid out of the GST Compensation Fund, specifically created for this purpose. “Nowhere in the Compensation Act has been stated that in regard to a situation of shortfall in the GST Compensation Fund, the gap will be met by the central government,” he said. “It is now up to the GST Council to find a solution – how to augment revenue collection. Theoretically, the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise tax rates, include more items under the compensation cess or increase the compensation cess, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund,” the third person said.Finance ministers of some states, however, said paying compensation is the responsibility of the Union government. “According to news reports the hearing before Standing Committee on Finance, Centre has taken the stand that GST Compensation can’t be paid and present arrangements be revised by Council. Such a brazen betrayal of federal trust! Convene the Council meeting immediately as promised,” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said in a tweet. The union finance ministry did not respond to e-mails seekinmg comment. GST Council is the apex federal body that takes all decisions related to the indirect tax. It is chaired by the Union finance minister. Finance ministers of states and union territories are its members and the council decisions are often unanimous.The third official said the Council will meet in August to resolve this matter. “This is not a systemic issue. The compensation cess fund has depleted because of the pandemic and not due to any system flaw in the GST regime. Covid-19 was an act of god, a force majure. The Council will take an appropriate view on this matter soon.” Pratik Jain, partner and leader of the indirect tax practice at PwC India said that a dialogue between the Centre and states is the only viable solution. “Increasing the ambit or rate of cess may not be a practical solution at this stage. The only viable option seems to be a renegotiation between the Centre and states about the quantum and period of compensation. Eventually, we will have to find a way to ensure that state finances are self sustainable and this compensation is not needed at all.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY India said, “With expectations of lower cess collections in the next couple of months with already muted collections in the first quarter, the government possibly will need to explore avenues for funding the shortfall -- through increased tenure of compensation cess levy or rate increase in later years, etc.” According to government data, the GST collection in first three months of current financial year saw a decline of about 41% at Rs 1,85,220 crore compared to Rs 3,14,095 crore in the same period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-88l-cr-needed-to-recoup-states-shortfall/story-biPq8yht5qf8BIfsrpRu7M.html
30-07-2020||India||Country records 11% monsoon rain deficiency; northwest 30% in July||Delhi and neighbouring Faridabad on Wednesday received light to heavy rain, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said and added weather stations in the national capital at Safdarjung, Lodhi Road, and the Ridge recorded 9.3 mm, 13 mm and 33.2 mm rainfall. Between 15.4 to 64.5 mm is categorised as moderate.There was a 26% rain deficiency in Delhi from June 1 until Wednesday morning. It was expected to fall by Wednesday evening. Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) was also recorded in parts of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.Regional Weather Forecasting Centre head Kuldeep Shrivastava said the monsoon trough is passing very close to Delhi and bringing rain to the city. “The monsoon trough is passing along Ferozepur [Punjab], Hisar, Gurgaon, [Haryana] Daltonganj, Dumka [Jharkhand] and parts of Nagaland.” Shrivastava said moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal was likely to bring rain again on Wednesday night and on Thursday.The western end of the trough has shifted southwards and is near to its normal position from Ganganagar (Rajasthan) to the Bay of Bengal, IMD said.IMD said widespread and heavy to very heavy rain is likely in Uttarakhand, Jammu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala on Wednesday and Thursday. Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) was likely over places like Kerala.There has been just 1% excess rain since the beginning of the monsoon on June 1 across the country. Eastern and northeastern India have received 12% excess rainfall. There has been a 20% deficiency in rainfall in northwest India, 2% in central India, and 12% excess over the south peninsula. There is an 11% rain deficiency across the country in July with 30% over northwest India; 7.5% excess over east and northeast India; 20% deficiency over central India and 14.6% excess over the south peninsula.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector on which at least 700 million people are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.“The formation of a cyclonic circulation around the South Bay of Bengal is a sign of weak monsoon. This is possibly the first time in several years…a historical record that there was no low-pressure system forming over the Bay of Bengal in all of July and so rains have been deficient in the core monsoon zone. At least 12 to 15 low-pressure systems form over the Bay of Bengal every monsoon most in July and August. This July rain deficiency is 11%,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre.Low-pressure systems are the main rain-producing systems during monsoon. Their formation depends on dynamics like the interaction of south-westerly and easterly winds, added Jenamani.IMD has also issued a moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning warning for Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, and Rayalaseema on Thursday.“I remember 2002 was a very bad year when hardly any low-pressure systems formed. Low-pressure systems over the Bay of Bengal are rain-bearing systems. When they move into the land, they bring a lot of rain so they are critical during monsoon. Along with global features, two local features are critical for the development of low-pressure systems--wind shear (change in wind speed and direction) and moisture,” said SK Dash, professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-records-11-monsoon-rain-deficiency-northwest-30/story-11pdbKcaXSTJKynQwqN2HI.html
30-07-2020||India||New policy sets sights on total overhaul of education system||The New Education Policy (NEP) attempts to significantly overhaul several aspects of the Indian education system rooted in the previous policy of 1986 and in other areas, attempts to bring a more contemporary approach.For instance, the norms under the previous policy did not allow foreign varsities to set up campuses, while the 2020 policy does..The regulation system will be overhauled with one Higher Education Council of India in place of several regulatory bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).The present policy has also mooted a gender-inclusion fund as an equity measure. The policy states that the Government of India will constitute a ‘Gender-Inclusion Fund’ to build the nation’s capacity to provide equitable quality education for all girls as well as transgender students.Also read: Over 2 crore children will be brought back to schools: Amit KhareFor schools, the purpose is to make learning less stressful and more learning-oriented, the policy states. For instance, all students will participate in a 10-day bagless period during classes 6-8, during which they will intern with local vocational experts, such as carpenters, gardeners, potters, artists,etc.New subjects like coding will be introduced at an earlier level, from class 6, to modernize the syllabi, as per the policy. Barriers like science, humanities and commerce, etc, have fallen and students will be given increased flexibility and choice of subjects to study, particularly in secondary school — physical education, arts and crafts, and vocational skills — so that they can design their own paths of study and life plans.Similarly, degrees have also become more flexible. The NEP also lays emphasis on online education, especially to counter situations like the present pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-policy-sets-sights-on-total-overhaul-of-education-system/story-WctmVsiqCmLy9DQpmAUAmO.html
30-07-2020||India||Emphasis on Indian culture reflects RSS sway on New Education Policy||The renaming of human resource development (HRD) ministry as education ministry, and the emphasis on Indian arts, languages, and culture reflect the Rashtriya Syawamsevak Sangh (RSS)’s influence on the New Education Policy (NEP).The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved NEP, which also seeks to increase public spending on education to nearly 6% of GDP from around 4%, cap fees, expand access to higher education and achieve universal adult literacy before 2035.An RSS functionary said the Sangh approves of the language NEP uses to describe its vision. It speaks of curriculum and pedagogy developing a “deep sense of respect towards the fundamental duties and Constitutional values, bonding with one’s country, and conscious awareness of one’s roles and responsibilities in a changing world”, the functionary added. “The policy refers to the need to instil a deep-rooted pride in being Indian, not only in thought, but also in spirit, intellect, and deeds, which is what we have been stressing on.”The RSS, which is the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s ideological fount, has been pushing for a review of the education policy to Indianize it further . It has also sought rewriting of History textbooks from what it calls an Indian perspective.RSS affiliates such as the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal (BSM) and the Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas (SSUN) that are involved in areas such as education and culture submitted a slew of recommendations to the Narendra Modi government months soon it was voted to power at the Centre in 2014. RSS offshoots have long sought the renaming of the HRD ministry. The issue resurfaced at a BSM conference in 2018, where Modi and then HRD minister Prakash Javadekar were among those in attendance.SSUN secretary Atul Kothari said NEP fits well with the recommendations made by his organisation . “Within days of the coronavirus pandemic, we wrote to the PM [Modi] and the HRD minister to ensure the new policy should also give attention to online methods of teaching. We are happy that it has been included in NEP.”Another BSM functionary said the HRD ministry was known as the education ministry till 1985. “World over too education ministries are not known as resource development ministries.”RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in August last year hoped NEP would make individuals self-respecting, self-sufficient and independent, and rooted in the country’s ethos and culture. He lamented the delay in finalising NEP in 2018 during a three-day lecture series in New Delhi. Bhagwat stressed the need for value-based education and expressed concern over the falling standards of pedagogy and research.NEP’s vision for an education system “rooted in Indian ethos” dovetails with RSS’s demand for an India-centric policy. RSS has sought education to be imparted in the mother tongue and based on a system that borrows from the ancient texts and cultural practices.RSS has long advocated teaching in the mother tongue, and implementation of the three-language formula to promote multilingualism. NEP addresses this too.NEP has emphasised the popularisation of Indian languages. “Sanskrit will be mainstreamed with strong offerings in school -- including as one of the language options in the three-language formula -- as well as in higher education. Sanskrit Universities too will move towards becoming large multidisciplinary institutions of higher learning.”BSM has also welcomed the move to establish a National Research Foundation as part of NEP.The creation of Prime-Minister-led Rashtriya Shiksha Aayog has also been on BSM’s wish list. BSM has urged the government to ensure academics and not bureaucrats are in charge of key positions in the education sector. It has called for encouraging teachers to become administrators and vice-chancellors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emphasis-on-indian-culture-reflects-rss-sway-on-policy/story-f6767eyxWjikYNdJEgD1uK.html
30-07-2020||India||Over 2 crore children will be brought back to schools: Amit Khare||The New Education Policy will boost equity and access and provide education to millions of people, higher education secretary Amit Khare told Amandeep Shukla in an interview. Edited excerpts:What impact will the NEP have in the short and long run?The NEP will have major impact on access, equity and quality, all three of them. One, the universalisation of school education will be up to Class 12. More than two crore children will be brought to back to school. In higher education, access will be improved. The GER [gross enrolment ratio] will be raised from 26% to 50% which would mean another 3.5 crore seats. Multidisciplinary colleges including vacation and general education will improve the quality of learning. Similarly, research will be improved by the formation of the National Research Foundation (NRF). For improving equity, there will be gender inclusion fund. For SC [scheduled caste], ST [scheduled tribe] and other disadvantaged sections, the policy has recommended provisions. For backward regions, the policy advocates Special Education Zones. Thanks is due to Dr K Kasturirangan and his team for drafting it.Also read | New Education Policy 2020 Highlights: Key takeaways of NEP to make India a ‘global knowledge superpower’The NEP moots a single regulator. What will happen to existing regulators UGC and AICTE?Their functions will be redefined and they will be merged into the single regulator. A bill will be moved in the parliament for the formation of the HECI [Higher Education Commission of India]. There will be a repeal and saving clause in the bill. That bill is under process. Consultations are required, so may be in winter session it will be there.The NEP also allows foreign universities to come to India. Can you elaborate?Only the top 100 (foreign varsities). Indian universities’ quality will be improved so that they attract foreign students. Indian universities that are in the Top 100 will be allowed to set up campuses abroad. And since, we are allowing our universities to go abroad, we are also allowing top 100 world universities into India. Right now deemed universities, there are restrictions on having campuses, so regulatory provisions will be changed for Indian institutions to have campuses abroad. The policy says IITs will be encouraged to teach non-science subjects to turn multidisciplinary. Will it not dilute their core strengths?It actually improves. The quality of research improves when it is multidisciplinary. For instance, Covid has a medical side, a scientific side and also a social side about behavioural change. So if an institutions is looking at all (aspects), it will be more effective than only doctors doing the treatment or only sociologists looking at behavioural change. That ways multidisciplinary institutions will be better.What is the status of National Research Foundation?It is at an advanced stage. It will have 10 wings. Social science also has been included as a wing. A note has been circulated by the Principal Scientific Advisor. The initial draft had suggested that breakfast also be provided in schools?It has been included. It was felt cooking may not be easy early in the morning. So nutritious supplements like chana [gram] may be given.Foreign universities have been allowed, but will there be systems to ensure there is no commercialization?Any university coming here, policy clearly says commercialization will be curbed. If there is any surplus it will have to be invested in education sector. Funds cannot be taken out of education. Somebody makes money and then starts making telephones or opens transport business, that is not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-crore-children-will-be-brought-back-to-schools-amit-khare/story-TIoirwpa3daPpldgz4CfwN.html
30-07-2020||India||Gehlot’s brother skips ED hearing on health grounds||New Delhi: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s brother, Agrasain Gehlot, did not appear for questioning before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday citing health issues, people familiar with the matter said. Agrasain Gehlot has now been issued a fresh summons for August 4 while his son, Anupam Gehlot, was questioned on Wednesday, they added.The agency on Tuesday summoned Agrasain Gehlot to appear before it in Delhi on Wednesday in connection with its probe into alleged money laundering in the export of fertilizers.ED’s investigation against him in the case is based on a customs department and the directorate of revenue and intelligence probe in 2009 into the export of Muriate of Potash (MOP), a restricted commodity for export under the foreign trade policy. Agrasain Gehlot’s company is suspected to have diverted about 35,000 metric tonnes of MOP valued at Rs 130 crore in the international market.ED on July 22 conducted raids at his premises apart from several companies and individuals in Rajasthan, Delhi, and West Bengal.The Congress has linked ED’s actions to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s alleged attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot government, which is facing a revolt from former deputy chief minister and 18 lawmakers loyal to him. The BJP has rejected the Congress’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-s-brother-skips-ed-hearing-on-health-grounds/story-VXAk3WEaplaYoyCDR2q9jK.html
30-07-2020||India||Rajasthan political crisis: Why Congress avoided mention of floor test in its proposals||The ruling Congress has repeatedly avoided the mention of a floor test in its proposals to Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra for an assembly session, fearing it could be used to bring down its government and for the imposition of President’s rule in the state, people familiar with the matter said. It has publicly sought a floor test to prove its majority but has not mentioned that in its recommendations to Mishra.“Our apprehension is that the moment we ask for a floor test, the governor will say the government is not confident of its majority and hence might recommend President’s rule,” said a Congress functionary on condition of anonymity. “There are some points in the governor’s letters to the Rajasthan government that force us to think on those lines.” He added even the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded a floor test.Constitutional expert PDT Achary said in normal circumstances, there is not a possibility of the governor recommending President’s rule on the basis of the government seeking a floor test. “There is no need to mention the floor test in their proposals. In rules, there is no provision for confidence motion but only for a no-confidence motion. Confidence motion can be any motion and brought any time in the House by the government.”Achary, a former Lok Sabha secretary-general, said a session is mainly called by the government to transact business and it is under no obligation to inform the governor about its agenda. “His role is over once the session is summoned. The Speaker then takes over and has to control the House and conduct the proceedings.”Another Congress leader, who is involved in the crisis management, said there is another view that the state government should move court and get a direction for the governor. “But many of us are against any such move. These are not normal times. We are living in abnormal times and do not expect favourable verdicts from the courts. So, approaching the court will be futile,” he said. “So, it was finally decided to accept the governor’s condition of giving a 21-day notice for convening the assembly.”The Congress had decided to fight the Rajasthan battle politically and take to the streets. “Thrice, we wrote to the governor and urged him to call the assembly session. Obviously, he is under some kind of pressure from the central government to delay the summoning of the House. But one thing has happened and that is the Rajasthan governor and the BJP stand exposed before the public,” said the second functionary.The Congress has so far claimed that 109 legislators in the 200-member assembly support the Ashok Gehlot government. “...we are very confident and will easily cross the majority mark with at least a margin of 15-20 legislators in the final count,” said Congress leader Ajay Maken.Maken and Randeep Singh Surjewala were deputed to Jaipur this month to deal with the political crisis after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-cong-avoided-mention-of-floor-test-in-its-proposals/story-nEUJPDEVleCfM83svHvyyL.html
30-07-2020||India||Speaker moves SC against HC order on 19 Cong MLAs||Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday challenging a July 24 order by the high court ordering him to defer proceedings on the disqualification notices he issued dissident Congress legislator Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs. Joshi submitted that the high court order is in violation of legal principles laid down by the 1992 Supreme Court judgment in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu as per which courts cannot interfere with the speaker’s powers to decide a disqualification petition till he gives a final decision on such a disqualification plea.“The order (of July 24) restraining the speaker from performing his constitutional duties under the 10th schedule (for disqualification of MLAs) is a direct intrusion by the high court into the domain exclusively reserved for the Speaker”, the petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes said. The high court, by attempting to reopen the law laid down in Kihoto Hollohan committed “gross judicial indiscipline”, the plea added. On July 24, the Rajasthan high court issued a detailed order staying action by the speaker against the rebel Congress legislators while admitting the writ petition filed the Pilot camp against the disqualification notices. Pilot, the former deputy chief minister, is leading a rebellion in the ruling party after differences between him and the chief minister widened into a full-blown confrontation that threatens to knock the party out of power. The high court said that it will examine the constitutional validity of para 2(1)(a) of the 10th schedule of the constitution. The 10th schedule contains provisions relating to disqualification of lawmakers for defection. Para 2(1)(a) lays down that voluntarily giving up membership of the political party on whose ticket the lawmaker was elected, will be a ground for disqualification from the house. The Pilot camp had challenged the validity of para 2(1)(a) arguing that merely voicing opinion against party leadership does not amount to “voluntarily giving up membership” and para 2(1)(a), to the extent it prohibits expression of opinion, violates freedom of speech under Article 19 of the Constitution.“The constitutional validity of 10th schedule including para 2(1)(a) had been specifically challenged before the Supreme Court in Kihoto and the contention was negatived. In these circumstances, the high court could not have acted as appellate court over the correctness of the decision in Kihoto,” the speaker submitted. The Supreme Court should ensure that the authorities under the constitution, including the judiciary, exercise its jurisdiction within their boundaries and function within their respective ‘Lakshman Rekhas’, Joshi contended. This would be the second instance of Joshi knocking the doors of the Supreme Court. He had earlier filed an appeal before the Supreme Court on July 22 seeking a stay on a July 21 order of the high court which had asked him to defer action on disqualification notices till July 24. He also sought a stay on the high court proceedings in that plea. But the Supreme Court on July 23 declined the request paving way for the high court to pass its order on July 24 rendering Joshi’s petition before the apex court infructuous (ineffective). He had, subsequently, withdrawn that petition on July 27.Joshi submitted on Wednesday that the July 24 order of high court is violative of Article 212 of the Constitution as per which courts cannot inquire into the proceedings of the legislature.The notice issued by him to the Pilot camp on July 14 is purely procedural and in the realm of legislative proceedings under Article 212 and courts cannot review or examine the same, he contended. “The proceedings before the speaker till the final decision are in the nature of proceedings in the House and are not subject to judicial review… only the final decision of the speaker is amenable to judicial review and that too on limited grounds,” the petition said. The order of the High Court is a direct interference in the ‘proceedings of the House’ which is prohibited under Article 212 of the Constitution, the plea added.Pilot and other MLAs had approached the high court on July 15 challenging the speaker’s notice which had asked the 19 MLAs to furnish an explanation by July 17 on why they should not be disqualified from the assembly for their conduct which the Congress party alleged was detrimental to the interest of the party and showed their intention to quit the party. The speaker’s notice was based on the disqualification petition filed by Chief Whip of Congress party, Mahesh Joshi. Joshi in his plea had cited the absence of the MLAs from two Congress Legislature Party meetings, held on July 13 and 14, despite specific instructions to attend the same as the main reason which showed the intention of the MLAs to leave the Congress party.Pilot and other dissident MLAs have maintained that they never had the intention to leave the Congress party and were merely exercising their right to criticize party leadership and the functioning of the chief minister. In a democratic setup, voicing disagreement with the policies or decisions taken by the party does not amount to acting against the interests of the party so as to lead to disqualification, they had said in their petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speaker-moves-sc-against-hc-order-on-19-cong-mlas/story-TgqzOSOdZ0jO1RCVJoTTpN.html
30-07-2020||India||New Education policy lays emphasis on learning in mother tongue||The New Education Policy approved by the Centre on Wednesday puts a focus on students’ mother tongue as the medium of instruction even as it sticks to the ‘three language formula’ while emphasizing that no language would be imposed on anyone.The policy document states that since children learn and grasp non-trivial concepts more quickly in their home language, which is often the mother tongue, it should preferably be the medium of instruction.“Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language, mother tongue, local language or the regional language. Thereafter, the home or local language shall continue to be taught as a language wherever possible. This will be followed by both public and private schools,” the policy states.This, however, led to a question on the existence of thousands of English-medium schools that across the country. Many of these impart high-quality education and are leading institutions in their particular regions. When contacted, a senior HRD ministry official said the policy does not aim to impose any language at anyone.“Even with regard to instruction in mother tongue, the policy document emphasizes - wherever possible. There is no question of imposing anything. Moreover, it is for the state governments to take decisions in this regard according to requirements of the students,” the official said, asking not to be named.Language is a sensitive area as far as the education policy is concerned. Previously, the draft policy submitted by the panel headed by former ISRO chief K Kasturirangan to the HRD ministry suggested a bigger focus on Hindi as a teaching medium, a suggestion that triggered a controversy with criticism pouring in from southern states. Also read | Over 2 crore children will be brought back to schools: Amit KhareThere were apprehensions, especially in non-Hindi speaking states that the three language formula propagated in the policy would lead to Hindi being forced upon non-speakers. The HRD ministry had then doused the anger emphasizing that no language would be thrust upon anyone. The policy recommends high-quality textbooks, including in science, to be made available in home languages and mother tongue. Teachers will be encouraged to use a bilingual approach, including bilingual teaching-learning materials, with those students whose home language may be different from the mother tongue.According to the policy, states, especially states from different regions of India, may enter into bilateral agreements to hire teachers in large numbers from each other, to satisfy the three-language formula in their respective states, and also to encourage the study of Indian languages across the country.“The three-language formula will continue to be implemented while keeping in mind the Constitutional provisions, aspirations of the people, regions, and the Union, and the need to promote multilingualism as well as promote national unity.However, there will be a greater flexibility in the three-language formula, and no language will be imposed on any State. The three languages learned by children will be the choices of States, regions, and of course the students themselves, so long as at least two of the three languages are native to India,” the policy states.The policy document also lays emphasis on Sanskrit, which it calls an important modern language mentioned in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India. Sanskrit will thus be offered at all levels of school and higher education as an important enriching option for students, including as an option in the three-language formula, it added. The new education roadmap also provides for teaching other classical including classical Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Odia. In addition to these classical languages Pali, Persian, and Prakrit; and their works of literature too must be preserved for their richness and for the pleasure and enrichment of posterity, the document states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-policy-lays-emphasis-on-learning-in-mother-tongue/story-7yRtLx7AmFJrqyd1MbrB5K.html
30-07-2020||India||Governor okays CM proposal for House session from Aug 14||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday allowed the state assembly’s session to run from August 14, approving a proposal by the government for summoning the proceedings after returning three previous recommendations to convene it from July 31 amid an impasse triggered by the rebellion of Congress leader and chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s dismissed deputy, Sachin Pilot.The Ashok Gehlot-led Cabinet on Wednesday sent another proposal to the governor for summoning the Rajasthan assembly, saying a session should be called on August 14. According to people aware of the developments, the government was of the view that the fresh plan met the 21-day notice requirement called for by the governor. The Cabinet is counting 21 days from July 23, when its first proposal was sent, they said.While rejecting the government’s proposals earlier, Mishra said a session can be called at short notice if the agenda is to seek a vote of confidence. He said if the government was not stating the reason for holding a short-notice session, it could call a regular session at 21 days’ notice.Also Read: Rajasthan Speaker moves SC on high court hearing Sachin Pilot camp’s plea, says it is judicial indiscipline“Governor Kalraj Mishra has approved the assembly session. The proposal sent by the Cabinet to begin the proceedings by August 14 has been accepted. The governor has given verbal directives on necessary arrangements to be made for prevention of Covid-19,” a statement released by the governor’s office said.The Rajasthan Cabinet on Tuesday said the governor did not have any locus standi in stipulating conditions to hold the session and asked him to abide by the proposal of the Cabinet. It said the agenda of the session will be determined by the business advisory committee of the House, and added that it was the assembly speaker’s domain to decide on social distancing norms in the assembly amid the pandemic.The governor had suggested a 21-day notice period to convene the House; sought clarity on the agenda of the session and advised live-streaming of the floor test, if such a test was to be held; and asked about Covid-19 related precautions in the assembly.While the Congress has accused that the current crisis is the result of moves by the Bharatiya Janata Party, the BJP said it was purely a result of the internal clash within Rajasthan’s ruling party. The Rajasthan political turmoil has seen an open tussle between Gehlot and his now-dismissed deputy CM Pilot and a set of rebel Congress legislators, who allege that Gehlot’s government is in a minority. Over the past few days, Gehlot has sought a quick assembly session based on the assessment that he has the numbers in the House, according to Congress strategists.Pilot has the support of 18 dissident Congress MLAs. Altogether, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member assembly and the BJP 72.Commenting on the governor’s approval to the assembly session, Congress leader Mahesh Joshi said: “We will run the House successfully. The decision taken in House will bring more relief to the people of the state.”Earlier on Wednesday, Mishra returned the government’s third proposal, saying the Cabinet refused to state the reason why it wanted a session at short notice. He asked the Gehlot Cabinet to resubmit its proposal, giving a reason for calling a session at short notice.As the impasse over calling a session deepened, chief minister Ashok Gehlot held a 15-minute meeting with Mishra at the Raj Bhawan. “The love letter has already come. Now, I am only going to have tea with him,” Gehlot told party workers at the state Congress office before heading for the Raj Bhawan. Hours later, the state Cabinet met to redraft the proposal, setting the new date.Although the Congress has said it wants to prove its majority in the House, it has not mentioned this in its proposal. The governor previously referred to the Covid-19 pandemic and asked the government to make it clear why it wanted the session summoned at short notice under such circumstances.The Congress has alleged that Mishra is acting “under pressure” from the BJP government at the Centre.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said on Tuesday the post of the governor was constitutional and his party did not interfere in the work of the constitutional bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guv-okays-cm-proposal-for-house-session-from-aug-14/story-fiMT7zLp0pm0XrEh1BbhnN.html
30-07-2020||India||US, Australia see key role for India in Indo-Pacific security||New Delhi India will have a key role in defence cooperation and post-Covid-19 recovery efforts in the Indo-Pacific by the US and Australia, which plan to strengthen partnerships in the region to ensure it remains secure, inclusive and rules-based.The matter figured in a meeting between US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper and their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Linda Reynolds in Washington on Tuesday, with a joint statement issued by the two sides making several references to India’s role in the Indo-Pacific.The US and Australia also expressed serious concerns about China’s “recent coercive and destabilising actions across the Indo-Pacific”, and the two countries said the Covid-19 pandemic has “created incentives for some actors to pursue strategic gains in ways that undermine the rules-based international order and regional stability”. The development comes at a time when India is set to include Australia in the Malabar naval exercise that it conducts with the US and Japan, and against the backdrop of the months-old border stand-off with China.The US-Australia joint statement said the Indo-Pacific remains the focus of their alliance and that two countries are “working side-by-side, including with Asean, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Five Eyes partners, to strengthen our networked structure of alliances and partnerships to maintain a region that is secure, prosperous, inclusive, and rules-based”.On the issue of regional coordination, the two countries said they are committed to “trilateral dialogues with Japan and Quad consultations with Japan and India”, and were looking forward to further ministerial meetings of these forums. The Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad, which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US, was upgraded to the ministerial level last September. China has often expressed its opposition to the group, though India has said it is not aimed at any country.The US and Australia also referred to bilateral defence cooperation such as the joint naval activity by their warships in the South China Sea, and said they are committed to “pursue increased and regularised maritime cooperation in the region, as well as the Indian Ocean, bilaterally and in concert with other likeminded and regional partners”. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, described India as the “most natural partner” for security-related initiatives by the US and Australia both in the Indian Ocean and the wider Indo-Pacific region. “Though China is its biggest trade partner, Australia has growing concerns about what it perceives as China’s interference in domestic politics and issues such as cyber security. Australia also has concerns about China’s growing influence in the South Pacific, which it sees as its strategic backyard and which has been the focus of attention from Prime Minister Scott Morrison,” he said. “These concerns and similar worries for the US are areas of convergence with India. Australia certainly feels that if the Quad can get its act together, the four countries can counter the rising Chinese influence in the Indo-Pacific,” Patil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-australia-see-key-role-for-india-in-indo-pacific-security/story-bUl4VrSA50Iq2l0Ig99FbI.html
30-07-2020||India||78% Covid-19 patients develop heart condition, study finds||It is not just the lungs that get severely affected in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients but also the heart, according to a new study that found that as many of 78% of Covid-19 patients monitored developing a heart condition, independent of pre-existing conditions. To be sure, the study was based on a small sample and needs further (and more extensive) research and validation, but it adds to the number of body organs affected by the virus. The study also found that 60% of those infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, had an ongoing myocardial inflammation (swelling of heart muscles); it has been published in the journal ‘JAMA Cardiology’ on Monday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe study, Outcomes of Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Patients Recently Recovered From Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), looked at the cardiovascular effects in patients who suffered from Covid-19.Data from about 100 recovered patients from the University Hospital, Frankfurt’s Covid-19 registry between April and June 2020 was analysed for the study.“…cardiac magnetic resonance imaging revealed cardiac involvement in 78 patients (78%) and ongoing myocardial inflammation in 60 patients (60%), which was independent of preexisting conditions, severity and overall course of the acute illness, and the time from the original diagnosis,” the study added. .The researchers emphasise upon the need for studying in detail long-term cardiovascular consequences of Covid-19.Experts in India have also been asking for examination of clinical data to know the long-term health impact among Covid-19 patients post recovery as there have been observations made by clinicians on recently recovered patients experiencing long-term effects.“It is a huge percentage, and looks like induced by virus or its after-effects such as inflammation. There is a need for large studies to reach a conclusion but that would require funding and access to data,” says Dr Giridhara Babu, head, Life Course epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.Clinicians here have observed that Covid-19 leads to other long-term health complications involving kidneys, liver, even eyes in patients after discharge from hospital.The joint monitoring group under the Union health ministry’s technical wing- Directorate General of Health Services, is independently reviewing clinical data available so far to draft guidelines for managing post-recovery health complications.“Our experts are working on putting a document together to guide people on what kind of long-term care would be required,” said Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, health ministry. The group is chaired by Dr Rajiv Garg, director general health services, along with specialist doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and representatives of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and World Health Organisation (WHO) office in India .The data is being collected from several hospitals across the country that are treating Covid-19 patients. The hospitals include three from Delhi: The central government-run Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and Lady Hardinge Hospital. Apart from these, clinical data is also being sought from six other All India Institute of Medical Sciences that treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-covid-patients-develop-heart-condition-study-finds/story-rwHw5I1ayqQwG8V4FyO3wM.html
30-07-2020||India||Railways to put on hold new infrastructure projects this financial year||In a bid to rationalise its expenses in the wake of the economic slowdown caused by the Covid 19 pandemic Indian Railways plans to put on hold infrastructure projects sanctioned in the current financial year other than those related to safety work, according to a Railway Board order. The railway ministry has clarified that the order , which has been reviewed by HT, will not affect any ongoing vital infrastructure projects of the railways.In a communication sent to all zones and public sector undertaking (PSU) on Tuesday the board said projects that were previously approved but have made insignificant progress “shall be kept frozen till further orders except those which are essentially required for safe running of trains.”The national carrier has estimated a financial loss of around Rs 40,000 crore in its passenger segment due to suspension of regular passenger trains since March 22. “In pursuance of Ministry of Finance’s Office Memorandum No.42(02)/PFC-1/2014 dated 04.06.2020 on the subject and in view of the circumstances prevailing in the current financial year, following decisions have been taken by Board: New works/ Umbrella works included in Pink Book 2020-21 shall be kept in abeyance. However, those works which impact the safe running of trains and are considered essential and inescapable may be considered for sanction,” the board’s order said. Unutilized projects identified as ‘umbrella works’ of 2018-19 and 2019-20, if any, may be suspended, the order added. Umbrella works refer to projects that have been sanctioned combining similar work at different locations.The board has instructed zonal railways to review all projects already approved by them.“Exemption for sanction of works which are considered essential and inescapable will be obtained from the ministry of finance,” the order added.The order issued by the railway board refers to a directive issued by the finance ministry in June on government spending in the year. “It may be appreciated that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is an unprecedented demand on public financial resources, and a need to use resources prudently in accordance with emerging and changing priorities. However, many new proposals for in-principle approval are being received from ministries/departments,” the directive said.“No new proposal for a scheme/ sub-scheme, whether under delegated powers to Administrative Ministry including Standing Finance Committee proposals or through Expenditure Finance Committee should be initiated this year (FY 2020-21)except the proposals announced under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Package, Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package and any other special package announcement,” it said, adding that in-principle approval for such schemes will not be given in this financial year.The initiation of new schemes already approved in FY 2020-21 will remain suspended for one year till 31 March 2021 or till further orders, it added. “This means all new and existing works across railway units are basically halted as they don’t come under safety of train operations and are neither essential nor inescapable,” a railway official explained.When contacted by HT, a spokesperson for the railways ministry said it has to abide by the instructions of the finance ministry, adding sufficient resources exist and have been provisioned for to ensure that wheels of progress and modernisation continue to move at rapid speed.“The order is not going to impact any of any vital infrastructure projects of Railways. It is not going to impact our mission of 100% electrification of routes, doubling tracks , any of railway high speed corridors or DFCCIL, vital signalling projects , projects to launch new modern trains / locomotives, passenger amenities or any project to enhance safety. It may be noted that there is no capital expenditure reduction for infra works and full capex will be utilised,” he said.Railways, earlier this month sent detailed orders announcing several cost-cutting measures. The Railway Board had all zones to review contracts and manpower requirements to curtail expenditure.“It is understandable. As it is, Indian railways had one of the most alarming operating ratios. So with Covid happening, they ended up incurring massive losses. Also, they incurred losses while transporting people to their home states during lockdown. However, Rs 40,000 crore loss is very large by any standard. So it is prudent to start cutting on expenditure that can be reduced.,” said Jaijit Bhattacharya, president of the Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research (CDEP), a think tank.Railway Board chairman VK Yadav on Tuesday said the railway ministry aims to make up for the losses in the passenger segment through freight revenue. Freight traffic on July 27 was marginally more than that on the same day last yea “in spite of Covid-19 related challenges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-freeze-infra-projects-this-financial-yr/story-36M4Z2aF3gUirFMkd1LQ6I.html
30-07-2020||India||India logs 1 million recoveries from Covid-19 in 150 days, 53% from 3 states||The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed 1 million on Wednesday, offering much-needed hope at a time when the contagion is spreading to new regions across the country -- and also highlighting the ability of health care systems to cope with, and cure cases of Covid-19. As of Wednesday night, 1,019,297 people out of the total 1,582,730 infected (64.4%) across India had recovered from the disease while 33,236 had died. There are 528,459 active cases (33.4% of total cases) in the country as of Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe gap between recovered patients and the number of active cases has been a key statistic that offers hope in the country’s long-drawn battle against Sars-Cov-2. This gap, however, wasn’t always there. On May 28, the number of active cases in the country outnumbered the recovered patients by at least 23,000. However, the recoveries closed this gap by June 13, and as of Wednesday, there are 490,838 more patients who have recovered than those who are infected.The journey to a million recoveries took 150 days since March 2, but each quarter of that million has come at a faster pace. While the first 250,000 recoveries came in 114 days, the next quarter of a million recoveries took only 17 days. India crossed 750,000 recoveries 11 days later on July 12, while the latest quarter million recoveries have taken just eight days.Also read: Six months after first coronavirus case, India enters Unlock 3 mode. Explained in 10 pointsAcross the country, 64.4% of all Covid-19 patients have now recovered – higher than the global average of 61.9%. Delhi, with 89% of its 133,310 cases discharged, has the highest proportion of those recovered. Ladakh (80% of all cases recovered), Haryana (78% recovered), Assam (76%) and Telangana (75%) make up the five regions with the largest proportion of Covid-19 patients recovered.In total numbers, 239,755 of Maharashtra’s 400,651 cases have recovered – the highest from any state – constituting nearly a quarter of all recovered patients in the country. Tamil Nadu, with 172,883 of 234,114 cases recovered as of Wednesday, has the second highest number of discharged patients.In fact, 53% of all recoveries in the country have just been reported in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. To be sure, these three states are also the worst-hit regions in the country – they account for 48.5% of all cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-1-million-recoveries-in-150-days-53-from-3-states/story-PASM8WX7rHrSGSqVbI7bAK.html
30-07-2020||India||Time to heal Kashmir’s wound, look to future within India: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted conditional bail to Jammu & Kashmir High Court Bar Association president Mian Abdul Qayoom, 73, saying the region has gone through troubled times and it was time for healing the wounds of Kashmiris and to look forward to a future within India. It said Qayoom’s release on bail on Thursday on the condition that he will not travel to Jammu & Kashmir till August 7 and refrain from making any public statements will enable him to celebrate Eid on Saturday.A justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul-led three-judge bench, which hoped the government will make efforts to restore normalcy in Kashmir, ordered Qayoom’s release after the Centre agreed to it taking into account his age and deteriorating health. “Kashmir has been a troubled area. Nature has been very kind to the place. It is the human race that has been unkind. It is time for all wounds to be healed and look to the future within the domain of our country,” the bench said.Qayoom was among hundreds of people, including three former chief ministers, detained in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed and most of the restrictions have since been eased even as the mobile internet remains restricted. Two former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released in March while Mehbooba Mufti remains under detention.The court said it is sure Qayoom will also adopt a more constructive approach to the future and the government will consider how to bring complete normalcy at the earliest.Senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who appeared for Qayoom, on Monday asked the top court and the government to show leniency considering his client’s advanced age and troubled health and release him immediately.The Centre then informed the court that Qayoom’s detention will expire on August 7 and he will not be detained further.During the hearing of the case on Wednesday, the judges and the lawyers involved in the matter also spoke about the situation in Kashmir including its tourism potential. “I must say that Kashmir is much more beautiful than Switzerland. Switzerland is pedicured and manicured, Kashmir is natural,” Dushyant Dave said.“I completely agree,” said solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for Jammu & Kashmir. “There is huge potential for tourism in this country which is untapped,” added justice Kaul.Qayoom, who has been lodged in Delhi’s Tihar prison since January, was detained under the Public Safety Act that allows detention without trial for up to two years. He was earlier imprisoned in Agra.The Jammu & Kashmir high court in May rejected Qayoom’s plea against his detention, citing his ideology which the government termed “separatist”. It said the ideology was like a live volcano and remained unaffected by the passage of time.Qayoom submitted his detention was based on four First Information Reports registered against him between 2008 and 2010 and were, therefore, stale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-heal-kashmir-s-wound-look-to-future-within-india-sc/story-1VKcVNJoG6hC6aqdR3wtfJ.html
30-07-2020||India||TMC leaders absent after plea for online meetings ignored||Lawmakers from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has 22 members in Lok Sabha and 13 in Rajya Sabha, have been skipping all parliamentary standing committee meetings after their repeated appeals for online attendance were ignored.Banerjee asked her lawmakers to avoid them citing health issues when two senior lawmakers referred to the resumption of meetings of parliamentary panels amid the Covid-19 pandemic, people aware of the matter said.A TMC lawmaker was in Delhi on Tuesday but chose not to go for the meeting of a committee he is a member of. Another TMC member skipped a key meeting of a separate panel last week even as many Opposition members wanted her to attend it.TMC’s Rajya Sabha floor leader, Derek O’Brien, said they were not attending the meetings as it is an issue of principle. “When they can hold several other meetings online, why cannot they hold House panel meetings digitally too?” he asked.“Many meetings are not having quorum, yet the authorities are not allowing online meetings in this pandemic. Why is the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] afraid of allowing Opposition to scrutinise bills and issues...?”Several Opposition leaders have been asking Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to allow online meetings of parliamentary panels. But House officials maintain such meetings were not immediately possible online as they involve a change of rules and secrecy issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leaders-absent-after-plea-for-online-meetings-ignored/story-nk01VJQGOb1eXDAfTOD4fO.html
30-07-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Six months after first coronavirus case, India enters Unlock 3 mode. Explained in 10 points||Almost six months after India detected its first coronavirus disease case, it launched the third graded stage of unlock mode — easing of restrictions imposed in the wake of epidemic — on Wednesday. With over 1.5 million detected cases and 34,193 deaths, the country will continue with restrictions on functioning of schools, colleges, metro rail service, cinema halls along with bars which will continue to remain shut till August 31. In the revised set of guidelines issued by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), political and religious gatherings will also remain prohibited.For the first time since the coronavirus lockdown came into force on March 25, the government has allowed opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5 for which separate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the Health Ministry.The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged.Also read: Govt junks night curfew under Unlock 3, schools to stay closed‘At Home’ functions on Independence day, wherever held, will be allowed with social distancing and by following other health protocols like wearing of masks. In weddings, the number of guests should not exceed 50. In funeral and last rites related gatherings, the number of people should not be more than 20.Here is the Unlock 3 stage according to the MHA’s guidelines explained in 10 points:1. Restrictions on movement of individuals during night (Night curfew) have been removed.2. Yoga institutes and gymnasiums will be allowed to open from August 5, 2020 with enforcement of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) ensuring social distancing in place to contain the spread of Covid-19.3. Independence Day functions will be allowed with social distancing and by following other health protocols such as wearing of masks by people participating in the celebrations.4. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31, 2020. 5. International air travel of passengers allowed in a limited manner under the Vande Bharat mission. Further opening up will take place in a calibrated manner, MHA guidelines state.6. Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the Containment Zones till 31 August, 2020. Also read | Covid Unlock 3: Yoga institutes and gyms allowed to operate from August 57. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission, approval, e-permit will be required for such movements.8. Movement by passenger trains and ‘Shramik’ special trains; domestic passenger air travel; movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country and of specified persons to travel abroad; evacuation of foreign nationals; and sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers will continue to be regulated as per SOPs issued.9. Containment zones are required to be carefully demarcated by state and UT governments with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the health ministry.10. Vulnerable persons like those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-six-months-after-first-coronavirus-case-india-enters-unlock-3-mode-explained-in-10-points/story-ZHiUZE5l4Pj3ocSpl0arJO.html
30-07-2020||India||Unlock 3: Yoga centres, gyms to reopen, no night curfew||The Centre on Wednesday issued guidelines for the third phase of lifting curbs imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that gyms and yoga centres can reopen from August 5, while also removing a night curfew that restricted movement of people outside containment zones. The Union home ministry issued the plan, “Unlock 3”, prepared after receiving feedback from states and in consultation held with central ministries and departments, to open up more activities outside containment zones, an official statement said.The new guidelines, which will come into effect from August 1, said that a strict lockdown will continue in containment zones – areas that report clusters of the disease – till August 31 and asked authorities to maintain strict perimeter control in such zones. The latest guidelines said that schools, colleges, theatres, swimming pools, metro rail, cinema halls and bars will continue to remain closed. Social, political, religious, sports and entertainment functions and other large congregations will also not be allowed.“Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation,” the home ministry said.Also read | Six months after first coronavirus case, India enters Unlock 3 mode. Explained in 10 pointsThe decision to keep schools, colleges and coaching institutions closed till August 31 was taken after consultations with states and Union Territories, the statement said. The guidelines added that online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. Independence Day functions will be allowed in all states, districts and municipalities with social distancing norms and health care protocols such as wearing of masks. Separate detailed guidelines were issued regarding this on July 21, stating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the Indian flag at the Red Fort and deliver the annual speech.The fresh guidelines said that international flights, which are currently permitted under the Vande Bharat mission, will further open up in a calibrated manner at a later stage.The phased reopening of activities – termed as “Unlock” – has already led to the resumption of several commercial activities, including restricted domestic aviation and train operations apart from restaurants, hotels, saloons and malls in the past two months. However, the government has been wary of other activities that are likely to result in mass gatherings, including Metro rail operations, entertainment parks and cinema halls.After 68 days under a lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19, the country began opening up widely in May, but with significant restrictions. On Wednesday, India reported 52, 406 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 1,582,730. There have been 34, 974deaths from the infectious disease so far.The latest guidelines said that states could decide on further restricting activities outside containment zones. “States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities outside the Containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements,” the guidelines said.Like the previous guidelines for Unlock 1 and Unlock 2, the latest guidelines also advised those vulnerable (persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years) to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health care purposes.The guidelines also said that the use of the Aarogya Setu mobile app should be encouraged. According to a senior official who spoke on condition of anonymity, Niti Aayog’s Dr VK Paul, who plays an important part in shaping the Centre’s Covid-19 strategy, and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) were separately consulted on what areas or activities were to be opened. “Both of them were very clear that Metro, schools and other places of mass gatherings can’t be opened at this crucial hour,” said the official involved in planning the guidelines. The Union health ministry’s officials were skeptical about allowing activities with big crowds. According to another official, reopening of cinema halls was actively considered but it was struck down as the government maintained that a maximum 25% of the capacity can be filled up in a theatre — an offer that looked commercially unviable for many cinema hall owners.During the interactions between state officials and the Cabinet secretary, many states opposed opening schools at this juncture. The school education department, which spoke to parents’ bodies, reverted to the home ministry that many parents want schools to open only after a Covid-19 vaccine is out in the market.The opening of gyms, according to the two officials, saw long discussions, as health ministry officials considered them places that will have a lot of aerosol due to intense physical activities. While the Centre finally allowed gyms to reopen from August 5, the health ministry will come up with stringent social distancing norms and hygiene rules, the officials added. With inputs from Saubhadra Chatterji||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-3-yoga-centres-gyms-to-reopen-no-night-curfew/story-pBwG2ZiLovY3U0NvVx2cdI.html
