31-07-2020||India||Students must start exam preparations: UGC tells SC||Students should continue with their preparation for the final-year university examinations scheduled to be held by the end of September 30 and should not harbour any misconception that the Supreme Court will stay them, the University Grants Commission (UGC) told the top court on Friday. UGC was defending its July 6 directive asking universities across the country to hold final-year or final-semester examinations by the end of September. “My request is that nobody should remain under the impression the final exams will be stayed because the Supreme Court is hearing the case. Students should continue to prepare for the exams,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for UGC, said. The Supreme Court was hearing a batch of petitions by several students and organisations challenging the guidelines issued by UGC on July 6 to hold final-year examinations by September 30. A student who was found to be Covid-19 positive was one of the petitioners, asking for the exams to be cancelled in view of the pandemic. The Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena, was also a petitioner before the Court. The petitioners have urged the apex court to consider scrapping online/offline tests, and instead direct UGC to declare results by July 31 based on students’ past performance or internal assessment. During the hearing of the case on Friday, senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the petitioners, said the states of Maharashtra and Delhi have already decided to cancel final-year exams in view of the Covid-19 situation. The UGC, too, highlighted this fact in its affidavit filed before the top court on Thursday, stating that the decision by the two states was contrary to the UGC guidelines. The bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan asked Maharashtra and Delhi to submit their response to the same. The case will be taken up for hearing next on August 10. “All universities/institutions in the country are obligated to conduct terminal semester/ final year examination by the end of September 2020. The UGC took the decision to protect the academic future of students across the country while also keeping in mind their health and safety,” the UGC affidavit stated. UGC also submitted that its guidelines were issued based on the recommendations by an expert committee headed by Central University of Haryana vice-chancellor RC Kuhad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-must-start-exam-preparations-ugc-tells-sc/story-fE7rAHiNGANvhVr5mNr6VO.html
31-07-2020||India||At Baghjan OIL blowout site, endangered species at risk: Report||New Delhi: The blowout at state-run Oil India Limited (OIL)’s Baghjan well in Assam since June 27 has harmed endangered species like Gangetic dolphins in the biodiverse region and the impact of the uncontrolled oil and gas emissions will be long term due to contamination of the groundwater it is likely to cause, a Wildlife Institute of India (WII) report has said. The July 15 report, which was submitted to the Union environment ministry earlier this month, said one dolphin was found dead from poisoning from the oil spill.The well, which has been on fire since June 9, is located near Dibru Saikhowa National Park, the Maguri-Motapung wetlands, and the forest villages of Barekuri, which are home to endangered hoolock gibbons and Gangetic dolphins.The report said oil wells in and around the national park will be detrimental to the region’s unique ecosystem and that it is also extremely vulnerable to earthquakes. The environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee, which met in December and January, recommended environmental clearance for drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations under the national park.“’[Given] the potential of oil blowout and oil spill disaster like this...such oil wells in the vicinity of Dibru-Saikhowa National park and important bird area complex...will be detrimental to the conservation value of this unique ecosystem,” the report said. It called for an assessment for a cumulative impact of the existing gas wells.The report said bird species richness was found to increase with an increase in distance from the site possibly due to oil spill and intense noise from the blowout. The bird species decline is highest in grasslands (59%) and wetland (85%) compared to areas located away from the site, it added. The report said the fish species have also declined in wetland and river tributaries, where dissolved oxygen levels have fallen due to the oil spill. It added the concentration of toxic polyaromatic hydrocarbons in fish samples from the wetland was found to be 10- to 100-fold higher than normal.The report said there has been a massive decrease in the Gangetic Dolphin presence in Lohit, Dibru, and Maguri-Motapung after the blowout. It added the loud noise due to the blowout can be heard as far as 12 km and beyond, making the area extremely unhealthy for humans, animals, and birds. “The impact is significant and will have a long term effect, as many of these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate groundwater.”The report said the 65-70 ha burnt-out area mapped includes crop fields, grasslands, and swamps. “There was a visible oil spill [oil and sediment] on June 16, downstream of the well.” The report underlined the wetland and surrounding lowland forests are unique and hence extremely vulnerable to more oil spill disasters.“The Brahmaputra and the Ganges floodplain landscape is unique in its morphology and fragility, and is responsible for shaping the unique community of plants and animals…the landscape [in Baghjan] is fragile and is engineered by flooding. The dynamic nature of wetland creates mosaics of habitat which are in perpetual flux. In India as well as the world over, there are only a handful of Protected Areas where this system and unique biodiversity is surviving, among them Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Kaziranga Orang National Park tops the list,” the report said.The report is based on a study WII scientist Qamar Qureshi led. It has asked the government to initiate a study to monitor the long term impact on the ecology of Maguri-Motapung and DibruSaikhowa National Park as well as the health and socio-economic conditions of local communities.Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general (wildlife), environment ministry, said it is a voluminous report and they were trying to get more details. “We are sending the findings to the Assam government to begin mitigation and restoration work. I understand that the situation is still grim.”Tridiv Hazarika, an OIL spokesman, said they will need time to respond. “Since it is a technical report, we will also have to get it reviewed by our independent experts. Our focus is presently on resolving the blowout.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-baghjan-oil-blowout-site-endangered-species-at-risk-report/story-BXMhhMYBmXTfedPGxwsTxO.html
31-07-2020||India||Andhra guv’s nod to bills for 3 capitals||Hyderabad: Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on Friday gave his assent to two bills passed for the creation of three capitals for Andhra Pradesh and to abolish the development authority formed in 2014 to develop Amaravati as the capital even as Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) called the legislation invalid, saying the process for it was yet to be completed.The government on July 18 sent the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill and the AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill for Harichandan’s approval even as the state legislative council, where the ruling YSR Congress Party does not have a majority on its own, did not clear them. The 175-member legislative assembly, where the ruling party has 151 members, passed them twice. The council’s chairman, Muhammad Ahmed Sharif, used his discretionary powers and referred the two bills to a select committee for wider examinations. The governor approved the bills for creating the executive, legislative and judicial capitals in Visakhapatnam, Amaravati, and Kurnool and repealing the AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) even as the committee is yet to constituted. The state government issued two separate gazette notifications related to the bills. “As such Amaravati ceases to be the capital city of Andhra Pradesh,” an official in chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s office said, requesting anonymity. The bills were passed for a second time on June 16 but were stalled in the council, which was adjourned sine die without discussing them. Since the council did not take any decision within one month, the bills were deemed to have been passed and were sent to Harichandan for his assent, officials aware of the matter said. Officials cited a Constitutional provision and said a bill is deemed to have been passed if the legislative council does not take any decision on it following its passage in the assembly within one month.Harichandan held several rounds of consultations with legal experts before approving the bills to pave the way for the formation of the three capitals, the official cited above said. TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the bills have no legal sanctity as they are pending for study by the select committee. He added the government gave an undertaking to the high court over having the bills scrutinised. “Though the constitution of select committees could not take place due to bureaucratic hurdles, the process is still on. So, the reintroduction of the same bills again in the state legislature in June cannot be legally tenable.” The high court has been hearing a batch of petitions by farmers of Amaravati, who have opposed the trifurcation of the capital and abolition of APCRDA. The next hearing is scheduled for August 6. A Siva Reddy, convenor of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi, which is a petitioner in the case, said they would fight a legal battle as long as they get justice. “We have no other option as we cannot take to the streets because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are confident that justice would prevail and Amaravati will remain the capital.”APCRDA was created for the development of the state’s capital after Andhra Pradesh lost Hyderabad with the creation of Telangana in 2014. Andhra Pradesh minister Botsa Satyanarayana said the governor had given his assent after going through all legal angles. “Everything has gone as per the procedure. Our intention of creating three capital cities is to ensure development of all the three regions of the state,” Satyanarayana said. He added chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy would soon lay foundation for the executive capital city at Visakhapatnam. Andhra Pradesh Bar Council member Muppalla Nageswara Rao said the laws might not stand legal scrutiny. “The government has no power to relocate the high court from Amaravati to Kurnool, as it was decided by the judiciary and the President of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-guv-s-nod-to-bills-for-3-capitals/story-ZBJ2EAxNqvTeVlRyRAJIMI.html
31-07-2020||India||In NEP, focus on critical thinking and creativity: Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ speaks to Amandeep Shukla on the National Education Policy (NEP) . Edited excerpts:What effect will the National Education Policy (NEP) have on the education system of the country in the short run and the long run? With the NEP 2020 coming into effect, we are hoping to transform education and putting a significant thrust on learning about how to think critically and solve problems, how to be creative and multidisciplinary, and how to innovate, adapt, and absorb new material in novel and changing fields. The new curriculum will include basic arts, crafts, humanities, games, sports and fitness, languages, literature, culture, and values, in addition to science and mathematics, to develop all aspects and capabilities of learners, and make education more well-rounded, useful, and fulfilling to the learner.The education system talks of providing quality education to children in schools as well as universities. However, there are lakhs of vacancies for teachers. What do you plan on this? Teachers’ vacancies will be filled at the earliest, especially in disadvantaged areas and areas with large pupil-to-teacher ratios or high rates of illiteracy. A technology-based comprehensive teacher-requirement forecasting exercise will be conducted by each state to assess expected subject-wise teacher vacancies over the next two decades.At higher education level, the policy states that leadership positions shall not remain vacant, but rather an overlapping time period during transitions in leadership shall be the norm.One of the highlights of this policy has been its focus on mother tongue as a medium of instruction… Young children learn and grasp nontrivial concepts more quickly in their home language/mother tongue. Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language.However, there will be a greater flexibility in the three-language formula, and no language will be imposed on any state. The three languages learned by children will be the choices of states, regions, and of course the students themselves, so long as at least two of them are native to India.Nowhere the policy talks about shedding the English language; instead it emphasizes on the importance of multilingualism which has great cognitive benefit for young children.Will it be possible to make regional language the medium of instruction in centrally run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) or Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs)? What is the ministry’s view on this? KVs and JNVs have students from all over India, not from a particular region or state. Therefore, NEP has proposed that wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language. Thereafter, the home/local language shall continue to be taught as a language wherever possible.From when does the policy become effective? Will its provisions apply in the coming session? Or will you make a timeline to implement various measures? This policy is for the next 20 years. We are in a process of making the implementation plan.During the Covid-19 pandemic, one major issue that came into focus was the digital divide. How do you plan to address the requirements of the underprivileged sections through NEP? NEP 2020 recognises the importance of leveraging the advantages of technology while acknowledging potential risks and dangers. Given the fact that there still persists a substantial section of the population whose digital access is highly limited, mass media — such as television, radio, and community radio — will be extensively used.The policy says children will be given a logical framework for making ethical decisions. How do you plan to teach ethics and morals to students? Instilling knowledge of India and its varied social, cultural, and technological needs; its inimitable artistic, language, and knowledge traditions; and its strong ethics in India’s young people is considered critical for purposes of national pride, self-confidence, self-knowledge, cooperation, and integration as mentioned in NEP. At present, we have just come out with NEP. The formulation of a new and comprehensive National Curricular Framework for School Education, NCFSE 2020-21, will be undertaken by the NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) based on the principles of this National Education Policy 2020, frontline curriculum needs and after discussions with all stakeholders. Based on this, parallel changes will be done in school textbooks.NEP allows foreign varsities to set up campuses in India. How will you ensure that a foreign varsity does not indulge in profit-making from education? India will be promoted as a global study destination providing premium education at affordable costs, thereby helping to restore its role as a Vishwa Guru. A legislative framework facilitating such entry will be put in place, and such universities will be given special dispensation regarding regulatory, governance, and content norms on par with other autonomous institutions of India. Credits acquired in foreign universities will be permitted, where appropriate as per the requirements of each higher education institution (HEI), to be counted for the award of a degree.Multiple mechanisms with checks and balances will combat and stop the commercialization of higher education. All education institutions will be held to similar standards of audit and disclosure as a ‘not for profit’ entity. Surpluses, if any, will be reinvested in the institution. All HEIs — public and private — shall be treated on par within this regulatory regime.There are institutes like IITs and IIMs which stand out in areas like technology and management. How advisable is it to turn them into inter-disciplinary units?The IITs are already leading the path by introducing multi-disciplinary courses. The policy envisages a broad-based multi-disciplinary holistic education at the undergraduate level for integrated, rigorous exposure to science, arts, humanities, mathematics and professional fields.NEP is an ambitious plan. It envisages setting up several new institutions, capacity building, modernizing infrastructure. It also calls for increasing budget spend to 6%. How easy or difficult is it to meet these targets? The Centre and states will work together to increase the public investment in education sector to reach 6% of GDP at the earliest. This is considered extremely critical for achieving the high-quality and equitable public education system.The academic session for 2020-21 has still not taken off. The Kuhad committee has suggested that the dates for commencement of the session be postponed to November-December… The higher education institutes will be opened based on the directions of the ministry of home affairs guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-nep-focus-on-critical-thinking-and-creativity/story-v2gtLoBTcS23QhZVGkeEfJ.html
31-07-2020||India||BJP serves notices to Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah over corruption charges||Bengaluru: The Karnataka unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday issued legal notices to state Congress president DK Shivakumar and leader of opposition in the Karnataka assembly, Siddaramiah, over their “baseless” allegations of corruption in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment. The BJP has demanded that the two Congress leaders withdraw their allegations and apologise. “The allegations made by you without any basis or material have also reflected badly upon all the members of the party who have strived hard in building the party and the government,” the notices, issued on behalf of state BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar by his lawyers, said. Last week, Shivakumar and Siddaramiah alleged that the costs of Covid-19 medical equipment and supplies purchased were inflated, and over Rs 2000 crore were siphoned off. They demanded a judicial probe into the alleged graft. Reacting to the notice, Shivakumar said that his party was ready to furnish all documents to prove the corruption if the government was ready to order a judicial inquiry by a sitting high court judge. “If the allegations are baseless they can file a case against me and hang me.” Shivakumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-serves-notices-to-shivakumar-and-siddaramaiah-over-corruption-charges/story-kmVzO2BcDYe8KsXJ5VIoaI.html
31-07-2020||India||SC bars registration of BS-IV vehicles sold before March 31||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Friday ordered a freeze on registration of all BS-IV vehicles sold before March 31 after it saw abnormally high sale of vehicles in the days leading up to March 31 when business across the country came to a standstill on account of a national lockdown announced in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Federation of Automobile Dealers (FADA) informed the Court that bulk of purchases was through online sale. Suspecting manipulation of figures, the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai, and Krishna Murari said: “Sales during lockdown is abnormally high. It appears under the guise of our March 27 order (permitting sale of BS-IV vehicles beyond March 31 to compensate for the lockdown) some fraudulent action has been adopted.” The bench ordered FADA to supply full details of vehicles sold online as well as through showrooms. The matter will now be taken up on August 13. An affidavit filed by the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) added to the Court’s suspicion. The Court asked the Centre to verify on its E-Vaahan portal, the number of BS-IV vehicles that were sold and registered in the period from March 12-31, 2020. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati informed the Court that as per the figures provided by FADA, a total of 2,25,257 vehicles were sold. On verification it was found, 1,45,152 were granted permanent registration while 29,834 vehicles are still awaiting registration. Following the Court’s order, vehicles falling in this category will have to await registration till the next date of Court hearing. Interestingly, data concerning 50,261 vehicles could not be located on the e-Vaahan portal. The Centre contacted the states which are yet to connect on e-Vaahan. These states/UTs include Andhra Pradesh, and few regional transport offices (RTO) in Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Andaman Nicobar Islands, and Lakshadweep. Out of the missing data of 50,261, the Centre located the data of 10,324 vehicles in these states/UTs, but there is still no clue about 39,937 vehicles which have been shown as sold by FADA. FADA counsel senior advocate KV Vishwanathan said, “We have received the Government affidavit late Thursday evening. We are still in the process of reconciling figures for which we need time. The members and non-members of FADA had complained that they were unable to log in the data on e-Vaahan at the relevant dates.” The Court was surprised to find huge volume of BS-IV vehicles sale and registration as recorded in the Centre’s affidavit. According to MoRTH, between March 12 and March 31, the Vaahan portal recorded sale of 9,56,015 vehicles which included two-wheelers, three-wheelers, commercial and passenger vehicles. The maximum sale occurred on March 29 (78,525), March 30 (94,054) and March 31 (55,334). The bench observed, “We are worried how sales could be so high during lockdown. How could this be….It appears they have manipulated the data. How could showrooms be open during lockdown?” FADA will have to answer these queries posed by the court before August 13. The court has already recalled that part of its March 27 order which allowed sale of BS-IV vehicles beyond March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-bars-registration-of-bs-iv-vehicles-sold-before-march-31/story-BjKpnkWYIbrImn6yoiIQYI.html
31-07-2020||India||SC backs opening religious places in unlocking phase||Witnessing temple rituals through live streaming cannot be a substitute for physical visit of places of worship, the Supreme Court said on Friday, advocating opening of temples, churches and mosques to the general public during the current unlock phase, on special occasions.A three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra suggested that a limited number of devotes could be permitted in temples during the unlock phase provided adequate safety measures and social distancing guidelines are adhered to.“E-darshan is no darshan. Can’t you permit darshan by adhering to social distancing? During a total lock down things are different. But during unlock period, when other things are functioning, why can’t states manage temples? Temples, churches, mosques should be opened at least on special occasions,” justice Mishra remarked.India was under a total lockdown till May 31. Since then it has been through two phases called Unlock 1.0 and Unlock 2.0 and will, from August 1, enter the third unlock phase. The bench was hearing a plea by Member of Parliament, Nishikant Dubey seeking a direction to the state of Jharkhand and the central government to open Baba Baidhyanath Jyotirlinga Temple at Deoghar and Baba Basukinath Temple at Basukinath to the public and to further allow the ‘Shravani Mela’ devotees to offer prayers during the holy months of Shravan and Bhado (late July to late August and late August to late September respectively).The Jharkhand government opposed the plea citing the threat of the coronavirus disease and the fact that it would be streaming the temple rituals online.The apex court eventually did not pass any direction and instead asked the Jharkhand government to explore the possibility of allowing at least a few devotees to visit the temple every day.“While we are not issuing any direction, we request the state government to find out the possibility and work out a mechanism for allowing darshan (of the temple deity) to the general public. This shall apply to churches and mosques as well. Let efforts be made by the state government in this direction,” the court said.The Baidyanath temple assumes special significance during the festival of Shravani Mela when devotees throng the temple carrying water from the river Ganga to offer it to the deity. Dubey, who represents the Godda constituency of Jharkhand in the Lok Sabha, initially approached the Jharkhand high court seeking permission to open the two temples to the devotees citing similar intervention by the Supreme Court in the Puri Jagannath Ratha Yatra in June.The high court, however, dismissed his plea on July 3 stating that allowing public to congregate for the festival could seriously impact the Covid-19 situation in the state.“No such direction for Shravani Mela will be appropriate to be passed taking into consideration the spread of threat of COVID-19 virus which according to us, if allowed, may cause great danger of wide spread of infection of COVID-19 virus,” the high court said.Dubey then approached the Supreme Court on July 8.During the hearing on Friday, senior counsel Salman Khurshid and additional advocate general Tapesh Kumar Singh, appearing for Jharkhand, told the court that the state has arranged for online darshan of the temple rituals and argued against opening the temple to general public.“The state is going through Covid crisis. Serum testing is happening now and depending on the results, lockdown might be imposed,”, Khurshid said.Tapesh Kumar Singh said that the lanes leading up to the temple are very narrow and it might not be possible to ensure social distancing between people if the temple is thrown open to devotees.The bench, however, said that the state should have made an effort to allow at least a few hundred devotees on a daily basis.“Is it the same for churches, mosques? It is Eid; are mosques open? Why can’t it be permitted adhering to social distancing?” justice Mishra asked Khurshid.“No, it will become difficult with overcrowding”, Khurshid replied.The petitioner’s counsel, Samir Malik pointed out that though the Baidyanath temple is not open to the public around 30,000 priests on pilgrimage are allowed inside the temple.The state government said that only a limited number of such priests (pandas) are allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum of the temple though there is no restriction on them in the temple premises.“We are alarmed by this,” the court noted while ordering the state to make arrangements to avoid entry of large number of pandas so as to avert any spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-backs-opening-religious-places-in-unlocking-phase/story-PItHbNfF058ZlqPMiylNWM.html
31-07-2020||India||Rajasthan Congress goes to SC on disqualification, shifts MLAs||Mahesh Joshi, the chief whip of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in the Rajasthan assembly, approached the Supreme Court on Friday, challenging the high court’s July 24 order that virtually put a freeze on disqualification proceedings against now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress legislators backing him.Joshi told the apex court that by ordering “status quo” on disqualification proceedings, the HC has granted full relief, beyond what was sought for by the Pilot camp.The Pilot camp had questioned in the HC a July 14 notice issued by the speaker seeking their response to disqualification pleas sent to them, and claimed that CP Joshi did not grant them sufficient time to respond.“The consequence of the grant of status quo order (by the HC) is that the Respondents have secured relief over and above their original grievance that the Speaker did not give them seven days’ time,” said the special leave petition (SLP) settled by senior advocate Devdatt Kamat.Joshi’s appeal further said the division bench of the HC had no jurisdiction to hear the case as the Pilot camp challenged the validity of para 2(1)(a) of the 10th Schedule, which has been decided upon by a Constitution bench of the apex court in the 1992 Kihoto Hollohan case. Such a matter has to be decided by at least a five-judge bench of the apex court, it added.The move came just two days after assembly Speaker CP Joshi moved a petition in the top court against the July 24 order of the Rajasthan HC.The Pilot camp moved the HC on July 15, challenging the disqualification notices. And on July 22, the speaker filed a special leave petition in the top court, challenging the HC’s July 21 order to defer disqualification proceedings.On July 23, the Supreme Court turned down the speaker’s request for a stay on that order and said it will hear the larger question of whether or not courts can interfere with disqualification proceedings initiated by an assembly speaker against lawmakers even before a decision has been taken.The top court’s refusal to grant stay paved the way for the high court to pronounce its order on July 24. The HC will now examine in detail the legal issues involved and the petition is unlikely to come up for hearing anytime soon.Following this, the speaker on Monday withdrew his plea before the top court that challenged the HC’s July 21 order directing him to defer action on the disqualification notices. Then on Wednesday, he moved the top court again, challenging the July 24 order.The speaker submitted that the HC order is in violation of legal principles laid down by the 1992 Supreme Court judgment in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu as per which courts cannot interfere with the speaker’s powers to decide a disqualification petition till he gives a final decision on such a disqualification plea.The legal battle began after the Congress chief whip filed a complaint before the speaker on July 14, seeking action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House.The rebel camp said Pilot never indicated any intention to leave the Congress party. In their petition filed in the HC, Pilot and the other MLAs submitted that were merely exercising their right to criticise party leadership and the functioning of the chief minister.The Pilot camp also challenged the validity of paragraph 2(1) (a) of the 10th Schedule, contending that the provision was very wide since even expression of opinion or views against party leadership are construed as defection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-chief-whip-moves-sc-against-hc-breather-to-pilot/story-JdP0my69p9KDN1chKn5BiO.html
31-07-2020||India||Congress shifts MLAs, takes fresh dig at BJP||Jaipur/ Barmer: The Congress shifted legislators loyal to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to a luxury hotel near Jaisalmer on Friday, alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was attempting to poach its MLAs. The legislators had been camping in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur since July 13 in the aftermath of a rebellion by now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who is believed to have the backing of 18 Congress MLAs in the 200-member House. “The government needs to be saved as you can see the way Centre and its departments are after us. The pressure will be less there [Jaisalmer]. I and the most of the ministers will stay here and the rest will keep coming. There will be no compromise on governance,” chief minister Gehlot said before boarding his flight to Jaisalmer. Gehlot said since the governor announced the date for the assembly session beginning August 14, MLAs and their family members have been receiving calls. “Even threatening calls are being made, mentally harassing them. What will happen to the country where horse-trading is being done at such a level?” he questioned. While Gehlot alleges that the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to dislodge his government, the state’s opposition party denies the charge. Gehlot also says the “horse-trading rate” has increased after the assembly session was announced by the governor on Wednesday night. In the aftermath of the rebellion, the Gehlot camp thinks a trust vote in the upcoming assembly session is its best bet. The Gehlot camp is believed to have the support of 101 MLAs (this does not include speaker CP Joshi, but factors in allies), while the Pilot camp has the backing of three independents who take the tally to 22. The BJP and its ally Rashtriya Loktrantrik Party have 75 MLAs in the House. The chief minister also alleges that the BJP is misusing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the income tax department to “threaten all”. His stand comes at a time when ED has summoned his brother, Agrasain Gehlot, to appear before it in Delhi in connection with its probe into alleged money laundering in the export of fertilizers. On Friday, about 100 MLAs in the Gehlot camp arrived at the Jaipur airport on four buses from the Fairmont Hotel on the Jaipur-Delhi highway. The first batch had 54 MLAs, who left in three chartered planes around 1pm. The second batch of around 35-37 MLAs went around 5pm in another flight. A third flight carrying the CM left around 5pm. After landing at Jaisamler airport, the MLAs were taken to Hotel Suryagarh, about 20 km from the city. Heavy security has been deployed in and around the hotel on the Jaisalmer-Sam highway. BJP state president Satish Poonia wondered if the Congress MLAs will next cross over to Pakistan. “The CM talks of democracy and Constitution, but if there is unity, why are the MLAs shifted? The CM should run the government from secretariat, and not from hotels,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the CM should clarify the horse trading charges. Transport minister Pratap Singh, who is in the Gehlot camp, said in Jaipur the MLAs are being shifted to Jaisalmer so that they can remain united. “The chief minister’s strategy is that not a single MLA can be poached,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-shifts-mlas-takes-fresh-dig-at-bjp/story-PYVVCBZQCrwRvjQ42SfKbN.html
31-07-2020||India||China, Australia envoys spar on Twitter||New Delhi: The Chinese and Australian envoys to India had a terse exchange on Twitter on Friday on China’s actions in the South China Sea and elsewhere, with the latter saying Beijing should refrain from actions that “unilaterally alter the status quo”. Sun Weidong, the Chinese envoy, objected to remarks made by the Australian high commissioner, Barry O’Farrell, regarding the situation in the South China Sea by saying in a tweet that they were made “disregarding facts”. “Noted remarks by Australian HC to India on #SouthChinaSea disregarding facts. #China’s territorial sovereignty & maritime rights & interests are in conformity [with] int’l law incl UNCLOS [United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea]. It’s clear who safeguard peace & stability & who destabilize & provoke escalation in the region,” Sun tweeted. A short while later, O’Farrell responded in a tweet: “Thank you @China_Amb_India. I would hope then you follow the 2016 South China Sea Arbitral Award which is final and binding under international law, and also generally refrain from actions that unilaterally alter the status quo.” O’Farrell was referring to the verdict by the arbitral tribunal in the Philippines’ case against China’s activities in the South China Sea. The tribunal ruled overwhelmingly in favour of the Philippines and concluded that China’s territorial claims were unlawful. China didn’t accept the verdict. China’s claims in the South China Sea have been challenged by several countries, including the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan. Sun’s tweet was a response to remarks by O’Farrell in a statement issued by the Australian mission after his meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday. O’Farrell backed India’s position on the border standoff with China, saying Australia opposed attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as this could increase the risk of instability. The statement said Australia continues to be concerned by China’s actions in the South China Sea, which are “destabilising and could provoke escalation”. On July 23, Australia had lodged a note with the UN Secretary General refuting China’s “unlawful maritime claims in the South China Sea”. While Sun didn’t respond to O’Farrell’s comments on the border standoff, he took exception to the references to the South China Sea. The Chinese envoy also faced criticism from former Indian diplomats and military officials for his comments during a webinar on India-China relations held on Thursday. During the webinar, Sun sought to blame India for both the border standoff and the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties. He also sought to imply that India’s position on interpreting the LAC could lead to new disputes, and that this was one of the reasons why the process for clarifying the disputed had stalled since 2002. Responding to these remarks, former army chief Gen VP Malik tweeted: “By his statement yesterday, #Ambassador Sun Weidong of China has virtually ended any possible progress in LAC talks between military commanders.” Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, described the Chinese envoy’s address at the webinar as a “classic dialogue of the deaf”. Bhatia added: “He talks at, not to, us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-australia-envoys-spar-on-twitter/story-pr859sX2eteeQ6d5K7kFZL.html
31-07-2020||India||Govt restricts import of colour TV sets||New Delhi: The government has restricted the import of colour televisions to check their influx from China and encourage domestic manufacturing, two officials aware of the matter said. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade issued a notification on late Thursday, amending import policy for the televisions from free to restricted category.This is the latest in a series of actions aimed at China that India has taken since 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. India on Thursday said there has been “some progress” towards disengagement along the LAC, though the process is far from complete and military commanders from the two sides were are set to meet for the fifth time to work out steps to complete the process.India on June 29 banned 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications like TikTok, calling them “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order”. On July 23, it said bidders from the countries India shares its land borders with would need prior registration and security clearances for government contracts. The move was seen as part of India’s efforts to counter China. India in April issued a similar directive on screening foreign investment from neighbouring countries.“Import of colour TV is now in the restricted category, which would necessitate an importer to seek import license from the government. The main purpose of this move is to check the influx of China TVs,” one of the officials said requesting anonymity. India has a Rs 15,000 crore TV industry and over 36% of TVs are imported primarily from China and South East Asia, he added.A second official said some Chinese TV sets were routed through a third country with which India has a free trade agreement (FTA). “This move will also curb such illegal trade,” he said. Besides China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Indonesia, Thailand, and Germany are major exporters of colour TVs. “Many such items enter the Indian market taking advantage of ASEAN [Association of Southeast Asian Nations]-India FTA... imports at reduced or zero duty put our domestic industry at a disadvantage. Such imports cannot be controlled through increased duty rates. Hence, the government is taking measures such as non-duty actions like import restrictions,” the first official said.The ASEAN FTA was signed in 2009 with Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines, Vietnam, Brunei, Cambodia, Myanmar, and Laos.The second official said India has created necessary infrastructure and made arrangements to produce cost-effective electronic items under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative), and will invite global manufacturers to set up units in the country.India’s electronics industry grew from $29 billion in 2014 to $70 billion in 2019, according to the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY).“Phased Manufacturing Programme for TVs is underway and specified parts like open cells, chips on films, printed circuit boards assembly are exempted from duties. Hence, India is ready for a shift of manufacturing to India with cost-effective imports of essential parts,” the first official said.The officials said the move to restrict the influx of TV sets was taken after consultations with the domestic industry that aims to promote Make in India scheme, create jobs and provide goods at comparable rates.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consultancy firm DVS Advisors LLP, said: “As there is no ban and only a restriction [is] being imposed, there is a possibility of such imports, however, with prior approval of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. The procedural aspects of acquiring this permit [licence], however, would be tedious considering the stakes involved. There shall be transition provisions in place for import orders already being given or goods in transit.”DK Aggarwal, president of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry appreciated the commerce ministry’s decision. “This move will restrict the irrational dumping of coloured television into the Indian market and cut inbound shipments of non-essential items from China and other Asian countries, which was severely damaging the survival and competency of our domestic manufacturers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-restricts-import-of-colour-tv-sets/story-ZJDtEVjJTqRTGVLyEX7YJM.html
31-07-2020||India||Darjeeling’s Gorkha outfits disillusioned after Centre calls GTA review meet||Parties demanding a separate state of Gorkhaland in Darjeeling region have reacted sharply to the Union home ministry’s decision to convene a tripartite meeting in Delhi on August 7, to review the semi-autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) which has administrative power in the hill region. The hill parties want the BJP to keep its electoral promise and come up with a permanent political solution for Darjeeling hills, Siliguri, Terai and the Dooars region before the 2021 assembly elections in Bengal. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) and Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the biggest hill parties that have been agitating for statehood for decades now and helped the Bharatiya Janata Party win the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice in a row; have said that they feel disillusioned. The present office bearers of the GTA are appointed by the Mamata Banerjee government. The last review meeting was held in January 2015 when Gurung, who is now in hiding, controlled the GTA. Leaders of the GJM (Gurung faction) and the GNLF met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on July 22 and July 29 respectively with the appeal to find a permanent political solution before the assembly polls. The GJM (Gurung faction) said that during the talks Shah decided to start tripartite talks within a fortnight. However, on July 27 the home ministry issued a notice saying that the Union home secretary would review issues related to GTA on August 7 at a meeting with the home secretary, the district magistrate, GTA officials and representatives of the GJM. The hill parties have taken exception to the fact that the letter does not specify which faction of the GJM would be present at the meeting although the Union home ministry has asked the district magistrate to issue a notice to the GJM. In a statement, the Gurung faction has said that it will not attend the meeting. “There is no logic in calling the GTA review meeting after more than five years,” said the statement Roshan Giri issued from his hideout on Friday. Gurung’s followers feel that the BJP-led government at the Centre is sitting on the issue for a long time. In September 2017, then Union home minister Rajnath Singh appealed to the GJM to withdraw its agitation and said the ministry would convene a meeting to discuss the raging issue. The meeting did not take place and politics in Darjeeling underwent a sea change. Gurung, who founded the GJM, went into hiding along with his faction’s general secretary Roshan Giri as they were charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the state. The Trinamool Congress government put Binoy Tamang, head of the other GJM faction and Gurung’s rival, at the helm of affairs of the GTA. Raju Bista, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Darjeeling, said, “I have informed Shah that GTA has failed to fulfill the aspirations of the people of Darjeeling hills, Terai and Dooars and political talks should be held immediately with GJM, our other allies and rest of the stakeholders.” Benoy Tamang and Anit Thapa, chairman of the GTA board of administrators and general secretary of the GJM’s other faction, said on Friday that they will not attend the meeting. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, said, “Those attending this meeting will be betraying the cause of the Gorkhas. We want the BJP to clarify its stand at the earliest.” North Bengal development affairs minister Rabindranath Ghosh said, “I will not say anything on this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-s-gorkha-outfits-disillusioned-after-centre-calls-gta-review-meet/story-eV8EpHzmYbnxxJ1P8MhZRP.html
31-07-2020||India||Covid-19: Karnataka woman pawns mangalsutra to buy TV for children’s on-air classes||A woman in Karnataka recently pawned her mangalsutra to buy a television to enable her children to attend on-air classes, an incident that highlights the challenges posed to the poor trying to educate their children amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Kastruri, a resident of Radder Naganur village in Gadag district, works as construction labourer along with her husband. Her daughter studies in Class IX while the son studies in Class VII in a government school.She was forced to pawn her gold mangalsutra to raise Rs 20,000 to purchase a TV set so that her children could continue to study by watching education programmes telecast on government-run DD Chandana channel.“They would initially watch the program on a neighbour’s TV set. Unfortunately, sometimes the neighbours would want to watch some other program and they would miss their classes. So, unable to see them struggle and since we want to provide a good education to our children, I decided to pledge my mangalasutra to buy a TV,” Kasturi told local media.She also said that the teachers at her children’s government school had asked students to watch the lessons on the Chandana channel to continue their learning. Schools have been shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic and students are being encouraged to learn online.With the Rs 20,000 she borrowed, Kasturi brought a TV set for Rs 14,000 and rest was used for household expenses.After learning about the incident, district in-charge minister CC Patil said that the government would help Kasturi. However, former chief minister and JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy said that this was an indication of the challenges that poor parents were facing due to the ongoing pandemic. He also demanded that the government come out with a scheme to help such poor parents.Meanwhile, the pawnbroker decided to return the mangalasutra to Kasturi after he came to know about the reason why she borrowed the money.Mahendra, Tahsildar of Nargunda taluk speaking to HT on phone said “Now the entire incident has been resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-karnataka-woman-pawns-mangalsutra-to-buy-tv-for-children-s-on-air-classes/story-GvLipzPCZRhXvE3tad3dbL.html
31-07-2020||India||Ram Mandir event: Young and Covid-19 negative policemen to be deployed for PM Modi’s Ayodhya visit||Only Covid 19 negative police personnel below 45 years of age will be deployed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other VVIPs visit to Ayodhya for the Ram temple foundation stone laying ceremony on August 5, said UP director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy on Friday.The decision was made in a meeting held earlier today to review the security arrangements in Ayodhya. Chief secretary RK Tiwari, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and other senior officers were also present at the meeting.“The inner security ring will be handled by Special Protection Group (SPG) officers. But the police personnel, who have tested negative for the infection as well as those kept in reserve in complete isolation, would preferably be deployed closer to the inner security ring of the PM,” the DGP said.Also Read: 1,11,000 laddoos being prepared in Ayodhya for foundation ceremonyHe said the process of testing policemen at police stations and reserve police lines had been going on for the past few weeks.“In all, over 4,000 police personnel across Ayodhya district will be deployed for security and to restrict the movement of people. This will include sealing the district borders and curbing traffic movement. Over 75 barriers will be installed inside the town area,” the DGP said.He added that the policemen will be given a detailed briefing of Covid-19 protocol, as well as the routine security drill to be followed.Also Read: Ayodhya gears up for August 5 Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremonyHe said although the general public has been asked not to move towards Ayodhya for the event, security has also been intensified in adjoining districts.Another police official privy to the arrangements, who asked not to be named, said over 300 police personnel who were younger and had tested negative for Covid-19 infection were handpicked for VVIP security.He said around 10 companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and the central armed police force will also be deployed.The entire ‘Panch Kosi’ parikrama area within a five kilometre radius of the Ram Janmabhoomi will be sealed, he said. Total restrictions will be enforced on roads entering Ayodhya town, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-event-young-and-covid-negative-policemen-to-be-deployed-for-pm-modi-s-ayodhya-visit/story-bkaWcGFycqLA780RCoimZM.html
31-07-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan and MP ministers pledge 30% of salary for Covid control in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced donation of 30% of his salary received since he assumed office to the CM relief fund. Responding to his appeal, his ministerial colleagues, too, have decided to donate 30% of their salaries to the fund for the purpose of containment of Covid situation in the state, as per the state government. Besides, the CM asked the MLAs to utilise their constituency development funds for upgrading health facilities and meeting other requirements for Covid prevention and treatment in their respective constituencies. As per the announcement, one third of approximately Rs 500 crore from the district mineral fund in 22 districts of the state will be spent in the respective districts for work related to coronavirus control and employment generation for the poor. Madhya Pradesh: Schools to remain closed till Aug 31; private schools to charge tuition fees onlyHome minister Narottam Mishra’s announcement that ministers will donate 30% of their salaries came after CM announcing his own contribution to the CM relief fund, as per official information. “I have decided that from the date of assuming the office of the chief minister till September 30, I will deposit 30% of my salary and allowances in the chief minister relief fund for Corona relief work. So far, an amount of Rs 1.40 lakh has been deposited by me in the first 3 months,” Chouhan said. He added that a large part of the state budget has been spent for containment of the disease and more expenditure will be needed in future also.Watch:Covid-19: ‘Not herd immunity, vaccine only option,’ says govt“We all have a responsibility to curtail the unnecessary expenses of the government and provide whatever help we can offer personally….We now have to defeat Corona completely with the active support of the public. For this, a campaign ‘Sankalp ki chain jodo, Sankraman ki chain todo’ will be launched from August 1,” he added. CM said MLAs should utilise their MLA funds for Corona control related works such as providing essential equipment for medical staff, purchasing face masks, thermometers, PPE kits, testing kits, ventilators, sanitizers etc. in their areas.” Underlining improvement in Covid situation in the state, Chouhan said, “Corona recovery rate is 70% and the death rate has come down to 2.7%. But still infection is increasing in many places of the state. The economy is being severely affected due to the lockdown. Now, we have to defeat Corona with complete caution and care without enforcing lockdown.” He added that it was “mandatory” to wear masks and maintain physical distancing for everyone including chief minister, ministers, public representatives, officers and violations will invite fines and prosecution.In another important announcement, Chouhan said that a roadmap for Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh will be presented to people of the state on August 15 covering four main areas of health and education, economy and employment, development of physical infrastructure and good governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-and-mp-ministers-pledge-30-of-salary-for-covid-control-in-madhya-pradesh/story-zivijk6VVmLDROec7vr54L.html
31-07-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi’s health showing satisfactory improvement: Hospital||Congress President Sonia Gandhi, who was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Thursday evening, is showing “satisfactory improvement”, the hospital said in a bulletin.She was admitted to the hospital for “routine tests and investigations”.Gandhi had on Thursday held a virtual meeting with the party’s Rajya Sabha MPs to discuss the t political situation and the impact of Covid-19 pandemic in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-s-health-showing-satisfactory-improvement-hospital/story-aQJEOCXrVNZGUGpciNSBCM.html
31-07-2020||India||Festive fervour with delectable platter||As we are into a rare extended weekend with different occasions to celebrate, we can fervently try assorted range of recipes and make our festive days all the more special. Starting with Bakrid (Eid-ul-Adha) on Saturday, Friendship Day on Sunday and Raksha Bandhan a day after, every occasion will be special in its own way so the delicacies too have to be different and exciting. “The choice of recipes and dishes for each day is different. People will celebrate these festivals irrespective of their faith. Like on Bakrid it’s a must to prepare a non-vegetarian dish and sewain. Then Raksha Bandhan without its signature dishes and Friendship Day without cakes, pastries will not be as colourful as it should be,” says Mayank Kant, a medical professional. He is getting qimami sewain prepared on Bakrid and kheer for Raksha Bandhan. Best way to say with it love is opting for bakery products that can be easily made at home with quick-fix recipes or pickups with choicest offerings from any bakery, says Vikas Malik of Mr Brown. “Festivities cannot and should not be put on hold in these tough times too as we can celebrate it in our own small way. We won’t hold any social gathering but celebrations have to go on within the family, says chef Mujeebur Rehman. Many home chefs too are providing festive ‘ghar-ka-khana’ from their kitchen giving the festivals and social occasion a homely touch. “Sweets are something which we are procuring for Raksha Bandhan but rest of the delicacies we will be only preparing at home. Safety is the key but the pandemic could not take the fun away,” says Sarita Kanchan, a homemaker. Reshmi Paneer MasterChef Sanjeev Kapoor Cottage cheese (paneer) 500 grams Oil 1 tablespoon Medium onion 1 Cumin seeds 1 teaspoon Medium green capsicum 1 Medium tomato seeded and cut into thin strips 1 Garlic paste 1 teaspoon Ginger paste 1 teaspoon Coriander powder 2 teaspoons Turmeric powder 1/2 teaspoon Tomato puree 1 cup Salt to taste Red chilli powder 2 teaspoons Fresh cream 1/2 cup Garam masala powder 1 teaspoon Fresh coriander leaves chopped 1 teaspoon Ginger strips for garnish Method Heat oil in a non-stick pan. Cut onion into half and slice horizontally. Add cumin seeds and onion to the pan and saute well. Cut capsicum into thin strips and add along with tomato strips and mix well. . Add garlic paste, ginger paste, coriander powder and turmeric powder and mix well. Saute well. Add tomato puree, mix and cook further. Cut cottage cheese into thick fingers. Add salt and red chilli powder to the pan and mix well. Add little water, mix well and cook. Add cottage cheese and cream and mix gently. Add cream to the pan and mix well. Add garam masala powder and mix well. Add coriander leaves and mix well. Let it get heated through. Serve hot garnished with ginger strips. Tawa Bhuni Kaleji by chef Mohsin Qureshi, Lebua Lucknow Mutton liver 1 kg Salt to taste Turmeric powder 10 gm Red chilli powder 10 gm Ginger chop 15 gm Green chilli chop 10 gm Onion chop 300 gm Tomato chop 200 gm Ginger garlic paste 20 gm Mustard oil 200 ml Coriander leaves 50 gm Lemon juice 10 ml Garam masala pwd 10 gm METHOD-: First, we have to wash mutton liver then cut into small chunks. In a separate pan add water when it starts boiling, add mutton liver along with salt, turmeric powder and ginger garlic paste boil it for 5 minutes. Strain it and keep it a side. In a hot plate put mustard oil then add onions fry it till golden brown add chop ginger, green chilli, tomato, salt & red chilli powder stir it for couple of minutes then add boiled mutton liver and stir continuously. When liver combined with the masala finished with lemon juice and garam masala powder. Garnish with coriander leaves. Chocolate chip and walnut brownie Recipeby chef Sachin Talwar, Hyatt Regency, Lucknow Ingredients1/2 cup unsalted butter (melted), 1/2 cup white sugar3/4 cup light brown sugar2.5 teaspoons vanilla extract2 large eggs room temperature3/4 Refined Flour1/2 cup cocoa powder1/2 teaspoon salt1/2 cup mini chocolate chips1/2 cup walnuts choppedDirection 1. Preheat oven to 350° F2. Grease a square baking pan or line with parchment and set aside.3. In a mixing bowl (large). Mix together brown sugar, white sugar, melted butter and vanilla extract.4. Add eggs to the butter mix and beat gently. 5. In a separate bowl, sift together flour, cocoa powder, and salt.6. Slowly stir flour and cocoa powder mix into wet ingredients until combined.7. Add chocolate chips and walnuts. Stir.8. Pour the batter (Cocoa Mix) in pan and spread evenly to the edges.9. Place the baking pan in pre heated oven and bake for 20-25 minutes. Insert toothpick into the centre of the pan to check doneness. (If toothpick comes out with wet batter, the brownies are not done. Check in every 2 minutes. If toothpick comes out with a few crumbs, then the brownies are done).10. Take out pan from oven and place onto a wire rack and allow to cool completely before cutting.11. Enjoy with warm chocolate sauce or vanilla ice cream||https://www.hindustantimes.com/festive-fervour-with-delectable-platter/story-w922qPEiQ8K9JORqEEAGNK.html
31-07-2020||India||Food adds positive flavours to tough times: Sanjeev Kapoor||Celebrity chef Sanjeev Kapoor feels that with a series of festivities around we definitely need to utilise the occasion to enjoy as well as make it a healthier, positive celebration. As we are all set to celebrate Bakrid, Friendship Day and Rakshabandhan back-to-back, talking about staying positive and upbeat, he said, “Due to the ongoing pandemic there is a lot of fear and stress everywhere so at this point of time any kind of celebration is most welcome. As all the celebrations in this period is largely with our family and at home, what we have seen of late is that food is adding positivity to these tough times. Home cooking and eating together has become order of the day .” It’s great thing that three occasions are falling together and it’s time to be together in a responsible way, he said. “Festivity plays a big role in bringing positivity in our lives. And three back-to-back occasions are like ‘ek ticket main teen mazey’. In a secular country like India, no matter what religion it belongs to we celebrate it together. Friendship Day has nothing to do with religion but it gives people opportunity to show love and celebrate, which is absolutely a great way. On Eid we crave for biryani-sewain, for gujhiya on Holi, for cake on Christmas and so on…” The masterchef suggests that people can add own touch to the traditional cuisine. “Festival food is symbolic and takes special efforts to be made. I feel this year maybe say it differently with some modern touch. Like dresses have changed over a period of time we need to reinvent same traditional food.” Sanjeev suggests that traditional dishes can be given some interesting twists. “Maybe one can make a healthier biryani with brown rice or add veggies to it to make it better. Many old followings we take as a thumbs rule and don’t try to bring any change. Whereas what I believe is that we must be flexible to make it healthier and relevant as per the day.” He gives an example. “Hundred years back we used to prepare dishes with principles of pickling as then we had no refrigerators so we used more oil and spices. Today, scenario has changed so we make it with less ghee and butter or use lean meat in dishes. Honey can be used in sweets and so on. During celebration we are like ‘tiyohaar roz-roz toh nahi aata hai’ (festivals don’t come every day) and we become carefree and hog on so it’s better to make the same dishes marginally healthier and enjoy eating guilt free,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/food-adds-positive-flavours-to-tough-times-sanjeev-kapoor/story-Wm7VpiIay8HRdyeX1nc6dL.html
31-07-2020||India||Rajasthan police told Sachin Pilot and other MLAs never stayed at Manesar hotels||The administration of hotel ITC Bharat, Best Western Country club, Manesar and Heritage Village, Manesar - where Sachin Pilot and MLAs supporting him were allegedly camping - told Rajasthan’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday that the legislators were not their guests and didn’t stay there. The investigators were not allowed to enter Best Western Country club and Heritage Village properties in Manesar. Rajasthan’s special operation group (SOG), which is also probing the horse trading case, had received a similar response by the hotel administrations on Wednesday.On Friday morning around 6am, a five-member team from the ACB headed by deputy superintendent of police (DSP), ACB, Saleh Mohammad had left for Manesar to record statements of two MLAs, Vishvendra Singh and Bhanwarlal Sharma, considered to be in Sachin Pilot’s camp.“The ACB team reached ITC Bharat around 11.30 am, where the team members were allowed entry till reception. The team checked the visitor record of the hotel and an hour later they left for Best Western Country Club, where they were stopped by the hotel administration a few metres ahead of the hotel,” said an ACB official familiar with the developments. Also Read: Man linked to Rajasthan horse-trading tapes refuses to give voice sampleThe official added that when the ACB team enquired about Singh and Sharma, the hotel administration, in a written reply, said the MLAs never stayed there. The team got a similar response from hotel Heritage Village.The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday served reminder notices to former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh and Sardarshahar MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma, to get their statements registered within seven-days.“Reminder notices have been sent to Sharma and Singh to come to the ACB headquarters within seven days and get their statements registered. We also want to ask them some questions related to audio tapes,” said an ACB official related to the investigation. Watch: Rajasthan Speaker’s video with CM’s son goes viral, BJP demands his resignationOn July 17, the ACB registered a case against rebel Congress lawmaker Bhanwarlal Sharma, one Gajendra Singh and a power broker named Sanjay Jain under Section 7 (public servant accepts or attempts to take a bribe) and 7A (public servant obtaining undue advantage) of the IPC, on the basis of a complaint filed by chief whip of Rajasthan assembly, Mahesh Joshi. The basis of the complaint was the surfacing of three incriminating audiotapes that quickly went viral on social media. In one of the audiotapes, a rebel Congress lawmaker, who Joshi claims to be Sharma, is purportedly talking to a middleman and a person named Gajendra Singh about toppling the Ashok Gehlot government. In another tape, two persons are heard talking about some MLAs having accepted the first installment and the next course of action.On July 20, notices were sent to the house of Sharma and Singh in which the ACB sought co-operation from the two MLAs in the investigation. On July 24, the duo was served reminder notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-told-sachin-pilot-and-other-mlas-never-stayed-at-manesar-hotels/story-N5ggXyrt5OxRQETpB6ZxJP.html
31-07-2020||India||Supreme Court bats for opening temples, churches, mosques during Unlock phases||Witnessing temple rituals through live streaming cannot be a substitute for a physical visit to places of worship, the Supreme Court said on Friday, advocating opening of temples, churches and mosques for the public during the Unlock period on special occasions.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said that a limited number of devotees can be permitted in temples during the Unlock period provided adequate safety measures and social distancing guidelines are adhered to.“E-darshan is no darshan. Can’t you permit darshan by adhering to social distancing? During a total lockdown things are different. But during Unlock period, when other things are functioning, why can’t states manage temples. Temples, churches, mosques should be opened at least on special occasions,” Justice Mishra remarked.The bench was hearing a plea by Member of Parliament, Nishikant Dubey seeking a direction to the state of Jharkhand and the central government to open Baba Baidhyanath Jyotirlinga Temple at Deoghar and Baba Basukinath Temple at Basukinath to the public and to further allow the ‘Shravani Mela’ devotees to offer prayers during Hindi months of ‘Shravan and Bhado’.The Jharkhand government had opposed the plea citing the Covid-19 threat and the fact that it would be streaming the temple rituals online.The apex court eventually did not pass any direction instead asking the Jharkhand government to explore the possibility of allowing at least a few devotees to visit the temple every day.“While we are not issuing any direction, we request the state government to find out the possibility and work out a mechanism for allowing darshan (of the temple deity) to the public. This shall apply to churches and mosques as well. Let efforts be made by the state government in this direction,” the court said.The Baidyanath temple assumes special significance during the festival of Shravani Mela which falls during July- August when devotees throng the temple carrying water from the river Ganga to offer it to the deity at Baidyanath temple. Dubey, who represents the Godda constituency of Jharkhand in the Lok Sabha, had initially approached the Jharkhand high court seeking permission to open the two temples for devotees citing similar intervention by the Supreme Court in the Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra in June.The high court, however, dismissed his plea on July 3 stating that allowing public to congregate for the festival could seriously impact the Covid-19 situation in the state.“No such direction for Shravani Mela will be appropriate to be passed taking into consideration the spread of threat of Covid-19 virus which according to us, if allowed, may cause great danger of widespread of infection of the virus,” the high court said.Dubey then approached the Supreme Court on July 8.During the hearing on Friday, senior counsel Salman Khurshid and additional advocate general Tapesh Kumar Singh, appearing for Jharkhand, told the court that the state has arranged for online darshan of the temple and argued against opening the temple to for the people.“The state is going through the Covid-19 crisis. Serum testing is happening now and depending on the results, lockdown might be imposed,” Khurshid said.Tapesh Kumar Singh said that the lanes leading up to the temple are very narrow and it might not be possible to ensure social distancing between people if the temple is thrown open to devotees.The bench, however, said that the state should have made an effort to allow at least a few hundred devotees on a daily basis.“Is it the same for churches, mosques. It is Eid, are mosques open? Why can’t it be permitted adhering to social distancing,” Justice Mishra asked Khurshid.“No, it will become difficult with overcrowding,” Khurshid replied.The petitioner’s counsel, Samir Malik pointed out that though the Baidyanath temple is not open to public around 30,000 pandas (pilgrimage priests) are allowed inside the temple.The state government said that only a limited number of pandas are allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum of the temple though there is no restriction on them in the temple premises.“We are alarmed by this,” the court noted while ordering the state to make arrangements to avoid entry of large number of pandas so as to avert a spurt in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-bats-for-opening-temples-churches-mosques-during-unlock-phases/story-ylTWf89oA9WJbXhCDAGY4I.html
31-07-2020||India||Clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin begins in Kanpur hospital, 22 volunteers get dose||The clinical trial of Indian Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin began in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur and Gorakhpur hospitals on Friday.In Kanpur, the first set of 22 volunteers were given the vaccine under strict medical supervision at the private Prakhar Hospital.The medical facility in Kanpur and Gorakhpur’s Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre are among the 12 institutes across the country where the human trial of the vaccine, developed by Bharat Biotech, are being conducted.A 26-year-old information technology (IT) professional from central Kanpur became the first person in Uttar Pradesh to get the vaccine dose. The man expressed happiness at being a “part of an exercise being carried out to help mankind.” “I wanted to be a part of this. I told my family members about my decision. They were worried about the adverse side-effects (if any). I managed to convince them,” he said. “As I walked into the room, I was asked to sit on the bed by the team waiting for me. I was praying that this vaccine works. It (vaccine) is essential to bring people out of despair and defeat this virus,” he added. Dr JS Kushwaha, chairman of the hospital, said the vaccine dose was injected in all the 22 volunteers in one hour. Their condition was constantly monitored for three hours against the specified two hours. “None of them complained of any problem nor did the medical team observe any adverse symptoms of the vaccine. I am extremely hopeful that this vaccine will work,” said Dr Kushwaha. The hospital plans to conduct the trials on 100 healthy volunteers in two phases. The first phase has 36 participants out of which 22 were given the vaccine on Friday. “We have given the volunteers our helpline number; they can speak to our in-house experts and share their experiences or problems if they have any,” he said. A team of eight experts, which a doctor from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) heads, would collect the blood samples of these 22 volunteers on August 13. The samples would be sent to an ICMR-recognised laboratory for anti-bodies’ test and data analysis. Another sample would be taken on August 27 for a similar test. All the healthy volunteers were cleared to undergo the trial after medical screening. Their RT-PCR and anti-bodies’ test reports came on Thursday and the plan to give them the vaccine was set in motion at a notice of 16 hours. The volunteers come from diverse backgrounds and five of them are women — three participated in the Friday trial. Apart from Kanpur and Gorakhpur hospitals, the other institutes selected for the clinical trial of Covaxin are located in Visakhapatnam, Rohtak, New Delhi, Patna, Belgaum, Nagpur, Kattankulathur, Hyderabad, Arya Nagar, and Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clinical-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-begins-in-kanpur-hospital-22-volunteers-get-dose/story-mxurdY9yS7VmbVHSqD33zI.html
31-07-2020||India||‘Next up is Pakistan’: BJP as Rajasthan CM Gehlot, MLAs move to Jaisalmer||Taking a swipe at Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot now moving his MLAs to Jaisalmer, the BJP state chief Satish Poonia said at this rate the legislators will soon reach Pakistan. The MLAs, who had been camping in a hotel on the Jaipur-Delhi highway since July 13, arrived at the Jaipur airport amid tight security. Five chartered flights ferried them to Jaisalmer, some 550km from state capital Jaipur. CM Gehlot, facing rebellion from Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs, alleged poaching attempts by the BJP as reason to move his lawmakers to a new destination.“The government needs to be saved as you can see the way the Centre and its departments (I-T and ED) are after us. The pressure will be less there (Jaisalmer). I and most of the ministers will stay here and the rest will keep coming. There will be no compromise in governance,” CM Gehlot told reporters before boarding the flight to Jaisalmer.The CM said since the governor announced assembly session dates, the MLAs and their family members have been receiving calls. “Even threatening calls are being made. What will happen to a country where horse trading is done at such a level?” asked CM Gehlot.Hitting out at home minister Amit Shah, the CM said, “I take name of (Amit) Shah again and again as he was at the forefront (of toppling the governments) in Goa, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Goa. What has happened to Amit Shah? Day or night…awake or sleeping, he only thinks how to topple opposition governments. If the elected government will be toppled in such a manner, then how will democracy be saved?”According to Jaipur airport officials, the planes were hired from India Fly Safe Aviation Pvt Ltd and Himalayaputra Aviation Pvt. Ltd. A total of five charter planes --- three in afternoon and two in evening (carrying the CM) took around 100 MLAs to Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer superintendent of police Ajay Singh escorted the legislators to Hotel Suryagarh, located about 20 km from the city on the Jaisalmer-Sam highway. Heavy security has been deployed in and around the hotel. BJP state chief Satish Poonia questioned where will the CM move them next? “Pakistan is ahead now. The CM talks high of democracy and constitution, but if there is unity and no fear then why do this. The CM should run the government from secretariat and not from Fairmont hotel,” said Poonia. The government, Poonia added, will not be able to face the opposition in the assembly this time. “The situation of Congress in Rajasthan is self destructive. The CM talks of democracy but is acting dictatorial and there is no governance,” he said.Defending the government, transport minister Pratap Singh said the MLAs were moved to Jaisalmer so that they can remain united. “The chief minister’s strategy is that not a single MLA is poached,” he said. The minister said shifting was part of their strategy. “Work of people will not suffer,” he assured. The hotel, built with Jaisalmer’s famous yellow limestone and shaped with high ‘parkota’-style walls, has 70 rooms and all of them are booked for MLAs. Suryagarh has been the venue of shooting of TV serials and films. The hotel has hosted many celebrity weddings, said Manoj Choudhary, a Jaisalmer-based travel agent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-up-is-pakistan-bjp-as-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-mlas-move-to-jaisalmer/story-AGuNDQQPqeKRlAzIH5p4TN.html
31-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China, Australia envoys to India spar over Beijing’s action in South China Sea and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China-Australia envoys spar on Twitter over Beijing’s action in South China SeaThe Chinese and Australian envoys to India had a terse exchange on Twitter on Friday on China’s actions in the South China Sea and elsewhere, with the latter saying Beijing should refrain from actions that “unilaterally alter the status quo”. Read More‘Situation remains fragile’: Delhi L-G on turning down AAP’s Unlock 3 moveDelhi L-G Anil Baijal on Friday overruled the Aam Aadmi party government’s decision to open hotels and allow for weekly bazars on a trial basis under Unlock 3, saying the situation remains ‘fragile’. Read MoreConstruction of Ram temple cultural nationalism: RSS leaderThe construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya should not be limited to religious symbolism, but should be seen as a form of cultural renaissance and nationalism, said the joint general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Dattatreya Hosabale on Friday. Read MoreAustralia’s Wade reveals why Indian bowlers might not be able to match Neil Wagner’s bouncer barrageAustralian wicket-keper batsman Matthew Wade in a recent interview has lauded Neil Wagner for his ability to bowl accurate bouncers. Looking ahead at the upcoming series against India, Wade said that India fast bowlers too would look to take a leaf out of Wagner’s book but might not succeed like the Kiwi. Read MoreLootcase movie review: This half-baked comedy squanders away its wealth of talentDirect Rajesh Krishnan’s debut movie Lootcase employs the talents of Rasika Dugal, Ranvir Shorey, Gajraj Rao and Vijay Raaz, all of whom are among the best actors working in the country. However, the actors’ talents are wasted in this film, which is not even trying to be funny, says HT’s Saumya Srivastava. Read MoreFujifilm X-T4 review: X-T3 and a bit moreFujifilm’s X-T4 camera is priced at Rs 1,54,999. And understandably, at this price tag, one would hope to get the best mirrorless camera out there. So is it one? Read MoreEid al-Adha 2020: Unique mehndi designs to try this BakridEid al-Adha celebrations are not complete without a feast consisting of tasty food, rituals, decorations and more. Mehndi application is one of the most important customs of the festivities. Mehndi in various designs adds beauty to the entire essence of Eid celebrations. Read MoreRandeep Hooda’s doggo Bambi shows perfect poses for the perfect picsActor Randeep Hooda loves animals. He recently shared a post about his pooch Bambi on social media and this one will easily put a huge smile on anyone’s face - the pictures are that adorable. Read More‘Congress chose votes over justice’: Smriti Irani on Triple Talaq banUnion Minister Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on the Congress and accused it of choosing vote bank politics over justice to Muslim women in the 1980s. Addressing an event to commemorate one year of the law banning Triple Talaq, Smriti Irani said Congress had acted to protect their political interests when they were in power.  Watch the full video for all the details from the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-australia-envoys-to-india-spar-over-beijing-s-action-in-south-china-sea-and-all-the-latest-news/story-e3XnsZdCRLl5GDuoEaqHAN.html
31-07-2020||India||Construction of Ram temple cultural nationalism: RSS leader||The construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya should not be limited to religious symbolism, but should be seen as a form of cultural renaissance and nationalism, said the joint general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Dattatreya Hosabale on Friday. The RSS leader added that the Ram temple is necessary for the cultural nationalism of the country, which was engulfed by an “English mindset”. He said it should have been done soon after Independence, just as the reconstruction of the Somnath Temple in Gujarat was undertaken.Ahead of the August 5 groundbreaking ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, which will be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the RSS leader said the construction of a temple in Ayodhya is associated with the rich culture of India and the government also has certain cultural responsibilities. Also Read: VHP activates its units abroad to celebrate Ram temple event in big wayHosable, who was speaking at the launch of a book ‘Ramjanmabhoomi’ which has been co-authored by Arun Anand and Vinay Nalwa tracing the history of the temple and the conflict said, “It is just not a legal connection or administrative relation, which the government has with the Ram Temple. Being people’s representative, the government also has cultural responsibility of getting the Ram temple constructed as per the Supreme Court’s order.”He said those who oppose its construction often do it under the pretext of secularism, but know nothing about it. Nationalism and cultural nationalism cannot be suppressed in the name of secularism, the RSS leader said.Also Read: Ram temple to be grander than planned earlier: ArchitectApart from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi, joint general secretary Krishan Gopal, Hosable is also expected to be present for the August 5 ceremony.Reacting to All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi’s comment that it cannot be forgotten that for over 400 years Babri Masjid stood at the site of the temple in Ayodhya and was demolished by a criminal mob in 1992, Hosable said the argument is specious. He asked if the same argument be used to justify the British rule over India or apartheid that existed in Europe for centuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-ram-temple-cultural-nationalism-rss-leader/story-DaP2pTbOiSNp11iHuhwN5L.html
31-07-2020||India||ED raids owners of realty firm Ambience Group in money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided the residence and office premises of owners including Raj Singh Gehlot of Delhi-based realty firm - Ambience Group, which runs Ambience malls in NCR and the five-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel in east Delhi in a money laundering case, the agency said in a statement.The agency said that seven premises including the office of M/s Aman Hospitality Pvt Ltd (AHPL), other companies of the Ambience Group and the residential premises of its Chairman Raj Singh Gehlot, directors Dayanand Singh and Mohan Singh Gehlot and their associates were searched.During the search, ED recovered Indian currency worth Rs 16 lakh and foreign currency equivalent to around Rs 24 lakh [16,120 Euros; 5,115 Pounds; and 6,302 US$] from the residence of company chairperson Raj Singh Gehlot apart from incriminating documents and digital evidence.The agency had initiated a probe under money laundering on the basis of a Jammu Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) case in August 2019 against AHPL and its directors for money laundering in the construction and development of the 5-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel situated at 1, CBD, Maharaj Surajmal Road, Near Yamuna Sports Complex, Delhi.“Investigation under PMLA (prevention of money laundering act) revealed that a huge part of the loan amount of more than Rs 800 crore, which was sanctioned by a consortium of banks for the hotel project, was siphoned off by AHPL and Raj Singh Gehlot and his associates through a web of companies owned/controlled by them. A substantial part of the loan money was transferred by AHPL to several companies and individuals on the pretext of payment of running bills and advance for supply of material/work executed,” ED said in a statement on Friday.“The employees of Ambience Group and the associates of Raj Singh Gehlot were made the Directors/Proprietors of these companies and Raj Singh Gehlot was the ‘authorized signatory’ in many of these companies. However, no material was supplied and no work was executed and almost the entire amount was immediately routed back to the entities owned by Raj Singh & Sons HUF and his brother’s son. Money was further siphoned off through multiple layers in a complex web of group entities,” ED added.When contacted, Raj Singh Gehlot’s son Aman Gehlot, who runs AHPL, refused to comment.The Leela Ambience hotel in east Delhi is a 480 room five-star property spread over an area of 20000 sq metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-owners-of-realty-firm-ambience-group-in-money-laundering-probe/story-exM1lnucHI6CiFU7fnMQgO.html
31-07-2020||India||LJP asks EC to not hold Bihar elections in Oct-Nov, says polls in Covid-19 pandemic will endanger lives||BJP ally Lok Janshakti Party has written to the Election Commission against holding the Bihar assembly polls in October-November, when they are due, saying it will otherwise amount to deliberately “pushing people towards death”.The party has said resources should now be focussed on curbing the Covid-19 crisis and tackling floods in the state and not holding the polls. The LJP has said that the coronavirus pandemic has already acquired dangerous proportions and experts believe that it is likely to be more severe by October-November, as it argued that the priority now should be saving people’s lives and not holding the elections. The LJP’s stand on the elections is opposite to that of the JD(U), which also is a BJP ally, as the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led party has spoken in favour of holding them on time and has been holding organisational meetings in preparation.  The BJP has maintained that any decision on the poll schedule is the EC’s prerogative, while the main opposition RJD has in past called for postponing the elections, citing the coronavirus threat. The EC has sought views of all parties on the elections. The LJP said endangering lives of a big population would be absolutely “improper” for holding the elections and noted that over 35, 000 people in the country, including 280 in Bihar, have died of Covid-19 so far. “Holding the polls in such circumstances will amount to deliberately pushing people towards death,” it told the EC. A big part of Bihar is also severely affected by floods, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-asks-ec-to-not-hold-bihar-elections-in-oct-nov-says-polls-in-covid-19-pandemic-will-endanger-lives/story-SyyLiZHFFYTCUnrNJX92eJ.html
31-07-2020||India||China-Australia envoys spar on Twitter over Beijing’s action in South China Sea||The Chinese and Australian envoys to India had a terse exchange on Twitter on Friday on China’s actions in the South China Sea and elsewhere, with the latter saying Beijing should refrain from actions that “unilaterally alter the status quo”. Sun Weidong, the Chinese envoy, objected to remarks made by the Australian high commissioner, Barry O’Farrell, regarding the situation in the South China Sea by saying in a tweet that they were made “disregarding facts”. “Noted remarks by Australian HC to India on #SouthChinaSea disregarding facts. #China’s territorial sovereignty & maritime rights & interests are in conformity [with] int’l law incl UNCLOS [United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea]. It’s clear who safeguard peace & stability & who destabilize & provoke escalation in the region,” Sun tweeted. A short while later, O’Farrell responded in a tweet: “Thank you @China_Amb_India. I would hope then you follow the 2016 South China Sea Arbitral Award which is final and binding under international law, and also generally refrain from actions that unilaterally alter the status quo.” Also read: US backs ASEAN on South China Sea, challenges China’s predatory world viewO’Farrell was referring to the verdict by the arbitral tribunal in the Philippines’ case against China’s activities in the South China Sea. The tribunal ruled overwhelmingly in favour of the Philippines and concluded that China’s territorial claims were unlawful. China didn’t accept the verdict. China’s claims in the South China Sea have been challenged by several countries, including the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan. Sun’s tweet was a response to remarks by O’Farrell in a statement issued by the Australian mission after his meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday. O’Farrell backed India’s position on the border standoff with China, saying Australia opposed attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as this could increase the risk of instability. The statement said Australia continues to be concerned by China’s actions in the South China Sea, which are “destabilising and could provoke escalation”. On July 23, Australia had lodged a note with the UN Secretary General refuting China’s “unlawful maritime claims in the South China Sea”. Also read: Amid rising tension with US, China holds live-fire drills near South China SeaWhile Sun didn’t respond to O’Farrell’s comments on the border standoff, he took exception to the references to the South China Sea. The Chinese envoy also faced criticism from former Indian diplomats and military officials for his comments during a webinar on India-China relations held on Thursday. During the webinar, Sun sought to blame India for both the border standoff and the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties. He also sought to imply that India’s position on interpreting the LAC could lead to new disputes, and that this was one of the reasons why the process for clarifying the disputed had stalled since 2002. Responding to these remarks, former army chief Gen VP Malik tweeted: “By his statement yesterday, #Ambassador Sun Weidong of China has virtually ended any possible progress in LAC talks between military commanders.” Former Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, described the Chinese envoy’s address at the webinar as a “classic dialogue of the deaf”. Bhatia added: “He talks at, not to, us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-australia-envoys-spar-on-twitter-over-beijing-s-action-in-south-china-sea/story-EZ7MuR6Kx4QE8IvfF7tN4I.html
31-07-2020||India||Kerala tweaks Covid-19 protocol as cases increase||As coronavirus cases is increasing sharply, Kerala has tweaked its Covid-19 protocol to ease the load in hospitals. The state reported 1,310 cases on Friday, highest single-day number since the outbreak began in January. Now asymptomatic patents can remain in quarantine in their homes and telemedicine facility will be extended to them, said a statement from the health ministry. This will be first experimented in the state capital Thiruvananthapuram which has maximum active cases in the state. Those who are going in home quarantine need to have a separate room with an attached toilet, it said. But in the worst-affected fishing hamlets authorities are finding difficult as most of their dwellings have one or two rooms with a common toilet. Harried officials have sought the help of local parish to tide over the situation. Earlier once a person was tested positive he will be rushed to the hospital. With the latest move, health authorities can lower the case load in hospitals. At least 38 inmates of a care home managed by the Missionaries of Charity were tested positive on Friday. Inmates were tested positive after a nun was infected. Since most of the inmates were elderly the reverse quarantine, a process to isolate elderly and people with co-morbid conditions from others to avoid infection, was in place here but still many got infected worrying health officials. Meanwhile state health director Dr L Saritha’s order asking all hospitals to reserve three rooms for VIPs has kicked off a controversy. There are 29 Covid-19 exclusive hospitals in the state. Health workers unions and others have criticised the move to reserve hospital rooms for VIPs in pandemic times and they asked the Left Front government to shed VIP culture in trying times. With 1,310 Covid-19 cases, total tally went up to 23, 162 in the state, out of this 13,027 have recovered and 10,495 are active cases. The state capital remained worst affected with 320 new cases. What is really worrying is that there is big spurt in locally transmitted cases, out of 1,310 cases, 1,162 are infected locally. With three more casualties, the death toll went up to 75 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tweaks-covid-19-protocol-as-cases-increase/story-ENRAn2nsZYpKLhdiTMwHLM.html
31-07-2020||India||Gadkari inaugurates rebuilt MG setu, promises to catapult Bihar, UP economy through waterways||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday inaugurated one side of the reconstructed Mahatma Gandhi (MG) Setu on river Ganga—the communication lifeline between north and south Bihar—and said when completed it would be a technological feat for civil engineering students to study. Gadkari inaugurated the long-awaited bridge through video conferencing from New Delhi, while chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and state road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav joined the proceedings from Patna. The opening of one of the two flanks of the bridge, connecting Patna with Hajipur, assumes considerable significance before the impending assembly elections. Roads, power and potable water to every household are the main issues, which the ruling JD(U)-led NDA dispensation is banking on for return to power in the state.Also Read: 1,11,000 laddoos being prepared in Ayodhya for foundation ceremonyGadkari, who also holds the shipping portfolio, said the waterways through Ganga would revolutionise the economy of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “While the waterway from Varanasi to Haldia through river Ganga is almost complete, a Rs 12,000 crore proposal to develop waterways connecting Delhi to Prayagraraj via Mathura, Agra and Itawa has been submitted to the World Bank,” said the minister, adding that once it is finished, Delhi could be connected through waterways from the rest of the world. The minister said that dredging of Ganga up to Bangladesh has been completed. “Forty river ports, including one at Varanasi, Sahebganj and Patna, are being built along the river. We have carried out dredging in Hooghly at the cost of Rs 250 crore to ensure ships movement to the international port in the Bay of Bengal,” said the minister, adding that litchi and other micro, medium and small enterprises products from Bihar can be transported to other countries through waterways. Also Read: Ram temple to be grander than planned earlier: ArchitectUnderlining the need for holistic development of Bihar, the Union minister urged Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to emphasize on development of industrial clusters along the roads. He said he was working on a plan to increase the turnover of village industries to Rs 5 lakh crore from the current Rs 88,000 crore in the next two years.“Handicrafts and handlooms could be the thrust areas to work on in Bihar. Proposals to develop cottage industries in Bihar are always welcome,” said Gadkari, adding that the fund would not be any issue for development of road and cottage industries in the state. The minister also listed various bridge projects sanctioned in the state and said work on a four-lane bridge parallel to the MG Setu would begin in the next couple of months. CM Nitish Kumar urged Gadkari to build a direct road between Buxar and Varanasi, as people have to make a detour to get to an important religious and trade centre in UP.He also requested the minister to widen some of the busy stretches of National Highways, including from Mokama to Munger, Barauni to Khagaria and NH 77 from Muzaffapur to Nepal border, which is likely to see substantially increased traffic after construction of various bridges on Ganga in the coming years.The CM also urged Gadkari to arrange for additional funds for the MSME sector in Bihar while terming the existing allocation of Rs 25,000 crore as too little, compared to the population density of the state.Officials said that reconstruction of eastern flank of the bridge would start in the next couple of months. The superstructure of the bridge, which was originally built in the eighties on cantilever technology, has been replaced with superstructure made of steel trusses. Inaugurated as the longest bridge on the river in India by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, Mahatma Gandhi Setu went into repair mode in 1999 and it remained so till 2016, until the Central government approved its reconstruction plan.About Rs 250 crore is said to have been spent on its repair as against the original estimated construction cost of Rs 87 crore. Union ministers Ram Vilas Paswan, who represents Hajipur constituency in Lok Sabha, and Patna MP Ravi Shankar Prasad, also attended the function through video conferencing. RCD minister Nand Kishore Yadav and additional chief secretary, RCD, Amrit Lal Meena were also present at the programme, besides almost all local MPs and MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-inaugurates-rebuilt-mg-setu-promises-to-catapult-bihar-up-economy-through-waterways/story-dVm8eImzFftzA8BJhFcS2N.html
31-07-2020||India||‘Hang me if Covid-19 scam allegations are baseless’: DK Shivakumar on BJP’s legal notice||The Karnataka unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party issued legal notices to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President DK Shivakumar as well as the leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramiah, asking them to withdraw and apologize for baseless allegations of corruption in the purchase of equipment related to the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Both Shivakumar and Siddaramiah have been alleging that more than Rs 2,000 crore has been siphoned off through hiking costs of medical equipment like ventilators, PPE kits, thermal scanners, sanitizers, gloves, mask as well as other devices purchased for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The notices were issued by on behalf of Karnataka BJP’s general secretary N Ravi Kumar by his lawyers. “The allegations made by you without any basis or material has also reflected badly upon all the members of the party who have strived hard in building the party and the government,” the notice read.This it said amounted to slander and demanded that the allegations be withdrawn and an unconditional apology be tendered in the identical notices to the two Congress leaders alleged. Ravi Kumar alleged that wild allegations are being made without any material proof and attributed these to an internal game of one-upmanship in the Congress party.“Even the numbers they mention vary wildly. First they said Rs 1,000 crore, then Rs 2,220 crore and later Rs 2,000 crore. The allegations are being made to just harass officials so that they are frightened and don’t make any purchases due to fears of wrong allegations. The government is ready to lay all documents on the floor of the house. However, we will not tolerate baseless allegations against our party and leaders,” Ravi Kumar added.The Congress leaders have been alleging that the equipment purchased are sub-standard, that money has been paid to suppliers without the goods being received and that the goods have been purchased at above-market rates.Reacting to the notice in Mangalore, where he is currently travelling and meeting party leaders, KPCC President Shivakumar said that his party was ready to furnish all documents ‘proving’ corruption if the government was ready to order a judicial enquiry into the whole purchases by a sitting judge of the High Court.“If the allegations are baseless they can file a case against me and hang me,” Shivakumar retorted even as he repeated charges of looting in the name of Covid-19 care by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hang-me-if-covid-19-scam-allegations-are-baseless-dk-shivakumar-on-bjp-s-legal-notice/story-U8Ke20hFraLzERE6foGhqM.html
31-07-2020||India||Train passenger in Kerala tests positive for Covid-19, deboarded and sent to hospital||A 29-year-old man, who tested positive for coronavirus, was admitted to the government medical college hospital here on Friday after he was deboarded from the train he was travelling from Kozhikode. The coach of the Kozhikode-Thiruvananthapuram Jan Shatabdi Express in which he was travelling was disinfected and sealed after accommodating his over 20 co-passengers in another coach when the train reached Ernakulam North railway station, a railway official said. The train, which reached the station at 2 pm, left for Thiruvananthapuram an hour later, he said. Ernakulam district authorities have identified all his co-passengers in the D-3 coach as his primary contacts.They have been asked to go into home quarantine, officials said. The man, who boarded the train from Kozhikode, came to know that he was a carrier of the virus when he got a call from Kozhikode medical authorities who tested his swabs taken earlier following his primary contact with a Covid-19 patient, officials said.The Kozhikode district medical authorities immediately alerted their counterparts and railway officials when the man informed them that the Thiruvananthapuram-bound Jan Shatabdi Express has already reached Thrissur. But by the time the train had left Thrissur. Health authorities in Ernakulam district and railway officials, who were alerted, made all preparations to handle the situation, they said. The patient was taken to the government medical college hospital when the train reached North Railway station. Due to some personal emergency, he wanted to go to Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu and booked the train ticket to travel up to Thiruvananthapuram before getting his Covid-19 test results, they said. Railway officials said the passenger was subjected to thermal screening at Kozhikode station when he reached there to board the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-passenger-in-kerala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-deboarded-and-sent-to-hospital/story-gykzihRo1IHxdRKEF94SKM.html
31-07-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh posts record 10,376 Covid cases on Friday, logs over 30k cases in just three days||Andhra Pradesh has posted a fresh record with 10,376 new coronavirus cases recorded in the last 24 hours—the highest daily spike so far-- and has also crossed the 10,000 fresh infections mark for the third consecutive day, taking the state’s overall tally of Covid 19 cases to 1,40,933.Andhra Pradesh had posted 10,167 cases on Thursday and 10,093 cases on Wednesday. It is the only state after Maharashtra to have posted more than 10,000 cases in a day. The spiraling number has meant that the state has added 30,636 cases in the last three days alone, sending the infection positivity rate north to reach 7.22 percent. As a result, it has more active cases-- 75,720 currently than recoveries-- 63,864, including the 3,822 patients discharged in the 24 hour period ending 10 am on Friday.The death toll in the state has climbed up to 1,349 with another 68 deaths reported over the last 24 hours, according to the daily government bulletin.As per the government data, the state has completed 19,51,776 tests so far at the rate of 36,550 per million population.However, the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has contested the government’s claims citing a list of states-- conducting more than 140 tests per day per million people-- announced by the Central government recently.Andhra is also among the states with a high case positivity rate.India, too, recorded its highest single-day surge of 55,078 infections on Friday taking the Coved 19 caseload past 16 lakh mark on Friday. The number of recoveries in the country have also risen to 10,57,805. The death toll has increased to 35,747 with 779 fatalities being reported in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-posts-record-10-376-covid-cases-on-friday-logs-over-30k-cases-in-just-three-days/story-ZXeRdtMG5PMz0tmXklz0DO.html
31-07-2020||India||Andhra to get 3 new capital cities as Governor approves two controversial bills||The decks have been cleared for the formation of three capital cities for Andhra Pradesh – the executive capital at Visakhapatnam, the legislative capital at Amaravati and the judicial capital at Kurnool. Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan on Friday gave his nod to the two bills – AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020 aimed at creating the three capital cities for the state and the AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill, 2020, seeking to abolish the APCRDA formed in December 2014 to develop Amaravati as the state capital. The two bills were passed for a second time by the state legislative assembly on June 16, but were stalled in the state legislative council, which was adjourned sine die without discussing them. Since the council had not taken any decision within one month, the bills were deemed to have been passed and were sent to the Governor for his approval on July 18. Governor Harichandan, who had several rounds of talks with legal experts, finally gave his assent on Friday, paving the way for the formation of the three capitals for Andhra Pradesh. “Once the state government notifies the approved bills in the state gazette, they will become acts and Amaravati will cease to be the capital city of Andhra Pradesh,” an official in the chief minister’s office said. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has been arguing that the fresh bills pertaining to the capital are legally invalid, as the two bills introduced by the state government in the state legislative council in January had been referred to the select committee. Former finance minister and senior Telugu Desam Party leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the two fresh bills had no legal sanctity, because the earlier bills had already been pending study by the select committee and the government had given an undertaking to that extent in the high court. “Though the constitution of select committees could not take place due to bureaucratic hurdles, the process is still on. So, the reintroduction of the same bills again in the state legislature in June cannot be legally tenable,” Ramakrishnudu said. The state high court has been hearing a batch of petitions filed by the farmers of Amaravati, opposing the trifurcation of the capital and abolition of APCRDA. The next hearing is scheduled for August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-to-get-3-new-capital-cities-as-governor-approves-two-controversial-bills/story-yjiWDqyvDMeYVwOiHTs7IK.html
31-07-2020||India||Only 0.28% of India’s Covid-19 cases on ventilator: Harsh Vardhan||India is reporting less severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan during the 19th group of ministers’ (GoM) meeting held on Friday, as only 0.28% of patients are being currently on ventilator support across the country. “Out of the total active cases, only 0.28% of patients are on ventilator support, 1.61% patients on intensive care unit (ICU) support, and 2.32% are on oxygen support,” the minister said. India’s case recovery rate is also improving steadily, and with over one million recoveries the current national recovery rate is 64.54%, he cited. Delhi has recorded the highest recovery rate at 89.08%, followed by Haryana (79.82%). Karnataka has the lowest recovery rate at 39.36%. “…this shows that the active cases under medical supervision are 33.27%, or approximately one-third of total Covid-19 positive cases. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) is also progressively reducing and currently stands at 2.18%, one of the lowest globally,” said the health minister. The government aims to reduce the CFR further and bring down the national average to 1% or below. The government is laying emphasis on reducing mortality in high-case load districts/ cities, and cities showing recent upsurge such as Pune, Thane, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad, etc. The GoM also reviewed the distribution of confirmed Covid-19 cases along with locality and active cases in the containment zones across rural and urban India. It has been found that the maximum caseload, which was about 80% of the cases, is restricted to 50 out of about 740 districts in the country. In moderate caseload districts/cities, the efforts are on to focus on preventing spill-over from the high-burden areas; limiting local spread; early identification of cases; strengthening contact tracing with the use of technology; and community involvement. In low-burden districts, the efforts are aimed at preventing infection among the population from other areas; strengthening influenza-like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) surveillance and targeted testing; rigorous contact tracing with targets to be set by the local administration such as 15-20 contacts for every Covid-19 patient and prior identification of the high-risk population. “This three-pronged strategy will help in controlling the disease spread. However, our main concern should be protecting the areas, where no Covid-19 cases are being reported, and also ensuring there is no increase in caseload in low disease-burden areas. The key is to strengthen community engagement, as it will help in sending the message across effectively,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital. On the rapidly expanding testing capacity of India, Harsh Vardhan highlighted that to date, through a network of 1,331 laboratories, including 911 and 420 government-run and private ones, respectively, a record 6,42,588 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. The country has carried out over 10.8 million tests since the viral outbreak was first reported. “The more you test, the better it will in controlling the disease transmission, as you would be picking up cases early who would otherwise be roaming within the community and exposing the vulnerable population to the virus,” says Dr. T Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. The domestic production capacities of various sectors involved in Covid-19 management such as for manufacturing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, ventilators, and drugs such as hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have also been ramped up over the past three months. In terms of healthcare logistics, cumulatively 268.25 lakh N-95 masks, 120.40 lakh PPEs, and 1083.77 lakh HCQ tablets have been distributed to all states and Central institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-0-28-of-india-s-covid-19-cases-on-ventilator-harsh-vardhan/story-2xaFWIx3fhB9tw1pSmAh2J.html
31-07-2020||India||Nirmala Sithraman warns banks against refusing credit to MSMEs under emergency credit facility||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Friday, shot off a warning to banks over alleged resistance to offering loans to MSMEs under the emergency credit guarantee scheme announced by the government to ease liquidity pressure on micro, small and medium enterprises due to economic stress induced by the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.Sitharaman promised to look into any instances of banks refusing credit after listening to concerns raised by prominent industry body FICCI (federation of Indian chambers of commerce and industry) highlighting the problems being faced by MSMEs in accessing loans under the scheme.“Banks cannot refuse credit to MSMEs covered under emergency credit facility. If refused, such instances must be reported. I will look into it,” she said.Sitharaman’s statement follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal on Wednesday to bankers to fund bankable projects and MSMEs without fear. He promised that the government will back their decisions.Addressing another major area of concern, the finance minister said that the government is working with the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) for restructuring of loans due to the Covid-19 impact on businesses. This is one of the key demands made by the industry bodies.“The focus is on restructuring. Finance ministry is actively engaged with RBI on this. In principle, the idea that there may be a restructuring required, is well taken,” she said admitting there was a need to consider restructuring in the present circumstances.On a related issue, Sitharaman said that her ministry is working with RBI on the demand of the hospitality sector for extension of moratorium, or restructuring. Hospitality sector is one of the worst hit during the current crisis and the finance minister said she “fully understand the requirements of the hospitality sector on extension of the moratorium, or restructuring”.The important interventions were announced by the finance minister during FICCI’s national executive committee meeting.She also confirmed that work is going on creating a development finance institution to deal with the emerging credit requirements of the industry.“What shape it will take, we will know shortly,” Sitharaman said.On the issue of reduction in GST rates on the healthcare and other products, she said this fell in the domain of the GST council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sithraman-warns-banks-against-refusing-credit-to-msmes-under-emergency-credit-facility/story-n2Em7SZI6R4YBUTK7Ad5EJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Man linked to Rajasthan horse-trading tapes refuses to give voice sample||Sanjay Jain, whose name had surfaced in an audio recording about horse trading of legislators to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, refused to give his voice samples on Friday despite court orders for the same. He alleged that the agency taking samples can’t be trusted. “After an application was filed by the special operations group (SOG) on July 18, the metro magistrate court number 2 had given permission to conduct the voice spectography test of Jain. Today, when the accused was asked to give his sample, his counsel refused after which the court remarked that an inference may be drawn against Jain during trial,” said Liyakat Khan, public prosecutor.Khan added that everybody is bound to obey the orders of the court, adding that in future the accused cannot plead that it’s not his voice.Jain’s counsel, advocate Vivek Bajwa, said his client does not trust the agency which is investigating the case. “We know the fact that as per the Evidence Act not giving the statement will go against us. We don’t trust the agency investigating the case and we also doubt that if my client had given the voice samples then the FSL report could have been tampered on the orders of the government. How can we trust the politicians,” said Bajwa.Jain’s counsel had also filed a bail application which would be heard by the local court on August 4.Legal expert Akhil Choudhary pointed to a 2019 Supreme Court judgment that said the fundamental right to privacy cannot be construed as absolute and must bow down to compelling public interest.“The SC bench held that giving a voice sample to an investigating agency was neither a violation of the fundamental right nor it amounts to furnishing of evidence against oneself. It reasoned that a voice sample was given for the reason of comparison with other voices in order to see if they matched and were of the same person. A voice sample by itself is not incriminating evidence,” added Choudhary.He further said that in the case at hand, the trial court could have directed the investigation team to obtain voice samples of the accused despite the accused not inclined to give his samples. “The trial court has rightly mentioned in its order that not giving a voice sample can go against him during the trial stage,” Choudhary said.Meanwhile, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday also filed an application in the local court seeking approval for questioning of Jain.Jain was called for questioning on July 17 after the SOG registered a case on the complaint by chief whip Mahesh Joshi. The Congress filed two cases on the basis of audiotapes. In one, it named Sanjay Jain, Gajendra Singh and Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma as people hatching conspiracy against the government; the second case is against unnamed accused.The SOG arrested Jain on July 17.The SOG is investigating three cases of sedition and conspiracy to pull down the Gehlot government.Also, on the complaint by Congress, a case was also registered at the ACB against Jain, Sharma and Singh under section 7 (public servant accepts or attempts to take bribe) and 7A(public servant obtaining undue advantage) of Prevention of Corruption Act.Jain, who belongs to Loonkaransar town in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district, is a power broker and is perceived to be close to both Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.A former block president of the Indian Youth Congress, the party has accused Jain of being a BJP leader. The BJP claims Jain is still a Congress member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-linked-to-rajasthan-horse-trading-tapes-refuses-to-give-voice-sample/story-q59rwnPwIyiPRVUy8wF2MJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Normal rain likely in August and September, forecasts IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast normal rainfall at 104% of the long-period average (LPA) with a model error of +/-8% in the second half of monsoon season in August and September.As on Friday (July 31), the country has received normal rain at 101% of LPA or 1% excess rain with 12% excess over the north-east and east India; 19 deficiency over northwest India; 3% deficiency over central India and 13% excess over the southern peninsula.Rainfall in August is likely to be 97% of LPA with an error margin of +/-9%, which is also in the normal category. The entire monsoon season -- June to September -- rainfall is also likely to be in the normal range (96% -104% of LPA) as was the forecast on June 1, IMD said on Friday.“This is only a general picture. It doesn’t give day-to-day or weekly variations, which can also be significant. We have to remember that this is also not mentioning the distribution of rainfall,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC).In June, the country received 17.6% excess rains, but in July there was a 9.8% deficiency. Rains in the core monsoon zone are usually dominant in July, but this time around, central and northwest India has recorded a 22% and 26.2% deficiency, respectively.“There were no low-pressure systems this July. In spite of that, we did get rain and in the June-July period, we have recorded normal rains over the country,” said Devi.IMD considers rainfall between 96% and 104% of LPA as normal.IMD’s forecast on June 1 said that monsoon this year is likely to be normal at 102% of the LPA with a model error of 4% (+/-).LPA is the averages of rainfall received over a 50-year period between 1951 and 2001.“At present, the sea surface temperatures (SSTs), as well as the atmospheric conditions over the equatorial Pacific Ocean, indicate” cold El Nino neutral conditions,” according to IMD’s long-range forecasting (LRF) for the second half of the monsoon.The latest forecasts and models indicate that SSTs over the region are likely to cool further.However, ENSO neutral conditions are likely to continue during the remaining part of the monsoon season.In June, IMD had said there is an enhanced probability for the development of weak La Niña conditions after the monsoon season, which begins in June and runs until end-September.La Niña is characterised by unusually cold ocean temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific and is associated with normal or above normal rain over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-rain-likely-in-august-and-september-forecasts-imd/story-yLQZQFhNarzjTdP7yPq3VJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Long-lasting toxicity for humans, animals and birds at Baghjan oil spill region: Wildlife Institute||The environmental and health impact in the ongoing oil and gas spill due to a blowout in Upper Assam’s Baghjan gasfield will be a long-drawn affair, according to the Wildlife Institute of India’s (WII) 178-page report submitted recently to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC).WII has said that the highest concentration of polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), a toxic compound, in fish samples from Maguri Motapung wetland, which is located near the blowout site, was found to be 10-to 100-fold higher than any concentrations reported from India or other parts of the world.“The impact is significant and will have long-term effects, as many of these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate groundwater. Long term restorative efforts are needed for cleaning up these pollutants,” the report has said. The burnt-out area is mapped as 65-70 hectares, which include crop fields, grasslands, and swamps.There was a visible oil spill -- oil and sediment -- on June 16 in the downstream of the well, it has said.The Gangetic Dolphin encounters, which were earlier found abundantly in the Brahmaputra tributaries such as Lohit and Dibru and also in Maguri Motapung wetland, have decreased significantly after the blowout.A dolphin was found dead from poisoning from the oil spill.Perhaps, due to the oil spill and intense noise from the blowout, bird species richness has seen an overwhelming decline in grasslands and wetland by 59% and 85%, respectively, the report has said.Fish species have also declined in wetland and river tributaries, where dissolved oxygen level has fallen due to the oil spill.The loud noise due to the explosion can be heard in a radius of 12 kilometres and beyond, making the surroundings extremely unhealthy for humans, animals, and birds.The report has underlined that the wetland and surrounding lowland forests are unique and as a result, extremely vulnerable to more oil spill disasters.The Brahmaputra and the Gangetic floodplain landscape is unique in its morphology and fragility, and is responsible for shaping the unique community of plants and animals … the landscape (in Baghjan) is fragile and is engineered by flooding. The dynamic nature of wetland creates mosaics of habitat which is in perpetual flux.In India as well as the world over, there are only a handful of Protected Areas (PAs), where this unique biodiversity is surviving, and among them, Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and Kaziranga Orang National Park top the list, the report has stated and added that oil wells in and around DSNP would be detrimental to the unique ecosystem.The landscape is also extremely vulnerable to earthquakes and occasionally massive tremors.The expert appraisal committee of the MoEFCC in meetings held between 30 and January 1 had recommended environmental clearance for drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations inside and under the DSNP.“’The potential of oil blowout and oil spill-like disaster is a reality. Such oil wells in the vicinity of DSNP and important bird area complex (DSNP, Bherjan Wildlife Sanctuary, Padumani Wildlife Sanctuary, and Borajan Wildlife Sanctuary, Important Bird Areas (IBA) Poba Reserve Forest, Kobo chapori, Amarpur chapori and Maguri and Motapung, Dihing-Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary) will be detrimental to the conservation value of this unique ecosystem,” the report has said while suggesting that the cumulative impact of existing gas wells would need to be assessed.The study, led by WII scientist Qamar Qureshi, has also recommended that the government initiates a long term study to monitor the long-term impact on the ecology of Maguri-Motapung wetland and DSNP as well as on the health and socio-economic conditions of local communities around the affected areas. Since the restoration of the area will be a long-term process, an appropriate committee should be formed to monitor and guide the process.“WII has submitted its voluminous report. We are trying to get more details and may go back to WII for it. We are sending all the findings to the Assam government to begin mitigation and restoration work. I understand that the situation is still grim there,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general (wildlife), MoEFCC.“We will need time to respond to WII’s findings. Since it is a technical report, we will also have to get it reviewed by our independent experts. Our focus is presently on controlling the well and resolving the blowout,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, Oil India Limited (OIL).The gas well blowout took place on May 27 and the blaze followed on June 9, but the plugging exercise is yet to be over after two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-lasting-toxicity-for-humans-animals-and-birds-at-baghjan-oilspill-region-wildlife-institute/story-sY8pXpMnRz5wMPjPKeUJHJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Sushil Modi wades into a battle of probes between Bihar and Maharashtra in Sushant Singh case||Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has accused Mumbai police of obstructing a “fair probe” in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death being conducted by Bihar police. Modi’s questioning of Mumbai police comes amid growing calls for a CBI probe in the case and follows allegations by the actor’s family that the Mumbai police was more interested in framing big names in Bollywood.“Mumbai police is putting obstruction in the way of a fair investigation by Bihar police in #Sushant death case. BJP feels that CBI should take over this case,” Bihar deputy chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted on Friday.The differences over the ongoing probe in Sushant’s death is snowballing into a faceoff between the two states as Maharashtra government continues to back investigations by Mumbai police and has again rejected calls for a CBI probe.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: ED files money laundering case“Mumbai police are investigating the matter. Police will investigate on the basis of evidence, we expect that the probe will be completed as soon as possible and the police will reach a conclusion,” said state water resources minister Jayant Patil on demand of CBI inquiry in the case.The Bihar police team, which has alleged non-cooperation from Mumbai police in their parallel investigation into a case of abetment to suicide filed against actor Rhea Chakraborty, held a high-level meeting at Bihar DGP’s office in Patna on Friday.Rhea was Sushant’s live-in partner and has been accused along with six of her kin of abetment to suicide, withdrawing crores from Sushant’s bank account and harassing him mentally, by Sushant’s family.Sushant’s family had filed an FIR against Chakraborty in a Bihar police station a few days ago and has legally opposed attempts to transfer the case to Mumbai accusing the metropolis police of inaction and waylaying the probe into the 34-year old actor’s death by questioning film personalities and production houses, focusing on alleged nepotism as a possible cause of Sushant ending his own life in frustration. They have also pointed out that the Mumbai police have not registered even an FIR in the matter since June 14, when Sushant was found dead in his Bandra flat in Mumbai.Several Bihar politicians including Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, his son Chirag Paswan, have expressed apprehensions about the probe being conducted by Mumbai police and demanded a CBI probe into Sushant’s death.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s death must be probed by CBI: Ram Vilas Paswan joins chorusAccording to ANI, a letter petition has been filed in Patna High Court seeking the transfer of investigation into Rajput’s death from Bihar police to CBI. The petition came days after a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, dismissed a petition seeking a CBI inquiry into Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-wades-into-a-battle-of-probes-between-bihar-and-maharashtra-in-sushant-singh-case/story-dbjB6sI9nTvq9eCsD51o9K.html
31-07-2020||India||‘Situation remains fragile’: Delhi L-G on turning down AAP’s Unlock 3 move||Delhi L-G Anil Baijal on Friday overruled the Aam Aadmi party government’s decision to open hotels and allow for weekly bazars on a trial basis under Unlock 3, saying the situation remains ‘fragile’.Unlock 3 is the third phase of the gradual lifting of curbs announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.“The matter was discussed with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and it was agreed that while there has been improvement, pandemic situation in the capital continues to be fragile and the threat is still far from over. Therefore a cautious and conservative approach is required,” said a source from the Lt Guv’s office. The person said that while the proposal to allow street hawkers to operate for longer hours from August 1 was approved, the proposal for opening of hotels and hospitality services and opening of weekly bazars were deferred for the time being. He added that it would be reviewed later.On Thursday, the Delhi government decided to allow hotels, hospitality services, street hawkers to operate and do away with the night curfew hours applicable between 10pm and 5am under the Centre’s Unlock 3 plan.The government intended to allow weekly bazars to operate for a week on a trial basis to check if social distancing norms are adhered to. An official order regarding the same was to come by Saturday. “These decisions are in continuation of several important decisions taken by CM Arvind Kejriwal in the past few days to ensure Delhi’s economy, which was impacted severely by the lockdown, gets back on track,” said a statement issued by the office of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday.Regarding hotels, the statement said, “Since hotels of Delhi are no longer linked to hospitals, Delhi government has also decided to allow normal functioning of hotels and hospitality services, as already permitted under Centre’s unlock guidelines.”The Delhi government had on Wednesday de-linked around 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls that were attached to different hospitals to boost the city’s Covid-19 bed capacity.However, even though the Centre has allowed gymnasiums and yoga centres to operate, the government is yet to take a call on it.The Union home ministry issued the plan, Unlock 3, on Wednesday after receiving feedback from states and in consultation with central ministries and departments to open up more activities outside containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-g-baijal-rejects-delhi-govt-s-move-to-open-hotels-have-weekly-bazars-on-trial-basis-in-unlock-3/story-DI0zWI3XJQjRSh4SOaWUBJ.html
31-07-2020||India||India extends ban on international flights till August 31||India on Friday extended the ban on international commercial passenger flights till August 31. But the restriction shall not apply to international cargo operations and flights specifically approved by aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).“The government has decided to extend the suspension on the Scheduled International Commercial Passenger Services to/from India up to 2359 hours IST of 31st August,” the statement read.Earlier this month, in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases across the country, the civil aviation ministry had extended the ban on international flights till July 31. Prior to that, the earlier order had said the ban would be in place till July 15. The ban on international flights was extended even as capacity on domestic routes has been hiked to 45% from the earlier 33%.ALSO READ | India extends ban on international flights till July 31To allow gradual movement of passenger traffic during the Covid-19 health crisis, ‘Transport Bubble’ agreements have been signed with the United States, France and Germany. Air France and United Airlines of the US will operate a limited number of international flights under the “air bubble” arrangements with India.The country has also signed a travel bubble agreement with Kuwait to evacuate stranded passengers both to and from India. Further similar arrangements are likely to be put in place by the aviation ministry to ease passenger movements from different countries. On July 9, India had announced an air bubble with the United Arab Emirates that would be in place from July 12 to 26.A bilateral air bubble refers to a travel corridor between two countries that wish to reopen their borders and re-establish connections with each other. International flights to and from India have been suspended since March 23 as the Covid-19 pandemic spread across the world to nearly 185 countries. Limited domestic flights have since resumed on certain sectors from May 25.ALSO READ | France, US establish ‘air bubbles’ for flights to IndiaDuring the suspension of international flights due to the Covid-19 outbreak in India and other countries, more than 2,500 repatriation flights by foreign carriers to evacuate stranded nationals to and from India were approved by the government. Under the Centre’s massive Vande Bharat Mission, national carrier Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express have evacuated 2,67,436 stranded passengers and other flights have brought back 4,86,811 passengers between May 6 to July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-ban-on-international-flights-till-august-31/story-ervIbqmVguo9xNEQxozWJL.html
31-07-2020||India||14 army personnel test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar||Uttarakhand has reported that 14 Indian Army personnel, posted at a camp in Kausani in Bagheshwar district, has contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Of the 25 swab samples collected from an army camp in Kausani on Monday, 14 personnel has tested Covid-19 positive. They have been put under quarantine at the Military Hospital in Ranikhet after the test results were made available on Thursday,” said VK Saxena, deputy chief medical officer, Bageshwar. The army camp is located at Kausani on the way to Almora in the hill state’s Kumaon region. Most of the infected army personnel had returned to the camp from various parts of the country. Bagheswar district has reported 115 Covid-19 cases to date. Uttarakhand reported 199 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday and the tally has risen to 7,065, including 76 deaths, health officials said. At least 11 people have died due to the viral outbreak, while the rest 65 Covid-19 patients had comorbidities. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days stands at 27.64 days, while the infection rate is 4.6%. The hill state has conducted 1.63 lakh tests, of which over 7,000 results are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-army-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-s-bageshwar/story-y3I4Re9kLNjRJk3HGEYVCI.html
31-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Legal notices to Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar over Covid-19 scam allegation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Legal notices sent to Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar over Covid-19 scam allegationThe BJP has issued legal notices to Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar, Congress leaders in Karnataka, for what the ruling party said were comments harming its reputation by alleging irregularities in the management of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. Read moreAfter Chinese apps and contractors, India puts restrictions on colour TV importsIndia has now restricted imports of Chinese colour televisions to encourage domestic manufacturing after banning mobile applications and excluding firms from China from participating in public procurement tenders, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said. Read moreAnand Mahindra posts ‘visual metaphor’ of everyone navigating through Covid-19. WatchAnand Mahindra has time and again shared tweets that leave people on Twitter impressed and with various thoughts. His latest tweet is no different. The business tycoon has shared a thrilling video which he says represents a visual metaphor for the way people all over the world are trying to navigate through life in Covid-19 times. Read more25 years of Mobility in India: The first mobile phone call was made on this dayIndia is celebrating 25 years of mobility. July 31 marks the day the first mobile call was made in India. This took place on July 31, 1995 and the call was made by the then West Bengal Chief Minister Jyoti Basu to Union Communications Minister Sukh Ram. Read more#ChallengeAccepted: Why the Instagram hashtag went viral, may be ‘self promotional’ and no, it did not originate in TurkeyOver the past week, you may have noticed that your Instagram feed has been flooded with glamorous black and white photos of your friends, colleagues, celebrities and acquaintances, with a simple caption: #ChallengeAccepted, and a more telling #WomenSupportingWomen hashtag following it. Read moreWatch how this 51-year-old passed class 10 after 33 failed attemptsThe Covid pandemic has turned out to be a blessing in disguise for this 51-year-old Hyderabad resident. Mohd Nooruddin had failed the 10th board exams 33 times, but he has now benefited from Telangana government’s mass promotion scheme in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-legal-notices-to-siddaramaiah-dk-shivakumar-over-covid-19-scam-allegation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kT88n17r2MH3dEv0KjQWVM.html
31-07-2020||India||Jodhpur residential areas face landslide threat: Study||Geologists have warned that the residential colonies in and around the seven hills, including the 1.81-kilometre (km) peripheral area, surrounding the Masuria hill in Jodhpur, are under threat of landslides and should be declared landslide-prone zones. Masuria Hill experienced its first-ever landslide on October 4, 2019, which damaged significant geo-resources along with many houses, properties and also injured many people in Jodhpur’s Bank Colony. Landslides at Masuria Hill triggered panic among local residents because of the sudden and rapid fall of massive boulders, which portend for a natural disaster. Researchers at the Department of Geology of Jai Narain Vyas University (JNVU) and Suresh Gyan Vihar University in Jodhpur and Jaipur, respectively, who have tried to ascertain the cause of landslide in Masuria Hill, have found that 1.81-km peripheral area is susceptible to a similar natural disaster in the near future along with six other six hillocks that have identical rock disposition of the Umed Bhawan Formation (UBF). Masuria Hill is a popular attraction for both Jodhpur residents and tourists alike. Several residential colonies, including several of them built illegally, have sprung up in the foothills and are under threat from landslides in the near future, as the last October’s incident had shown. The study has revealed that the soft clay zone, primarily shale horizon, has been identified as failure plane and fall of massive boulders from the rigid sand zone had triggered the landslide. It also found that the two critical zones are spread along with the 1.81-km peripheral area surrounding Masuria Hill, which is located bang in the middle of Jodhpur city, making the adjoining areas prone to any such natural calamity in the near future. “We have identified some factors, which are primarily earthwork and construction of buildings; vibrations from machinery and traffic; blasting for breaking and removing rocks leads to disturbing the natural disposition of rock sequences of Masuria Hill, especially soft clay zone. The first landslide occurred when Jodhpur received 30% more rainfall in September 2019, which might have aggravated the liquefaction and erosion at Masuria Hill,” said Dr. CP Khichi, who is associated with the geology department of JNVU. He pointed out that three persons were killed and many were injured, when the landslide occurred at Jodhpur’s Uday Mandir area These two incidents do not augur well for the future, as Jodhpur braces for natural disasters. The residential areas around the seven hills such as Masuria Hill, Udai Mandir Hill, Kabir Nagar Hill, Pratap Nagar Hill, Mehrangarh Hill, Gol Nadi Hill along fort road, and Ganesh Bhakri Hill are most prone to landslides. Experts said that these areas need to be declared as a landslide-prone zone in a bid to save properties, human lives and significant geological resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jodhpur-residential-areas-face-landslide-threat-study/story-OnVso2FmmW0fiu7wLuDCVM.html
31-07-2020||India||Sheikh Hasina at helm, India-Bangladesh economic cooperation sets a new milestone||The start of commercial goods shipments by rail container between India and Bangladesh over the last week is a game changer because it brings speed, scale and sustainability to the bilateral trade and economic relationship, which is all poised for a leap ahead, people familiar with the development said on Friday.The first container train rolled into the railway station in Bangladesh’s border town of Benapole last Sunday. The 50 electronically sealed containers are safer than goods trains; faster and cheaper than transporting goods in trucks. The Sunday train carried fast moving consumer goods such as FMCG products likes soaps and shampoos, and textile fabric.According to diplomats based in Dhaka and New Delhi, container trains will not only help India’s export of essential commodities to Bangladesh, but also facilitate faster movement of Bangladeshi exports at significantly lower freight costs without the delays and overhead costs due to corruption and extortion rackets at the border that have seriously hurt movement of trucks at the Bengal border with Bangladesh.Indian officials said the importance of the breakthrough on Sunday, along with the proof of concept trans-shipment of goods to Tripura through the port of Chittagong in July, is that it underscores that the partnership between India and Bangladesh is at a level above that of any other country in south Asia.Relations between India and Bangladesh have been on an upswing after Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina came back to power in 2009 and picked up pace after PM Narendra Modi was voted in 2014. The two leaders made history in 2015 when they signed the land swap pact during PM Modi’s maiden visit to Dhaka, resolving a 41-year-old land boundary dispute that had been a major irritant in bilateral ties.Also Read: India hands over 10 broad gauge locomotives to BangladeshSheikh Hasina also helped PM Modi to hold peace in the northeast by taking strong action against terrorists who would cross the border when Indian forces cracked down on them.During her visit to New Delhi last year, the two leaders spoke of scripting a ‘golden chapter’, or ‘Shonali Adhyaya’, in their partnership.Foreign ministers of the two countries echoed the sentiment at an event on Monday that saw India providing 10 broad gauge railway locomotives to Bangladesh. The gesture was in line with commitments on both sides to improve connectivity and infrastructure initiatives to boost trade and create new supply chains.Also Read: Focus on Bangladesh | HT EditorialOver the decade that Sheikh Hasina has been in power for three consecutive terms, Bangladesh’s GDP has recorded Asia’s highest growth rate of 8.2% in 2018-19, shrinking people living in extreme poverty to less than 9% and turning the country into a manufacturing hub of ready-made goods. Along the way, Sheikh Hasina’s determined push to trade and development helped ensure that its per capita income rose sharply, racing ahead of even Pakistan. Its debt per capita is half that for Pakistan.Sheikh Hasina has demonstrated to the region and the world how a country otherwise short of resources can ensure a better quality of life by just keeping its focus straight, said an Indian official, underlining how a country described as a “bottomless basket’ by Henry Kissinger in 1974 had made great strides.He dismissed reports that the Indian high commissioner couldn’t get an appointment to meet the foregn minister for months - this was interpreted to imply relations between the two countries were headed downhill - and pointed to Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen’s “clear statement”.On Thursday, Momen had rubbished such claims, pointing that the high commissioner had sought an “appointment on July 22 and gave us ample time”. She will probably leave in late September or early October and wanted a meeting before that, the minister said.On reports that claimed Dhaka had preferred Chinese firms over Indian companies for the Sylhet Osmani Airport, Abdul Momen said the Chinese company had emerged as the lowest bidder during a tender process. “However, some newspapers say that we have given more benefits to China, which is completely absurd,” he added, according to the Dhaka Tribune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheikh-hasina-at-helm-india-bangladesh-economic-cooperation-sets-a-new-milestone/story-auufS6006TbOmRepnTmNSI.html
31-07-2020||India||Attempt to plug blow out of Assam gas well fails as wagon falls over||The final attempt to plug the blowout at an Oil India Limited’s (OIL) natural gas well at Baghjan in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, which has been on fire since June 9, suffered a setback on Friday, when a wagon used in the process “toppled over”. Foreign experts and their Indian counterparts were attempting to place the blowout preventer (BOP) stack, weighing nearly 3 tonnes, on the wellhead, when the Athey Wagon, a type of hydraulic lift used to fight oil-field fires consisting of a track-mounted boom with a hook in one end, fell down. “BOP stack was hooked up with the Athey Wagon for placing on the wellhead. While the final capping operation was being attempted, the Athey Wagon toppled over at the last moment and the attempt did not succeed,” said a statement issued by OIL. It added that the reasons for the incident are being ascertained in a bid to undertake the next course of action. Installation of the BOP was the penultimate task needed to complete the operation. Once the BOP is installed, the process of ‘killing the well’ was to start immediately. That was to be done by injecting a ‘kill fluid’, a sludge-like specially prepared mud, into the well slowly to push the gas from it back to the reservoir. Earlier this week, OIL authorities had stated that the process would take two-three days and the operation would be over by Thursday (July 30). But Friday’s incident is expected to delay the process further. “Experts are looking at all issues right now. Operations to cap the well will resume on Saturday morning,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL. The gas well had witnessed a blowout -- an uncontrolled release of gas or oil -- during a workover operation, or maintenance work, to locate a new reservoir, on May 27. While efforts were underway to plug the blowout, the well caught fire on June 9, killing two firefighters. The fire has been burning ever since. Initially, OIL authorities had said that the blowout would be plugged in a month. Later, the deadline was extended to July 7. But delays due to floods, technical glitches, and burn injury of three foreign experts while attempting to douse the flames have led to several delays. Since the Baghjan well is located close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park (DNSP) and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung Wetland, there were fears of environmental damage to the area due to the blowout and the blaze. Several studies by different agencies are underway to measure the extent of damage in the ecologically-fragile surroundings. In June, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and subsequent fire and assess the damage caused to human life, wildlife, and the environment because of the industrial disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempt-to-plug-blow-out-of-assam-gas-well-fails-as-wagon-falls-over/story-epobiOvFBTTwgNWMQq8SoL.html
31-07-2020||India||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh orders probe into 21 suspected spurious liquor deaths||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial inquiry by divisional commissioner Jalandhar into the suspicious deaths of 21 people, allegedly due to consumption of spurious liquor, in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran. One person is reported to be critical in the suspected hooch tragedy.The inquiry will look into the facts and circumstances leading to incidents, as well as into any other issue(s) connected or relevant to the incident(s). It will be conducted by the divisional Commissioner of Jalandhar along with joint excise & taxation commissioner Punjab, and superintendent of police for investigation of the concerned districts, according to an official spokesperson.The chief minister has given commissioner Jalandhar division the liberty to co-opt any civil/police officer or any expert to facilitate the expeditious conduct of the enquiry. He has promised strict action against anyone found complicit in the case, in which a woman has so far been arrested. Taking immediate and serious note of the case, Captain Amarinder also directed the police to launch a search operation to crack down on any spurious liquor manufacturing units that may be operating in the state.Also Read: India praises Canada for disavowing SFJ’s Punjab ReferendumPolice have arrested Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Muchhal, under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 61/1/14 of the Excise Act. Further investigations are in progress by the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by SSP Amritsar-Rural, from where the first cases were reported. The post mortem of four persons – Jaswinder Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kirpal Singh and Jaswant Singh - will be conducted today to ascertain the exact cause of the deaths.The director general of police (DGP) Punjab, Dinkar Gupta, said the first five deaths were reported from villages Mucchal and Tangra in Tarsikka police station limits in Amritsar Rural on the night of July 29. On the evening of July 30, two more persons died in suspicious circumstances at Muchhal, while one person was hospitalised in critical condition and later succumbed at Sri Guru Ramdas Hospital. Later, two more deaths were reported from village Mucchal, while another two people reportedly died in Batala city, also due to spurious liquor consumption.Also Read: Punjabi University row: V-C’s adviser puts in papers over delay in joiningToday, five more persons died in Batala, taking the toll in the city to seven, while one person has been referred to civil hospital, Batala in critical condition. Four more similarly suspicious deaths have also been reported from Tarn Taran.10 deceased are from Amritsar Rural-- Mangal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Dalbir Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kaka Singh, Kirpal Singh, Jaswant Singh and Joga Singh-- all residents of Muchhal village and Baldev Singh, from Tangra. Seven deceased are from Batala-- Buta Ram, Bhinda, Riku Singh, Kala, Kalu, Billa and Jatinder and four are from Tarn Taran-- Sahib Singh, Harban Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Dharam Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-captain-amarinder-singh-orders-probe-into-21-suspected-spurious-liquor-deaths/story-GdWqAFU2Whd1nyC15xZRbJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Former J-K CM Mehbooba Mufti’s detention extended by 3 months under PSA||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday extended the detention of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti by another three months under the stringent Public Safety Act.Mufti among others had been taken into preventive custody barely hours before the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 last year. The state was subsequently divided into two union territories— Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The detention order of the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was scheduled to lapse on August 5, 2020. Mufti is the only politician currently, who is still detained under the PSA.She will continue to remain under detention for another three months at her official residence, which had earlier been declared a subsidiary jail, the order issued by the Home Department of the government said.A number of other prominent politicians, including two former chief ministers, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, have been released from custody. The political leaders were arrested last August, hours after the Centre proposed the revocation of Article 370, which granted special status to the state of Jammu and Kashmir, and proposed the bifurcation of the state into two union territories. Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference leaders Sajjad Lone and Imran Ansari were also arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-j-k-cm-mehbooba-mufti-s-detention-extended-by-3-months/story-23POkX1p1dlWRTqZPHXSxK.html
31-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: ED files money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a money laundering case in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The case was filed on the basis of a First Information Report filed by the Bihar police, say officials. Sushant Singh’s father had alleged that there were unexplained transfers from his son’s bank account involving actor Rhea Chakraborty and others.The late actor’s father has accused Chakraborty, a budding TV and film actress, of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career. The ED will probe allegations of alleged mishandling of Rajput’s money and his bank accounts. The agency will probe if anyone used Rajput’s income for money laundering and creating illegal assets, the officials said.Officials said Rhea Chakraborty and others named in the ED case are likely to be summoned next week. Legal experts said that an ED probe is different from the one conducted by the local police as according to normal criminal law, a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty, but under PMLA (prevention of money laundering act), a person is presumed guilty until he proves his innocence. Dr Sujay Kantawala, senior lawyer who specialises in PMLA cases, said: “When the Bihar police lodged the FIR, the provisions were of Indian Penal Code. Here you are presumed innocent and the burden of proof is on prosecution to prove the charge. However, when the ED comes into the picture, there is a reverse burden of proof. The ED has powers to trace the monies and confiscate properties wherever they want by way of issuing provisional attachment orders.” The statements recorded by witnesses under the PMLA, said Kantawala, are admissible in the court unlike statements recorded by police under section 161 of the CrPC (criminal procedure code). Kantawala further explained that the accused person is entitled to get a copy of the FIR registered by police or CBI, but the ED’s ECIR (equivalent to FIR) is not given to the accused.The 34-year-old actor, who had starred in films such as Chichhore, Kai Po Che and Kedarnath, was found dead at his Mumbai home on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ed-files-money-laundering-case/story-yZzJxx3Ukc1cZlQ1t4po3I.html
31-07-2020||India||After Chinese apps and contractors, India puts restrictions on colour TV imports||India has now restricted imports of Chinese colour televisions to encourage domestic manufacturing after banning mobile applications and excluding firms from China from participating in public procurement tenders, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), an arm of the commerce and industry, issued a notification on late Thursday evening amending the import policy of colour television (TV) from free to restricted category.“Import of colour TV is now in the restricted category, which would necessitate an importer to seek import license from the government. The main purpose of this move is to check influx of China TVs,” one of the officials said requesting anonymity. India has a Rs 15,000 crore TV industry and over 36% of that is imported primarily from China and South East Asia, he added.India has taken a series of actions against China after the violent brawl between Chinese and Indian soldiers on June 15 along the Line of Actual Control in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed that day.On June 29, the Narendra Modi government announced a ban on 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing security concerns. On July 23, it restricted public procurements by the bidders from countries that share a land border with it on the ground of national security.A second official said that some Chinese TV sets were routed through a third country with which India has a free trade agreement (FTA). “This move will also curb such illegal trade,” he said.Besides China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Indonesia, Thailand and Germany are major exporters of colour TVs.“Many such items enter Indian market taking advantage of ASEAN India FTA imports at reduced or zero duty, putting our domestic industry at a disadvantage. Such imports cannot be controlled through increased duty rates. Hence, the government is taking measures such as non-duty actions like import restrictions,” the first official cited above said. ASEAN FTA was signed during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime in 2009 with Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.India has created necessary infrastructure and made arrangements to produce electronic items in cost-effective manner under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Imitative), and invite global manufacturers to set up units in India, the second official said.India’s production of electronics grew from $29 billion in 2014 to $70 billion in 2019.“Phased Manufacturing Programme (PMP) for TVs is underway and specified parts like open-cell, chips on films, Printed Circuit Boards Assembly (PCBA ) are exempted from duty. Hence, India is ready for a shift of manufacturing to India with cost-effective imports of essential parts,” the first official said.The officials said Thursday’s decision to restrict the influx of TV sets was taken after extensive consultations with the domestic industry that aims to promote ‘Make in India’, create jobs and provide goods at a comparable rate to the consumer.“As there is no ‘ban’ and only a ‘restriction’ being imposed, there is a possibility of such imports; however, with prior approval of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade,” Divakar Vijayasarathy, the founder and managing partner at consultancy firm DVS Advisors LLP, said. “The procedural aspects of acquiring this permit [licence]; however, would be tedious considering the stakes involved. There shall be transition provisions in place for import orders already being given or goods in transit,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-chinese-apps-and-contractors-india-puts-restrictions-on-colour-tv-imports/story-I9SrasQWRkF6TKzsSayliO.html
31-07-2020||India||ITBP inks deal with KVIC to procure swadeshi, khadi items for CAPF personnel||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Friday inked a deal with the KVIC to procure a variety of ‘swadeshi’ and ‘khadi’ goods for around 10 lakh personnel of the Central Armed Police Forces.The force will procure 1,200 quintals of mustard oil from the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) with “a total financial implication of over Rs 1.73 crore”, an ITBP spokesperson said.“A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the two sides on Friday. The aim is to increasingly procure ‘swadeshi’ or indigenously made products,” he said. The MoU was signed by KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena and officials of the ITBP procurement wing in Delhi.  The ITBP, a mountain-warfare trained force for guarding the 3,488-km-longs Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, is the first among the paramilitary or CAPFs to ink such a deal. The other Central Armed Police Forces are the CRPF, CISF, BSF and the SSB.Home Minister Amit Shah had declared few months ago that the CAPF canteens will only sell ‘swadeshi’ or indigenous products from June.Apart from mustard oil, the ITBP is also procuring durries (mats), towels and blankets from the suppliers empanelled with the KVIC.“Approximately 2.5 lakh durries will be procured by ITBP at a cost of Rs 17 crore. The force is the nodal agency for procurement of durries for all CAPFs,” the spokesperson said.The ITBP has also suggested that yoga kits, hospital bed sheets, ‘khadi’ uniform, pickels and some other items can be purchased for the CAPF jawans through KVIC, a senior official said.These items will also be sold to the personnel and their families through the CAPF canteens.These canteens, with a network of 1,700 stores, do an estimated business worth Rs 2,800 crore annually by selling their products to 50 lakh family members of about 10 lakh personnel of these forces tasked with a variety of internal security work apart from border guarding duties.The KVIC, according to its profile statement, is charged with the planning, promotion, organisation and implementation of programmes for the development of khadi and other village industries in the rural areas in coordination with other agencies engaged in rural development wherever necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-inks-deal-with-kvic-to-procure-swadeshi-khadi-items-for-capf-personnel/story-gz7TputCnd0ukuAZEWF0KP.html
31-07-2020||India||Ram temple to be grander than planned earlier: Architect||The proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya will be almost double the size of what was originally planned as its design was modified following the Supreme Court verdict last year, its architect said on Friday.The temple, to be constructed in Nagara style of architecture, will have five domes instead of two as envisaged earlier to accommodate more number of devotees, the architect said.According to him, the project is likely to be completed in the next three years once the work commences.The ‘bhoomi pujan’ (ground-breaking) ceremony of the temple in Ayodhya is scheduled to be held on August 5, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to attend, as told by the members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, a trust formed to oversee its construction.“The design of the temple was modified after the Supreme Court verdict. Now it will be almost double the size of what was originally planned,” architect Chandrakant Sompura, who has designed it, told PTI.“It will now have a shikhara (tower) over the sanctum sanctorum and five domes instead of the earlier plan of two domes. The height of the temple will also be more than what was in the previous plan,” he said.In November last year, the Supreme Court had paved the way for the construction of Ram temple by at the disputed site at Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. Sompura, 77, who comes from a family of temple architects that have designed over 200 such structures, said that he was asked to prepare a design for the Ram temple by late leader of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), Ashok Singhal, around 30 years ago.He said designing the Ram temple was an uphill task 30 years back, as he had to prepare drawings using his footsteps as the unit of measurement.“When I first visited the site in Ayodhya in 1990, nothing was allowed to be taken inside the premises due to security concerns, not even a measurement tape and I had to measure with my footsteps,” Sompura said. Based on his design of the temple, the VHP had started preparation for its construction in the 1990s by setting up a unit of carving of stones in Ayodhya, he said.“However, after the Supreme Court verdict in favour of construction at the Ramjamabhoomi site, the temple design was changed,” he said. “Now there will be five domes. It has two reasons- first, there is no dearth of land for the temple now and the second one is that after so much of publicity, we expect that a large number of devotees will visit the temple everyday and the size has been increased to accommodate them,” he said.According to Sompura, his son Ashish had presented this revised plan before the trust in June, which was approved. Ashish Sompura will look after the construction of the temple, although his father will have the final say on it. The septuagenarian architect said that he has designed many temples, but the Ayodhya Ram temple project is special to him just as the Somnath temple was for his grandfather Prabhashankar Sompura, who designed and oversaw its reconstruction.“This project is special as it is being built at the birthplace of Lord Ram. We have to ensure that it should be the best. With five domes, which is rare, it will set an example. It will be developed as the best place of worship in terms of temple architecture,” he said.“The temple is likely to be completed in next three years after its work begins,” he added.Sompura said his family designs temples in Nagara style and the structure in Ayodhya will also be built in that style of North Indian temple architecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-to-be-grander-than-planned-earlier-architect/story-wz7J7izft23fMcQbX1ubWM.html
31-07-2020||India||1,11,000 laddoos being prepared in Ayodhya for foundation ceremony||The preparation of 1,11,000 laddoos is underway at Mani Ram Das Chhawni in Ayodhya by the Devraha Hans Baba Sansthan, ahead of foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Temple in the city on August 5.According to a pundit of the Chhawni, “These laddoos will be used as offing to Lord Ram by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5. After that, they’ll be distributed to all the devotees who will come for the foundation laying ceremony and also sent to all major temples around the country.”He told ANI that a bag is being prepared by the Chhawni which will contain three books on the history of Ayodhya and Ram Temple, a box of laddoos and a shawl, among other things.Another worker at Chhawni said the preparation of the laddoos has been underway for the past 4 days and they’ll be packed and ready before the mega event.PM Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, according to the president of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The construction of Ram temple will begin in Ayodhya after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which chief ministers of many states, ministers from the union cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are also likely to participate.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, held its second meeting earlier this month.In March this year, the Ram Lalla idol was shifted to a temporary structure.The apex court, on November 9 last year, had directed the central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-11-000-laddoos-being-prepared-in-ayodhya-for-foundation-ceremony/story-K8nUpMtQLE9f8rfPRvsUcI.html
31-07-2020||India||Over 1.6 crore sanitary pads sold at subsidised rates under Asmita Yojana: Maharashtra govt to HC||Mumbai. Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that over 1.6 crore sanitary pads have been sold at highly subsidised rates to adolescent girls studying in Zilla Parishad schools and rural women across the state, ever since the Asmita Yojana was introduced in 2018. In an affidavit filed in HC on Friday, the government said that the Asmita Yojana has been designed and implemented with the objective of ensuring accessibility and availability of affordable sanitary pads across rural Maharashtra and the scheme is being implemented through women self-help groups (SHGs). Under the scheme, a pack of eight sanitary napkins is being sold to adolescent school girls and rural women at a subsidised rate of Rs 5 and Rs 24, respectively. So far, 19,78,140 packets, containing 1.6 crore sanitary pads, have been sold through 29,875 SHGs, the affidavit added. The affidavit was submitted in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL), jointly filed by law graduate Nikita Gore, who is working as a research assistant at Aurangabad bench of the Bombay HC, and law student Vaishnavi Gholave, seeking an order to declare sanitary napkins as an essential commodity and start its distribution through the public distribution system (PDS) along with other essential commodities. In the PIL, filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, the petitioners highlighted the need for easy access to sanitary napkins. The PIL stated that hygienic menstrual absorbents help adolescent girls and women to manage menstruation effectively, safely, comfortably, and fearlessly. The freedom from the fear of leakage or unpleasant odour increases their ability to attend schools or at workplaces during menstruation. A woman cannot predict, when menstruation will start and, as a result, there should be easy availability and supply of sanitary pads in schools and at workplaces, it further stated. The petitioners have asserted that sanitary napkins are an essential requirement of every woman. Women have the right to get them at a cheaper rate, as every woman spends about 3,000 days of her life menstruating and lack of cleanliness during this period may lead to infections, the petition pointed out. The petitioners have also sought proper implementation of the national guidelines for menstrual hygiene management issued by the Union Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-6-crore-sanitary-pads-sold-at-subsidised-rates-under-asmita-yojana-maharashtra-govt-to-hc/story-uh6sUChZxUHIRtVOMk4piM.html
31-07-2020||India||Jagan Reddy govt reinstates officer it removed from top poll body post||The Andhra Pradesh government late on Thursday issued orders reinstating retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as the state election commissioner (SEC), a week after the Supreme Court pulled it up for defying the state high court directions in this regard.A government order reinstating Ramesh Kumar as SEC was issued around midnight by Principal Secretary for Panchayat and Rural Development department Gopala Krishna Dwivedi.A gazette notification was issued subsequently restoring the position of SEC to Ramesh Kumar.The notification, which was signed by Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan, said the reinstatement would be subject to the outcome of the case in the Supreme Court, which is hearing a petition filed by the state government challenging the high court ruling on reinstatement of Ramesh Kumar.On April 10, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government removed Ramesh Kumar from the post of SEC through an ordinance, which sought to reduce the term of the SEC from five years to three years and appoint a judicial officer of the high court judge rank in the post.Accordingly, orders were issued ending the term of Ramesh Kumar who had just completed four years and retired Madras high court judge V Kanagaraj was appointed in his place.Subsequently, Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the state high court. After prolonged hearings, the high court bench, comprising chief justice J K Maheshwari and Justice Satyanarayana Murthy, on May 29 struck down the ordinance and ordered that Ramesh Kumar be reinstated as the SEC with immediate effect.On June 1, the Jagan government filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court challenging the high court verdict and seeking a stay on reinstatement of Ramesh Kumar. But the Supreme Court refused to grant any stay on the high court order but continued to take up the hearing in the case.Since there was no stay on the high court order, Ramesh Kumar argued that he be reinstated as the SEC. When the Jagan government refused to yield to his demand, he filed a contempt petition in the high court.Following the high court directions, he approached Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan and the Governor on July 22 wrote to the state government to follow the high court orders.The Jagan government again moved the Supreme Court challenging the contempt case. The top court on July 24 strongly reprimanded the government for not following the high court orders.Having no other option, the Jagan government was forced to restore Ramesh Kumar as SEC on Thursday. He is expected to resume office on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-govt-reinstates-officer-it-removed-from-top-poll-body-post/story-sqtDSvNYUXqXg2lbUFXVcL.html
31-07-2020||India||‘Better emotional connect if mother tongue is used to teach’: NEP expert||The new education policy (NEP) unveiled this week incorporates many suggestions given by Vasudev Devnani, the former education minister of Rajasthan. In an interview to Rakesh Goswami, he talks about the new policy and other changes in Rajasthan’s schools. Excerpts: Q: As education minister of Rajasthan from 2013-2018, you were part of the core committee on NEP. The policy is out. How many of your suggestions find place in it? A: First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Modi and his cabinet, especially (HRD minister) Nishank ji, for incorporating our suggestions in the NEP. They need to be congratulated for building an education policy, which will prove to be a milestone for the country. I have only seen the summary of the policy so far, so I can’t put a number to suggestions that we gave and that the Dr K Kasturirangan Committee incorporated in the Draft National Education Policy but I can see at least three of our suggestions in the new policy. These are taking aganwadi centres to schools for pre-primary education, exams in primary schools for periodic evaluation and vocational training in schools. I was chairman of the sub-committee on no-detention policy and we suggested that students may be detained in primary classes based on their performance in exams. In fact, we started exams in Classes 5 and 8 for promotion. District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET) conducted Class 5 exam and the Class 8 exam was conducted by Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE). Also Read: NEP 2020 more important than procurement of Rafale jets, should be implemented well: Shiv SenaQ: Did you implement some of these suggestions in Rajasthan even before the draft NEP? A: Like I told you, we brought back exams in primary classes. No-detention policy was affecting the quality of learning and our Board results bore the impact. The aganwadi centres were shifted to schools for pre-primary education. Students came to government schools at age 6 without any education whereas students going to other schools had studied in prep schools. So our students were deprived of education between 3 and 6 years. We moved 11,000 aganwadi centres to schools and principals were made their supervisors. We also started vocational education from Class 9. The NEP proposes to start this from Class 6. Q: How do you see the move to have mother tongue as medium of instruction in primary classes? A: In Rajasthan schools, the medium of instruction is Hindi. But maybe now, the teachers can also teach in local dialects. If someone uses the dialect that students speak at home, there is better emotional attachment with schools. I feel use of local dialects will also enhance the grasping power of students. Also Read: NEP 2020: No language is being imposed in the new National Education Policy: K KasturiranganQ: You had also made suggestions about teachers training. Have those been incorporated? A: It is a common phenomenon for graduates to get into B.Ed. courses because they cannot find a job. We don’t want such people becoming teachers. A person who wants to become a teacher should be passionate about teaching so we suggested a 4-year B.Ed. course right after Class 12. That has been accepted. This will save one year for the candidates – earlier they did graduation for 3 years and B.Ed. for another 2 years. We had also suggested amalgamating ITI, diploma into engineering courses – two years of ITI and diploma each and three years of engineering. I am yet to see if this has been adopted or not. Q: Your suggestions have found place in the policy but back home, the Congress government is reversing your decision to merge schools. How do you see that? A: The decision to reverse school merger is a political decision but the government has not been able to reopen many schools. We closed 21,000 schools due to the merger; the Congress government has reopened only 2,000. Because we did it in a scientific way, they haven’t been to reverse it fully. Also, it was because of the merger that today all gram panchayats in the state have a senior secondary school. When I became the education minister, there were 4,400 senior secondary schools in the state. We took it to 13,000. Because of the merger, we could best utilize the human resource and optimize infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/better-emotional-connect-if-mother-tongue-is-used-to-teach-nep-expert/story-sGNOVcNQuHRzGz470E1kjO.html
31-07-2020||India||Tripura HC orders identification parade to spot accused who spat at doctor in Covid-19 centre||Tripura High Court on Thursday ordered for a test parade to identify the person accused of spitting and gurgling water on a woman doctor at a Covid-19 care centre in Agartala. The HC also asked the investigating officer to record the doctor’s statement and identify the accused in the next 24 hours. The doctor had gone to the centre to admit some patients, including a mother and her newborn baby.“ ....to record confessional statements of the victim Dr. Sangita Chakraborty and her supporting staff under Section 154(5) of the CrPC within 24 hours, however, at the convenience of the said doctor and her other associates. The investigating officer is further directed to arrange for TI parade, if necessary, to identify the real offenders,” the court said in its order. A complaint was lodged at New Capital Complex (NCC) police station on July 27 by the Tripura health department about the alleged harassment of the doctor by some patients at the Covid-19 care centre. The accused were charged with Section 3 of Tripura Medical Service and Protection of Property Damage Act, Section 353 and 323 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 03 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Subimal Barman, the officer-in-charge of the NCC police station, said when contacted that four Covid-19 patients suspected to be involved in the incident were shifted to a separate institutional quarantine at Indranagar, few kilometres away from the state capital.“No one has been arrested yet,” he said. A Covid-19 patient, who is an additional government advocate, on Thursday sought anticipatory bail in the high court apprehending arrest in connection with the case.A single bench of justice Arindam Lodh asked the prosecution to submit an updated case diary during the next hearing. “Learned Addl. P.P. is requested to produce the case diary on 05.08.2020 to find out the reasonable apprehension and accusations, if any, against the petitioner,” judge noted in the order. Justice Lodh said in his order that any offence to hurt sentiments, safety and security of doctors would not be tolerated, saying doctors, paramedics, police personnel are the first line of defence in the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The judge further noted that obstacles were created to treat the Covid-19 patients and the woman doctor and her staff were prevented from performing their duties smoothly and freely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hc-orders-identification-parade-to-spot-accused-who-spat-at-doctor-in-covid-19-centre/story-wiCkaStnLa5kZPhaKFOHQL.html
31-07-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death must be probed by CBI: Ram Vilas Paswan joins chorus||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday became the latest political leader to call for an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Several political parties in Bihar, including Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), have called for and supported demands for a CBI inquiry into the 34-year-old actor’s death last month. The demand for a CBI probe has been mounting even as police departments of Maharashtra and Bihar are investigating the case.Anil Deshmukh, Maharashtra home minister and Congress leader, has rejected demands for a CBI probe into the actor’s death more than once, saying Mumbai Police are doing their job.“There’s a confrontation between two states and no FIR has been registered yet in Maharashtra. Chirag had spoken to CM Thackeray that there should be CBI probe,” the Union consumer affairs minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Paswan was referring to the allegations and counter-allegations over the probe being carried out by police teams from Patna and Mumbai. Chirag Paswan is his son and the president of the LJP.“All political leaders are demanding for it. It should be handed over to CBI,” Ram Vilas Paswan said.According to ANI, a letter petition has been filed in Patna High Court seeking the transfer of investigation into Rajput’s death from Bihar police to CBI.The petition came days after a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, dismissed a petition seeking a CBI inquiry into Rajput’s death. The actor’s father, Krishna Kumar Singh, filed a complaint with Bihar police last week accusing his son’s girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty, and six others, for the death. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14.Rajput’s father has levelled several allegations, including abetment to suicide and withdrawing crores of rupees from his son’s bank account and mental harassment, against Rhea Chakraborty and six others, including her family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-must-be-probed-by-cbi-ram-vilas-paswan-joins-chorus/story-gv9FJoiBxaSGQzufPhSrYN.html
31-07-2020||India||Indian extradited to UK last year, convicted of rapes, murder in 2009||Aman Vyas, who was accused of rape and murder of a woman and rape of three other women in 2009, fled to India and was extradited to the UK in October 2019, has been found guilty and faces a long term in jail when sentenced on August 21.Vyas, 35, who raped and murdered Michelle Samaraweera, was the third Indian citizen extradited from India since the 1992 India-UK extradition treaty. His extradition was the subject of a campaign over the years by Labour MP Stella Creasy.Scotland Yard said on Friday that Vyas was convicted at the high court on Thursday for offences that occurred in Walthamstow in north London between March 24 and May 30 of 2009. He was also found guilty of one count of grievous bodily harm and six counts of rape.After the crimes sparked anger, the police said that it was established that on July 2, 2009, a month after Samaraweera’s murder and just a few days after a television appeal about the case, Vyas purchased a one-way ticket to India, leaving the same day.A manhunt commenced to find Vyas and extradite him back to the UK. In 2011, inquiries revealed at one stage that Vyas was in New Zealand, he then made his way to Singapore and the trail went cold.It was on July 4, 2011 that police were informed by Indian authorities that they had arrested Vyas in New Delhi as he tried to take an outbound flight. Extradition proceedings commenced but it was not until October 4, 2019 that British officers escorted him from New Delhi to London Heathrow that he was arrested.Detective sergeant Shaleena Sheikh said: “Vyas did all he could to avoid responsibility for his crimes. He fled abroad and then added to the distress of those he hurt by making them go through the ordeal of a trial. However, the injuries Vyas inflicted told the true story of this violent criminal and the jury have seen right through his lies”.She added: “Although we had DNA from the scenes of his crimes, Vyas was not on the DNA database and was a complete stranger to his victims; to bring him to justice required an extraordinary investigation. This case lasted more than ten years, needed enquiries in many different countries and finally a lengthy extradition process”.“The sheer scale of the investigation was also remarkable. There were extensive media appeals, and thousands of homes and businesses were contacted, in person or through leaflets. Vyas’s crimes were wicked and relentless and I am thankful that such violent predators are rare”.Previous extraditions from India to the UK are: Maninder Pal Singh Kohli (Indian citizen), on July 29, 2007, for the rape and murder of British teenager Hannah Foster; Somaia Ketan Surendra (Kenyan citizen), on July 8, 2009, in a cheating case; and Kulwinder Singh Uppal (Indian citizen), on November 14, 2013, in kidnapping and false imprisonment case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-extradited-to-uk-last-year-convicted-of-rapes-murder-in-2009/story-yDaoozDHaftRlY0Sk57PPO.html
31-07-2020||India||American people overwhelmingly back India over China: Survey||American people overwhelmingly back India over China and prefer the US government to support New Delhi in possible Indo-China military and economic conflict, according to a survey by Australia-based think tank Lowy Institute.The survey published on The Interpreter by Lowy Institute explores US public views on potential military or economic strife between China to India.The web survey was conducted on a sample of 1,012 American respondents on July 7. The respondents were randomly assigned one of two versions of a prompt ---’If India and China were engaged in military conflict, would you support the US aiding India, China, or neither side?’ or ‘If India and China were engaged in economic conflict, would you support the US aiding India, China, or neither side?’According to results published by the think tank, 63.6 per cent of respondents would have the US support neither India nor China if they were to engage in military conflict with each other, compared to 60.6 per cent regarding economic conflict with each other.For those who did choose to support one of the countries, however, it was overwhelmingly in favour of India.“For a military conflict between India and China, 32.6 per cent preferred that the US support India, as opposed to 3.8 per cent who preferred that the US support China. For an economic conflict, 36.3 per cent of respondents preferred US support for India, while 3.1 per cent preferred the US support for China,” according to survey result.The survey was conducted amid heightened tension between India and China as troops of both countries are engaged in a military standoff since May. While the US has blamed China of taking “incredibly aggressive action” along the Line of Actual Control, saying Beijing had a pattern of instigating territorial disputes.The think tank said China’s broader actions in the region, especially as it thwarts democratic efforts in Hong Kong and pressures Taiwan, could similarly push Americans to have a more favourable view of India in any conflict.“China’s broader actions in the region, especially as it thwarts democratic efforts in Hong Kong and pressures Taiwan, could similarly push Americans to have a more favourable view of India in any conflict,” it said.“The challenge for Indian officials, as well as US officials sympathetic to India, is to find ways to increase American public knowledge of China-India disputes and the importance of India as a strategic partner,” it added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-people-overwhelmingly-backs-india-over-china-survey/story-qeONoz0LRrRsMNaV2zmKgO.html
31-07-2020||India||JK sets up panel to rein in officials involved in ‘anti-national’ activities||To tighten noose around government employees and officials involved in alleged anti-national activities in Jammu and Kashmir, the government on Thursday constituted a six-member committee for scrutinizing and recommending cases under Article 311 (2)(c) of the Constitution of India.“Sanction is hereby accorded to the constitution of a Committee for scrutinizing and recommending cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India,” read an order issued by the General Administration Department late Thursday.The panel includes chief secretary, administrative secretary, home department, director general of police, administrative secretary, general administration department, additional director general of police, CID and administrative secretary, department of law, justice & PA.Also Read: Pakistan indulging in activities to deflect attention from support to terror: IndiaThe procedure shall be followed for invoking the provision of Article 311 (2)(c) of the Constitution of India viz “The cases shall be referred by the Administrative Departments or Police Organization to the Home Department. On receipt of such a report, the Home Department shall examine the case and upon satisfaction that the case meets the requirement of Article 311(2) (c), it shall place the case before the Committee,” it stated.“The recommendations in respect of such cases shall be supported by relevant records which may include a copy of the interrogation report and other collateral evidence to justify dispensing with the holding of an inquiry in the interest of security of the State,” it added. “The Home Department shall place each case along with the recommendations of ADG, CID, J&K before the Committee and recommendations of the Committee shall be processed by the Administrative Secretary, Home Department for orders of the Competent Authority in terms of Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India,” it further stated.Also Read: 7 Pakistani migrants granted Indian citizenship in Rajasthan’s JaipurOrders of dismissal shall be issued by the general administration department after the approval of the competent authority, the order added.It is further ordered that all pending cases be decided in the manner/procedure laid down above and all departments shall seek the advice of the home department before deciding the period of suspension of government employee whose dismissal orders are either quashed by the courts or who resume duty after detention besides the home department shall offer advice to the departments.It may be stated here that several government employees have been found involved in the violent protests in Kashmir in the past. However, such employees were never booked by police because the governments of the day used to pardon them with mere warnings.The order issued late Thursday is being seen as an attempt to cleanse the system of such employees and officials against whom substantial evidence was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-sets-up-panel-to-rein-in-officials-involved-in-anti-national-activities/story-6b42QkaBdOKe8IzfWDh8tL.html
31-07-2020||India||Vrindavan widows to send rakhis, face masks to PM Modi on Rakshan Bandhan||The widows living in various ashrams of Vrindavan near Agra are eagerly looking forward to sending rakhis and Vrindavan-themed masks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mark Raksha Bandhan.Till last year, some widows used to visit the PM’s house to tie a rakhi. But this year, they will not meet him due to the cornavirus pandemic. Earlier, Holi celebrations that used to be organised for these widows, was also called off due to Covid-19.Though the widows will miss the opportunity to meet PM Modi this Raksha Bandhan, they have prepared 501 special rakhis with his images and a similar quantity of special Vrindavan-themed face masks which are being sent to him.These rakhis containing colourful photos of PM Modi were prepared by a group of widows living in ‘Maa Sharda’ and ‘Meera Sahabhagini’ ashrams.Social reformer and Sulabh Movement founder Bindeshwar Pathak had started organising all important Hindu rituals for widows living in Vrindavan. Rakhsha Bandhan was among them but no such programme is possible this time due to the Covid-19 crisis.“The ongoing coronavirus crisis disheartened the widows but it didn’t shatter their spirit, so they started preparing rakhis and special Vrindavan themed masks for Mr Modi. Some rakhis contain photos of the prime minister with covered faces,” said Sulabh Hope Foundation vice-president Vinita Verma.Chabi Dasi, who is nearly 75, had personally tied a rakhi to the prime minister. She looked disheartened this year as she has been spending her days inside the ashram for the last five months. But she is happy that her rakhis and masks are being sent to the prime minister.“I have personally designed special masks carrying messages like ‘Stay safe’ and ‘Atamnirbhar’ and rakhis with Modiji with a covered face,” Chabi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vrindavan-widows-to-send-rakhis-face-masks-to-pm-modi-on-rakshan-bandhan/story-v0zbb5MpcnegzMCuTlEvGL.html
31-07-2020||India||Second BJP worker found hanging within a span of 24 hours in West Bengal||Another Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was found dead in a village in south Bengal on Thursday. Police said they have found a suicide note. This is the second BJP supporter found dead within a span of 24 hours in south Bengal and third in July. All three died in a similar manner, hanging. While in all the three cases the BJP has alleged that the victims were murdered by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and then their bodies were strung up to pass them off as suicide cases, the latter has refuted the allegations. Bengal is slated to go for polls in May next year, where the BJP, which has emerged as the main opposition in the battleground state following the void created by the dwindling electoral fortunes of the Left Front and the Congress, is vying to unseat the TMC’s uninterrupted rule since 2011. On Thursday, Gautam Patra (52), was found hanging from a tree at Ghoramara in South 24 Parganas districts. “This is propaganda against us. The TMC is not associated with this (Patra’s death) in any way,” said Bankim Hazra, a TMC lawmaker from the area. On Friday, BJP’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu was stopped by the police from proceeding to the East Midnapore district, where local party leader Purnachandra Das was found dead on Wednesday. His body was found hanging from a tree. “Again prevented by the police, I am not being allowed to enter the East Midnapore district. My only fault that I am scheduled to meet with the family members of a murdered BJP booth president,” tweeted Basu. Police officials said that Basu was stopped because they anticipated that there could be a violation of law and order upon his arrival at the dead party worker’s residence. Earlier on July 13, Debendra Nath Roy, a BJP lawmaker, was found hanging from the ceiling of a shop at a marketplace in north Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district. While police said he had died by suicide, BJP leaders and family members had alleged that he was murdered by the TMC and had moved the Calcutta high court (HC) demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe. HC turned down the CBI plea. West Bengal Police’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is investigating legislator Roy’s death. In early July, BJP leaders had alleged that over 100 party workers have been killed in Bengal over the past three years. In many cases, the workers were found dead and hanging from a tree. Police in most cases found that the victims had died by suicide. A BJP delegation had met President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah after Roy’s body was found in Uttar Dinajpur district. Later, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee sent a letter to President Kovind, alleging that the BJP was distorting facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-second-bjp-worker-found-hanging-within-a-span-of-24-hours/story-W3VFYF2FA4tQnPh5OXg1gJ.html
31-07-2020||India||At home after years, migrants eagerly waiting for Raksha Bandhan amid Covid-19 gloom||Ajay Pal, a migrant labourer who returned from Mumbai to his village in Pratapgarh due to Covid-19 lockdown in early May, is happy.“This Raksha Bandhan, it will be exactly 12 years since my sister tied rakhi on my wrist. All these years I had been away,” said Pal, who is eagerly waiting for Raksha Bandhan.Pal, who worked as a mechanic in Mumbai, is using this time to meet the members of his extended family and relatives and replenish the old ties which he overlooked while working in Mumbai. “I left home when I was 18. That was the last time I got rakhi tied by my sister. I have got this opportunity again this time,” said Pal. He is third born among four children. Pal is two years younger to Rupa, the only sister among three brothers. Rupa was married two years after Pal left for Mumbai in search of work. He met Rupa on several occasions in the meantime, but never on Raksha Bandhan. “I use to visit my village only during Diwali or Holi. I use to speak to my sister on phone on rakhi but never thought of visiting her on the day. I think I should have come every year just for few days around rakhi, after all she is our only sister,” said Pal.As the day gets closer, Pal has started keeping a close watch on the notices of lockdown issued by the government.“The house of my sister is some 15 kilometres away from here. It will be difficult for me if lockdown is declared due to rising Covid-19 cases. In that case I will have to think of some other way but I have made up my mind to meet my sister on rakhi which is on August 3 this year,” asserted Ajay adding that his younger brother will also accompany him. Another migrant worker, Dinesh Verma, 36, in Prayagraj district is also looking forward to meeting his sisters on Raksha Bandhan.“I will meet my sisters after five years on this Raksha Bandhan day. Though they used to post me rakhi every year, getting it tied by them will be special,” Verma said.Both his sisters, Divya and Madhuri, are married in the same district some 20 kilometres away from his house. Verma has asked his wife to prepare some sweets at home which he would take as a gift to their house on rakhi.“I use to send money for my sisters on rakhi in the past years but don’t have much to give this time. My wife will prepare something that I will take along with me,” said Verma, who worked as a waiter in a restaurant in Nagpur before Covid-19 pandemic hit.He lost his job and returned home on one of the Shramik special trains. He now helps his father on the farms. “Like me there are many migrant workers who will meet their sisters after a long time on this festival, which has come as a brief glimmer in these gloomy times,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-home-after-years-migrants-eagerly-waiting-for-raksha-bandhan-amid-covid-19-gloom/story-dtagYBCfpL1bBViajDVDIJ.html
31-07-2020||India||No Dalit among 200 priests invited for Ram temple event. What Mayawati said||Taking note of a Dalit saint’s complaint, BSP chief Mayawati on Friday said it would have been better if the saint from the oppressed community had also been invited along with the 200 priests that will attend the mega Rample temple bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking ceremony) on August 5.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to attend the big event for which Diwali-like preparations are in full swing. Mayawati, in a series of tweets, said the invitation to Swami Kanhaiya Prabhunandan Giri would have made a positive impact and would have been in line with the Constitutional design of creating a casteless society.However, the BSP chief also advised the community to not fall into this trap and work for their upliftment. “Instead of getting into these debates, the Dalit society suffering from casteist neglect, contempt and injustice should focus more on labour/deeds for their salvation. In this case also, they should follow the path of their Messiah Param Pujya Baba Saheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar. This is the advice of the BSP,” said Mayawati.Swami Kanhaiya Prabhunandan Giri, lone Dalit Mahamanadaleshwar of Juna Akhada, on Thursday had expressed discontent after the organisers - Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust - did not extend him the invitation for the ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple to be constructed at the site of the Babri Masjid, which was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992. The saints belonging to the upper caste groups have been invited, he said, alleging that he was ignored for being a Dalit. The Dalits are being ignored in the Ram temple construction, he alleged, could be gauged from the fact that no Dalit has been made a member in the Trust constituted to supervise the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. In Ramayana it is clearly mentioned that Rama worked for the uplift and welfare of the downtrodden and oppressed community, the saint underscored. Giri, a native of Azamgarh, was made Mahamanadaleshwar in a programme organised at Prayagraj during the 2019 Kumbh. He is the sole Mahamanadaleshwar from the Dalit community in the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad - the top body that controls the activities of all the akharas in the country. Dismissing Giri’s accusation, the chief of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri, said: “When a person becomes a sadhu he loses the caste identity, all the sadhus are equal in the Akhara Parishad.”HT’s attempts to reach out to the Trust’s local office in Ayodhya elicited no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dalit-among-200-priests-invited-for-ram-temple-event-what-mayawati-said/story-U0YxRnfSiI1umMtcJqF8iL.html
31-07-2020||India||Supreme Court orders status quo on ex-Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh’s bail||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered status quo on bail granted by Delhi High Court to Shivinder Mohan Singh, the former promoter of Fortis Healthcare, in the money laundering case related to Religare Finvest Limited. The bench headed by justice Arun Mishra also said that the high court judgment should not be treated as a precedent in other bail matters. “Issue notice. In the meantime, the status quo with respect to bail be maintained. The judgment of Delhi high court not to be treated as a precedent,” the court said. The Delhi high court had, on July 23, granted bail to Singh stating there was no rationale for continuing his custody as an undertrial. The bail was conditional subject to him furnishing a personal bond to the tune of Rs 1 crore and two sureties of Rs 25 lakh.He was also directed not to leave the country without the permission of the trial court hearing the case against him.Though he was granted bail, Shivinder continues to remain in jail since he is in judicial custody in another case filed by Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police. Singh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in December 2019 for offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Before that, EOW had arrested him in October 2019 for offences under Indian Penal Code.The trial court had rejected his bail plea in June. The Supreme Court will also consider the important question of whether the twin conditions for granting of bail under section 45 continues to remain valid. Section 45 was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2017. The section was subsequently amended by Parliament. However, Delhi high court had held in a case of Upendra Rai vs ED that the twin conditions for bail under section 45 will not stand revived despite the amendment made to it.This high court order was, subsequently, stayed by the Supreme Court.In Shivinder’s bail plea, Delhi high court observed that although there has been an amendment to section 45, there is no subsequent decision of the Supreme Court holding the said two conditions to be constitutionally valid, even when brought back by way of the amendment. Accordingly, it must treat the said two conditions as invalid and struck-down.This aspect has been challenged by ED before SC. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that the Supreme Court must examine this issue and settle the law conclusively. “We will have to settle the law. The solicitor general has made the correct submission by SG,” justice Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-ex-fortis-healthcare-promoter-shivinder-mohan-singh-s-bail/story-wr1mSijS3wTeQWd0e3GjRI.html
31-07-2020||India||Mumbai Police arrests 2 more men for issuing rape threats to Agrima Joshua||The cyber crime cell of Mumbai Police has arrested two more men, who allegedly abused and issued rape threats to the city-based stand-up artiste, Agrima Joshua, via an offensive video. Joshua had courted controversy after a video of her stand-up act performed last year went viral, where she had purportedly insulted Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, an icon in Maharashtra. Later, she apologised on social media and deleted the video. The arrested persons have been identified as Ashraf Shaikh and Virat Sharma. Both are Virar residents and class X drop-outs, who drive auto-rickshaws to make a living. Also read | Unfunny task of female comedians: Yet to crack upThey are friends of Umesh Dada alias Imtiyaz Shaikh, who was arrested by Mumbai Police from Nalasopara on July 13, for a similar charge. Investigations have revealed that Umesh Dada and the other two arrested accused are influenced by Hindustani Bhau, a popular YouTuber and a former contestant of Big Boss, a reality TV game show. “Influenced by the style of Hindustani Bhau about how he abuses and roasts people in his videos, the three had made similar clips to gain popularity in a short span of time. They had made videos on Joshua for cheap thrills,” said a police official, requesting anonymity.Their videos, too, had gone viral. Umesh Dada is a friend of another YouTuber, Shubham Mishra, who was arrested on July 12 from Vadodara by Gujarat Police on similar charges of threatening and abusing Joshua. Mishra is also a friend of Hindustani Bhau. “The arrested accused had switched off their mobile phones and had gone underground after Umesh Dada was held. They were arrested on Thursday from Virar after a search operation lasted over 15 days,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (cyber), Mumbai Police. Mumbai Police on Thursday night shared a video on Twitter in which the two accused could be seen seeking an apology for their actions. The families of the two arrested accused had no knowledge about their crime and only came to know after the Mumbai Police booked them. The two have been arrested under Sections 294 (obscenity), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 354-D (stalking), 504 (intentional insult to break public peace), 505 (statements leading to public mischief), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (intending to insult the modesty of a woman), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 67-A (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act) of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. They will be produced in a Mumbai court on Friday.Initially, a Shiv Sena leader had complained about Joshua’s viral video to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Later, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) activists vandalised Habitat Cafe, a stand-up comedy studio in Khar in suburban Mumbai, where Joshua had performed last year. The video of MNS’s stunt was shared on social media following which social media influencer Shubham Mishra and Umesh Dada also jumped on the bandwagon. They uploaded their videos on social media, threatening to rape her for disrespecting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. They also abused her mother and sister.Several prominent personalities, such as stand-up artistes Mallika Dua and Kunal Kamra and actor Swara Bhaskar, criticised the offensive videos and sought the intervention of the National Commission for Women (NCW). Minister Deshmukh took cognisance of the threat to Joshua and asked the Mumbai Police to take legal action against the offenders and also to ascertain if she is liable to be prosecuted for disrespecting Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agrima-joshua-mumbai-police-arrests-2-more-men-for-issuing-rape-threats/story-aF1WWTwksi86yssNbWHYaP.html
31-07-2020||India||PM Modi to address grand finale of Smart India Hackathon on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the grand finale of Smart India Hackathon on Saturday via video conferencing and also interact with students on the occasion, according to an official statement.The hackathon is a nationwide initiative to provide students with a platform to solve some of the pressing problems people face in daily lives, and thus inculcate a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem-solving, it said.“It has proved to be extremely successful in promoting out-of-the-box thinking in young minds,” the statement said.The first edition of Smart India Hackathon in 2017 saw participation of 42,000 students which increased to 1 lakh in 2018 and to 2 lakh in 2019. The first round of Smart India Hackathon 2020 saw participation of more than 4.5 lakh students. “The grand finale of the software edition this year is being organized online by connecting all the participants throughout the nation over a specially-built advanced platform. More than 10,000 students will be competing to solve 243 problem statements from 37 central government departments, 17 state governments and 20 industries,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-grand-finale-of-smart-india-hackathon-on-saturday/story-yygArHbBugWC7W5sPDHFjM.html
31-07-2020||India||‘Officially informed that I’m a free man’: People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone released from house detention||The Jammu and Kashmir administration released People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone from house detention on Friday.He was detained after Centre abrogated Article 370 last year and was lodged at MLA Hostel for six months. Lone was later shifted to his government accommodation at Church Lane in February last year.“Finally 5 days short of a year I have been officially informed that I am a free man. So much has changed. So have I. Jail was not a new experience. Earlier ones were harsh with usual doses of physical torture. But this was psychologically draining. Much to share hopefully soon,” he tweeted after being released. Finally 5 days short of a year I have been officially informed that I am a free man. So much has changed. So have I. Jail was not a new experience. Earlier ones were harsh with usual doses of physical torture. But this was psychologically draining. Much to share hopefully soon.Lone was released from custody on February 5 but was put under house arrest.Lone was a minister in the PDP-BJP coalition government - under the BJP quota - in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir; however, once he opposed the revocation of Article 370, he was also held along with some other senior leaders of People’s Conference.A total of 13 leaders were released from detention in January this year, while five leaders had been released in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officially-informed-that-i-m-a-free-man-people-s-conference-leader-sajad-lone-released-from-house-detention/story-2q7YdcwuuzvRNiMXYpr5QK.html
31-07-2020||India||Elgar Parishad case: Vernon back in Taloja jail after testing negative for Covid, Dr Teltumbde’s report awaited||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Maharashtra government to inform the family members of academic and civil rights activist Dr. Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad/Bhima Koregaon case, about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test results.Dr. Teltumbde had undergone the Covid-19 test on Thursday. The counsel for the other co-accused, Vernon Gonsalves, informed the court that his client had tested Covid-19 negative earlier this week and also spoke to his family members to convey his well-being to them. However, Dr. Teltumbde’s family members are anxious, as his Covid-19 test results are still awaited and he has not spoken to them yet. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, who represented the Maharashtra government, informed the court that Dr. Teltumbde’s Covid-19 test result would be made available on Saturday. The court will hear the case next on August 4, when the state government will also submit Dr. Teltumbde’s Covid-19 test report. An HC division bench, comprising Justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht, while hearing the plea of Gonsalves and Dr. Teltumbde seeking directions to the jail authorities to test them for SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai on Friday that Gonsalves had been tested for the viral infection and the results had come negative. Desai further submitted that Gonsalves is back in the normal barracks at Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai on completion of his mandatory quarantine period. Last week, Gonsalves and Dr. Teltumbde had pleaded with the court to allow them to undergo Covid-19 tests after fellow accused and reputed Telugu poet and social activist P Varavara Rao (81) was found to be infected with the viral infection over two weeks ago. Gonsalves was helping Rao with his day-to-day activities in Taloja Jail because of the latter’s advanced age and Dr. Teltumbde is also lodged in the same prison. Rao is undergoing treatment at Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital after he had tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-vernon-back-in-taloja-jail-after-testing-negative-for-covid-dr-teltumbde-s-report-awaited/story-wwPt7Fj4L1lVYuDjFk8PDJ.html
31-07-2020||India||BJP marks anniversary of passage of triple talaq law as Muslim Women’s Rights Day, Union ministers hail PM Modi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is observing the first anniversary of the passage of the triple talaq bill in Parliament as the Muslim Women’s Rights Day on Friday as several Union ministers tweeted to hail the law that criminalises the practice of granting an instant divorce.The law, formally called the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, was passed in last year after intense debates in both the lower and upper houses of Parliament, with opposition parties stating it targeted the Muslim community even as the centre asserted that it would help achieve gender justice for Muslim women.The ruling BJP pitched the ban on instant triple talaq as a huge step for the empowerment of women and several ministers, including law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, tweeted to call it a historic step.“From Shah Bano to Shaira Bano, Muslim women have been facing triple talaqs for decades and denied the right to respect and equality in society. On 1 August 2019, the Modi government enacted a law against triple talaq to get Muslim women free from this practice,” the BJP tweeted.“Today on 31st July 2020 we will celebrate it as #MuslimWomenRightsDay. This day will always be remembered as a golden day in the Indian democracy for giving gender justice, dignity and equality to muslim women by ending the evil practice of #TripleTalaq,” law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted.“Triple Talaq Bill has been proved to be a historic step of PM Shri @narendramodi Ji’s Govt to ensure socio-economic, fundamental, democratic rights of Muslim women,” Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi tweeted.V Muraleedharan, junior foreign minister, pointed out that there has been an 82% decline in cases of the triple talaq within a year of the implementation of the law. “A sound legal framework put in place by @narendramodi govt ensured safety, security to Muslim women & contributed significantly to their empowerment,” Muraleedharan also posted.“A special thank you to all the brave Muslim women who challenged this inhuman practice in Supreme Court & got it declared unconstitutional & violative of Article 14 of the #Constitution,” Muraleedharan added.Smriti Irani, the women and child development minister, attacked the Congress for not doing enough for Muslim women.“In the 1980s, Congress had time and numbers to do justice to Muslim women. But vote bank was more important for them and not justice to Muslim women. They never aimed to better the lives of Muslim women,” Smriti Irani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Pralhad Joshi, parliamentary affairs minister, also praised the Prime Minister for doing away with the “regressive practice”.“It took the nation leadership of a visionary Prime Minister, Shri @narendramodi ji to come out of the regressive practice of triple talaq. Today we celebrate 1 year of the historic moment which has been a symbol of women empowerment and liberty,” Joshi tweeted.The Supreme Court had in August 2017 declared the practice of talaq-e-biddat or a form of divorce based on a husband pronouncing divorce thrice in quick succession or as unconstitutional. The practise is banned in most Muslim countries including Pakistan.The verdict came on a petition of five Muslim women, including lead petitioner Shayara Bano, who were abandoned after their husbands pronounced instant divorce.The Centre initially issued an ordinance after the verdict to criminalise the practice of triple talaq for the want of majority in Parliament’s upper house, or Rajya Sabha, before bringing the law.According to the law, the practice of instant triple talaq is a cognizable offence or one in which the police may carry out an arrest without a warrant, and is used for serious crimes such as theft, rape and murder.Section 4 of the act punishes a guilty Muslim man with three years of imprisonment and also make him liable to pay a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-marks-anniversary-of-passage-of-triple-talaq-law-as-muslim-women-s-rights-day-union-ministers-hail-pm-modi/story-0ro4MBT23QUiYpkQAla8IK.html
31-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 states have not made timely payment to Covid-19 workers, Centre tells SC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.4 states have not made timely payment to Covid-19 healthcare workers: Govt tells Supreme CourtThe Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that four states have not made timely payment of salaries to healthcare workers engaged in the battle against Covid-19. These states are Punjab, Maharashtra, Tripura and Karnataka. The Centre said that this happened despite a direction from the top court. Read more9 die after consuming hand sanitiser in Andhra Pradesh, police say they couldn’t find liquorAt least nine people died when they consumed alcohol-based hand sanitiser in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district in the last two days, the police said. The tragedy took place in Kurichedu town. While one person died late on Wednesday night, two others succumbed on Thursday night and six others on Friday morning. Read moreThree women killed as car rolls down gorge in Kotkhai near ShimlaThree women were killed when the car they were travelling in fell into a 300-foot gorge in Kotkhai tehsil of Shimla district, police said on Friday. Sodha Devi, 78, a resident of Sainj village in Kotkhai, Ishvari Devi, 45, of Pujeli village in Kotkhai and Bimla Devi, 39, of Dhar village, also in Kotkhai, died on the spot. Read moreChina logs 127 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, highest since early MarchChina on Friday reported 127 new coronavirus cases on the mainland for July 30, up from 105 the previous day, and the highest daily number since March 5 for locally transmitted cases of Covid-19 on the mainland. Read more‘He could’ve been the youngest ever’: When Danny Morrison denied Sachin Tendulkar an elusive centuryDanny Morrison was the bowler responsible for denying a young Sachin Tendulkar the feat of becoming the youngest ever Test centurion but the former New Zealand quick admits he spotted something special when he first bowled to the then teen-prodigy. Read moreThis dangerous Android malware can steal your banking info, warns CERT-InA new Android malware called ‘BlackRock’ was discovered two weeks back. This malware can steal data from at least 337 Android apps. CERT-In has now issued an alert against the BlackRock malware. Read moreHappy Birthday JK Rowling: Harry Potter, Ickabog author turns 55, a look at some of her workJoanne Kathleen Rowling, better known as J.K. Rowling was born on July 31, 1965, in Yale, Gloucestershire, England. She shares her birthday with perhaps the most popular fictional character of our time and also her own creation, Harry Potter. Read morePune Police’s recent tweet is a treat for Potterheads. Seen it yet?If you identify yourself as a Potterhead, chances are you know what’s special about today. For the uninitiated, read muggles, July 31 is considered a special day since it’s Harry Potter’s birthday. Pune Police’s Twitter handle has not only acknowledged the day but also referenced it to share an important message in their latest tweet. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: ‘Not herd immunity, vaccine only option,’ says govt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-states-have-not-made-timely-payment-to-covid-19-workers-centre-tells-sc-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FTv2IZPONsDgIUBERUH6vL.html
31-07-2020||India||Uttarakhand: One killed, two feared dead after house collapses due to heavy rain||Dehradun: One person has died and two others of the same family are feared dead after they got buried under the debris of their house, which collapsed due to heavy rains at Kunjapuri in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district on Friday early morning, officials said. An operation has been launched by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and police personnel to retrieve the bodies of the two other persons, who are feared to be dead, officials said. “The house collapsed at around 5 am while three persons of a family, including two women and a boy, were sleeping following heavy overnight rains,” said Praveen Alok, media in-charge, SDRF. “We were informed about the incident at around 6 am and a team was sent from our base in Rishikesh. So far, the body of a girl (20), identified as Ankita, has been retrieved,” said Alok. “The team has spotted the body of the boy under the debris. The third person is also feared to be dead. However, her body is yet to be found. The rescue operation is still on,” he added. The SDRF personnel also rescued some people after rainwater gushed into their house at Dehradun’s Raipur neighbourhood late at night on Thursday. Nobody was injured in the incident. At least 15 people have died in Uttarakhand in the past week in various incidents of collapsed houses and landslides caused by heavy rains across the hill state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-one-killed-two-feared-dead-after-house-collapses-due-to-heavy-rain/story-sI47HvF1scqMeoLLEqCOLM.html
31-07-2020||India||Charter flights to move Ashok Gehlot MLAs to Jaisalmer amid poaching fears||Alleging that the “rate of horse trading” had increased after the date of announcement of assembly session from August 14, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has now moved his MLAs to Jaisalmer, 550 km from the state capital Jaipur.The MLAs had been camping at a hotel outside Jaipur since July 13 after Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs rebelled against the government triggering the political crisis. Planes have been hired to take the legislators to the new destination. The MLAs are being moved in batches.CM Gehlot on Thursday indicated that he will seek a confidence vote when the assembly convenes next fortnight and claimed that the money offered to the MLAs to switch sides had increased sharply ahead of the session. He added that rebels who have not accepted money should return to the party fold.“The floor test will happen; we are going to the assembly. The BAC decides this,” he told reporters, referring to the assembly’s business advisory committee.He said the House will also discuss the coronavirus pandemic and the state’s economy after the lockdown.The chief minister claimed that MLAs have been getting calls after Governor Kalraj Mishra agreed Wednesday night to convene a session from August 14.Gehlot said earlier the ‘rate’ was Rs 10 crore as the first instalment and Rs 15 crore as the second.“I am not aware who all have taken the first instalment among those who had left. It is possible that some might not have taken it. I want them to come back,” he said.Gehlot said if the dissident MLAs had any complaints, they should have gone to the AICC office, instead of keeping away.The dissident Congress MLAs, Gehlot said, are at Manesar in Gurugram and the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan police is unable to reach them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-moves-mlas-to-jaisalmer-alleges-horse-trading-rates-up/story-oO8jrVWzXMDLQ1QRD6X9CN.html
31-07-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to be put in home isolation for treatment||The Bhupesh Baghel-led Chhattisgarh government has made concessions for asymptomatic coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, who have been allowed to undergo treatment at home while complying with a few pre-conditions, because of a surge in the viral outbreak cases in the state. The government said a pilot project of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at their homes have started in Raipur and Durg districts and would be expanded across the state. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “A total of 180 home isolation beds have been installed across the 28 districts in the state. The pilot project has started in Raipur and Durg districts. The initiative will be expanded soon,” state health minister TS Singhdeo told HT. The district collectors have been empowered to take a call on home quarantine facility for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, he added. “So far, this line of treatment has been tried out in urban areas, where there are basic living facilities for an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient such as a three-bedroom house, etc. The new policy aims to preempt a lack of bed space in case there is an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases and to treat more critical patients. An elaborate guideline will be issued in a day or two. Besides, 80% of Covid-19 patients in Chhattisgarh have been asymptomatic and low-risk,” the minister said. Niharika Barika Singh, health secretary, Chhattisgarh, said the decision to let asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, who can undergo treatment at home, would considerably reduce the load on hospitals in the state. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “There is a demand from various sectors that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients do not require hospitalisation and if they can be isolated at home with all the necessary precautions. It will also reduce the load on hospital authorities in a bid to allow them to concentrate on treating symptomatic patients. It will start as a pilot project in certain districts. The government will evaluate the outcome and decide the next course of action,” Singh said. On Thursday, Chhattisgarh’s Covid-19 count rose to 8,775 after 175 new cases were reported and the death toll climbed to 51. The following is the district-wise break-up of 175 new Covid-19 cases: Raipur (93), Rajnandgaon (21), Durg (13), Kondagaon (9), Bilaspur (8), Janjgir-Champa (4) Balodabazar (4), Kanker (3), Narayanpur (3), Munegli (2), Koriya (2), Surajpur (2), Bastar (2), and Dantewada (2). Chhattisgarh, where SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease has spread to all the 28 districts in the state, has recorded over 5,900 cases just in the last month, data showed. Raipur district is the worst-hit, as it has recorded 2,752 Covid-19 cases to date, including over 2,400 in the past month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-to-be-put-in-home-isolation-for-treatment/story-8UqhYaMtfUXxgPBUH0r8QM.html
31-07-2020||India||4 states have not made timely payment to Covid-19 healthcare workers: Govt tells Supreme Court||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that four states have not made timely payment of salaries to healthcare workers engaged in the battle against Covid-19.These states are Punjab, Maharashtra, Tripura and Karnataka. The Centre said that this happened despite a direction from the top court.The court then asked the Centre to do the needful to ensure that salaries of these workers are paid on time.“If the states are not complying with the directions and orders of the Central government, you are not helpless. You have to ensure that your order is implemented. You have got the power under the Disaster Management Act. You can take steps also”, the bench of bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The Supreme Court had issued stringent directions in June to criminalise the non-payment of dues on time to doctors and nurses. The direction had come on a doctor’s petition which alleged that medical professionals were not being paid in several regions and were also not provided with facilities to isolate themselves which was a big risk to their families if they were to get infected.The Centre had then declared the act of withholding salaries of doctors and nurses engaged in the battle against Covid-19 an offence under the Disaster Management Act (DMA). The order was issued by the Union health ministry.The apex court had taken serious note of non-payment of salary and lack of proper accommodation to doctors and said, “In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy.”It had also said that the courts should not be involved in the issue of non-payment of salary to healthcare workers and that the government should settle the issue.In April, the Supreme Court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the “first line of defence of the country” in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate PPEs are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-states-have-not-made-timely-payment-to-covid-19-healthcare-workers-govt-tells-supreme-court/story-qFHvVP8oPeVANcJFAMcu5O.html
31-07-2020||India||10 die after consuming hand sanitiser in Andhra Pradesh, police say they couldn’t find liquor||Ten people died when they consumed alcohol-based hand sanitiser in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district in the last two days, the police said.The tragedy took place in Kurichedu town. While one person was died late on Wednesday night, two people succumbed at Darsi government hospital on Thursday night and seven others on Friday morning. Three of the deceased are believed to be beggars and the remaining are the local slum dwellers. In all, 20 people believed to have consumed sanitiser in the last two days. The deceased have been identified as Anugonda Srinu (25), Bhogem Tirupataiah (35), Guntaka Rami Reddy (60), Kadiam Ramanaiah (28), Raja Reddy (65), Ramanaiah (65), Babu (40), Charles (45), Augustine (45) and S K Syeda (25). Prakasam district Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal told HT that these people had consumed sanitiser due to non-availability of liquor as there was a lockdown in force in Kurichedu to contain the spread of Covid-19.“We have seized all the sanitiser bottles from the local shops and sent them for lab tests. Preliminary inquiries revealed that all of them had consumed pure sanitiser solution. Further details would be known after obtaining the post mortem reports,” the SP said, adding that he had ordered for a thorough investigation by a senior police official. It started with one beggar at a local Goddess Durga temple complaining of severe burning sensation in his stomach. He succumbed while being taken to the hospital on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning, two others collapsed due to severe stomach pain. The family members, with the support of locals, shifted them to the government hospital at Darsi town, but they succumbed late in the night. Seven others, who were also admitted to the hospital with similar complaints, died on Friday morning. Kurichedu and areas around the town have been under lockdown for the last 10 days due to spike in Covid-19 positive cases. All the liquor stores remained closed.Family members of the victims told the police that they had begun to fall unconscious hours after consuming sanitiser. The quantities of the sanitiser each one of them consumed is not yet known. The Andhra Pradesh government had reopened the liquor shops on May 4 after a prolonged period of lockdown. Serpentine queues were witnessed at all the outlets across the state. The state government, however, hiked the rates and reduced the number of outlets with the contention that it would discourage people from resorting to drinking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-die-after-consuming-hand-sanitiser-in-andhra-pradesh-police-say-they-couldn-t-find-liquor/story-qBpXmCEKT3RoweuJvIz2MO.html
31-07-2020||India||Probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death leads to war of words between Bihar and Maharashtra||The investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput by Bihar police has caused friction with Maharashtra, whose force is also probing the case, leading to allegations and counter-allegations from both sides.A four-member team of Patna Police, which reached Mumbai on Tuesday, recorded the statements of at least six people, including Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister, on Wednesday in connection with the case.They were acting on the first information report (FIR) filed by the 34-year-old actor’s father against actor Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on Tuesday in connection with his son’s death.Also Read: Bihar engages ex-AG Mukul Rohatgi to oppose Rhea Chakraborty’s plea in SC Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has levelled several allegations, including abetment to suicide and withdrawing crores of rupees from his son’s bank account and mental harassment, against Rhea Chakraborty and six others, including her family members.The case was filed in Patna as Rajput’s 74-year-old father said he will not be able to go to Mumbai to fight the case due to his health issues. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14.“Whenever police from one state go to another state for investigation, then the respective state government and officials cooperate. In this case, it’s unfortunate that they (Mumbai Police) are not cooperating,” Lalit Kishore, Bihar’s principal additional advocate general, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: SC dismisses plea seeking CBI enquiry into Sushant Singh Rajput’s deathBefore this, Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai alleged that Bihar policemen did not follow protocol.“Whenever a police team from a state visits another state for investigation, there are some protocols which are to be followed. These were not followed,” Desai told a news channel.However, Sanjay Singh, Bihar’s inspector general of police (Central Range), told HTMeanwhile, Rhea Chakraborty has filed an interim prayer that the probe by Bihar’s police be stayed till the Supreme Court decides her plea on the transfer of investigation from the eastern state to Mumbai.Chakraborty moved the top court on Wednesday pleading for the transfer of the investigation from Bihar to Mumbai, as the investigation in Mumbai was still pending.Also Read: Mayawati wades into row over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Congress is her targetThe Nitish Kumar government is set to oppose Chakraborty’s plea before the top court and support Sushant’s family in the case.Rajput’s family filed a caveat seeking that her petition not be allowed to be heard “ex-parte” in their counter-petition soon after Chakraborty moved the Supreme Court. A caveat is a type of petition filed to pre-empt any ex-parte order on the plea filed by the opposite side.According to ANI, a letter petition has been filed in Patna High Court seeking the transfer of investigation into Rajput’s death from Bihar police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).“… it has prima facie raised a number of serious questions on the investigation being conducted by both the State Police and also it has raised a number of unanswered question in the mind of the public at large as it was a suicide or a murder,” Pawan Prakash Pathak and Gauraw Kumar said in their letter petition, ANI said.Also Read: From theft to cheating: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea ChakrabortyPathak and Kumar said that police from Bihar and Maharashtra—which is investigating the case—are “not collaborating with each other”.“Now there are two states investigating the same sad matter of mysterious death of Late Sushant Singh Rajput, and in the interest of justice there should be single investigation agency which is not possible as the Bihar Police and the Maharashtra Police not collaborating with each other,” they said.“Therefore, in the interest of justice, equity and good conscience, it is humbly prayed that this Letter Petition be treated as a Public Interest Litigation seeking transfer of investigation from State agency to CBI Or SIT Inquiry,” the petition added.Anil Deshmukh, Maharashtra’ home minister, has said Mumbai Police are investigating the case and it will not be transferred to CBI. Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and the police have said the actor died by suicide. Deshmukh had said on June 15 the police were investigating the angle of professional rivalry if any. The minster had also tweeted the alleged cause of “clinical depression owing to the profession rivalry” behind the death of the Dil Bechara actor were also being probed.The statements of 41 people, including filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, film critic Rajeev Masand, director-producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali and filmmaker Aditya Chopra, have been recorded by Mumbai Police so far.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-leads-to-war-of-words-between-bihar-and-maharashtra/story-uEkf2Exkm7Q1iuel6XkpdO.html
31-07-2020||India||Body of ASI found in stone mine area in Ranchi’s Tupudana||Body of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was found on Friday morning at a stone mine area in Ranchi’s Tupudana, who appeared to have been killed with sharp weapon and thrown in the mine area, police said. Superintendent of police (SP), Ranchi, Saurabh said, “Prima facie it appears that he was murdered with sharp weapon. However, the investigation is on and it will take few more times to clear.” He said they were probing what happened to him and in which circumstances the incident took place. The ASI was identified as Kameshwar Ravidas, 50, and was deputed in security duty of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), where former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad, a convict in the fodder scam cases, is undergoing treatment. When the SP was asked if the Ravidas was deputed on security of Lalu Prasad, he said, “The person was deputed on duty for RIMS but he was not engaged in Prasad’s security.” Police sources said Ravidas was murdered on late Thursday night and his body was thrown in the stone mine area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ranchi-body-of-asi-found-in-stone-mine-area/story-QMxnx7RgXvc3h6pehFDr6L.html
31-07-2020||India||Bombay HC grants temporary bail to 65-year-old murder convict, says he is vulnerable||The Bombay high court (HC) last week granted temporary bail to a murder convict until December 31 on the ground that he is a senior citizen (65) and is at high risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices SS Shinde and Surendra Tavade, refused to grant regular bail to the murder convict, Sitaram Kamble, as it was not in a position to scrutinise the complete evidence in his plea for temporary bail. It, however, took note of the fact that Kamble (65) is a senior citizen and, as a result, “very vulnerable if he is infected with SARS-CoV-2”. The bench said: “In such condition, the applicant can be released on temporary bail for a limited period.” Earlier in November 2014, the Ratnagiri sessions court had convicted Kamble for life for the murder of a neighbour on February 1, 2013. The convict had killed his neighbour because of an illicit affair between his son and the murder victim’s wife. He had moved HC seeking regular bail during the pendency of his appeal against the conviction. It was argued on his behalf that the conviction under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was not sustainable in law, as the convict had inflicted a single blow of scythe in a fit of rage, and he did not act in a cruel or unusual manner. His lawyer, advocate Payoshi Roy, pointed out that the act had shown that since the convict had no intention to kill the deceased, at best it could be a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder attracting maximum punishment up to 10 years, and urged the court to release him on bail during the pendency of his appeal, as he had already served seven years in jail. Additional public prosecutor FR Shaikh opposed the plea. He argued that there are three eye-witnesses to the incident and the trial court had convicted him for the murder because the convict had inflicted a fatal blow with the sharp weapon on the chest of the deceased. HC refused to consider the plea for regular bail on the ground that it can be done only after scrutinising the complete evidence on record. The bench, however, granted Kamble temporary bail until December 31 and ordered him to report to the prison on January 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-temporary-bail-to-65-yr-old-murder-convict-says-he-is-vulnerable/story-QiuUrl0KVXxtOeQOUhMm5M.html
31-07-2020||India||Rafale vs J-20: Ex-IAF chief Dhanoa calls China’s bluff with ‘two simple questions’||Former Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa on Friday dismissed claims that the Rafale fighter jets inducted by the Indian Air Force this week had no chance against China’s J-20 stealth fighter.The claims, made by an ‘expert’ in Chinese Communist Party’s tabloid Global Times, said that the Rafale was only superior to the IAF’s Sukhoi-30 MKI jets but a generation below Chinese PLA’s J-20 fighter.“It is only about one-fourth of a generation more advanced and does not yield a significant qualitative change,” Zhang Xuefeng, who was described by the communist party’s propaganda website as a Chinese military expert, said.Also Read: Indian Air Force with Rafale has plan to take the fight to ChinaThe website, quoting unnamed experts claimed, that “Rafale is only a third-plus generation fighter jet, and does not stand much of a chance against a stealth, fourth generation one like the J-20”.Ex-IAF chief Dhanoa, who has described the 4.5 generation Rafale fighter jets as a “game changer for the IAF, responded to the Chinese claim with “two simple questions”.“If the J-20, also called the Mighty Dragon, is indeed a fifth generation stealth fighter, then why does it have canards while genuine 5th generation fighters such as the US’ F 22, F 35 and Russian fifth generation Su 57 don’t,” Dhanoa asked.Also Watch | Rafale boost for Air Force: How it helps India’s air power amid China tension Also Read: Rafale is a game changer, Chinese J 20 does not even come close, says former air chief DhanoaCanards are fuselage-mounted small, forward wings located forward of the main wing to improve aircraft control and contribute to lift. They are considered to present large angular surfaces that tend to reflect radar signals.“I don’t think J-20 is stealthy enough to be called a fifth generation fighter as the canard increases the radar signature of the fighter and gives away its position to a long-range meteor missile that the Rafale has,” he said.The other question the former IAF chief has for the Chinese is: “Why can’t the J-20 supercruise if it is really a 5th generation fighter as its manufacturer Chengdu Aerospace Corporation calls it.”Supercruise is the ability of a fighter jet to fly at speeds above Mach 1 - the speed of sound - without the use of afterburners, the additional combustion component used on some jet engines to increase thrust.Also Read: Twin naval exercises with US supercarriers signal QUAD has arrived“The Rafale has the supercruiseaility and its radar signature is comparable to the best of the fighters in the world,” Dhanoa told Hindustan Times.Dhanoa has flown top of the line Indian fighter aircraft including Sukhoi 30 MKI. He was the man responsible for targeting the Pakistani intruders on Drass, Kargil, Battalik heights and spearheaded the Balakot air strikes along with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.The retired top air force officer had earlier this week shredded the Chinese propaganda of superior air capability, wondering that if the Chinese equipment was so good, Pakistan would have used its Chinese JF-17 and not the F-16 aircraft to attack Nangi Tekri brigade in Rajouri sector on 27 February 2019. But Pakistan used the Chinese JF-17 to merely give air defence cover to its Mirage 3/5 bombers. Or why China’s “iron brother” uses Swedish early air warning platforms up north and the keep Chinese AWACS in the south.Incidentally, India is expected to get 12 more Sukhoi 30 MKI and 21 MiG 29s next year from Russia. According to diplomats based in Moscow, the Su-30 MKI will “look better, shoot better, and fight better”. The MiG 29 will be used for setting up a new squadron in Jamnagar in Gujarat and will have the same capability as the MiG 29 that India currently has.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-vs-j-20-ex-iaf-chief-dhanoa-calls-china-s-bluff-with-two-simple-questions/story-Al6kSI8wjj0SvypDHeIrXI.html
31-07-2020||India||Rajasthan BJP chief demands Speaker CP Joshi’s resignation on moral grounds||Satish Poonia, who heads the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan, has demanded that the assembly Speaker CP Joshi should resign from his post on moral grounds, as his political leaning of saving the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government has been exposed. He made the demand following the surfacing of a viral video, where Joshi and chief minister Gehlot’s son Vaibhav Gehlot were found to be discussing the ongoing political turmoil in the desert state. Also Read: Constitution supreme for me, there is no pressure: Rajasthan Governor Kalraj MishraHT cannot independently authenticate the veracity of the viral video. In the video, the Speaker is purportedly heard saying that if 30 members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) would have quit, then the crisis would have deepened.He alluded to the situation as tough and hinted at the collapse of the Gehlot government.Poonia alleged that the conversation has sullied the reputation of the office of the Speaker, who appeared more concerned about saving the Congress government at the expense of his constitutional authority. His political inclination towards the Congress was on display and he flouted his constitutional obligation, he further alleged. Poonia said the Speaker has to rise above party politics and play an impartial role in legislative proceedings. He also urged Joshi to come clean on the veracity of the viral video. “It is inappropriate for him to hold on to the post. He needs to maintain the dignity and neutrality of the House and must step down on moral grounds,” the state BJP chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-bjp-chief-demands-speaker-joshi-s-resignation-on-moral-grounds/story-Qs5LJHE311FG27G9kxWI5L.html
31-07-2020||India||Relive the Ramayana era: Ayodhya gears up for August 5 Ram Temple groundbreaking ceremony||The Ayodhya administration is gearing up for the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the city on August 5 for foundation laying ceremony of Lord Ram temple.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, PM Modi’s helicopter will land at a helipad built at Saket Mahavidyalaya. The prime minister will straightaway go to Ram Janmabhoomi for the ceremony by road. The walls and buildings along this road are being beautified to give a glimpse of the Ramayana era, Hindustan reported.The popular stories and incidents in the holy Ramayana are being engraved on the walls, it further said. The portraits of all the important characters from the Ramayana, including Lord Ram, Sita and Lakshman, are being painted on the structures which will appear on PM Modi’s way.The entire road and other important landmarks of Ayodhya will be have the common colour scheme of yellow. The city, including the area near the Saryu river, is also being spruced up.Meanwhile, the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to install big screens across Ayodhya for live telecast of the groundbreaking ceremony. It will celebrate the occasion by lighting diyas (earthen lamps), party leader Adesh Kumar Gupta said.“The occasion will be remembered by the generations to come and it’s our duty to make this historic moment a glorious one,” Gupta said in a statement on Thursday.Images of Lord Ram and 3D portraits of the grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be beamed across the giant billboards in the iconic Times Square in New York to celebrate the temple’s groundbreaking ceremony.The Indian-American community, which is organising the event, said that the prominent billboards that are being leased for the occasion are the giant Nasdaq screen and the 17,000-square-foot wrap-around LED display screen. These are among the largest continuous exterior displays in the world and the highest-resolution exterior LED screen in Times Square.Beginning from 8 am on August 5 till 10 pm, images of the words ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Hindi and English, Lord Ram’s portraits and videos, 3D portraits of the temple’s design and architecture as well as pictures of the laying of the foundation stone by Modi will be displayed across several billboards, the organisers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relive-the-ramayana-era-ayodhya-gears-up-for-august-5-ram-temple-groundbreaking-ceremony/story-QuW5HwZ6zjRa1nW0RHuW1K.html
31-07-2020||India||India records more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases for second straight day, tally over 1.63 million||India recorded more than 50,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, for the second day in a row, pushing its infection tally to more than 1.63 million, according to the Union health ministry data.According to health ministry data, India has added 1,053,377 cases since July 1—702,689 have been just in a fortnight. It is the third worst-hit country in the world after the United States and Brazil.With 779 fatalities between Thursday and Friday morning, the country’s death toll is now 35,747. The toll at the beginning of the month was 17,400.The government has said India has one of the lowest case fatality rate (CFR) at 2.21% as compared to the global average of 4%. It added that 24 states and Union territories have lower CFR than the national average and eight of them have a CFR below 1%.With 37,223 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of recovered people have jumped to 1,057,805. The recovery rate is up from 64.44% on Thursday to 64.54% on Friday.India on Thursday achieved the landmark of more than a million recoveries from Covid-19. There has been a consistent trend of more than 30,000 recoveries daily for the eighth day in a row now. There has been a continued increase in the average daily recoveries from around 15,000 in July’s first week to around 35,000 in the last week. The gap between recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases currently stands at more than 5 lakh now.The government has also said that 16 states and Union territories are recording higher recovery rate than the national average. It has also said that 16 states and Union territories are recording higher recovery rate than the national average. A senior official of the health ministry said on Thursday that the herd immunity level is “far away” for the Indian population and it can only be achieved through immunisation by vaccines.“For a large country like India, herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or a strategic option... It will come at too high a cost and can be done only through immunisations via vaccination,” Rajesh Bhushan, the officer on special duty, said during a briefing.The march of an infectious disease such as Covid-19 can be halted only when there is a large enough proportion of the population that is immune to it – a threshold known as herd immunity. Besides a vaccine, which is yet to be approved, the only way people become immune is if they have had the disease and recovered.The official also hinted that India is looking at a multilateral, World Health Organization (WHO)-led mechanism to secure Covid-19 vaccines and the country is yet to begin direct discussions with any of the developers that are leading the development race.Bhushan also said the question on who would get the vaccine first was still under deliberation at the health ministry.There are at least 25 vaccines in human trial phases, including two from India, across the world. Three vaccine candidates—one each from the US, UK and China—are largely regarded as the frontrunners since they are now at advanced stages of experiments among people.In India, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D are both in Phase I/II human trials for determining its safety and dosage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-more-than-50-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-tally-over-1-63-million/story-cd3UGvkEfnxyLsU2Lw2B2O.html
31-07-2020||India||Landslide at Badrinath national highway as incessant rains lash Uttarakhand||A landslide occurred at Uttarakhand’s Badrinath national highway in Bajpur of the Chamoli district on Thursday, due to incessant rainfall.Landslide on the highway has disrupted the traffic movement, and an operation to clear the route is underway, officials said.On July 16, the Badrinath Highway at Pagal Nala and Lam Bagar in Chamoli district was blocked due to falling of boulders after heavy rainfall. #WATCH Uttarakhand: A landslide occurred at Badrinath national highway in Bajpur of Chamoli district yesterday, following incessant rainfall. Operations to clear the highway is underway. pic.twitter.com/F2RpOLvTH8The highway connects Gangotri to Uttarkashi and road movement is often affected due to landslides during heavy rains.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that patches of moderate to intense convection lie over Uttarakhand adjoining Northwest Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Northeast Uttar Pradesh.“Latest Satellite imagery and Radar imagery show patches of moderate to intense convection lies over Uttarakhand adjoining Northwest Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Northeast Uttar Pradesh, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Assam, and Meghalaya, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Lakshadweep area,” the IMD tweeted. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-at-badrinath-national-highway-as-incessant-rains-lash-uttarakhand/story-VrHAZxjqZjBc1Nqp99tO7J.html
31-07-2020||India||India now fifth in terms of Covid-19 fatalities, rate of recovery improves||India has achieved another grim milestone in terms of the number of Covid-19 fatalities. The country is already recording over 50,000 daily cases (the number stood at 55,078 on Friday) which has taken the countrywide tally to over 1.6 million (16,38,870 to be exact).Another 779 deaths in the last 24 hours took the number of fatalities in India to 35,747. It has now replaced Italy to reach at the fifth place in terms of the number of fatalities, according to World Health Organisation (WHO).The countries ahead of India are the United States (1,48,640 fatalities), Brazil (88,539 fatalities), the United Kingdom (45,961 fatalities) and Mexico (44,876 fatalities), according to WHO data.Though the number of Covid-19 cases are high in India, it has conducted over six lakh tests in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry. “India achieves another landmark. More than 6 lakh tests done in 24 hours,” the Ministry tweeted on Friday morning. #IndiaFightsCorona India achieves another landmark. More than 6 lakh tests done in 24 hours.@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @DDNewslive @airnewsalerts @COVIDNewsByMIB @CovidIndiaSeva @ICMRDELHI @mygovindia @PTI_NewsThe ministry further said that it will continue to implement the strategy of comprehensive testing, tracking and treatment to effectively tackle the pandemic. “The objective is to raise the testing capacity to 10 lakhs tests per day in the medium term,” the health ministry said in its subsequent tweet.The recoveries too have increased in the country. The number of recovered patient crossed the one million-mark on Thursday and is now 1.9 times the total active cases.According to the health ministry, the fatality rate in the country has dropped to 2.21 per cent.Addressing a press briefing, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Ministry Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday that 21 states and union territories have case positivity rate less than 10 per cent, while in four it is less than five per cent.Bhushan said the ‘test, track and treat’ strategy has shown good results in terms of managing the situation by curbing the spread of infections and keeping the mortality low.To date, more than 17.2 million people have been infected with the coronavirus worldwide, with over 671,000 fatalities, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-fifth-in-terms-of-covid-19-fatalities-rate-of-recovery-improves/story-oIX6jX8Lf0aRMJu1gTMEPI.html
31-07-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Vice President Naidu hails New Education Policy, teachers differ on language and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NEP 2020: Vice President Naidu hails new policy, teachers differ on languageVice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday expressed happiness over NEP 2020 and called it a major step forward to enhance access to quality education for children and youth. Read more Covid-19 vaccine development progressing well, says AstraZenecaAstraZeneca’s vaccine is being widely considered the leading candidate after results from early-stage human trials showed it was safe and produced an immune response. Read more What can explain the mystery of China’s Covid-19 numbers?No large country in the world has been able to contain the disease to one restricted geography the way China has. According to a paper by Benjamin Cowling and other researchers, mostly at the University of Hong Kong, China’s ability to stop Covid-19 in its tracks may have to do with its ability to manage the serial interval. Read more Containment zones in Delhi can now be de-notified in 14 days instead of 28Containment zones in Delhi can now be de-notified in two weeks — down from 28 days, from the day the last Covid-19 patient in the area recovers, the state health department said on Thursday. Read more Yuvraj Singh the mentor backs Shubman Gill to go the distanceYuvraj Singh is back in Chandigarh, enjoying golf and spending time with young Punjab cricketers like Shubman Gill, Anmolpreet Singh and Abhishek Sharma at the ground. Yuvraj was approached by Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) secretary Puneet Bali to be a mentor at Punjab’s 21-day off-season camp and he readily agreed. Read more Gajraj Rao, 50, on playing father to Ayushmann Khurrana, 35: ‘Acting is an amazing profession’Not many would be aware that Gajraj is younger than the Khans but has played father to all from Ayushmann Khurrana to Jitendra Kumar in his recent ventures. He also got to play a father in two of his most popular web shows. Read more Apple confirms iPhone 12 will be delayed by ‘a few weeks’Apple during its Q3 earnings announcement confirmed that the new iPhones will be available a few weeks later than their usual schedule. Apple however did not give any reason behind the delay of the iPhones. Read more Zuberi the hornbill is on a special ‘seal quest’. Seen the video yet?A little-over-a-minute-long video shows the hornbill, rather enthusiastically, entering inside the building of the seal’s enclosure. What follows next is few seconds of pure happiness and joy. Read more Hibiscus flower infusions: Take your pick from tea, salad or cocktailHibiscus Tea is a simple and terrific way to enjoy the flavour of this flower. “A tea made from Hibiscus acts as an antioxidant, helps in weight loss and is great for your skin and hair,” says chef Vicky Ratnani. Read more Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi vacates Delhi bungalow after Centre’s orderCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra vacated her official Lodhi Estate bungalow on Thursday. Priyanka handed over the possession to CPWD on Thursday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-vice-president-naidu-hails-new-education-policy-teachers-differ-on-language-and-all-the-latest-news/story-F3dkKudISFjM7ky6Q2l3TO.html
31-07-2020||India||‘Violence, corruption part of governance in Bengal’: Governor Dhankhar in first YouTube address||After criticising the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government almost incessantly on social media and in public statements since last year, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to YouTube on Thursday night.To mark the completion of his first year in office, the governor uploaded his first YouTube video. It is an address featuring photos of his meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, central ministers, the Lok Sabha speaker, Indian and foreign dignitaries and his visits to different places. All these have been compiled with background scores and Dhankhar’s voice-over. It is the script of the address, however, that is not likely to go down well with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, although she too features in several photos with the governor and his wife. Taking the acrimony between Raj Bhawan and the TMC government to a new crest, Dhankhar has compared the state’s governance to the dictatorship depicted by Satyajit Ray in his landmark 1980 movie Hirak Rajar Deshe (Land of the Diamond King). He drew the reference earlier in a tweet but this time the script gets longer. Ray portrayed a king who was obsessed with his diamond mines and subjected farmers, labourers and students to slavery and clinical brainwashing before being ousted by mass revolution. After praising the history, heritage and people of West Bengal and Kolkata, Dhankhar says, “Some facets of governance are cause of concern. Violence, corruption, hegemony and goondaism (ruffian activity) under police protection have become part of governance. I am sure Satyajit Day would have never liked the day he depicted in his movie to happen someday in the state of West Bengal.” “It is very serious dilution of democratic values... women’s right have been compromised... Fear of operation by police is all pervasive... All this has led to steep decline in growth of trade and industry, education and service sector. Flight of our youth and workforce is alarming and needs to be contained. Ground level governance is sought to be superimposed by cosmetic projections in media that is controlled. I am tirelessly working to secure authentic, democratic governance,” says the governor. Dhankhar also says that free and fair elections are necessary to normalise democracy but it is not possible if there is “institutionalised rigging of polls”. The film was uploaded three days after Banerjee complained about Dhankhar, without taking any names, at a virtual meeting with the Prime Minister. Quoting Tagore’s famous lines, “where the mind is without fear and the head is held high,” Dhankhar says, “Sadly, in this state we are far distanced from the thoughts of Tagore.” The film ends with the national anthem and some video clippings of Dhankhar taking to the media. No senior TMC leader was available for comment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-corruption-part-of-governance-in-bengal-governor-dhankhar-in-first-youtube-address/story-i74LGnMuQm7E82fBQfPmnK.html
31-07-2020||India||Religious places in Rajasthan to open from Sept 1, CM Gehlot asks officials to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed||The Rajasthan government on Thursday announced opening of all religious places for public from September 1. The state’s home department will issue guidelines for the same.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot held a meeting with officials yesterday where he directed all district collectors to start preparations for opening the religious places, and ensuring that social distancing and other health protocols are followed.Gehlot also directed them to select Gram Rakshak (village guards) for all gram panchayats by August 31. He said that these village guards will act as a bridge between the police and the public, which will increase the confidence of the public in the police. It will help in effective monitoring of criminal activities. While reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, the chief minister directed that for better monitoring of the pandemic in the districts, the in-charge secretary should go on a two-day visit from August 31 and take stock of all arrangements. During the visit, they should make an in-depth review of arrangements including awareness campaign, status of medical resources, plasma therapy and make the state government aware of the requirements, Gehlot said.He also directed the officials that special attention should be paid to those districts where maximum Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in July.Gehlot directed to start plasma therapy at all medical colleges in the state with the permission of ICMR at the earliest. He said that people should be motivated to donate plasma. The chief minister expressed satisfaction that after Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur, plasma therapy has started in Bikaner. It was informed in the meeting that efforts are being made to start plasma therapy in Ajmer by August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-in-rajasthan-to-open-from-sept-1-cm-gehlot-asks-officials-to-ensure-covid-19-protocols-are-followed/story-Q26xNxnDJvPEhRVC92HFgP.html
31-07-2020||India||Tripura Police arrest 10 people accused of gang-raping a minor girl||Ten people have been arrested in Tripura in connection with the gang-rape of a minor girl at a village of Teliamura in Khowai district more than a week ago, the police said.“We have arrested 10 persons so far including five who were involved in gang-rape on July 21. Two persons are still absconding,” deputy inspector general, Northern Range, Soumitra Dhar told mediapersons in Agartala on Thursday. The police claim that the minor had an affair with one Rupesh Sarkar and after a week-long chat, they met at Chakmaghat on July 21. While on her way back home, one resident of the rape survivor’s village offered her a lift in a vehicle. He and four others present in the vehicle took her to a forest and gang-raped her.The case was registered on July 22 under Section 341, 376 (D) and 4 (1) of POCSO Act and Rupesh was arrested. Two days later, two more people were arrested. Later, during investigation, the police arrested the rest. “The rape survivor’s statement was recorded. Her medical examinations were also done. All the arrested ones are currently in judicial custody,” Dhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-police-arrest-10-people-accused-of-gang-raping-a-minor-girl/story-EcOoDMyDWQdavTOi4DjEeO.html
31-07-2020||India||CRPF jawan arrested on rape charges in Chhattisgarh after complaint from woman: Police||A jawan of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was arrested for allegedly raping a woman in Maoist-hit Sukma district, police said on Thursday. The jawan was posted in CRPF camp in Dubbakota area of South Sukma.“The victim came to us on Wednesday evening and lodged a complaint. We immediately lodged a case under Section 376 of Indian Penal Court (IPC) and started investigation,” Sukma Superintendent of Police, Shalabh Sinha, told Hindustan Times.On Thursday, the woman identified the jawan, after which he was arrested by Dornapal police.As per the woman’s complaint, on July 27, she took out her cattle to graze in a field near the CRPF camp when the accused jawan came and forcefully raped her.“The woman saw the accused going towards CRPF camp and went back to her village. She narrated the incident to some of the family members and on Thursday reached police station to lodge a complaint,” said the SP. Sources said that the accused jawan was quarantined outside the camp of CRPF since he recently returned from Balaghat after leave. “Investigation of the case is going on,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-arrested-on-rape-charges-in-chhattisgarh-after-complaint-from-woman-police/story-K1zZdc9ILHyMhAfJnTDKLL.html
31-07-2020||India||Triple talaq law contributed to woman empowerment: Javadekar||On the first anniversary of the triple talaq bill’s passage in Parliament, the BJP Thursday hailed its impact, saying it has contributed to woman empowerment and given women the dignity they deserve in society.“One year ago on 30th July, 2019, Narendra Modi government abolished #TripleTalaq. It has contributed to women empowerment and given them the dignity they deserve in our society. Now, #TripleTalaq Cases have dropped by 82 per cent since the law was enacted,” Union minister and senior party leader Prakash Javadekar tweeted. On Wednesday, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had shared videos of Muslim women thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing in the legislation to end the practice.The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act prohibits the practice of instant divorce by Muslim men. Any violation of the law is punishable by jail term of up to three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/triple-talaq-law-contributed-to-woman-empowerment-javadekar/story-hnCsLXlLw9QG0VQfHNdR7O.html
31-07-2020||India||NEP 2020: Vice President Naidu hails new policy, teachers differ on language||The National Education Policy (NEP), unveiled by the government on Wednesday, is generating a lot of buzz. While many in the government and otherwise are welcoming the change in the education sector, others, including teachers, have varied views.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday expressed happiness over NEP 2020 and called it a major step forward to enhance access to quality education for children and youth.“Diversity and respect for the local context as well as a recognition of the importance of India’s classical languages will undoubtedly give learners a holistic world view. The focus of NEP 2020 on ethics and human and Constitutional values would go a long way in the creation of enlightened citizenship essential for deepening our democratic roots,” Naidu said.Calling the NEP-2020’s vision as “truly global and essentially Indian”, Naidu said that it exemplifies India’s timeless quest for welcoming noble thoughts from all over the world.Also Read: Youngsters elated, but worry about BoardsThe man who headed the panel which drafted the NEP 2020, said no language is being imposed on anyone. Former Isro chief K Kasturirangan said that a flexible approach has been proposed with a three-langauge formula.“Adopting local languages as the medium of instruction till Class 5 is important in the early phase of education because the child’s strengths in understanding the principles and in displaying creativity manifests better in the mother tongue as well in the local language,” said Kasturirangan.The policy was approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.“Children have a great ability to pick up multiple languages in early age. The policy talks about a flexible approach in three-language formula. How it will be implemented in states its their decision. No language is being imposed in the policy,” said Kasturirangan.However, some school principals believe students who will be taught in the mother tongue or regional language up to class 5 may face difficulties in coping with the syllabus in upper classes where medium of instruction is English.“We first have to distinguish between language and literacy. Language is speaking and is natural for our brains. Literacy is reading and writing which is to be learnt by our brains,” said Vishnu Karthik, Director, Heritage Schools.He said that children’s brains are designed to learn multiple languages and the more they are exposed to many languages, the more they can absorb them at an early age. “Thus, teaching in only one language is not the best use of the critical learning windows nature has given for learning languages. Teaching only in English or only in the mother tongue is not a good practice. Rather a healthy mix of 2-3 languages is good for children in primary school,” he said.Alka Kapur, Principal of Modern School in New Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, said that English is a universal language and in the guidelines it is written that it can be used wherever possible. “It is not clearly stated if ‘wherever possible’ means subject or place. English should be one common language as everyone wants their child to know the language and I think if it is taught at the foundation state it would be very nice,” she said.“Regional language along with English language would be a good idea as the English language is a window to the world and every child from the foundation should be focused to learn English,” she added.Replacing the 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure corresponding to age groups 3-8, 8-11, 11-14 and 14-18 years respectively, scrapping MPhil programmes and implementing common norms for private and public higher education institutions are among other salient features of the new policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-2020-vice-president-naidu-hails-new-policy-teachers-differ-on-language/story-gSu6PzmiPbwZc3QdKtq4TJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Delhi Riots: L-G refers lawyers issue to President Kovind||Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Thursday referred the issue pertaining to the appointment of a panel of lawyers to argue cases regarding the February riots in the city to the President. The L-G also issued an interim order, saying till the matter is resolved by the President the panel of lawyers appointed by the Delhi Police and approved by his office will continue to argue cases. The Delhi government in a statement said Baijal invoked Article 239AA(4) of the Indian Constitution and referred the dispute to the President, citing “differences of opinion” with the elected government. On Tuesday, the Delhi Cabinet, in its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had rejected the panel of lawyers proposed by the Delhi Police, saying it would not help a “free and fair” trial of the cases related to the riots in north-east Delhi. Following this, Kejriwal on Wednesday evening went to meet the L-G to discuss the issue.“The L-G invoked special powers granted to him under the Constitution. The home department of the Delhi government has been ordered to approve the panel chosen by the Delhi Police. The Delhi government will now have to implement the order at any cost as it is mandated by the Constitution,” the government statement read.The L-G’s office refused to comment on the matter. On July 10, the Delhi police had proposed the names of six special public prosecutors to argue 85 cases related to riots and the anti-CAA protests. But, the Delhi government had rejected the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-l-g-refers-lawyers-issue-to-president-kovind/story-ZXgWL1dMX46F2DFfau3TZP.html
31-07-2020||India||India-US relationship broad, deep and growing, says key Senator||The relationship between India and the US is broad, deep and growing, a top American Senator said on Thursday and expressed condolences over the loss of Indian soldiers’ lives in a face-off with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in the violent clashes in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. “The US-India relationship is broad, deep, and growing – and we discussed how vital the cooperation between our nations is to countering common challenges and aggression in the region and upholding a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific,” said Senator Cory Gardner after his call with India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu.The Republican Senator from Colorado is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. His office said he had a productive phone conversation with Sandhu regarding the importance of US-India relations. “Today I began my call with Ambassador Sandhu by expressing my sincere condolences on the loss of Indian lives at the Line of Actual Control between India and China,” he said. “I look forward to continuing to work with Ambassador Sandhu to grow the bond between the United States and India, which will be supported by my Asia Reassurance Initiative Act, signed into law in 2018,” Gardner said. The Senator authored the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA) of 2018, which was signed into law on December 31, 2018. The ARIA represents a generational policy framework to enhance US leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. The Indo-Pacific is a key priority area for the US armed forces falling under the authority of the United States Indo-Pacific Command (INDOPACOM), unified combatant command responsible for enhancing stability in the Asia-Pacific region. China has been fast expanding military and economic influence in the Indo-Pacific region, triggering concern in various countries of the region and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-relationship-broad-deep-and-growing-says-key-senator/story-R7SHMBL4HBVGk56lBiQjZJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Man held after wife forced to carry him on shoulders over ‘infidelity’||A man in Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh has been arrested after his wife was paraded in their village carrying him on her shoulders on the suspicion of infidelity, the police said on Thursday. The police action came after a video of the incident went viral on Wednesday, in which the woman is seen carrying her husband on her shoulders as a punishment while villagers, carrying sticks, can be seen heckling her. According to police, the couple returned to their village under Kotwali police station in the district from Gujarat during the Covid-19 lockdown. In the five-minute-long video, the woman can be seen struggling to walk, and even forcing her husband to get off her shoulders. But the villagers again force her to carry her husband. “There was a dispute between the husband and wife. The husband questioned her fidelity. When we got the information we talked to the woman and lodged the FIR,” Surendra Singh, Jhabua Kotwali police inspector, said. Along with the husband, several others, including their relatives, have been booked under sections 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 355 (Assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person, otherwise than on grave provocation), 147 (rioting), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 294 (Obscene acts and songs) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Earlier in June, a similar incident took place in Jhabua when a woman was forced to carry her husband on her shoulders, for over an hour. The man suspected infidelity on the part of his wife, according to police. The man and three others were arrested in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-after-wife-forced-to-carry-him-on-shoulders-over-infidelity/story-Ff3vUVDZkfXK5x6kpVxY1J.html
31-07-2020||India||Certified causes for 1 in five registered deaths: ’18 data||Of the estimated 8 million deaths in India in 2018, about 6.9 million were registered. Out of these, just over one in five had a medically certified cause of death, numbers released by the Union home ministry showed on Thursday. India has been making progress on registering deaths but this has not been accompanied by an increase in deaths where the cause has been medically certified. Among medically certified deaths, diseases of the circulatory system (the heart and blood vessels) were the leading cause of death. Even these numbers need to be read with caution, as reporting is not uniform across states. Bihar reported this data from just five more hospitals than Andaman & Nicobar Islands. The registration rate of deaths increased for the eighth consecutive year in 2018, to reach 86%. Medical certification of deaths has hovered around the 20% mark since 2010.Share of registered deaths and medically certified deaths has been depicted in the chart.Even this data needs to be read with caution. Just about half of medical institutions having in-patient facilities report this data. This number varies drastically at the state level. Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 37 inpatient institutions, all of which reported MCCD data. Bihar on the other hand had just five more institutions covered under MCCD out of its 683 inpatient institutions, which itself is likely to be an underestimate. Telangana, which has 7,144 of 7,827 inpatient institutions covered under MCCD, reported the data from only 284 institutions.Even states that had all inpatient institutions registered under MCCD, such as Assam and Maharashtra, do not appear to be reporting this data regularly. In both these states, the share of medically certified deaths came down between 2017 and 2018. In Assam, it dropped from 31.2% to 12%, while in Maharashtra it went down by around four percentage points from the 2017 value of 38.9%. Diseases of the circulatory system or cardiovascular diseases were the leading causes of death among the deaths that were certified, accounting for nearly a third (32.9%) of all such fatalities, followed by diseases of the respiratory system (9.4%), and infectious and parasitic diseases (9.4%). Infectious and parasitic diseases were the leading cause of deaths among children aged 1-4 years (21% of such deaths) and 5-14 years (22.3%) and among those of age 15-24 years (17.5%). Cardiovascular diseases were the leading cause of death among all older age groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-8mn-deaths-in-india-about-6-9mn-were-registered-in-2018-report/story-FvXNtjge7MV7rOyZCU1x1L.html
31-07-2020||India||‘So far, so good’ says AstraZeneca on leading Covid-19 vaccine||Britain’s AstraZeneca said on Thursday that “good data was coming in so far” on its vaccine for Covid-19, already in large-scale human trials and widely seen as the front-runner in the race for a shot against the coronavirus disease.“The vaccine development is progressing well. We have had good data so far. We need to show the efficacy in the clinical programme, but so far, so good,” chief executive Pascal Soriot said on a media call.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAstraZeneca has already reached deals with countries to make more than 2 billion doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, developed in partnership with the University of Oxford, and says it could be approved by the end of this year.The company has had a busy few months — it took on development of the Covid-19 shot, received billions in government funding, signed several supply deals, and was even the subject of a mega-merger speculation, all the while marching on with its core business.There are no approved vaccines for the illness caused by the new virus, but AstraZeneca’s shot is widely considered the leading candidate after results from early-stage human trials showed it was safe and produced an immune response.The drugmaker, Britain’s most valuable listed company, also announced second quarter results that beat its sales and profit estimates, thanks to strong sales from a diverse product line-up.Among drugs with better-than-expected revenues, sales of respiratory drug Symbicort rose 12% to $653 million, about $90 million above consensus, while revenue from cancer drug Lynparza jumped 62% to $554 million. Newer drugs for diabetes, heart conditions and cancer, including its top-selling lung cancer drug Tagrisso, performed well in the quarter and AstraZeneca remains on track for a third consecutive year of growth.It stuck by its 2020 outlook on Thursday, and its shares were up about 3% at 88.6 pounds after product sales of $6.05 billion in the three months to June surpassed consensus of $6.01 billion. The figure excludes payments from tie-ups.Core earnings of 96 cents per share beat analysts’ expectation of 93 cents. Total revenue rose 11%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-far-so-good-says-astrazeneca-on-leading-covid-19-vaccine/story-HuSbRpJk0ccfAGuxeAXUpK.html
31-07-2020||India||Vital railway infrastructure projects to continue amid Covid-19 pandemic||Vital infrastructure projects of the Indian railways including high speed corridors, the dedicated freight corridors, signalling projects or projects for launching new trains will not be impacted by the Railway Board order to keep all new work sanctioned for 2020-21 fiscal in abeyance in a bid to rationalize cost in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.Hindustan Times on Thursday reported that the national carrier plans to put on hold new infrastructure projects sanctioned in the current financial year other than those related to safety work, according to a Railway Board order issued on Tuesday. The ministry has clarified that the order will not affect any ongoing vital infrastructure projects of the railways. “Ministry of Railways has to abide by the instructions of the ministry of finance. However, sufficient resources exist and have been provisioned for to ensure that wheels of progress and modernization continue to move at rapid speed. The order is not going to impact any of vital infrastructure projects of Railways. It is not going to impact our mission of 100% electrification of routes, doubling tracks, any of railway high speed corridors or DFCCIL, vital signalling projects, projects to launch new modern trains/locomotives, passenger amenities or any project to enhance safety,” the ministry told HT.“It may be noted that there is no reduction in capital expenditure for infra works. The full capex would be utilised. Ministry of finance order will not to impact railways’ massive infrastructure development program,” the ministry added. The order issued by the railway board refers to a directive issued by the finance ministry in June on government spending in the year.In a communication sent to all zones and public sector undertakings (PSU) on Tuesday, the railway board said projects that were previously approved but have made insignificant progress “shall be kept frozen till further orders except those which are essentially required for safe running of trains”.The board has instructed zonal railways to review all projects already approved by them.“Exemption for sanction of works which are considered essential and inescapable will be obtained from the ministry of finance,” the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vital-railway-infrastructure-projects-to-continue-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-v6i5fRuLuCNevPBJaBlC4H.html
31-07-2020||India||Concretisation, digging killing Lutyens’ heritage trees: Experts||On May 6, a towering Neem tree on central Delhi’s Kasturba Gandhi Marg fell dead. This piece of Delhi’s history, which was planted during the British rule, was estimated to be nearly 90 years old and had a girth of 1.8 metres. In the municipal survey report, the cause of the death was simply identified as “hollowness”. According to New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) data accessed by HT, 1,475 trees have fallen, or dried up and died, or been cut down for construction activities between 2015 and July 3 this year. Apart from ageing, experts blame concretisation and digging of trenches to lay underground cables for the tree deaths, which they say is causing tremendous ecological damage. Environmental activists and experts say that despite a 2013 National Green Tribunal (NGT) order placing a ban on construction anywhere within a one-metre radius of a tree trunk, such activities continue. Frequent soil digging to lay underground cables — which causes severe damage to roots of trees — and the lowering of the water table , which dries out the tap-root , are also reasons behind tree deaths, according to the experts. In Lutyens’ Delhi, the avenue trees that have fallen in about five-and-a-half years include pilkhan trees on Dr Zakir Hussain Marg; neem trees on Abdul Kalam Road and Prithviraj Road; and imli (tamarind) trees on Tilak Marg and Akbar Road. Nearly 30% of these trees were “heritage trees” that were over 100 years old. The others were planted between 1920 and 1935 during the construction of Lutyens’ Delhi. Beginning 1912, British planners and arboriculturists planted a specific variety of tree on each avenue. For example, neem trees were planted on Shahjahan Road and Abdul Kalam Road, among others, and jamun on Ashoka Road and Rajpath. Author and environmentalist Pradip Krishen said trees in the Lutyens’ zone not only have ecological value but are also historically important. “Even though NDMC is now planting the second line of trees in these avenues, it is no excuse to not take care of the older trees. It will take these new trees years to attain enough height and girth to provide the benefits that the older ones are providing,” Krishen said. He added: “The loss of any tree is bad news for us, but these trees carry a lot of history with them. Each variety of trees was selected for each avenue keeping the aesthetics and its surroundings in mind. These are a part of the Capital’s history, and horticulture departments must have the good sense to preserve it.” Data shows that this year alone, 41 trees died in the NDMC area due to various reasons such as damage to roots, hollowness, and storms. In 2019, a total of 229 trees died. Out of them, 50 were uprooted and 172 dried up. Two were cut for construction work and five were cut because they were categorised as “dangerous”. This year, NDMC has set a target of planting 5,116 trees. In 2019, the agency planted nearly 10,000 trees. However, the survival rate of saplings in this area is 50-60%. During an inspection conducted in 1999 to ascertain the reason behind the high mortality of Imli trees on Tilak Marg and Akbar Road, a multi-disciplinary team comprising members from the Dehradun-based Forest Research Institute found that these old trees were mainly falling because of “developmental activities” such as laying of underground electrical wires, telephone cables and water pipelines, according to the findings. NDMC’S horticulture department is in charge of the maintenance of the trees. S Chellaiah, director (horticulture), NDMC, said the trees are primarily uprooted because of concretisation, laying of underground utilities and soil compaction. He stressed that the civic agency is concerned that the falling of these full-grown trees will not only be an environmental loss but also a loss of heritage. “Considering that most of the wiring [for electricity cables, CCTV cameras, street lights etc.] is laid underground, you will find a web of cables around tree roots. Even if roots are cut or damaged during the digging of trenches, they slowly start decaying and eventually die. Other reasons for trees getting uprooted are concrete-centric development and ageing. Even older trees could have lived for 10-20 years longer if it weren’t for constant digging and concretisation,” Chellaiah said. The civic agency says it has been proactive in checking trenching work and concretisation to prevent more trees from falling. Early July, NDMC issued a show-cause notice to Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) after reports of damage to trees on Sardar Patel Marg in Chanakyapuri during work to lay underground cables for installing CCTV cameras along the route. CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University, said concretisation is a major reason behind trees choking to death across the Capital, but the loss increases when the victims are old, avenue trees. “Concrete and overhead and underground wiring choke roots and damage canopies. Even though the government has maintained the avenue trees well, by paying a little more attention, we can protect the city’s heritage for some more years. The trees in other parts of the city are in worse conditions. Even if they aren’t chopped off, they die a slow death,” Babu said. The area under NDMC (43.7 sq km) accounts for just about 3% of the entire city (1484 sq km). Nearly 50% of the NDMC area is under green cover. Explaining the ecological benefits of the trees, Babu said: “If you assess based on numbers, why does Lutyens’ Delhi always have lower pollution levels compared to the rest of the city? It is because of this canopy of trees that are planted along both sides of the roads there. Trees are efficient scavengers of dust; the amount of dust trapped by these trees is very high. Also, you cannot depend on new plantation because the survival rate of saplings is very low across municipalities, and it takes years for the few survivors to become fully-grown trees.” Officials in the three other municipalities in Delhi (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations), who did not want to be named, said they do not have a proper log of the number of trees in their area and the reasons behind tree deaths. Officials said even if there are trees in their areas that are older than 100 years, they are neither categorised in terms of plantation dates nor are they treated with any additional care.“We are yet to have a proper tree census to ascertain the number of trees in our area and the reasons behind the death of each tree. We don’t have the means or the finances to undertake such a detailed analysis,” said a senior horticulture department official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concretisation-digging-killing-lutyens-heritage-trees-experts/story-TyBADzE3eBR6VlPAeqcIvK.html
31-07-2020||India||How will Covid-19 interact with India’s infection season?||Infections are the single biggest ailment reported by Indians and they peak during the monsoon, the July-September quarter. Infections are the lowest during peak summer; the April-June quarter. Nine out of ten people who get infections also report a fever. These statistics are based on an HT analysis of unit level data from a 2017-18 National Statistical Office (NSO) survey on consumption of health services in India. When read with the ongoing pandemic, these statistics should ring alarm bells. August and September are still to come. India’s daily confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease and positivity rate – confirmed cases as a proportion of tests – are still rising. A spike in infection-driven fevers means that more symptomatic suspected Covid-19 patients are likely to land at hospitals/testing centres even if they don’t have that illness.The pros and cons of different kinds of tests could also create a policy dilemma. The RT-PCR tests are the gold-standard when it comes to detecting Covid-19, but they take more time to give results. Antigen tests produce quick results, but they are more susceptible to generating false negatives (which means they may show people to be uninfected when they are actually infected). At a time when symptomatic suspected cases are expected to rise, should India prioritise RT-PCRs over antigen tests? Not necessarily, suggests experience from many countries in the southern hemisphere. According to the NSO report, the share of infections in reported ailments increases by 1.5 times between the June and September quarters. The share of persons reporting infections more than doubles between June and September , from 1.6% to 3.6%. The nearly 2 percentage point difference here means a difference of about 25 million people in a country of roughly 1.3 billion people. The share of persons reporting an infection was the second-highest in the post-monsoon season, from October to December. The share of persons reporting ailments other than an infection was roughly the same across the year. This pattern is seen in both rural and urban areas of India. See Chart 1: Share of Indians reporting infections and other ailments  In normal circumstances ( the survey was conducted at such a time), 61% of those who reported infections sought treatment at a private clinic, a private hospital or with an informal healthcare provider. Nearly 24% sought treatment at a government hospital. Because most infection patients are likely to show Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, this means an increase in suspected cases at hospitals and clinics. Fifteen percent of infected patients did not seek any treatment. Of those who did not seek treatment, an overwhelming 79% did not consider the ailment serious enough. As is to be expected, the headline numbers hide significant state-wise divergence: 43% people suffering from infections did not seek any treatment in Bihar. This number was only 3.2% in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, 31% of the patients in Bihar did not consider the ailment serious enough, against only 3% in Tamil Nadu. See Chart 2: Share of infection patients who did not consider the ailment serious enough to seek treatment  To be sure, it is entirely possible that the pandemic has changed this behaviour among people, and they are pro-actively seeking tests and treatments. Another possibility is that the lockdown and continuing mobility restrictions might have significantly enhanced precautionary measures and therefore reduced infections this monsoon. For example, community mobility data from Google until 21 July shows that people were spending significantly less time outside than the baseline scenario, which is based on median value during the five week period from 3 January to 6 February, 2020. That could mean less chance of an infection.  See Chart 3: Decline in outdoor mobilityInternational evidence also points towards such a possibility. Last week, the Wall Street Journal reported that countries across the Southern Hemisphere are reporting significantly lower cases of influenza, respiratory syncytial virus, and other seasonal respiratory viral infections this year. It attributed this to measures as mask use and restrictions on air travel amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Maybe India could catch a similar lucky breakProfessor Indranil Mukhopadhyay, who teaches public health at Jindal School of Government and Public Policy, said decreased mobility and supposedly increased level of precautions that people take may not decrease the prevalence of other infectious diseases in India. “Had that been the case the Covid would have come down,” he said, adding that while it is possible that a higher number of people will seek treatment at a hospital if they show Covid-19 like symptoms, it is also likely that people won’t visit hospitals out of fear of catching the coronavirus there.Mukhopadhyay said monsoon leads to a surge in waterborne diseases, many of which cause Covid-19 like symptoms. “Rapid tests need to be done, otherwise reach would be less,” he said.Dr Sanghita Bhattacharyya, public health specialist at the Public Health Foundation of India, said that even as people are now likely to be more panicked with onset of symptoms such as fever, fear of catching the virus at hospitals can prevent some of them from seeking treatment. “It’s also due to the burden on the health system that people are not getting treatment for other non-covid infections,” she said while advocating for increased use of RT-PCR testing for foolproof diagnosis of symptomatic patients in case there is a surge in symptomatic patients who are actually suffering from other infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-how-will-covid-19-interact-with-india-s-infection-season/story-1rdls3erG5HKTQWtvHat1K.html
31-07-2020||India||What can explain the mystery of China’s Covid-19 numbers?||No large country in the world has been able to contain the disease to one restricted geography the way China has.According to worldometers.info, it has seen 84,165 cases of the coronavirus disease thus far with only 4,634 deaths. It has only 574 active cases of the disease (all data is till late evening of July 29). Merely by looking at the numbers it is difficult to imagine that the disease which has infected more than 17 million people worldwide, killing close to 670,000 (including over 4.4 million cases and 150,000 deaths in the US, and close to 1.6 million cases and almost 35,000 deaths in India) actually originated in Wuhan, China, from where it travelled, through people, all over the world. Sure there has been a minor flurry of cases in Beijing, but the numbers are far too small to suggest any sort of outbreak.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOne theory is that the Chinese have completely buried all inconvenient information related to the disease and its fallout within the country. This is true at least in part; Beijing has steadfastly sidestepped calls for a scientific investigation into the origin of the virus. But there is nothing to suggest that it has engaged in a massive cover-up to hide outbreaks in other parts of the country.Which is why its Covid-19 numbers are a mystery. This column has pointed out that the pandemic has followed roughly the same trajectory in most countries. It has also pointed out that its trajectory has been similar in large countries such as the US, Brazil, and India, with concentrated outbreaks in a few areas that gradually spread to other areas, which then started seeing similar outbreaks. China is the world’s most populous country and the third largest country by geographical area. The US is the fourth largest, Brazil the fifth, and India the seventh (India is the second most populous country in the world, the US the third, and Brazil the sixth).A recent paper in Science may have the answer. According to the paper, by Benjamin Cowling and other researchers, mostly at the University of Hong Kong, China’s ability to stop Covid-19 in its tracks may have to do with its ability to manage the serial interval. In epidemiology, the serial interval is the gap between the onset of symptoms in Person A, and Person B, who is infected by Person A. The researchers’ main finding is the title of the paper: “Serial interval of SARS-CoV-2 was shortened over time by nonpharmaceutical interventions”.The researchers found that the serial interval in Wuhan came down from 7.8 days to 2.6 days between early January and early February. They hypothesise that this was made possible by China’s aggressive contact tracing, quarantine, and isolation protocols, which meant that all infections arising from one infected individual happened in a short period of time (in this case, 2.6 days), thereby ensuring that infected people, because they were isolated, could not infect any more people later in the infection cycle. The result, according to the researchers, was fewer cases. The sooner an infected person was isolated, the researchers found, the shorter was the serial interval. Their paper also explains that the serial interval is related to other epidemiological parameters, such as the attack rate of a virus (the proportion of people exposed to the virus over a period of time) and the reproduction rate or R naught, the number of people who will be infected by one infected person.At this point, what Cowling and Co have proposed is a theory (backed by data and research), albeit a very plausible one.It is also one that emphasizes the only way to deal with the coronavirus disease in the absence of a vaccine or a cure – test, trace, and isolate. And it is proof that better tracing and prompt (and stringent) isolation can lead to flatter infection curves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-can-explain-the-mystery-of-china-s-covid-19-numbers/story-HuG99971H6xng1O4LCNrGP.html
31-07-2020||India||Herd immunity far away, Covid-19 vaccine only option: Health ministry||The herd immunity level is “far away” for the Indian population and it can only be achieved through immunisation by vaccines, a top health ministry official said on Thursday and added that reaching this threshold – believed to be crucial for the Covid-19 outbreak to end – in any other manner will exact too high a cost. The official also hinted that India is looking at a multilateral, WHO-led mechanism to secure Covid vaccines and the country is yet to begin direct discussions with any of the developers that are leading the development race.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“For a large country like India, herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or a strategic option... It will come at too high a cost and can be done only through immunisations via vaccination,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the officer on special duty, health ministry, during a briefing on Thursday. The march of an infectious disease such as Covid-19 can be halted only when there is a large enough proportion of the population that is immune to it – a threshold known as herd immunity. Besides a vaccine, which is yet to be approved, the only way people become immune is if they have had the disease and recovered.“Government has not signed an agreement with any vaccine manufacturing company. There are multiple stakeholders within and outside government and ministry of health has started actively engaging with such stakeholders. It’s too premature to comment on supply and distribution of vaccine at this stage but whenever it comes it has to be deployed on a much larger scale than the existing vaccines,” said Bhushan. Bhushan also said the question on who would get the vaccine first was still under deliberation at the health ministry. World over, there are roughly 25 vaccines in human trial phases – including two from India. Three vaccine candidates – one each from US, UK and China – are largely regarded as the frontrunners since they are now at advanced stages of experiments among people. Several countries have entered into commercial deals with the UK candidate’s developer AstraZeneca and the US candidate’s Moderna. “India is in touch with global multilateral organisations such as GAVI, CEPI, WHO etc. to see how it can be made accessible for people in India,” said Bhushan. GAVI (Gavi-The Vaccine Alliance) and CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations) have partnered with WHO and several of the vaccine developers to help pool resources for the production, acquisition of distribution of any potential Covid-19 vaccine, with fair access being one of the factors that they will keep in mind. The two Indian vaccine candidates are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, both in phase I/II human trials for determining its safety and dosage. About 141 vaccine candidates globally are in the pre-clinical stage, which means these are into research stages or in pre-clinical trials where animal experiments are taking place to generate toxicity data.The virus strain isolated for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was isolated at the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV) in Pune, and transferred to the company. It received central drugs controller’s approval for early human trials on June 29. Zydus Cadila’s vaccine candidate is called ZyCov-D, a DNA plasmid vaccine that received drug controller’s approval for early human trials on July 2. The candidate was developed indigenously at the company’s Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, and uses DNA to train the body to recognise parts of Sars-Cov-2 and build an immune response. Experts said vaccine is the most cost-effective way to achieve immunity against an infectious disease. “The vaccine will be ultimate to check the disease spread but we don’t know when an effective vaccine will be available for use even though all our efforts are being directed towards making it happen as soon as possible. A good vaccine is the most cost-effective way of preventing a disease,” said Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU, Lucknow. Till the time a vaccine comes, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing, and maintaining hand hygiene, etc, will work the best, Bhushan said at the briefing. As the Covid-19 outbreak turned into a pandemic, epidemiologists around the world said countries would need to use a combination of suppression (not letting the virus spread) and mitigation (focussing on helping infected people and letting the virus spread in a limited manner to allow immunity to build up) strategies till a vaccine is developed. For India, the second part has been deemed as not feasible since the country has fewer hospitals per person than developed countries – which raises the possibility of health services being overwhelmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/herd-immunity-far-away-vaccine-only-option-govt/story-Ov9cp9oWXWCSSYX4QLrrAI.html
31-07-2020||India||We help partners without preconditions: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held up India’s track record of providing developmental aid to neighbours without any conditions and in line with their priorities, in a tacit reference to China and the “debt trap” created by its big-ticket projects, India’s development partnerships are marked by respect, diversity, care for the future and sustainable development, Modi said as he and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth inaugurated the new Supreme Court building in Port Louis during a virtual ceremony. Modi didn’t refer to other countries involved in development cooperation in the neighbourhood, though he appeared to be making a distinction between Indian aid and Chinese-backed projects, including the Belt and Road Initiative that have led to several countries in the region falling into a “debt trap”. “For India, the most fundamental principle in development cooperation is respecting our partners. This sharing of development lessons is our only motivation,” Modi said. “That is why our development cooperation does not come with any conditions. It is not influenced by political or commercial considerations,” he said. In the Indian Ocean region, Sri Lanka leased the strategic Hambantota port to a Chinese firm for 99 years in 2017 after the country was unable to repay Chinese loans for developing the facility. The current government of the Maldives has sought India’s help to cope with massive loans taken from China by the previous regime. India’s development and security cooperation with smaller Indian Ocean states has been a key part of its “neighbourhood first” policy, with work continuing on projects in areas ranging from health care to defence amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi highlighted his government’s vision of “Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR)” for the Indian Ocean region and said: “Our development partnerships reflect the development priorities of our partner nations.” Modi outlined the projects taken up and completed in diverse fields through India’s development partnerships, including the Parliament building in Afghanistan, the Mahatma Gandhi Convention Centre in Niger, an emergency and trauma hospital in Nepal, and emergency ambulance services in all nine provinces of Sri Lanka. An oil pipeline project being implemented with Nepal will ensure the availability of petroleum products in the Himalayan nation, while another scheme will provide drinking water and sanitation in 34 islands of the Maldives. “We have tried to make cricket popular in countries as diverse as Afghanistan and Guyana by helping build stadiums and other facilities,” he said. The Supreme Court building in Port Louis, built with grant assistance of $28.12 million, is part of a special economic package of $353 million provided by India. Other infrastructure schemes taken up under this package are the Metro Express project worth $275 million, the first phase of which has been completed, a $14-million ENT Hospital, which too has been completed, and a social housing project with nearly 1,000 units. India is the largest development partner for Mauritius, to which it has provided lines of credit worth $600 million on concessional terms. India is assisting in the building of health care facilities such as a renal unit, four medical clinics and two health centres in the country. Modi said India is also focusing on sustainable development through institutions such as the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. “Both initiatives are of special relevance to island countries,” he added. In his speech, Jugnauth thanked the government and people for their solidarity in trying times amid the pandemic. He said Mauritius had benefited from medicines and equipment supplied by India and the three-week-long deployment of a medical team on board the Indian warship INS Kesari. He described the new Supreme Court building as a milestone in the modernisation of the infrastructure of Mauritius that will enable the judiciary to use new technologies to make justice more accessible to all. Judges often had to wait to use the limited number of courtrooms at the old building to hear cases, he added. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said India’s development projects in South Asia and Africa highlighted how the approach of Indian policy-makers was different from that of the Chinese. “India’s projects are part of a partnership of equals, not in terms of resources but in terms of mutual respect. China says the same thing but the facts show otherwise. If the same was true in the case of China, something like Hambantota port wouldn’t have happened,” he said. “India opts for elaborate and lengthy consultations on these projects, which are based on the needs of other countries – we don’t fly down to a country and say this is what you’re going to get.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-we-help-partners-without-preconditions/story-sEGhwGkuK8w8BPsGLAaxVO.html
31-07-2020||India||House panel meeting called on draft EIA||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar and his predecessor Jairam Ramesh’s tussle over the Centre’s draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 is set to enter the next phase, with Ramesh deciding to discuss the draft policy in the environment panel of the Parliament.Ramesh’s decision to call a House panel meeting on the subject was prompted by Javadekar’s letter to him that mentioned “government decisions are always open for scrutiny by Parliament and standing committees.”Even as recommendations of House panels are not binding upon the government, any critical report of the EIA 2020 can be construed as institutional disapproval and remain as a reference for the future debate or policymaking. A panel can also seek action-taken reports from the ministry on its recommendations.Ramesh, the chairman of the standing committee on environment, science and technology, has invited ministry officials on August 7. A notice for the meeting has been circulated and it mentions that soft copies of relevant documents would be distributed and no physical copies would be provided due to Covid restrictions.The former union minister recently wrote to Javadekar to record his “strongest objections” to the draft on grounds that “it allows for post-facto approvals which go against the very principle of assessment; it reduces public participation in all steps of environment clearance process; it does away with environment impact assessment altogether in many cases of expansion; increases validity of environmental clearances allowing projects to secure land for longer durations and it gives union government full powers to appoint state environment impact assessment authorities.”Javadekar replied that the Congress leader’s concerns were “unfounded” and based on “misrepresentation”.The minister also wrote to Ramesh on July 26, saying, “I will reply you in detail. Government will finalise after considering various suggestions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-meeting-called-on-draft-eia/story-4FgK2dCs3vOWDoklsDwqNP.html
31-07-2020||India||ED seeks copy of FIR against Rhea Chakraborty||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked for a copy of the FIR registered by Bihar Police against Rhea Chakraborty and others in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said on Thursday. The agency will study the police FIR to assess if it merits a probe under the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA). Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, Krishna Kumar Singh, has alleged in his complaint to the Bihar Police that there was a transaction of Rs 15 crore from one of the accounts of his son. He has also alleged that Chakraborty had kept Rajput away from his family and completely in her possession, and that she was also handling his bank account. If the case merits an investigation, the ED will probe if anyone used the actor’s income for money laundering and creating illegal assets. On Tuesday, the actor’s father had lodged an FIR against Chakraborty, her family members and six others on charges of alleged abetment to suicide. The Bihar Police lodged a case under various IPC sections, including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide). The Supreme Court, earlier on Thursday, dismissed a PIL seeking transfer of the probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death from Mumbai Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). A bench, comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said that the Mumbai Police should be allowed to complete the investigation and if there is a, then a plea should be filed before the Bombay High Court. The actress had moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a stay on the investigation by the Bihar Police on the FIR filed against her by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father for allegedly abetting the suicide of his son. The Mumbai Police is already investigating the actor’s death. Meanwhile, a Bihar police team has also reached Mumbai to investigate the allegations against Rhea Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-seeks-copy-of-fir-against-rhea-chakraborty/story-cddpfv6Q0AY6Q6TaWbX56N.html
31-07-2020||India||SC turns down demand for CBI probe in Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Supreme Court on Thursday turned down the demand for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput even as his family and the Bihar government filed separate caveats to deny actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is accused of abetting the suicide, any immediate relief in the case.The top court’s order came on a public interest litigation that asked for a court-monitored probe and said Rajput was a generous person who supported charities. But the bench, comprising Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, wasn’t convinced. “This matter has nothing to do with the fact whether the person was good or bad. The case is being investigated by the Mumbai Police. We are dismissing this petition,” the bench held. The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. Since then, Mumbai Police have questioned 45 people, including top directors and producers but family of the actor – who hailed from Bihar – has remained unconvinced with the probe. Last week, Rajput’s father KK Singh filed a police complaint in Patna that alleged Chakraborty and her family members of abetting the suicide, prompting Bihar Police to send a team of officers to Mumbai for the probe. Chakraborty and Rajput were in a live-in relationship.On Wednesday, Chakraborty filed a petition in the apex court asking the FIR to be transferred to Mumbai from Bihar. She alleged that Rajput’s father had used his influence to rope her into the case. Chakraborty had also been questioned by Mumbai Police earlier. But on Thursday, Rajput’s family filed a caveat seeking her petition not be heard without a notice or a hearing to the family. Later in the day, the Bihar government also filed a caveat and announced it hired senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi to appear on behalf of state government to oppose Chakraborty’s plea.Advocate Keshav Mohan appearing for Bihar, confirmed the development and said, “The Bihar government is a necessary party in this case as the petition by Rhea Chakraborty has challenged the jurisdiction of Bihar government to pursue the FIR lodged by KK Singh.” A caveat is a pre-emptive legal measure taken to ensure that a party does not get any favourable order without a notice or a hearing accorded to the opponent.A senior Bihar government official said the administration might recommend CBI probe in the case, agreeing to the demand by Rajput’s family. The official said that Bihar government had the right to recommend a CBI probe because an FIR was lodged in its jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-turns-down-demand-for-cbi-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-WCJh1VmQ917Vva2oFABbpJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Pakistan court forms special bench to hear Kulbhushan Jadhav case||A special bench of a Pakistani court is set to take up the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Navy officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, even as New Delhi said on Thursday that Islamabad haS blocked all its efforts to seek remedies in the case.A special bench of the Islamabad High Court headed by chief justice Athar Minallah will hear Jadhav’s case from August 3, Pakistan’s Geo News channel reported. A lawyer will also be appointed to represent Jadhav on Monday, it added.The Pakistani government this week tabled the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, 2020, in Parliament for approval. The ordinance was promulgated to allow Jadhav, 50, to appeal the death sentence given to him by a military court in 2017.In New Delhi, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual weekly news briefing that Pakistan has systematically blocked all of India’s attempts to seek remedies for Jadhav.He accused Pakistan of violating the 2019 judgement of the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which called for an effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentencing of Jadhav, and its own ordinance.Pakistan, Srivastava said, has not provided unhindered, unimpeded and unconditional access to Jadhav or the official documents requested by India. “Their actions expose the farcical nature of their approach to this issue,” he said.“We reserve our position in this matter, which includes the right to avail further remedies. I’ll also reiterate that we stand committed to protect the life of our national Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Srivastava said.The Pakistani government petitioned the Islamabad high court on July 22 to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav for filing a review petition against his sentence. The defence secretary and the judge advocate general branch of the military were made parties to the petition filed by the law ministry.The petition contended Jadhav had refused to file a review petition against his sentence and that India was reluctant to avail of the remedies under the ordinance.India has dismissed these contentions and said that a Pakistani lawyer appointed by it was unable to file a review petition on July 18 as he was not provided necessary documents by Pakistani authorities. Indian officials walked out of a meeting with Jadhav on July 16 after Pakistan breached assurances of providing unimpeded consular access.Jadhav was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. India rejected the allegations and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ ruled that Pakistan violated Jadhav’s rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and stayed his execution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spl-bench-in-pak-to-hear-jadhav-case/story-YO2OpO1r9LJAEqeXu49W3N.html
31-07-2020||India||Smuggled to UK, rare Shiva statue on way home||London: An exquisite 9th-century Natesh Shiva statue, which was smuggled to the UK after being stolen from the Ghateshwar temple in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district in February 1998, will be returned the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Thursday, according to the Indian high commission.Indian officials said British authorities were alerted in 2003 when it emerged the statue had been smuggled to the UK. They contacted a private collector, who was in the statue’s possession and had him voluntarily return it to the Indian high commission in 2005. The statue has been displayed prominently at London’s India House.  “For the past few years, the Government of India has been giving renewed impetus to protect India’s cultural heritage and showcasing it to the world. The ministry of external affairs along with India’s law enforcement agencies has been very active in pursuing the investigations and restitution of our stolen and smuggled antiquities”, said an Indian high commission spokesperson. “Accordingly, antiquities and idols have been returned back to India from various countries including the USA, Australia, France and Germany”, he added.In August 2017, an ASI team examined the idol and confirmed it to be the one stolen from the Ghateshwar temple in Chittorgarh’s Baroli village.Several such priceless items have been recovered in the UK and handed over to the Indian mission. The mission has been working with British law enforcement authorities to trace, seize, and retrieve stolen artifacts.Recent items recovered and returned to India include a 17th-century bronze idol of Navanitha Krishna and a 2nd-century limestone carved pillar motif by the US embassy on August 15, 2019. A 12th-century bronze statue of Buddha was handed over by Scotland Yard on August 15, 2018. A Bramha-Brahmani sculpture, which was stolen from the world heritage site Rani Ki Vav in Gujarat, was returned to ASI in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smuggled-to-uk-rare-shiva-statue-on-way-home/story-s8mRVxCOzacMAcLIFXDMeK.html
31-07-2020||India||Space dept lists responsibilities and roles of IN-SPACE||A month after announcing the formation of a nodal agency Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) for commercialisation of space activities in the country, the department of space has detailed its structure, roles and responsibilities. The single-window agency will permit and oversee activities by private sector right from building launch vehicles and satellites to launching it. The agency will also monitor the usage of the data generated by the private spacecrafts and rolling out of any space-based services, according to the document. So far, the industry participation in space activities was limited mainly to building parts for the ISRO missions. However, these included 500 medium and small-scale enterprises, public sector undertaking and private industries. According to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), this has created jobs for around 45,000 people in the country and has matured the Indian industry in manufacturing motor cases, engines, satellite production and rocket motor building to the level of exporting indigenous technologies. “IN-SPACe will be another vertical under the department that will enable private players to carry out space activities. To do so, definitely some systems, like appropriate policies, are required. The Space Activities Bill should comprise this. We are already working on it — we are trying to modify some existing policies to suit the entry of private players. Some of the activities can be started without the Bill. By then, the Bill will also come in and the picture will come together. But for space launched by the private sector, yes, the Bill would be required,” ISRO chairman and secretary of department of space Dr K Sivan had said during the announcement last month. Other sectors such as defence production, telecom, materials, chemicals, and precision engineering have also benefitted from these collaborations. For a complete end-to-end mission – developing the spacecraft, launch vehicle and launching a mission – is infrastructure needed to carry out extensive research and development, integration and testing, and launch port (India has only one space-port in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh). These facilities are capital intensive and take time to establish. IN-SPACe will create a mechanism for sharing the already existing infrastructure in ISRO with the private players. It will also enable the private sector to create temporary infrastructure within Department of Space establishments. The technology, expertise and facilities will be offered to private players either free or at reasonable cost, according to the document. IN-SPACe will also be the nodal agency for approval of any other space-related infrastructure to be built. The newly created agency will have a chairman, technical experts for space activities, safety considerations, legal and strategic experts, and member of the industry and academia. The body will also have members from the prime minister’s officer and from the ministry of external affairs. The decision of IN-SPACe shall be final and binding on all stakeholders, including ISRO. The body will also have a monitoring directorate that will have oversight over space activities till the completion of the missions as per IN-SPACe decisions. It shall report back to the agency for corrective actions needed. Any disputes will be resolved by IN-SPACe and department of space. As per the document released by the department of space, the unresolved disputes will be resolved by an appellate body. “As an interim measure, utilization of TDSAT (Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal) is suggested.” The private sector participation will not be limited to established technologies and ISRO will open up new technology challenges to the industry. The shortlisted proposals will be promoted for part funding by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/space-dept-lists-responsibilities-and-roles-of-in-space/story-WBizPaq4r5I69pDBfanc9M.html
31-07-2020||India||Priyanka vacates govt bungalow a day ahead of the official deadline||New Delhi: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra vacated her government-allocated Lodhi Estate house on Thursday, a day before the deadline for the eviction notice issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Gandhi on July 1 was asked to vacate her bungalow 35 Lodhi Estate house in Delhi within a month on the ground that she is ineligible for the entitlement, as she no longer enjoys the security cover of the Special Protection Group (SPG).She will be residing in a temporary accommodation until a more permanent accommodation in Delhi rented by her is ready for use, Congress said in a statement on Thursday.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra handed over the possession of 35 Lodhi Estate, previously allotted to her on Security Grounds, to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) today. JE of CPWD Shri. P Senthil Kumar in the presence of Shri. Vikas Rana, CE (NDZ-I) CPWD, Shri. Yogesh Kumar Kardam, AE (PAWD-I, CPWD), Shri. Manoj Kumar Chauhan, AE, CPWD Services, Shri B.S. Rana, JE (PAWD-I, CPWD) accepted the keys to the bungalow on behalf of the CPWD after a full inspection establishing that the house was handed over in good condition. They have issued her a “Vacation Report” for the premises on behalf of the CPWD,” Congress said in a statement on Thursday.Hindustan Times has reviewed a copy of the vacation report . . The department of estate confirmed the development to HT. The ministry of housing and urban affairs did not comment on the matter. “Smt. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also passed on to the CPWD and the Directorate of Estates, a full inventory of privately installed fittings, fixtures etc. She has paid all electricity, water and previous dues and is awaiting the final assessment for the licenCe fee of the month of July from the Directorate of Estates due to her on the 31st July to close all accounts with reference to the allotment and subsequent cancellation of the lease of the government bungalow,” Congress said.She was allotted the Lodhi Estate bungalow on February 21, 1997, as an SPG protectee.Priyanka Gandhi on July 14 dismissed claims that she requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an extension of the tenure beyond August 1.“This is FAKE NEWS. I have not made any such request to the government. As per the eviction letter handed to me on July 1, I will be vacating the government accommodation at 35 Lodhi Estate by August 1,” she had tweeted.Urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri countered lleged that a “powerful Congress leader” had requested him to let her stay on at 35 Lodhi Estate on July 4, three days after the eviction notice was served on her.“Facts speak for themselves! A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the party called me on July 4 at 12.05pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another Congress MP so that Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra can stay on. Let’s not sensationalise everything please,” Puri tweeted.The July 1 order issued by the department of estate stated that any stay longer than August 1, would attract “damage charges and penal rent” as per rules.Hours after the notice was served to her on July 1, Priyanka Gandhi paid all her pending dues, amounting to 3,46,677, until June 30, the ministry had said.The allotment of central government bungalows is done through the General Pool Residential Accommodation (GPRA) Rules, 2017, of the directorate of estates.The ministry has already allotted the bungalow to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson, Anil Baluni. “Talked to Mr Anil Baluni and his wife today. I pray to God for his good health and happiness. I give my best wishes to them for the new house and hope that they too get as much happiness in the house and I am my family got,” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-vacates-govt-bungalow-a-day-ahead-of-the-official-deadline/story-i9Bn8OfObu655p8GwxnCEO.html
31-07-2020||India||Delhi HC stays Jaya Jaitly’s 4-year jail term in graft case||The Delhi High Court on Thursday stayed an order passed earlier in the day by the trial court sentencing former Samta Party leader Jaya Jaitly to four years imprisonment in connection with a corruption case dating back to 2001. A trial court on Thursday sentenced three people -- Jaitly, her erstwhile party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and retired Major General (retd) SP Murgai -- tor four-year rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on each of them while convicting them for criminal conspiracy and corruption. The court also directed them to surrender by 5 pm the same day. Even as Pacherwal’s counsel sought time for his client to surrender, Jaitly got relief from the HC. Later in the evening, the trial court also granted time to Murgai time till August 3 to surrender. Justice Suresh Kait suspended the sentence after Jaitly, through her counsel Aditya Vijay Kumar, moved the Delhi HC appealing the conviction and sentence. The case in qustion was registered on the basis of a sting, Operation West End, conducted by news portal tehelka.com in 2000, purportedly exposing alleged corruption in defence deals. The Central Bureau of Investigation submitted a charge sheet against Jaitly and others in 2006. According to the prosecution, Jaitly entered a criminal conspiracy with Murgai, Pacherwal and Surendra Kumar Surekha in 2001. She obtained Rs 2 lakh as illegal gratification from one Mathews Samuel ( a representative of a fictitious firm MS International Westland, London), the agency said. In truth, Samuel was a journalist. On Thursday, while passing the order on sentence, the court said that in “total disregard to the positions they were holding and their social status, they conspired with each other to assist Samuel in pushing its product Hand Held Thermal Imagers (HHTI) into the Indian Army by exercising personal influence upon the concerned officers in the Ministry of Defense, particularly the then Union Defense Minister” George Fernandes. “By their act, they compromised the entire defence system of the country. It is a crime with very wide and huge repercussion for the entire nation and thus cannot be dealt with leniently. For their petty gains, the convicts sought to assist the induction of a product of an unknown fictitious company into the Indian Army, which if done, would have made the Army immensely vulnerable and handicapped in the wake of an enemy attack. The very existence of our country would have come under threat. It was no less than an attack on the independence of our country,” the court said.It added: “In the opinion of this Court, there should be zero tolerance towards corruption in defence procurement deals as these have a direct bearing upon independence and sovereignty of our country. Hence, the crime which these convicts have committed is of highest degree. They certainly do not deserve any mercy. They deserve the harshest sentence. Showing any kind of mercy towards the convicts would be a mockery of justice and sure to excite the fury of the society at large,” the judge said in its order. It said that the “virus of corruption has engulfed the entire fabric of our society, is becoming a major obstacle in the growth and development of our nation”. Reacting to the HC order, Jaitly’s counsel Aditya Vijay Kumar said that it came as a relief that court stayed the sentence after it found merit in their position. Advocate Vikram Panwar, representing Murgai, said that he too would move to the Delhi High Court against the judgment and sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-stays-jaya-jaitly-s-4-year-jail-term-in-graft-case/story-y7YdGVLWvH1090KvpZVnQO.html
31-07-2020||India||New education policy focuses on ‘bagless days’, vocational training||New Delhi The national education policy released by the human resource development (HRD) ministry suggests a wide variety of vocational and enriching courses, and ‘bagless’ periods where students focus on vocations.The policy says students should get hands-on experience in important vocational crafts, such as carpentry, electric work, metal work, gardening or pottery making, as decided by states and local communities and as mapped by local skilling needs.A practice-based curriculum for Grades 6-8 will be appropriately designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training.The policy suggests students participate in a 10-day bagless period sometime during Classes 6-8 where they intern with local vocational experts such as carpenters, gardeners, potters, artists,etc. Similar internship opportunities to learn vocational subjects may be made available to students throughout Grades 6-12, including holiday periods. Vocational courses will also be made available online.Bagless days will be encouraged throughout the year for various types of enrichment activities involving arts, quizzes, sports, and vocational crafts, the policy suggests.The policy also lays special emphasis on developing innate talents in every student. These talents might express themselves in the form of varying interests, dispositions, and capacities. Those students that show particularly strong interests and capacities in a given realm must be encouraged to pursue that realm beyond the general school curriculum.Teacher education will include methods for the recognition and fostering of such student talents and interests. The NCERT and National Council for Teacher Education will develop guidelines for the education of gifted children.Olympiads and competitions in various subjects will be conducted across thecountry, with clear coordination and progression from school to local to state to national levels, to ensure that all students can participate at all levels for which they qualify. Efforts will be made to make these available in rural areas and in regional languages to ensure widespread participation. Public and private universities, including premier institutions like the IITs and NITs, would be encouraged to use merit-based results from National, and International Olympiads, and results from other relevant national programmes, as part of the criteria for admissions into their undergraduate programmes, according to a person in know of the developments. ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-focuses-on-bagless-days-vocational-training/story-k9vdakq3OfXUSXALXMa2OP.html
31-07-2020||India||Gujarat IAS officer named PM Modi’s top aide||Hardik Satishchandra Shah, a 2010 batch IAS officer, has been appointed private secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah’s appointment was cleared by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Thursday, an order by the department of personnel and training said.Shah, a Gujarat cadre IAS officer, is serving as deputy secretary in the PMO and was personally picked by the PM for his new role, according to people familiar with the development.Shah will take over from Rajeev Topno. Topno, a 1996 batch IAS officer, was appointed as senior advisor to the World Bank Executive Director in June. He is expected to proceed to Washington for his new assignment after August 15. Until then Topno and Shah will work together, for a smooth handover.Topno, also a Gujarat cadre officer, had spent 11 years in the Prime Minister’s Office, first as a deputy secretary in 2009 when Manmohan Singh had just started his second term. PM Modi continued with him, appointing him to his personal staff.Hardik Satishchandra Shah’s first assignment at the Centre was in 2017 when he joined as private secretary to environment minister Anil Madhav Dave. He continued in the environment minister’s personal office after Prakash Javadekar came in before finally moving to the PMO in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-ias-officer-named-pm-modi-s-top-aide/story-4iMItSq4yBKKUHFn7e8Q8L.html
31-07-2020||India||Under house arrest from Aug 5, Supreme Court must question Centre: Soz||Congress leader Saifuddin Soz, 82, on Thursday said he has been under detention since August last year when Jammu & Kashmir was divested of its special status and accused the Union Territory administration of lying to the Supreme Court on Wednesday that he was “never detained nor under house arrest”. The court on Wednesday closed a habeas corpus petition filed by Soz’s wife after the administration assured it he was not under detention.“I am [under] house arrest since August 5, 2019, and today [Thursday] press people came and they saw police not allowing me to go out...they [administration] shamelessly told the SC [Supreme Court] that I was a free man. It is so tragic. The SC must feel the necessity of asking the central government why it was told lies...My lawyer will approach a court here about how a lie was told in the Supreme Court,” Soz told HT over phone.Soz, who is a five-time member of Parliament and a former Union minister, said this after a video went viral on social media showing security personnel pulling him away from the boundary wall of his Srinagar house when he was speaking to journalists. Soon after, Soz, who can’t be seen any longer, is heard telling the person who pulled him away not to touch him. Soz added he has over the last year left his house to visit his ailing sister and to travel to Delhi in September and December for treatment. “Whenever I went out of my premises since August 5, 2019, I had to obtain permission from the government,” he said. He added additional security personnel had been deployed at his house. “I asked one of them ‘how can he touch me. This is my house and you go out’. Look at the high-handedness of that policeman; he was in civvies and I did not know him. But what can the Kashmir police do, they are also under pressure.”Also read | Time to heal Kashmir’s wound, look to future within India: Supreme CourtHundreds of people, including three former chief ministers, were detained in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that ended Jammu & Kashmir’s special status. A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed but most of the restrictions have since been eased even as the mobile internet remains restricted. Two former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released in March while Mehbooba Mufti remains under detention.Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu did not respond to questions about Soz’s detention.The Jammu and Kashmir administration’s spokesperson and principal secretary, Rohit Kansal, reiterated the government’s stand that Soz was never under detention or arrest. “...He has been to Delhi twice- in October and December. Free to go wherever he likes with usual security drill. No question of lying in Hon SC @diprjk,” Kansal posted on Twitter. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted Soz’s video and hit out at the government over the former Union minister’s illegal detention. “The illegal detention of political leaders with absolutely no basis damages the fabric of our nation. Mr Soz must be released at once.”Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor, too, shared the video and termed Soz’s treatment a “national disgrace”.Omar Abdullah said 15 leaders of his National Conference were also illegally detained like Soz. “Soz Sahib’s plight is not unique. @JKNC_has gone to court because more than 15 of our colleagues are similarly illegally detained & I have no doubt the administration will claim they aren’t detained...”Mufti’s daughter, Iltija Mufti, said Soz was manhandled for speaking to media. “I faced the same situation in January when I tried to address media at my house in Srinagar.”Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman Anil Gupta questioned the video’s authenticity and added if the administration has said Soz is not under detention, then he is free. “Soz is playing the victim card to gain sympathy.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-house-arrest-from-aug-5-sc-must-question-centre-soz/story-WlamfkFZZqfO1ZfASv33GO.html
31-07-2020||India||29 tigers present in Dibang block: Report||An estimated 29 tigers were present in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang-Kamlang-Namdapha Block, according to the Status of Tigers, Co-predators, and Prey in India report (2018) released on Tuesday. The confirmation of the big cat presence based on scat samples and camera trap images comes amid concerns about the proposed diversion of large forest areas around Dibang Valley Wildlife Sanctuary for a power project and a dam. Experts say the projects will impact both the tigers and their prey.The 3,097 MW Etalin Hydropower Project will impact 1150.08 hectares and the Dibang Multipurpose Dam 4,577.84 hectares in the unclassified state forests and other community lands. Both are under different stages of the Union environment ministry’s consideration.Two adult individual tigers were photographed in the sanctuary in 2018 during the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA)’s tiger estimation, according to the report. Dibang Valley holds unique importance for in-situ conservation of this “unique and genetically diverse lineage of tigers” as the local aboriginal community of Idu Mishmis considers tigers as their elder brothers, it added.One adult tiger was photographed in Dibang Valley during the estimation process in 2014. Molecular signs were also noted. “Tiger presence is repeatedly being seen during camera trap exercises. The Valley is definitely a very good habitat for tigers,” said NTCA member secretary SP Yadav. The 2018 estimation has recommended discussions with Idu Mishmis before proceeding with any notification of the sanctuary as a tiger reserve.Arunachal Pradesh Wildlife Advisory Board member Anoko Mega said the projects will impact both the tiger and tiger prey. “Some of the prey cross the Talon river or are found in abundance along the river like the Mishmi Takin. If the environment ministry really considers the tiger to be an important species, it will not consider projects which will be disastrous for the tiger habitat here. The community had always known there were tigers here,” said Mega. “If at all a tiger reserve is declared here, the boundary should be demarcated after consulting local people so that there is no impact on human habitation.”Wildlife Institute of India (WII) researchers identified 11 individual tigers, including two cubs, during a three-year camera trap-based study in the sanctuary and the Mishmi hills. They published their findings in the Journal of Threatened Taxa in 2018. But WII, in a report titled Wildlife Conservation Plan for the Impact Zone of Etalin HEP, said there was no tiger presence in the project area.Environment ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee in its factsheet had said Etalin Hydropower project is located in sub-tropical evergreen and rain forests and in a vital tiger area. The Idu Mishmi Cultural & Literary Society (IMCLS) wrote to NTCA and the Union environment, forests & climate change ministry in 2018, saying the community should be consulted before proceeding with notifying the sanctuary as a tiger reserve. “Based on years of empirical research on ecological and social aspects of tigers in Dibang Valley, we strongly believe that the right strategy for Dibang tigers would be to develop a new kind of tiger reserve that is built not with fences and armed patrol guards, but around a cultural model, a culture which has so far proven to be effective in saving the tiger,” wrote IMCLS.The 2018 NTCA report said Arunachal Pradesh has large contiguous forests over 136,000 km, which include Pakke Tiger Reserves, Tale Valley Wildlife Sanctuary, Mouling National Park, D’Ering Wildlife Sanctuary, Mehao Wildlife Sanctuary, Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary, and Kamlamg and Namdapha Tiger Reserve. “Compared to earlier surveys, this landscape unit shows a persisting low-density tiger population…the largest tiger population of Arunachal Pradesh is within pockets of this landscape,” it said. The report added the 1,811 km Trans Arunachal Highway will become a barrier for the movement of the wildlife species in several of these corridors.One in every three tigers in India lives outside reserves, according to the report, highlighting the challenge of protecting India’s national animal and reducing instances of man-animal conflict. The proportion has increased from around one in every four tigers living outside reserves, according to a 2014 study.India recorded a 33% increase in tiger numbers from 2014 to 2018, according to the summary of the report, All India Tiger Estimation Results, released last year. There were 2,967 tigers in 2018, compared to 2,226 in 2014.No tigers were recorded in Mizoram’s Dampa and West Bengal’s Buxa tiger reserves while they face the severe threat of local extinction in Jharkhand’s Palamau reserve, according to the report. Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is among reserves at or nearing capacity, had the largest population of tigers—about 231—in 2018, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-tigers-present-in-dibang-block-report/story-I8XhzzZnEhz2f15UxydlwI.html
31-07-2020||India||Australia opposes Chinese attempts to alter status quo along LAC||Australia on Thursday backed India’s position on the border standoff with China, saying it opposes attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as that could increase the risk of instability.Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell conveyed his country’s position to external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a meeting where the two sides discussed developments across the Indo-Pacific region amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The Australian side urges restraint along the LAC and supports continued moves towards de-escalation, said a statement from the Australian high commission.“As I told the external affairs minister of India today, Australia opposes any attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, which only serves to increase tension and the risk of instability,” O’Farrell was quoted as saying in the statement.“It is important that the bilaterally-agreed principles and norms that have helped prevent escalation or miscalculation in the border areas over many decades continue to be observed.”India has repeatedly said in recent weeks that it is opposed to any unilateral efforts to change the status quo along the LAC, along which tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops continue to be deployed.There has been growing convergence between India and Australia on security issues and the role of China in the Indo-Pacific in recent months. The two sides elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics during a virtual summit last month.Australia, which is set to be invited to join the Malabar naval exercise conducted by India, Japan and the US, has also backed India’s calls for reform of international bodies such as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and sought a probe into the origins of the pandemic.During a meeting of the US and Australian defence and foreign ministers in Washington on Tuesday, the two countries envisaged a key role for India in defence cooperation and post-Covid-19 recovery efforts in the Indo-Pacific.The Australian mission’s statement further said that “Australia remains vigilant about strategic trends inimical to our vision of the region” even as it focuses on the health and economic impacts of the Covid-19 crisis.Australia envisages an Indo-Pacific that is an open, free, rules-based region that is “resilient to coercion” and supported by inclusive institutions, the statement said. “Territorial disputes and competing claims should be resolved peacefully by the claimant countries, and in ways consistent with international law,” it added.Australia also continues to be deeply concerned by China’s actions in the South China Sea that are “destabilising and could provoke escalation”, the statement said. On July 23, Australia lodged a note with the UN Secretary General refuting China’s “unlawful maritime claims in the South China Sea”.It added: “It rejects China’s claim to historic rights and internal waters, its assertion of certain maritime zones, and its contention there is wide international recognition of its South China Sea sovereignty claims.”Rory Medcalf, head of the National Security College at the Australian National University, recently said the Indo-Pacific “serves as a canvas for framing policy responses to Chinese power”, including a web of security cooperation based on the US alliance system, and “emerging middle power coalitions, involving Japan, India, Australia and occasionally others such as Southeast Asian or even European states”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australia-opposes-chinese-attempts-to-alter-status-quo/story-AKEFYdf5X1tSwEH0bYI1nM.html
31-07-2020||India||Ahead of Ram temple ceremony, junior priest, 4 others test Covid +ve||A junior priest at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya, three members of the UP Fire Services and one personnel of the local intelligence unit deployed there tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, days ahead of the ground breaking ceremony for the new Ram temple, but the person overseeing the project said there is no cause for concern. On August 5, 11 priests from Varanasi and Ayodhya will perform the rituals during the bhumi pujan for the Ram temple , but the junior priest was not part of this group. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to participate in the ceremony. The construction of the temple was made possible by a Supreme Court ruling in November that ended a decades-old dispute and ordered that a Ram temple be built on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site. The priest in question is one of the five who perform daily rituals at the current makeshift temple at Ram Janmabhoomi. “There is nothing to worry. One of the priests who performs daily rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi has tested positive. The entire campus will be sanitised on a routine basis,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust which is responsible for the temple project. A member of the trust who asked not to be named said the 11 priests would be tested for Covid-19 on August 3, when rituals begin for the three-day ceremony that culminates in the bhumi pujan. Only a few people are being invited for the ceremony on August 5 in light of the social distancing norms necessitated by the pandemic. The number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh is on the increase and stood at 81,039 as of Thursday night. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Ram Janmabhoomi complex on July 25 to review preparations for the event. He requested local saints to attend the ceremony only if they get invites from the trust. Those that do, shouldn’t take along anyone with them, he added. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust last week issued an appeal to all saints across the country to perform puja in their respective temples and Maths from 11.30 am to 12.30 pm on August 5. Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, requested people to watch the live telecast of the bhumi pujan on television and light earthen lamps at home in the evening.On Saturday Adityanath said people have waited 500 years for this day and that it would be celebrated on the lines of Deepawali, which, in some parts of the country, is celebrated to mark Lord Ram’s return home to Ayodhya after a 14-year exile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-ram-temple-ceremony-junior-priest-4-others-test-covid-ve/story-owbUMF99wbIosFosgLSTuJ.html
31-07-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi meets party RS MPs, old vs new debate rages on||An intense old vs new, senior vs new, debate consumed a large part of Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with the party’s Rajya Sabha MPs on Thursday, with Gandhi even mentioning the need a for a mechanism to improve communication between the two sides. The meeting witnessed an overwhelming demand by party seniors to bring back Rahul Gandhi as Congress president. The MPs also decided to intensify the fight against the Narendra Modi government over the mismanagement of Covid-19 and the economy, and the handling of the India-China border clash at Galwan. Some leaders suggested honest introspection of the party’s performance in elections and pointed at lack of ideological clarity in many leaders. But the first interaction between Gandhi and the Rajya Sabha MPs saw some senior leaders including Ripun Bora and Akhilesh Prasad Singh criticizing the promotion of “neta putras” or dynasts of leaders in the party. Some leaders alleged that while these sons of leaders were given more than they deserved , they often betrayed the party. While Gandhi did not deliver a speech according to people familiar with what happened at the meeting, she said: “Media keeps mentioning that seniors don’t listen to juniors. They should be taken along.’’ She also announced that she was forming a committee that would sort out such communication issues. In the past six months, the Congress has lost Jyotiraditya Scindia to the BJP and now faces a rebellion by Sachin Pilot. Both Scindia and Pilot have been ministers and have for long been spoke off as the party’s next-gen leaders, but they found themselves marginalized by party old-timers. While some of the MPs at the meeting questioned the ability of young leaders to win elections -- both Scindia and Pilot were responsible for revival of the party in respective assembly elections -- others struck a more balanced note, the people cited above added.  Abhishek Manu Singhvi, they said, suggested a more democratic process to use young talents in the party. ro-BJP media. Rajya Sabha leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and leaders such as Digvijay Singh, Shaktisinh Gohil, Rajeev Satav and Neeraj Dangi led the demand for Rahul Gandhi’s return as Congress President. According to one of the people cited above, almost every MP who spoke wanted Rahul Gandhi back as the party chief.Senior leader Digvijaya Singh said he would not discuss what happened “among Rajya Sabha MPs” but both he and Akhilesh Prasad Singh maintained that the party wants Rahul Gandhi back as president. Sonia Gandhi was critical about the role of governor s and said the BJP wants to finish off Indian democracy, a e reference to Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, and mentioned how the country’s land laws and environment laws are being ignored and misused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-meets-party-rs-mps-old-vs-new-debate-rages-on/story-gIvv8HLNx6hwv9NDHLV8NM.html
31-07-2020||India||Tiger presence in Dibang Valley could pave way for people-led conservation plan||Two adult tigers were photographed in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley Wildlife Sanctuary in 2018 during the tiger estimation survey by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), according to the 656-page “Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India” report that was released on Tuesday.The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has brought out the 2018 report.Dibang Valley holds unique importance for in-situ conservation of this “unique and genetically diverse lineage of tigers” as the local aboriginal community, Idu Mishmis, a sub-tribe of Mishmi and of Mongoloid origin, who speaks the Tibeto-Burman language, considers tiger as the ethnic group’s elder brother, the NTCA has said in its report.In the Dibang-Kamlang-Namdapha block, the report has estimated the presence of 29 tigers based on scat samples and camera-trap images.The confirmation of the presence of tigers in Dibang Valley holds immense importance to the Idu Mishmis because large forest areas around the Dibang Valley Wildlife Sanctuary are being considered for diversion.The proposed 3,097 mega-watt Etalin Hydropower Project is likely to impact 1150.08 hectares (ha) of forestland and the Dibang Multipurpose Dam will impact 4,577.84 ha of un-classified state forest and other community lands.Both the projects are under different stages of consideration by the MoEFCC.In 2014, an adult tiger was photographed in the Dibang Valley during the estimation process. Molecular signs were also noted.“Tiger presence is repeatedly being seen during camera-trap exercises. The Dibang Valley is an ideal natural habitat for tigers,” said SP Yadav, member-secretary, NTCA.The 2018 estimation has recommended that discussions be conducted with the Idu Mishmis before proceeding with any legal notification of the sanctuary to be a tiger reserve.During a three-year-long camera trap-based study in the Dibang Valley Sanctuary and the adjoining Mishmi hills, 11 tigers, including two cubs, were identified by a team of researchers from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), who had published their results in the Journal of Threatened Taxa in 2018.But, WII in a report titled, “Wildlife Conservation Plan for the Impact Zone of Etalin HEP”, said there was no tiger presence in the project area. “These projects will impact both the tiger and its prey. Some of the prey cross the Talon river or they are found in abundance along the river like the Mishmi Takin. If the MoEFCC authorities consider the tiger to be an important species, then they will not consider projects that will be disastrous for the animal’s habitat. The community had always known about tigers’ presence in their homeland,” said Anoko Mega, member, State Wildlife Advisory Board, Arunachal Pradesh.“If at all a tiger reserve is declared in the area, the boundary should be demarcated after consulting the local indigenous population in a bid to ensure that there is no impact on human habitation,” he added.The Idu Mishmi community members consider tigers as their kin with whom they have been co-existing through the generations.The Idu Mishmi Cultural & Literary Society (IMCLS), an apex community body, had written to NTCA and MoEFCC authorities in 2018, stating that the community would like to be consulted before proceeding with notifying the Dibang Valley Sanctuary to be a tiger reserve.“Based on years of empirical research on ecological and social aspects of tigers in Dibang Valley, we strongly believe that the right strategy to develop a new kind of tiger reserve that is built not with fences and armed patrol guards, but around a cultural model. It is a culture, which has so far proven to be effective in saving the tiger,” IMCLS had written.The 2018 NTCA report has cited that Arunachal Pradesh has large contiguous forests over 136,000 kilometres (km), including Pakke Tiger Reserves in the west; Tale Valley Wildlife Sanctuary, Mouling National Park, D’Ering Wildlife Sanctuary, Mehao Wildlife Sanctuary in the centre; Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in the north, and Kamlang and Namdapha Tiger Reserve in the east.“Compared to earlier surveys this landscape unit shows a persisting low-density tiger population … the largest tiger population of Arunachal Pradesh is within pockets of this landscape,” it has said.The Trans Arunachal Highway — a 1,811-km-long trunk road — would become a barrier for the movement of the wildlife species in several of these corridors in the years to come, it has warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-presence-in-dibang-valley-could-pave-way-for-people-led-conservation-plan/story-eAwkqillchLgeOTwabiXJN.html
