10-05-2021||Bhopal||‘Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 positivity rate declining, but can't be relaxed’: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday that the positivity rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is declining in the entire state but added that people should be careful in this long fight against the pandemic.Addressing a press conference in Jabalpur, Chouhan said, “It is a sign of relief that not just Jabalpur, but entire Madhya Pradesh is seeing a continuous drop in its Covid-19 positivity rate. Initially it was at 25 per cent, but today it has fallen down below 16 per cent. For the first time in many days, the new positive cases in the state are around 9,500 and the daily cases are also coming down in Jabalpur. The recovery rate from Covid-19 is increasing. However, we cannot be relaxed now.”Pointing out that the most effective way to combat Covid-19 is by breaking the chain of transmission, Chouhan thanked the people of Madhya Pradesh for their contribution towards the success of the ‘Janata Curfew’ which helped in this endeavour. He also said this is not the time to host any weddings or functions as they have proven to be super spreader events.Also Read| Covid: Madhya Pradesh govt extends ongoing 'Janata Curfew' in state till May 15The Madhya Pradesh government on May 6 extended the ongoing Janata Curfew in the state till May 15 to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease and Chouhan urged that everything should be shut till the entire duration of the curfew.With India staring at an upcoming third wave of infections, Chouhan said on Monday that this wave will affect children more and hence the state government will arrange separate beds for the Covid-19 treatment of children.विशेषज्ञों के अनुसार #COVID19 की थर्ड वेव भी आने की आशंका है, जो बच्चों को अधिक प्रभावित करेगी। इसलिए मेडिकल कॉलेज और प्रदेश के अन्य अस्पतालों में भी बच्चों के कोविड19 के इलाज के लिए अलग से बिस्तरों की व्यवस्था की जायेगी। #MPFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/dq31lisxOgThe chief minister announced every household in the state will be surveyed for Covid-19 and medicine kits will be provided in case anyone is suffering from cold or fever and they will also be tested for the infection. “People found infected will either isolate at home or be taken to a Covid care centre or to a hospital if the need arises. I urge everyone to not hide in case they develop a cold or fever and immediately inform. The government will take care of your treatment,” he added.Also Read| Madhya Pradesh: Man attends wedding despite testing Covid-19 positive, FIR filedMadhya Pradesh’s daily Covid-19 disease tally dropped below the 10,000-mark on Monday as 9,715 fresh cases were reported, taking the state’s caseload to 681,478, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 81 died on Monday and 7,324 were discharged, taking the death toll and recovery to 6,501 and 563,754 respectively, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mps-covid-19-positivity-rate-declining-but-can-t-be-relaxedcmchouhan-101620663625314.html
10-05-2021||Bhopal||Retd chemistry professor kills doctor husband||A 60-year-old retired professor of chemistry in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district allegedly killed her husband, a doctor, by slipping him some sleeping pills in his food and electrocuting him because she suspected that he was involved in an affair with another woman, police said on Sunday.The police arrested Mamta Pathak, former professor of chemistry at the Maharaja Chhatrasal Government college in the area, for killing her 63-year-old husband Dr Neeraj Pathak, said Sachin Sharma, superintendent of police, Chhatarpur.Sharma said Mamta made an elaborate plan to avoid getting caught. After killing the doctor at their residence in Chhatarpur’s Loknathpuram on April 29, she left for Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh the next morning and reported the death on May 1 after returning home.The SP said: “Dr Neeraj Pathak was found dead at his residence on May 1. His wife Mamta told the police that she had gone to Jhansi and when she came back on May 1, she found her husband dead. During investigation, police found an audio of Dr Pathak, which he had released on social media on April 28, that he was being harassed by his wife Mamta and son. When police interrogated Mamta, she confessed that she killed her husband by plotting electrocution.”The police are investigating if the couple’s 28-year-old son, Nitesh, was also involved in the murder.Sharma added: “Mamta was a professor of chemistry and she knew that the presence of sleeping pills or any poison wouldn’t be found in the postmortem report after two days of the death, so she made a plan to hide the death of her husband for two days. She gave an overdose of sleeping pills to Pathak on April 29 and later used a live electric wire to kill him inside their bedroom.”A forensic expert, who wished to remain anonymous, said it’s not necessary that traces of chemicals found in sleeping pills won’t show up in postmortem report as it could depend on several factors.The next day, the accused and her son left for Jhansi, reportedly to get tested for Covid-19. According to Mamata’s statement to the police, there was a backlog in collection of samples for Covid-19 testing in Chhatarpur.According to her statement to the police, the retired professor told Nitesh while leaving that his father was sleeping. Mamata and Nitesh returned home on May 1, when the accused reported that her husband died after being electrocuted.“Mamta suspected that her husband was in a relationship with another woman. A few months back, she lodged a complaint with police that her husband used to give sedatives to her in the night to meet a woman. Police investigated the matter and found the accusation to be false,” Sharma said.The 60-year-old woman has been booked under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).(With inputs from HT Correspondent in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/retd-chemistry-professor-kills-doctor-husband-101620589608751.html
