22-05-2021||Bhopal||After 21 years, Madhya Pradesh police book warehouse manager for stealing farmer’s crop||The Madhya Pradesh police have completed a probe into the theft of 471 sacks of dry coriander from a government warehouse in Guna district and registered a case 21 years after Bherulal Sahu, a farmer 55, filed his complaint about it.Sahu had accused the warehouse manager, Vijay Kumar Agrawal, of allegedly stealing the sacks in December 1999 and selling them for ₹4.5 lakh. “I owned 12 bigha land in 1999 and had taken some 6-7 bigha on rent. My father-in-law and I stored 471 sacks of coriander at the warehouse in Binaganj in May 1999. I had taken a loan of ₹1 lakh from a trader to whom I was introduced by Agrawal. Against the loan, I mortgaged about 100 sacks of the crop.” Sahu added in December 1999, when he went to collect his crop to sell it, he came to know that Agrawal sold all the sacks by allegedly using his forged signature. “After struggling for four months to get my crop back or money, I lodged a police complaint,” said Sahu.Sahu said he filed the theft and fraud complaint at Binaganj police station in April 2000. “I had to sell my 2.5 bigha land to pay my crop loan and rent of farmland. I urged former chief ministers Digvijaya Singh, Uma Bharti, Babulal Gaur, and Kamal Nath to help me and sought justice but nothing happened. I approached chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan too many times, but he also could not help me.”Sahu said he met Agrawal many times to get his money back, but he was not ready to do so. “In 2015, he offered me ₹2 lakh to end the case but after 15 years, it had become a fight for pride and against the breach of trust. I have met at least 15 superintendents of police of Guna, and they always said the matter is being investigated.”In February, when Rajeev Mishra took over as the Guna police superintendent, he reviewed all the pending cases and got to know about Sahu’s pending case. “Mishra asked Binagaj police to investigate the matter and after four months, I finally won a long battle to have the case registered,” Sahu said.Mishra said the case was registered on Thursday against Agarwal of the Madhya Pradesh Warehouse Corporation under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 420 (fraud), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 467 (forgery of valuable security), and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating).“I have also ordered an inquiry into the delay of more than two decades in registering the case,” said Mishra.Despite repeated attempts, Agrawal could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/after-21-years-madhya-pradesh-police-book-warehouse-manager-for-stealing-farmer-s-crop-101621659355824.html
22-05-2021||Bhopal||Row after Kamal Nath says he has clips of 2019 honey trap scandal||Bhopal Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee president and former chief minister Kamal Nath’s comment on Thursday that he has in his possession a pen drive of videos from 2019’s honey trap scandal, in the state, set off a political storm in Madhya Pradesh with the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday accusing him of impropriety.On Thursday, after some Congress MLAs raised the issue of FIR against former forest minister and Congress MLA Umang Singhar in the case of suicide of a 40-year-old woman, and accused the state government of dirty politics, Nath said he still had a pen drive of the honey trap scandal but that he believed in doing decent politics.Responding to this, BJP state president VD Sharma said, “Kamal Nath is blackmailing the state government but he should first reveal from where he got the pen drive. He misused the government machinery when he was the CM. If he has proof against any politician or officer, why did he not take any action...”On Friday, Nath offered an explanation: “Many journalists and others have a pen drive of the honey trap scandal. It was first on pen drive, the matter went to police and court later.”In 2019, it emerged that a gang of five women and a men were blackmailing some bureaucrats and politicians using sex tapes shot without their knowledge. The names of the politicians ensnared in the case have not been made public to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/row-after-kamal-nath-says-he-has-clips-of-2019-honey-trap-scandal-101621642881269.html
22-05-2021||Bhopal||Eight cheetahs to be translocated from Africa to MP’s Kuno National Park||Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno National Park will get African Cheetahs as part of India’s first inter-country big cat relocation project, a senior state forest department official said on Thursday after the MP government received a confirmation from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Five male cheetahs and three females will be donated by Endangered Wildlife Trust (EWT) of South Africa, said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (Wildlife). The translocation of African Cheetah is a part of Government of India to reintroduce the fastest land animal in India after extinction of the Asiatic cheetah in the 1950s.The final call was taken after EWT national Cheetah Metapopulation manager Vincet Van Der Merwe visited Kuno eight days ago to assess the preparations and suitable habitat for cheetahs, said Kumar. Merwe found Kuno National Park to be one of the best habitats for translocation of cheetah in India. He gave a few minor suggestions including fencing to make it more suitable for the cheetah by September, said Kumar. Divisional forest officer, Sheopur, PK Verma said, “The expert, Merwe said Kuno has a perfect grassland and prey base for cheetahs. We have started preparation for translocation.”The central government has allocated ₹14 crore for the project. The state government had earlier projected an estimated expenditure of ₹22 crore under Annual Operation Plan (AOP, said a forest official, who didn’t wish to be quoted. “We don’t want to take any risk because it is a matter of pride for our country and the success of this project will decide the fate of translocation of more cheetahs in India,” said the officer.Additional PCCF (wildlife) JS Chauhan said: “The money will be used for the development of fencing, cutting thorny trees, cages for cheetah and transportation of cheetah from South Africa.” The Supreme Court approved the project in January 2020 and formed a three-member committee comprising of former director Wildlife of India Ranjit Singh, DG of Wildlife of India Dhananjay Mohan and DIG, Wildlife, Ministry of Environment and Forests to guide the National Tiger Conservation Authority in translocation of the African cheetah from South Africa and Namibia to India. The expert committee visited four sites in MP and one in Rajasthan to select the suitable habitat for cheetah. In early January, the committee submitted its report to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/eight-cheetahs-to-be-translocated-from-africa-to-mp-s-kuno-national-park-101621622571494.html
