26-05-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: 'Will relax curfew from June 1 but...', Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan writes to people||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday posted a message on Facebook for the people of the state saying that the government will relax Covid-19 restrictions in the state beginning from June 1. However, Chouhan also prescribed restraint to avoid yet another flare-up in the number of cases in the state.“We will relax the curfew from 1 June. But we don't have to leave the house suddenly or organise big events. This could make the situation worse. We have suffered a lot. Many people have lost their lives. We don't want such a situation to return,” Chouhan said in a post written in Hindi.“Lockdown will be opened up in a scientific way. We have prepared a roadmap for this. Large events like marriages, religious events and political rallies will not be permitted. We do not have to stop being careful now,” the chief minister further said.Also read | Madhya Pradesh to begin Covid unlocking process from June 1: CMWarning about the third wave of Covid-19, he wrote that the cases will flare up suddenly if people do not remain cautious. “We should not let the third wave arrive. Now we have to get used to living with Covid-19. If we go out of the house, we will go with a facemask. If someone is found without a mask, we will question them too. By keeping yourself safe, you keep your family safe,” Chouhan said. In his appeal, the chief minister also asked people to make the fight against coronavirus a social movement and show a new way in controlling the disease.Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 2,182 new Covid-19 cases and 72 fatalities. So far, 771,878 people have tested positive and 7,758 patients have lost their lives in the state. Active caseload currently stands at 43,265 and 720,855 people have recovered from their infections so far, a medical bulletin from the state health department, on Wednesday, showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-will-relax-curfew-from-june-1-but-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-writes-to-people-101622046822211.html
26-05-2021||Bhopal||Marriages conducted secretly despite a ban in lockdown, declared illegal in MP||Weddings held secretly in the month of May during the lockdown restrictions in some Madhya Pradesh districts have been declared illegal and such couples will not be issued marriage certificates, said an official.The MP government had banned marriages in May to contain the spread of Covid 19, however, the ban was violated widely with at least 130 marriage ceremonies prevented and at least 30 persons getting booked in the past 25 days, said a home department official.A few district collectors have now issued a separate order to declare such marriages illegal and asked the registrar office not to issue any certificates for nuptials tied in May, failing which, even officials may be booked under section 188 for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), says the order.After a ban on marriages in MP, many weddings were shifted to the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh but this order will not impact such marriages conducted in other states, the official added.Ujjain district collector Ashish Singh said, “In the absence of any provision of punishment, people are conducting marriages secretly. Now, all the marriages, which were conducted secretly, will be declared illegal. Action will be taken against the couple, family members and even priests.”Gwalior collector KV Singh said though the district administration had not issued a separate order in this regard, yet no marriages will be validated with a certificate in May. “The decision was taken after 20% of villagers in Dabra were infected in a marriage. The motive was not to create trouble for people but to contain the spread,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/marriages-conducted-secretly-despite-a-ban-in-lockdown-declared-illegal-in-mp-101622025133562.html
