27-05-2021||Bhopal||Video of MP firm’s employees washing used PPE kits surfaces, probe on||Employees of a bio and medical waste disposal company were found washing personal protective equipment (PPE) kit and gloves, used by doctors and paramedical staff working in Covid-19 wards in several hospitals of Satna district, allegedly to resell, said a health department official. Indo Water management and Pollution Control Corporation supplied the used PPE kits and gloves to other districts for sale, alleged an employee of the company. The matter came to light on Wednesday night after some videos of the employees of the company went viral. In the videos, they are seen washing used PPE kits and gloves. In another video, the employees are seen making bundles and packing the PPE kits. Also Read | Trials of Covid-19 vaccine on children to begin soon in India: SitharamanRequesting anonymity, an employee of the company said, “Instead of cutting the kit into pieces, the management has asked us to wash the used PPE kits. They told us that the boiled water will kill the virus. The company got at least 1,000 kits daily for disposal at ₹10 per kit. I don’t how much they are earning from reselling it.” The Madhya Pradesh health department wrote to the pollution control board to hold an inquiry in the matter. The state health department’s additional director Pankaj Shukla said, “Bio disposal waste plant in Barkhera, Satna has been given a contract to dispose of PPE kits and gloves by the district administration. The company is also working for some private hospitals. The kits and gloves are for single-use and such an act can spread more infection.” We have released an order to all the hospitals of MP to tear the kits and gloves before handing them over for disposal, he added. The state pollution control board is holding an inquiry in the matter. Pollution control board regional officer RS Parihar said, “We sent a notice to the company and a team will visit the company to inquire about the matter. After completing the inquiry, we will initiate the process of cancellation of license.” The company director Anmol Mohane said, “The video is being circulated in wrong manner. We washed the PPE kits before cutting it into pieces to dispose. We don’t sell the in the market. We are following all the guidelines of disposal of PPE kits and gloves.” (with inputs from Amit Singh from Satna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/video-of-mp-firm-s-employees-washing-used-ppe-kits-surfaces-probe-on-101622121179254.html
27-05-2021||Bhopal||MP to unlock Janata curfew from June 1, ban on marriages and businesses to go||MP government has decided to relax the Janata curfew in districts with less than 5% test positivity rate for Covid-19 infections and resume business activities from June 1, said state home minister Narottam Mishra. He made the announcement after a meeting of a group of cabinet ministers on Thursday.“The construction work and other business activities will resume from June 1. The government offices will be opened with 50% staff while registrar office, agriculture Mandis and farmers’ welfare department offices will be run with 100% staff,” Mishra said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced easing of restrictions beginning June 1 following a marked improvement in the state’s Covid situation.Marriages will also be allowed but with the presence of not more than 20 people including bride and bridegroom and members in the marriage party will have to necessarily get their Rapid Antigen Tests done, Mishra added.Places of worship will be reopened for people but not more than two people will be allowed to enter the premises at a given time. However, the ban on larger social, religious, culture and political functions will continue. The crisis management committee will take a decision on lifting the ban, said the minister.The state government imposed Janata curfew in April when the test positivity rate for Covid 19 rose to 23%, indicating every fifth person to be tested was turning positive for the disease amid the second wave of the disease. After two months of restrictions, the test positivity rate has decreased to 3.1%. A TPR of less than 5% is considered manageable by the World Health Organisation.On Wednesday, 2182 positive cases and 72 Covid deaths were reported from MP. Now, the state has 43,265 active cases of the disease. With 70,195 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus have crossed 95.24 lakh. In May so far, Madhya Pradesh recorded 208,551 cases including 2,142 fatalities, as per the health department data. MP CM had said on Tuesday that the state will continue to test 75,000-80,000 samples every day in order to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread undetected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-unlock-janata-curfew-from-june-1-ban-on-marriages-and-businesses-to-go-101622113354790.html
27-05-2021||Bhopal||Two sisters detained for alleged espionage in MP’s Indore exonerated||Two sisters, who were detained in Indore on May 20 on suspicion of espionage, got in touch with suspected agents of Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) through a popular matrimonial site to marry them but were not found involved in any anti-national activities, a police officer said on Thursday.Inspector general of police HN Mishra said they have exonerated the two Indore residents, aged 27 and 32, after six days of investigation. “Military intelligence [MI] gave [police] input that the women were in touch with two ISI agents for the past seven months. The women used to talk with ISI agents through calls and chats,” said Mishra. He added they did not find anything suspicious against the women after retrieving their chats and other data from their four phones and also interrogating them for six days at their house.Also Read | Dewas catches the rain where it falls“After going through chats and information exchanged by the women, we found that they were not involved in anti-national activities. They did not leak any important information.” Mishra said the MI’s inputs failed the mission of ISI agents, who laid the marriage trap for the women and met through the matrimonial site. He added the agents introduced themselves as the Pakistan Army officers and the women wanted to marry them and were even ready to go to Islamabad after marriage.Police said the ISI agents tried to trap the women as their father is an ex-army man and they live near Mhow cantonment in Indore district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/two-sisters-detained-for-alleged-espionage-in-mp-s-indore-exonerated-101622097317782.html
